
    ----CITATION----
        Dupuy, Eliza A. (1814-1881). The Adventures of a Gentleman in Search of Miss Smith .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6334 wright2-0805
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE ADVENTURES OF A GENTLEMAN IN SEARCH OF MISS SMITH.
            
            BY MISS E. A. DUPUY, Author of "The Conspirator,"
               "Celeste," "The Divorce," "Florence," etc.
            
               
                  DEDICATION. With high respect for the Smith family in general, and the John
                     Smith in particular, the author dedicates to them the following pages. See page
                     33.
               
            
            
               PUBLISHED BY EDWARDS & GOSHORN,
               131 MAIN STREET, CINCINNATI.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress A. D. 1852, by EDWARDS & GOSHORN,
                  in the United States District Court for the District of Ohio.
            
         
      
      
         
            The adventures of a gentleman in search of Miss Smith
            
               THE ADVENTURES OF A GENTLEMAN IN SEARCH OF MISS SMITH.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  A fine steamer was dashing gallantly down the Hudson, toward the commercial
                     metropolis of our country. The sun was setting gorgeously, behind the Highlands
                     and the summer wind just rippled the sparkling waters. It was a brilliant
                     evening, and the deck was crowded with groups of passengers, who appeared to
                     enjoy the hour and the scene exceedingly.
                  Among the promenaders was a young man of refined and prepossessing appearance,
                     dressed with extreme care; and his glittering watch-guard, seal-ring, and
                     diamond pin, be trayed a fondness for ornament which might have become one of
                     the opposite sex. He was a slender youth, of dark complex on and black eyes,
                     and there was an expression about the mouth which indicated firmness of
                     purpose, whole the remainder of the features expressed excitability of
                     temperament, and impulsive feeling.
                  At each turn in his walk, the eyes of this young gentleman were irresistably
                     attracted toward a group of three persons who occupied seats near the bow of
                     the boat, or rather toward one member of the party. This was a young lady of
                     slight and girl sh figure, brilliantly fair complexion, and blonde hair. She
                     was not beautiful, but her face was eminently pleasing and attractive, and the
                     bright good-humor, sparkling over it, was more to the taste of her young
                     admirer than perfect beauty of feature would have been.
                  The quiet, elderly people, whom she enlivened by her sprightly sallies, were
                     evidently her parents; and, from the appearance of the three, a stranger would
                     have judged them to be respectable people in comfortable circumstances, who
                     enjoyed the good things of this life, without making a display themselves or
                     caring for that made by others.
                  Young as he evidently was, our hero was an observer, and he accurately divined
                     the position occupied by these persons, who interested him so deeply; for he
                     was already fathoms in love with the young girl, and was endeavoring to find
                     some excuse for approaching the trio, sufficiently near to hazard an address to
                     one of them.
                  Mr. Mortimer Grandval was as romantic a young gentleman as his name could
                     appropriately have been bestowed upon. He was a southerner by birth, and in
                     possession of a handsome, unencumbered property. He had graduated, very
                     recently, at a northern university, and was now making a summer tour,
                     preparatory to his return home in the fall to assume the management of his own
                     affairs. He had strong faith in love at first sight, and he now firmly believed
                     that some intuitive feeling of fitness attracted him so powerfully toward her of the blonde hair and brilliant
                     smile. The Fates destined her to become his, and doubtless they had been
                     providentially thrown together, that the destiny decreed them should be
                     fulfilled.
                  Thus reasoned Mr. Mortimer Grandval, and it seemed as if chance were determined
                     to favor the hypothesis by allowing him an opportunity to gain the desired
                     privilege of addressing her. The young lady arose from her seat to gain a
                     better view of some point in the scenery, and her veil becoming detached from
                     her bonnet, was wafted back among the crowd of passengers. There was a slight
                     scramble between several gentlemen for the possession of it, for Grandval was
                     not the only one attracted by this fresh and artless-looking girl; but our hero
                     proved the fortunate one. With a deferential bow, he approached and presented
                     it to her, at the same time uttering a few words which formed an opening for a
                     conversation.
                  His manner was so respectful, and his appearance so evidently that of a
                     gentleman that, after a slight scrutiny on the part of the parents, they joined
                     in the conversation; thus giving their sanction to the new acquaintance formed
                     by their daughter. Grandval was familiar with the scenery on the river, and he
                     possessed fine natural tact, and agreeable descriptive powers. He could quote
                     poetry, too, with the enthusiasm of a Sophomore, and the brightening eyes and
                     kindling cheeks of his fair listeners betrayed the deepening interest with
                     which they hearkened to his words.
                  When the supper-bell rang, he ventured to offer himself as her escort to the
                     table; and after swallowing a cup of tea at nearly scalding temperature—of
                     which fact, however, he was happily unconscious—he returned with her to the
                     deck, and to the charms of moonlight, sentiment, and music—for there was a fine
                     band on board, which played until a late hour.
                  It was a glorious summer night, and, oh! bliss ineffable! his new acquaintance
                     leaned upon his arm, and promenaded with him, unaccompanied by papa and mamma.
                     Gaining confidence as she became better acquainted, she quoted poetry in her
                     turn, and Grandval discovered that a remarkable sympathy existed in their
                     tastes and feelings. Like most of her young countrywomen, the fair stranger was
                     an enthusiastic admirer of the productions of Willis, and she quoted some of
                     his exquisite fancies in a voice of such clear music as enchanted the
                     listener.
                  "I graduated at the same institution," said Grandval, "and I have often visited
                     spots which were said to be favorite haunts of the poet, and wished that I,
                     too, could gain inspiration from their loveliness. It is the glorious privilege
                     of those who can touch the finer chords of our hearts, by the inspirations of
                     their genius, to be enshrined therein with a species of reverential worship,
                     which is not bestowed upon the author, but on the ideality which clothes in
                     language the silent aspirations of the human soul."
                  "True; and, as I gaze on the scene which lies around us, his words
                     involuntarily occur to me as applicable to this night. In a prose story, which
                     no one else could have written, he describes a scene at Trenton Falls: 'a more
                     omnipresent and radiant atmosphere of moonlight never sprinkled the wilderness
                     with silver.'"
                  "I am sure I can go on and say, with perfect truth, 'it was a night in which to
                     wish it might never be day again.'"
                  "Mary, my love," said the voice of mamma, "I think it is time for us to retire.
                     The air is sensibly cooler, and it grows late."
                  Mary joined her for a moment, and petitioned for only another half hour. "It
                     was a shame to retire to the cabin, and endeavor to sleep, when such a moon was
                     shining over them."
                  The petition was granted, and the two resumed their promenade.
                  When she finally retired, Grandval felt as if the light of even that brilliant
                     night bad departed with her, and he leaned over the balustrade and watched the
                     rippling waters, as the boat cut her swift way through them, and recalled the
                     winning manner and arch smile of his new acquaintance, with the conviction that
                     they must become the charm of his home, or he was a desolate and undone
                     man.
                  The thought suddenly occurred to him that he would find out the name of the
                     parents by applying to the register. She, herself, bore the charmed one of
                     Mary, and all the poetry linked with that sweet appellation came to his mind,
                     and he instantly applied it to his late companion—believing her, in his heart,
                     the brightest and loveliest of all the Marys that have ever lived.
                  He wended his way to the clerk's office, and, after some difficulty, found the
                     name he sought; but never did man gain less information therefrom. He looked at
                     it several moments in blank amazement, for it was so common a designation that
                     it conveyed to him no idea of individuality. John Smith, wife and daughter,
                     stared him in the face. A crowd of John Smiths arose before his mental vision;
                     he had known at least a dozen himself, and as he now endeavored to recall them,
                     he felt assured that he could not recognize one of them if they should suddenly
                     appear before him.
                  John Smith! Absurd, for a man with such a patronymic to inflict upon his son
                     the irreparable injury of bestowing upon him an equally common baptismal
                     appellation! It is a wrong that can not be atoned for; that time will only
                     deepen; for, save the John Smith of Pocahontas celebrity, what
                     trump of Fame has ever bequeathed one of the numerous bearers of that name to
                     the admiration or reverence of posterity? A man with such a cognomen should
                     seek the most extraordinary appellation for his son. For instance, Melchesideck
                     Smith, or Nebuchadnezzar Smith, or Aldibarontapho cophornio Smith, might stand
                     some chance to be remembered, but simple John Smith at once takes his place
                     amid the busy crowd as a nonentity—as one of a numerous legion of brothers
                     bearing the same nondistinctive appellation.
                  Grandval had been so occupied with the daughter that he had neglected to remark
                     the outer man of Mr. Smith with any degree of particularity, but he mentally
                     resolved to do so on the morrow before they parted; for, in a city like New
                     York, where the Smiths are numbered in legions, he might experience some
                     difficulty in finding the real Simon Pure, and on the prosecution of this
                     chance-acquaintance, he fully persuaded himself, depended his future
                     happiness.
                  He retired to his berth after midnight, and tossed on his uneasy pillow until
                     nearly dawn. He then fell into a deep sleep, which lasted several hours. When
                     he awoke, the boat was in port, and, from the sounds which reached his ears, he
                     knew that the passengers were rapidly departing. Should his new acquaintance
                     leave before he again saw them! before he ascertained their place of residence!
                     There was horror in the thought! He did not even know if they lived in New
                     York; they might reside in Louisiana, or at the opposite extremity of the
                     Union, for aught he knew; and the idea of being compelled to search over this
                     wide-spread country for John Smith, with a daughter bearing the equally common
                     name of Mary, was terrible! His pilgrimage might rival that of Evangeline, and
                     end in as unsatisfactory a manner.
                  With trembling haste he performed his toilet, and, without being very precise
                     as to the tie of his cravat, or the curl of his hair, he rushed forth amid the
                     crowd of porters, hackney-coachmen, and others that usually encumber the way. A
                     glance within the open doors of the ladies' cabin assured him that it was quire
                     empty, and he hurried, in great perturbation, toward the clerk's office.
                  "Have all the lady passengers left?" he asked, in quite an excited manner.
                  "Every one, I believe, except a sick lady, who is under the care of the
                     captain. Overslept yourself, eh? Any lady to complain of your neglect?"
                  "No; but I made an acquaintance I am sorry to lose sight of so soon. I wished
                     to ascertain her residence—that is, the residence of her father."
                  "Eh? I know many of the people who were on board; they often travel by this
                     line. Maybe I can help you," said the good natured clerk. "What was the name of
                     the gentleman?"
                  "Smith—John Smith," replied our hero, with a crest-fallen expression.
                  The clerk uttered an expressive whistle.
                  "Sorry I can do nothing for you; but the Smiths are such a numerous family,
                     there is no telling one from the other, 'specially the John Smiths. But there
                     seems to be a party on the wharf yet;
                     perhaps they may prove to be your friends"
                  Grandval rushed out, in a state of great excitement. A girlish figure was
                     springing into a carriage; he thought it must be Mary; another glance at the
                     person of the gentleman who followed her convinced him that his conjecture was
                     correct; he leaped on shore, ran as rapidly as he could for the various
                     impediments which obstructed his way, and came near enough to the vehicle to
                     see that it was occupied by the party he sough—to receive a smile of
                     recognition from the fair Mary—when she was whirled rapidly away, and his cries
                     to the driver to stop were unheard amid the Babel of surrounding sounds.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  IN a state of complete bewilderment, Grandval made his way on the boat again,
                     and after giving his baggage in charge of a porter, he hurried toward the
                     hallowed spot upon the deck on which he had first beheld his adorable Mary; but
                     he was quite disgusted, and his sentimentality terribly outraged, at finding
                     the place occupied by two stupid-looking children, belonging to the sick lady,
                     who were quarreling over the division of bread and cheese, which one of them
                     held in her soiled apron.
                  Almost execrating these infant innocents, he turned away, and hurried toward a
                     cab in which he was taken, in a most wretched state of mind, to his boarding
                     house, on —— street. It was kept by a widow of highly respectable connections,
                     and with Mrs. Wilson, the quiet manners and gentlemanly appearance of young
                     Grandval had rendered him quite a favorite. She happened to be at the
                     parlor-window when the cab drove to the door, and she noticed his unusual
                     paleness, and the air of wildness which the unsettled state of his feelings
                     unconsciously imparted to him; she therefore came out and received him herself,
                     with almost maternal solicitude.
                  "Glad to see you back again, Mr. Grandval; but, dear me, I hope you have not
                     been ill. You look quite—quite done up, as one may say."
                  "Do I, indeed!" asked Grandval. "No, Mrs. Wilson, I have not been ill, but I
                     have met with a sad disappointment—an adventure which may stamp my life for
                     good or evil—a loss which, if not remedied, may produce fatal
                     consequences."
                  "Dear me, I am sorry to hear that. Pray walk into my own sitting-room, and tell
                     me all about it."
                  The young man felt the necessity of a confidant; his heart was overflowing with
                     disappointment, and he must bestow is fullness on some one; moreover, it
                     occurred to him that Mrs. Wilson's long residence in New York had probably made
                     her well acquainted with many of the tribe of Smiths, more numerous in our day
                     than the children of Israel in their palmiest hour; and she might be able to
                     furnish him a clue to the residence of the veritable John. He therefore
                     followed the good lady into her sanctum, and there related to her the history
                     of the meeting on the steamer, and its consequences, frankly admitting that he
                     had fallen irrevocably in love with the fair Mary at first sight.
                  Mrs. Wilson listened with an air of deep interest, and when he closed his
                     narrative with a sigh, she said,
                  "You need not fall into a state of despondency about this affair, Mr. Grandval,
                     for you may depend upon it Miss Smith will be easily found.
                        I know many Smiths myself, and among them may be the family you
                     seek. Describe this young lady to me; was she beautiful?"
                  "No—O—perhaps not beautiful, but exceedingly attractive; she is sprightly,
                     animated, and evidently good-tempered. He who wishes a "bright spirit for his
                     minister," would prefer her to a more regular beauty."
                  "A charming girl, no doubt; but what is her peculiar style? for I know a Mary
                     Smith, and now I remember about it, her father's name is John.
                     Perhaps she may be your lady-love"
                  Grandval caught at the suggestion eagerly,
                  "If she should prove so, Mrs. Wilson, I shall bless you, indeed. This young
                     lady is very fair, with blue eyes and golden hair."
                  'A tall, delicate figure?" suggested Mrs. Wilson.
                  "Yes—that is, not very tall, but slender and sylph-like."
                  "Hem; the description tallies very well, allowing for the exaggeration of the
                     lover Mary Smith is a nice girl, and a very good housewife, but I never found
                     her quite so charming as you consider her. However, as I am not in love with
                     her, that could not be expected. I can tell you, Mr. Grandval, you have made a
                     more sensible choice than young men usually do; for Miss Smith makes the very
                     best pickles and preserves of any young lady of my acquaintance."
                  "Pickles and preserves," repeated Grandval, with a tragi-comic air. "O, Mrs.
                     Wilson, do not drive me quite beyond the limits of reason, by talking of such
                     every-day affairs, when I feel as if I shall never again be able to eat any
                     thing more than will barely sustain life until I discover the abode of my
                     life's angel."
                  "Pickles will give an appetite sometimes," said the old lady, sententiously,
                     "and preserves are also useful to wrap up pills for those diseased with fevers
                     of any kind, so Mary's skill in that line may prove of some consequence yet,
                     contemptuously as your speak of it. A talent for housekeeping is by no means to
                     be despised, when a man is looking out for a partner for life."
                  The lover groaned in spirit. This was taking a utilitarian view of things which
                     had never occurred to his young romance.
                  "Young men don't often think of these affairs before they rush into matrimony,"
                     continued sensible Mrs. Wilson, "but they very soon find out afterward, if the
                     house is not in order, and the meals not well cooked. Then what a shaking and
                     cuffing poor little Cupid gets! ten chances to one he is so unmercifully
                     berated that he shakes his wings in scorn, and files away forever from those
                     who were so unreasonable as to bring him no assistance in the shape of common
                     sense, to aid him in his efforts to smooth for them the rugged path of life, by
                     shedding the light of his presence over their household."
                  The latter portion of this speech showed that the good lady had something
                     poetic mixed up with her every-day views of life and its duties, and Grandval
                     listened with more respect.
                  "I am glad that I have been so fortunate as blindly to make a choice which so
                     sensible a person as you are can approve," said the young man. "But, dear Mrs.
                     Wilson, if, after all, your Mary Smith and mine should prove not to be the same
                     person—ah, the thought distracts me!"
                  "But I am certain she must be the right one, Mr. Grandval, so you need not take
                     on so. It is scarcely possible that two John Smiths can have a daughter Mary so
                     perfectly alike."
                  "When shall I see her, madam? I am all impatience to ascertain if your
                     conjecture be correct. I would set out this moment if it were possible. Can we
                     not call this morning?"
                  Mrs. Wilson meditated a brief space, and then replied,
                  "I think we had better not be in so great a hurry; because, to tell you the
                     truth, Mrs. Smith is one of the most particular women In the world, and if she
                     is just off a journey, she will be very busy overlooking the house, and finding
                     out how things have gone on in her absence. I can tell you she is'nt one of
                     those mothers who allow their daughters to sit in the parlor entertaining
                     company while they are busy about household matters; no, Mary goes heart and
                     hand with her mother in everything she undertakes. Ah, Mr. Grandval, you will
                     obtain a jewel of a wife."
                  "I am glad to hear it, Mrs. Wilson; but pray, when will it be proper to call? I
                     shall not sleep until I ascertain the identity of your young friend with my new
                     acquaintance."
                  "Well, as I've known these Smiths a long time, though I can't say I'm very
                     intimate with them, I think I may venture to take you there this evening;
                     'specially as you are not an entire stranger, and a young man like yourself,
                     who comes as a lover, is always graciously received."
                  Thus it was arranged, and Grandval retired to his room with a mind a little
                     more at ease. He passed the day in looking over poetic extracts from which to
                     call the most beautiful quotations for the evening's conversation, varying his
                     employment by occasiona visits to the
                     mirrror, to ascertain if he was in a good looks as usual.
                  He had little appetite for his dinner, which Mrs. Wilson observed, and
                     recommended to him some very fine pickles as a provocative, remarking, at the
                     same time, that they were nearly as good as those manufactured by a certain
                     fair friend of theirs, who should be nameless. Grandval blushed, and the other
                     boarders looked at him as if he were some newly imported phenomenon of the
                     animal species, in place of that very common specimen of the genus homo, a
                     young gentleman very decidedly and verdantly in love.
                  Evening at last came, and after a most elaborate toilet, our lover joined Mrs.
                     Wilson in such perturbation of spirits as was quite pitiable. He was evidently
                     in such a tremulous state that she deeply sympathised with him, and made many
                     efforts to direct his thoughts by conversing on such themes as she fancied
                     would possess an interest for him; but she might as well have addressed her
                     remarks to the man in the moon as to the earthly mortal who walked by her side
                     in a state of nervous abstraction which rendered him oblivious of every thing
                     that was passing around him.
                  After walking about eight squares, Mrs. Wilson announced that the end of their
                     pilgrimage had arrived. Grandval looked up; they were in front of a red brick
                     house which made one of a long row, all of which were exactly alike, and looked
                     as if they were built for people who were all formed on the same pattern. It is
                     difficult to fancy any individuality character among persons content to live in
                     a brick row, and yet, if we could indeed play the part of the Diable Boiteux, we should find tragedy and comedy,
                     happiness and misery, crime and integrity, dwelling side by side in those dull
                     uniform looking walls.
                  To Grandval's eyes, the re brick was a temple which enshrined his divinity, and
                     he felt almost vexed with his good friend when she called his attention to the
                     glitter of the gaslights on the brass knobs upon the door.
                  "It is easy to see that this is the neatest, house in the row, Mr. Grandval.
                     See, there is not another door handle half so brilliant all the way down."
                  The ring at the bell was promptly answered by a half grown girl, who looked as
                     if shining from the recent application of soap and water; and her hair was
                     smoothed on her round head as flatly as if it had been glued
                     down. Her dress was very short, and rather narrow, but spotlessly clean.
                  A gas-light burned in the hall, and a lamp with a summer-shade stood in the
                     front parlor. Grandval knew not why, but the aspect of this room struck a chill
                     through him, even on this summer night. It was so formal—so precisely neat in
                     every respect, that it seemed impossible for any genial flow of soul ever to
                     take place within its walls. The chairs were all covered with brown linen, and
                     stood marshalled in stiff array around the room; this-sombre drapery invested
                     every thing, and seemed to cast a "brown horror" over the apartment.
                  It is true that vases of flowers stood on the marble mantle, but they were made
                     of shells, and the wiry stems stood out in regular order around the parent
                     stalk as stiff as the quills on a porcupine. No artificial imitation of nature
                     which has yet been attempted is so uninteresting to the imagination as shell
                     flowers. Hard, stiff, scentless things, they excite surprise by their
                     ingenuity, but no sentiment can possibly be attached to them; and Grandval, who
                     thought the treasures of Flora the only fitting offering for one so young and
                     fair as his Mary, turned with disgust from the glittering counterfeits of
                     nature's fairest daughters.
                  Several handsomely bound volumes were placed in orderly array upon a table, and
                     while awaiting Miss Smith's appearance, Grandval ventured to take one up. It
                     opened of itself to a receipt for making preserved ginger, and to his surprise
                     he found that a copy of Miss Leslie's cookery book had found its way into the
                     parlor. Curiosity now induced him to look over the other volumes, and to his
                     increased astonishment he found them of the same character; they were all works
                     on gastronomy and the art of living well.
                  Mrs. Wilson remarked his surprise, and glancing at them, she said,
                  "Ah, Mr. Smith is . He is a bon
                        vivant of the highest type, and thinks that people only live to
                     eat. He says that those who teach us something new in the art of cookery
                     deserve the highest place of honor; so he has had his favorite authors in that
                     line elegantly bound, and promoted them to a place in the parlor."
                  "A singular fancy, I must confess," commenced Grandval, but his words died on
                     his lips, and he felt as if he would have been much obliged to the insensible
                     floor if it would have taken pity on his confusion at that instant, opened wide
                     its wooden jaws, and have allowed him to pass into the depths of darkness
                     below. In the open doorway just in front of him appeared a young lady, toward
                     whom Mrs. Wilson advanced with alacrity, at the same time addressing her as her
                     dear Mary thus leaving no gleam of hope in the stunned soul of Mr. Mortimer
                     Grandval—for, O, terrible to relate! the person who thus appeared was not
                        the Miss Smith. The resemblance which had deluded him into the
                     belief that it might be his Mary, was just enough to warrant the supposition,
                     while at the same time it was an insult to the fresh and blooming image
                     enshrined in his heart, to compare it with the hard-looking, light-haired girl
                     who was now introduced to him as Miss Mary Smith.
                  The young lady bowed stiffly and coldly, and seemed evidently surprised at his
                     perturbation. Mrs. Wilson regarded it as only the bashfulness of a young lover,
                     and while the cold perspiration was bursting from his brow, she went on with
                     great volubility to say that at the request of her late traveling companion,
                     she had brought him to pay his respects; as he hoped to be permitted to
                     cultivate an acquaintance so auspiciously begun.
                  The lady turned her light blue eyes on the shivering form of the abashed young
                     man, and he felt as if they might have been little pellets of ice with a small
                     spot of paly blue in the center of each, so chilling was the expression they
                     wore, "Excuse me, Mrs. Wilson, but I am entirely at a loss to understand you,"
                     she said in a voice as dry and harsh as her form was bony. "I have not been on
                     a journey this summer, though we contemplate making one. In fact, we should
                     have gone before this time, but just as we were ready to leave, the discovery
                     was made, that the household stores prepared by ourselves,
                     had suffered from the great heat of the weather, and many of them were in a
                     state of fermentation. Under these circumstances, it was impossible to leave
                     before the mischief was remedied."
                  Grandval could have groaned audibly, but he courageously pent up his feelings
                     within his own breast, and forced himself to say,
                  "I beg your pardon, Miss Smith, but the similarity in your name, has led me
                     into a strange mistake. I made the acquaintance of Miss Mary Smith on the North
                     River yesterday, and as I neglected to ascertain her place of residence, I
                     ventured to call with my good friend, Mrs. Wilson, hoping you would prove to be
                     the lady."
                  Miss Smith grew more stately every moment as this explanation proceeded, and
                     her eyes appeared to become colder and colder, until little points of ice
                     seemed actually to radiate from them. With great stateliness she said,
                  "My name, sir, is not Smith, but Smythe, as you might easily have
                     ascertained, if you had consulted the directory. I should be extremely sorry to
                     be confounded with the vulgar tribe of Smiths, whose ancestors must have been
                     either gun makers, or horse shoe manufactures; as in ancient times people are
                     said to have derived their names from the handicraft they followed, or from
                     some estate,"
                  Grandval had a great inclination to inquire of her how her
                     ancestors obtained theirs, but he prudently refrained, and relapsed into a
                     state of wretched recklessness, while the two ladies kept up a constrained
                     conversation, in which he made not the slightest effort to join. Miss Smythe
                     had frozen him up completely, and as he looked at her he wondered that Mrs.
                     Wilson had not vaunted her powers of making ice-cream, as well as pickles;
                     though he mentally acknowledged that she need only look into a jar of the
                     latter, and the highest point of acidity would be attained.
                  In a state of completed obliviousness as to what was passing around him,
                     Grandval sat a wretched half hour with the murmur of conversation ringing in
                     his ears, and then mechanically obeyed the motion of Mrs. Wilso to leave. With a profound bow, and a few
                     muttered words, he bade adieu to Miss Smythe with the devout hope that he
                     should never behold her fair face again.
                  "Dear me, who would have believed that such a blunder could be made!"
                     ejaculated Mrs. Wilson when they were fairly outside of the house. "And the
                     description you gave applied so well to this young lady too!"
                  "Don't say that Mrs. Wilson if you please," said our hero in a state of
                     exasperation. "I never could have said any thing that could lead you to suppose
                     me quite dull enough to fall in love with such a mummy as that girl Why she is
                     an absolute fright! I told you my Mary is a sylph, and you seem to
                     think she is as bony as Miss Fox."
                  "I'm not acquainted with that lady," said Mrs. Wilson who was guiltless of
                     literary airs, "but I am sure you said she is fair and golden-haired, and so is
                     this young lady. Besides, you said she is not beautiful, and I am sure neither
                     is Miss Smythe."
                  "No, by the Mass! a more lack-lustre imitation of humanity I hope never to see.
                     She surely does not inherit the paternal fondness for the good things of this
                     life, or she would, scarcely be as attenuated as she is."
                  "I can not say as to that, but he certainly excels in preparing them, and I am
                     sorry you missed the chance of such a pattern-wife as she will make."
                  "My dear Mrs. Wilson, such a regret would almost prove you to be no friend to
                     my happiness. If such a woman could win me, I would give her leave to bestow
                     her choicest acid upon me, as she does on her boasted pickles."
                  We leave the reader to imagine the state of mind in which the disappointed
                     Grandval spent the night. We can not assert that the did not even tear his
                     hair, as he perambulated his floor through its long hours, and thought of his
                     terrible disappointment. The image of the true Mary Smith arose before him more
                     charming than ever, when he contrasted her with the counterfeit he had been
                     deceived into seeking.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE apartment occupied by our hero joined that of another single gentleman, on
                     whom Mrs. Wilson's allusion at dinner that day had not been lost, as, in fact
                     few things were, for Mr. Medler possessed the most insatiable curiosity, and an
                     extreme fondness for assisting his friends out of difficulties; which
                     assistance frequently tended only to plunge them deeper into
                     what they were seeking to extricate themselves from.
                  Mr. Medler was by several years the senior of Grandval, and possessed the
                     further advantage of being city bred, so that he considered himself up to any
                     thing. The distracted perambulations of his neighbor were distinctly audible to
                     him through the thin partition which divided their room, and
                     he mentally decided to find out what it was all about before the following day
                     was over.
                  In pursuance of his plan, he knocked at Grandval's door as soon as he was
                     dressed, there by arousing that unhappy wight from a light slumber into which
                     he had fallen about daylight.
                  "Who is there?" he peevishly demanded.
                  "O, you're alive are you?" replied the voice of his fellow-boarder, "May I Come
                     in?"
                  "Yes, if you wish it; the door is not locked."
                  Medler entered and found Grandval lying on the outside of the bed in the same
                     clothes he had worn on the preceding evening, with the exception of his coat,
                     which his excited promenade had rendered inconveniently warm, and it had
                     therefore been laid aside. He looked pale, and the livid circles beneath his
                     eyes showed that he really suffered.
                  "My dear fellow," said Medler. 'I heard you moving about all night, and feared
                     you were ill, but I would'nt intrude then, because I thought you would call our
                     if you needed assistance. What's in the wind, my boy? Been losing more money
                     than you can conveniently pay?"
                  "I never gamble; it is a worse loss than money," he feebly said.
                  "Ha, well, that is according to one's own estimate of things Now to me money is
                     the representative of every thing in the shape of human felicity; therefore I
                     estimate its loss above every other."
                  "There are many things it can not buy nevertheless."
                  "As a lost heart for instance," suggested Medler determined to hazard a bold
                     stroke. "Any body can see with half an eye, that you have fallen over head in
                     love; come isn't it so now?"
                  Grandval sighed heavily.
                  "If I could only find the girl I am in love with, I shouldn't care," he
                     said.
                  "What, parents opposed? sent her out of the way? The deuce! More romantic than
                     agreeable that!"
                  "No, that is not it. I have lost all clue to her, through my own want of
                     forethought."
                  "Pooh! that is easily remedied. Apply to the director—find
                     out her father's residence—I will scrape up an acquaintance, and
                     introduce you all regular."
                  "But, but, the name is the difficulty.
                  "You don't mean to say that you fell in love with the girl to the point you've
                     reached, and did not find out her name?"
                  "No, I know her name, certainly, but that does not help me much."
                  "What is it then, in Heaven's name?"
                  "Mary Smith."
                  Mr. Medler looked nonplussed a moment but he brightened up and briskly
                     said.
                  "Well, it her father's name isn't John, we can manage matters yet?"
                  "But unfortunately her father's name is John," said the lover
                     despairingly, and the friend sat still, and hummed a tune, in a state of
                     despondency. Presently he slowly said,
                  "It never was asserted that Jack Medler was not ready with
                     an expedient for any mischance. My advice is, to call a convention of all the
                     John Smiths in the city, and then pick out your man."
                  "But I only met them on a steamboat. I do not remember the old gentleman; it
                     was the daughter I fell in love with, and as I had no intention of so soon
                     losing sight of them, I scarcely noticed the appearance of the parents."
                  The adviser again seemed puzzled.
                  "Ah, but that is bad; but couldn't you ask each one in the assembly, if he has
                     a daughter Mary, who is the most charming girl in the city?"
                  "And perhaps half the men present, would reply in the affirmative; for Mary is
                     unfortunately as common a designation as Smith, and fathers often think their
                     daughters mere charming than any one else considers them; no that will never
                     do."
                  "Ah, well, perhaps not. Tell me the whole story, and it maybe I can help you. I
                     have been in the city all my life, and know a pretty considerable number of the
                     Smith family myself. At all events, I will do my best to assist you in your
                     search."
                  "Thank you, Medler, I feel the need of some one to advise with, and I know you
                     are sincere in your offer."
                  "You may say that my good fellow. I have a zeal in my friend's service, if I
                     sometimes lack discretion. But let me hear this heart history, if you
                     please."
                  Glad to find a sympathizing listener, Grandval related the story of his
                     unfortunate case up to the close of the last evening, and Medler chuckled over
                     the description of Miss Smythe, and the chilling process he had undergone.
                  "Know those persons myself, dined there once on turtle and venison; fine
                     dinner, very, but a tun a wine wouldn't warm the mother and daughter, while the
                     father is jolly as Bacchus. They are aristocratic, and only tolerate our good
                     landlady because she happens to be connected with some of the upper ten; though
                     what advantage the relationship is, no body can see, for her rich cousins do
                     nothing for her in her reverses, poor soul. If Miss Smythe had known you were
                     from the south, of good family, and owner of a fair share of cotton bales, she
                     might have thawed a little."
                  "Do not talk of her; the recollection of her is odious to me. Rather let us
                     decide on the best course for discovering my own Mary."
                  "Ah, true, Mary is a sweet name, but I could wish that in the present instance
                     the lady bore one a little less common. Now it is by no means usual for ladies
                     to bear the names of our sex, but it is sometimes done, and if this young girl
                     were only Miss Jemmy Smith, we might
                     soon overcome the difficulty. However, we can but set our wits to work, and it
                     shall never be said that Jack Medler was baffled in what he undertook to
                     perform."
                  We have said that Mr. Medler was fond of assisting his friends; in fact, he was
                     quite a philanthropist in his way, the only misfortune being that the aid he
                     rendered was often of exceedingly doubtful advantage to the recipient. While
                     Grandval confided his case to him, a scheme floated through his brain by which
                     he thought two friends might be benefitted at one stroke, if he could only
                     bring the plan to bear.
                  "This young fellow is green," thought the city man, "and easily caught by a
                     pretty face He has never seen this girl but once, and why shall not any other
                     Miss Smith answer as well, even if her name is not Mary? My pretty
                     cousin Kitty Smith, is as charming as this young lady, no doubt, and I know she
                     will be glad to make a good match. If I can bring it to pass, old Jeremiah
                     would accommodate me with that other five hundred as a reward for ridding him
                     of the eldest of six girls. Kate is a dashing girl, and a few smiles and
                     sentimental speeches will soon win this youngster's heart from the other one;
                     then hey presto for a merry weddin."
                  The last thought inspired him with such gleeful anticipations, that he snapped
                     his fingers, and commenced a species of tattoo with his feet which caused his
                     young friend to stare at him with astonishment.
                  "What is the matter?" he asked.
                  "Matter? O, nothing," replied Mr. Medler, in some confusion, "only you see I
                     was thinking that we will soon be on the right track. I just happen to remember
                     a Miss Smith who must be the one you are in pursuit of, and I'll tell you the
                     reason why I think it must be the same. This young lady is a distant relative
                     of my own, and I know certainly that she visited Albany last week in company
                     with her parents, and returned yesterday morning."
                  This was a pure invention on the part of Mr. Medler, but it answered the
                     purpose he wished, for Grandval was eager to believe him and readily permitted
                     himself to be duped. He started up, exclaimin.
                  "My dear friend, you give me new life! Why did I not apply to you at once?
                     Shall we seek her to-day? I am all impatience to behold her again."
                  "Softly, softly, my dear boy, I understand all that, and will set about
                     obtaining an introduction for you as speedily as possible, but these things
                     must be managed with care sometimes. The fact is, old Je—that is my respectable
                     cousin John Smith—belongs to the class of particulars, and he does not permit
                     every one to visit his daughter in the character of a suitor, who may happen to
                     take a fancy to her on a steamboat. I must see him, tell him who you are, and
                     request permission to introduce you into his family circle."
                  As this sounded very plausible and highly respectable, too, Grandval acquiesced
                     in the necessity, and after a few more questions which were satisfactorily
                     answered by Medler, Grandval arose in better spirits, and proceeded to make
                     himself look less like a wanderer from the world of unrest, and more like a
                     young gentleman of the nineteenth century, who was fully conscious of a fair
                     portion of good looks.
                  Mrs Wilson was happy to see Mr. Grandval better than she had expected, after
                     the adventure of the preceding evening, and she was quite electrified in the
                     course of the morning, when he entered her room, and jested quite merrily on
                     the mistake they had made.
                  "I am glad to see you are getting over it, Mr. Grandval You don't seem half so
                     heart struck as you were yesterday."
                  "Perhaps Miss Smythe froze me so effectually last night that I have no warmth
                     left in me. Oh, no, Mrs. Wilson, I have not forgotten my lady-love, nor proved
                     false to her so soon, I assure you; but I have a strong hope—almost a
                     certainty—of seeing her before twenty-four hours roll by."
                  Ah! Well I congratulate you; but how was the discovery of her residence brought
                     about?"
                  "By the simplest means in the world. I have taken, one of my follow-boarders
                     into my confidence, and he happens to know the family."
                  "How does he know it is the same one He may only lead you into a worse scrape
                     than I did."
                  "Oh, several circumstances convince me that there can be no mistake in the
                     present instance. Medler is too keen to be deceived in a matter of the
                     kind."
                  "I don't know; men are not often more sagacious than women, in such affairs,
                     and I was mistaken. Besides, Mr. Medler is notorious for getting
                     others into difficulties; he has the best intentions in the world, but always
                     acts with the greatest want of judgment. I am sorry he happens to be your
                     adviser."
                  "Set your fears at rest dear Madame; I am certain that we are on the right
                     track this time. In fact, the young lady is a relation of his own. Singular
                     that it should turn out so, but fact is sometimes stranger than fiction."
                  In the meantime, Mr. Medler proceeded toward one of the most genteel portions
                     of the city, and rang at the door of a house, struccoed and painted in
                     imitation of stone, with pilasters and columns in front, and a small green
                     yard, in which vegetated a few stunted and miserable-looking evergreens. This
                     was evidently the abode of pretension, and Mr. Medler smiled as he glanced into
                     the half open hall-door, and saw a young lady dressed in a very loose and
                     rather soiled morning-wrapper, with her hair still in curl-papers. She caught a
                     glimpse of his figure, and was about to vanish, when he called to her—
                  "Never mind, Kit, it is only I, and I wish to see you particularly."
                  With a hop, skip, and jump, and young girl thus addressed approached him, and
                     held our her hand.
                  "So it's only you, sure enough, Cousin Jack and pray what
                     brings you here so early this morning? See, I have not even had time to dress
                     my hair, you horrid Vandal. But you are always taking one by surprise."
                  "Something is sometimes gained in that way, Coz. For
                     instance, if I had fallen in love with your hyacinthine locks, last evening, I
                     should have been quite disenchanted this morning, at finding them converted
                     into horned snakes that might rival those of Medusa."
                  The girl laughed, and put up her hands toward the long rolls of paper around
                     which her curls were twisted, as if endeavoring to shelter them from
                     observation.
                  "Never mind, Kate, I am not in love with you, nor likely to become so, as you
                     know very well. Let us go into the boudoir, as I believe you call it, and have
                     a sensible talk. I know you can be rational sometimes."
                  "Thank you; and I also know that you can be complimentary sometimes, cousin of
                     mine. Come in, and let me hear what your wisdom has to say."
                  She led the way into a small apartment opening from the drawing-room, which was
                     ornamented with pictures and statues in abundance; but amid the redundancy of
                     ornament, the lack of good taste was at once apparent. Every thing was
                     overdone.
                  The young lady threw herself into the 
                        cor-
                        corner
                     
                     vis a vis, luxuriously cushioned, and
                     motioned to her visitor to take the opposite seat. Medler obeyed, and then
                     inquired—
                  "Well, Kate, how do you and young Simons get along? Has he asked the momentous
                     question yet?"
                  Miss Smith pouted, and, after a pause, said—
                  "What can one make of such a stupidly-bashful man as he is? I know he is in
                     love with me, but I do not believe he will ever have sufficient self-possession
                     to ask any woman to marry him."
                  "Ah, so much the better just now, for I was afraid you were entangled there,
                     and my present views for you might be thwarted."
                  "What do you mean, Jack?"
                  "Simply that if young Simmons is a good match, I can almost insure you a much
                     better one, by a little tact and management on your part."
                  The girl listened attentively, and, after a moment's reflection, replied—
                  "You know that my position at home is not happy, Cousin, for we are a house
                     divided against itself, and one and all devoted to that most uncomfortable way
                     of living—mere outside show. You also know that every day I am reminded that I
                     am the eldest of six daughters, and nearly twenty, without having yet had a
                     serious offer. Under the circumstances, no one can wonder that I wish to marry
                     some good man with whom I can live respectably Now who is this new lover, and what part am I to
                     play to win him?"
                  "He is a handsome young man, about two years your senior; independent in
                     fortune, and of good manners. All that is requisite is for you to put another
                     Miss Smith out of his romantic head, and usurp her place yourself."
                  "If he is already in love, it seems to me an idle speculation on your part, and
                     a waste of smiles and graces on mine."
                  "Not at all. He has never seen the girl but once, and that on a steamboat; they
                     walked in the moonlight, and talked sentiment until he lost his wits
                     completely. You can get up a very pretty flirtation when you have mind to, and
                     I advise you to try your powers on him. As clever a girl as you are can surely
                     manage this verdant young chap."
                  "But tell me who he is—every thing you know about him—that I may judge of the
                     expediency of taking the trouble."
                  Mr. Medler forth with related the adventures of Grandval, at which Miss Kate
                     laughed merrily, but she became a little serious when she ascertained that he
                     was really well educated, independent, and free to act for himself. Their
                     consultation ended by permission being accorded to introduce the young
                     gentleman that evening.
                  Mr. Medler returned to his friend in high glee; but fearful of being questioned
                     too closely, he took care to dine out, and only to arrive at Mrs. Wilson's late
                     in the evening. Although he was not at all scrupulous on the score of truth, he
                     thought it as well to avoid departing from it as far as possible in the present
                     instance, as no one could foresee the 
                        denonément
                        denouément
                      of the plot he had undertaken to conduct. To Grandval's look of eager
                     inquiry, he replied,
                  "All right, my good fellow. I have smoothed the way for your introduction, and
                     the fair Smith will receive you this evening with the full consent of Pa and
                     Ma, and even including that of brother Jonas."
                  "She has a brother, then?"
                  "Lots of 'em—two older than herself, and two younger, besides five junior
                     sisters."
                  "Quite an extensive family," said Grandval; "but if they are all as charming as
                     Mary, their home must be a heaven on earth."
                  "Then—O, yes—very blissful, indeed. Excellent people, the Smith's are; none
                     better; but, my dear fellow, it is time to make your toilette," so saying, he
                     passed hurriedly into his room, leaving his young dupe in high spirits to
                     prepare for the intended visit.
                  Dressed to the highest point of the becoming, Grandval entered the cab of
                     Medler, and with a quickly-beating heart, was driven toward the mansion of Mr.
                     Jeremiah Smith. The hall and parlors were brilliantly lighted and excited as he
                     was, Grandval remarked the showy appearance of every thing, and he was not as
                     favorably impressed as he had expected to be by the home of the quiet looking
                     people he had met on the steamer.
                  In the front parlor was a young gentleman of tall figure, sandy hair, and
                     parchment complexion, who was introduced as Mr. Jonas Smith. An elderly lady,
                     who strikingly resembled her son, sat on a sofa, and Grandval bowed to her in a
                     species of be wilderment, for it seemed impossible that this bedizened figure
                     could be the same matronly woman in black, whom he had lately traveled
                     with.
                  Mrs. Smith wore her light hair or wig in short spiral curls that hung down in
                     an even files to her eyebrows, and were not even divided in the center. Beneath
                     these peered a pair of small, sharp looking eyes, whose expression was not
                     softened by the remainder of the features. Above this array of curls, which
                     looked more like little wisps of dried hay than any thing else, was placed an
                     elaborate cap, composed of flowers and small bits of blonde. The artificial
                     tinting of the cheeks and lips completed a toute
                        ensemble any thing but pleasing to the visitor.
                  With a painful contraction of the heart, Grandval bowed before her, and
                     received her affected salutation. He found means to whisper to Medler.
                  "Get me out of this, Jack, for we're in the wrong box again. I never saw this
                     lady before."
                  "Too late now, old fellow, you must spend the evening, at all events," returned
                     Medler in the same tone. "Wait till the daughter comes in—she is a regular
                     smasher, and no mistake."
                  Grandval sank into a seat, feeling himself a victim to the most untoward of all
                     circumstances, while Mrs. Smith arranged the lace around her hands, spread out
                     her fan, and prepared herself for conversation.
                  "A delightful day we have enjoyed, Mr. Grandly, I am sure, as I said to my
                     daughter this morning, It'ly could'nt produce finer sun-shine than we walked in
                     to day."
                  Before Grandval could reply, her son gruffly said,
                  "What else would you expect but hot sunshine at this season, ma'am? I dare say
                     Mr. Grandval has been sufficiently melted in it to appreciate all its heating
                     qualities. Foreigners say that we always begin a conversation by speaking of
                     the weather, which is very true. Since I saw the observation, I make it a point
                     never to do it. One American, at least, will repudiate the custom.
                     How is cotton, Mr. Grandval?"
                  If he had asked the price of the horned horse or any other physical phenomenon,
                     he might just as soon have expected a satisfactory reply from our young
                     gentleman, for he had not yet entered on the management of his own property,
                     and only cared to know that he derived from it an income more than sufficient
                     for his most extravagant wants. He simply replied,
                  "I do not know; I have never interested mysel in commercial affairs. I believe
                     the poet's corner is more frequently consulted by me than the prices
                     current."
                  "Ah-h-h—not a business man, I perceive. As a grower of the staple, I thought
                     you would naturally take an interest in its value."
                  "In years to come, I may do so, but hitherto my property has been under the
                     management of an uncle, who is an experienced planter. Since my majority, I
                     have been absent from home, and have had no hing to do but receive the income
                     and appropriate it as suits myself."
                  Mrs. Smith listened, and her small eyes sparkled.
                  "What a fortunate thing it will be for Kate if she can only win him," she
                     thought; and Mr. Jonas mentally determined that his visit to their house should
                     not be made without some result.
                  At that instant a slight rustling noise was heard near the door, and a young
                     lady dressed in white appeared. Grandval, at the first glimpse was struck with
                     her showy appearance. Her figure was tall and slightly inclined to embonpoint, and her complexion brilliantly fair,
                     while her eyes were large, dark and languishing. Her black hair hung in long
                     ringlets in front, and her rosy lips unclosed on a set of white and regular
                     teeth.
                  Altogether, Miss Smith, if not the one sought, was a very pleasing looking
                     girl, and by no means an objectionable acquaintance, thought Grandval. As she
                     advanced into the room she made a little theatrical start as her eye fell on
                     our hero, and uttered a slight exclamation. Medler hastened to introduce his
                     friend, and then the young lady blushed with the most charming confusion, and
                     said,
                  "I was under the impression that I was to meet an acquaintance in Mr. Grandval.
                     My cousin led me to believe that I should see in him one I have already had the
                     pleasure of meeting while traveling."
                  "Travelling! when and where, I wonder," muttered Jonas. "To my certain
                     knowledge, your travels have not extended beyond the limits of the city for the
                     last year."
                  Grandval arose, made his most polite bow, and expressed his regrets that Miss
                     Smith should have been disappointed in not recognizing an acquaintance in
                     himself; that, however, could soon be remedied; he hoped they would soon become
                     friends.
                  He felt himself wounderfully at his ease, and was soon engaged in quite a
                     flirtation with Miss Kate, who used her eyes and her tongue with equal effect.
                     Our hero was not quite so inexperienced as Mr. Medler imagined. He had been
                     accustomed to ladies society during his sojourn at the University, and was able
                     to talk sentiment and gallantry with his new acquaintance in a manner that both
                     astonished and charmed her. From her cousin's description, she had expected to
                     see quite a raw youth, and she was agreeably disappointed to find her powers
                     lavished on one so well worthy of their exercise.
                  Medler judiciously devoted himself to the entertainment of the Mama, who, on being snubbed
                     by her son at the commencement of the interview, had subsided into a state of
                     silent indignation, from which Cousin Jack's efforts at last aroused her.
                     Common-places were uttered, and the faded curls and brilliant artificials
                     shaken in concert with them until Cousin Jack thought his five hundred hardly
                     earned, even if he eventually succeeded in loosening the purse-strings of the
                     father of the family.
                  Mr. Jonas amused himself with making calculations with a pencil in a small book
                     with a yellow leather cover, which he drew from his pocket. If the guest had
                     been privileged to peep into these memoranda, he would have found calculations
                     of the commissions due for selling cottons at various prices, which, in the
                     imagination of the writer, were already as good as in the possession of the
                     firm of Jeremiah Smith & Son.
                  In the meantime, Miss Smith inveigled Grandval into the boudoir under the
                     pretext of hearing music by moonlight. A French window opened from this room on
                     a balcony surrounded by iron railings, and ornamented with a stand of dusty
                     flowers. In this two chairs were placed, and Miss Kate tuned her guitar in a
                     patch of moonlight that fell between two neighboring chimney-tops, and was
                     sufficient to light up her instrument and her lilly hands, while the remainder
                     of her person rested in the shadowy star-lit air.
                  She sang passably, and talked very well; Grandval was amused and interested,
                     but Miss Smith was mistaken in fancying that she was making a lasting
                     impression upon his heart. That was irrevocably the property of
                     the fair snow drop, whose image he cherished only the more fondly from the
                     disappointments he encountered in finding her. He had tact
                     enough to understand Miss Smith at a glance, and was quite willing to indulge
                     her fondness for flirtation; never dreaming that any thing serious could be
                     expected to grow out of this chance visit to her family.
                  "This is indeed a lovely night!" exclaimed the young lady, casting up her eyes
                     in affected ecstacy.
                  
                  "Lovely is the true epithet, Miss Smith, for I think it was made to talk love
                     in," replied Grandval, with theatrical emphasis, as he stood in a graceful
                     attitude before her. "I could make the hackneyed quotation— 
                        "On such a night as this young Jessica," etc.
                      but I forbear, as it must be well known to you, and I would not repeat
                     what has become common place in such a presence, or in so poetic a scene as the
                     one before me. It might inspire even my dull wit with such thoughts as the
                     world does not willingly lt die."
                  "I am sure you are a poet, Mr. Grandval. You talk like one, and then you are
                     from the land of the orange and the vine. I really thing that the very sight of
                     an orange grove would inspire me with the divine afflatus."
                  "Unluckily I am a little too far north for the cultivation of the orange, and
                     the view that oftenest rises up before my mental vision, is a field of dead
                     cotton stalks, raising their brown and shrivelled arms toward heaven in every
                     degree of crookedness that can be imagined, as if imploring the removal of
                     their unsightliness from the fair face of nature."
                  "O! you horror! you destroyer of one's ideal pictures!" exclaimed the young
                     lady. "I have imagined a palace-like building raising its stately front amid
                     the green foliage and snowy blossoms of a lovely orange grove, on which cluster
                     the ripened fruit and the fragrant flowers at the same time A gleam of silvery
                     waters through a wide park on which stand noble forest trees, the growth of
                     centuries, completes the picture."
                  "The homes of many of the very wealthy a little nearer the tropics, may realize
                     your fancy sketch; but, in my state, by far the larger portion of the planters
                     belong to the juste milieu, and with them
                     comfort outweighs ostentatious show. Imagine a cottage building surrounded by
                     wide galleries, and shaded by trees sufficiently trimmed to allow a free
                     circulation of air; a neat fence, or an ever-green hedge forming the boundary
                     to a yard often large enough to be dignified with the name of lawn, if the
                     owner is ambitious. About a quarter of a mile off, is seen a small village,
                     consisting of two parallel rows of houses with small gardens attached to them
                     and often a narrow enclosure in front, in which a fruit tree is permitted to
                     grow, provided the owners will not devour the fruit before it ripens."
                  "It is a fair picture, but then the producers are——" she hesitated, as if
                     unwilling to wound him by uttering the thought that was in her mind.
                  "Slaves, you would say," continued Grandval. "That is true, and to be lamented,
                     but since we must have them in our midst, we must do the best we can with them;
                     and those orderly, well-cared for blacks, are in a very superior condition, I
                     assure you, not only to many of their own color but to hundreds of their white
                     brethren to be found in this very city. Within an hour's walk from this
                     pleasant home of yours, I can find scenes that humanity must weep and shudder
                     over. Let the philanthropist enter those and purge them, and then let him say
                     to his southern brother, 'thou committest a wrong against thy fellow man by
                     holding him in bondage.' Armed with the evidence of his far-reaching
                     benevolence, which had swept crime and suffering from his own door, the
                     slave-holder would meet him in the spirit of kindliness, and the means of
                     ridding our country of this curse be jointly discussed in the spirit of anmity
                     which should exist between the sons of this vast heritage, and not, as now, be
                     sounded as the tocsin of political warfare. But pardon me, Miss Smith, we have
                     diverged widely from the orthodox topics usually discussed by young ladies and
                     gentlemen, on occasions like the present. Will you sing for me again?"
                  The tinkle of the guitar arose, and Miss Smith caroled a gay air, after which
                     the sound of a voice near to Grandval informed him that the party in the
                     drawing-room was increased by another arrival.
                  "It is mon cher papa," said his fair companion, starting up with an affected
                     vivacity. "He will never forgive me if I delay presenting so agreeable an
                     acquaintance as yourself to him. Allons—let
                     us abjure moonlight for lamplight and the pleasures of the social circle."
                  Grandval followed her through the boudoir, and was introduced to an elderly
                     gentleman, who was very bald and very white; he looked as if he had spent all
                     the days of his life in the shades of his counting house, with no gleam of
                     physical or mental sunshine to play upon his outward or inner man. It was
                     evident that Mr. Smith was a hard, dry man of ledgers, whose ideas seldom
                     soared beyond cent per cent. and the thought suggested itself to Grandval, that
                     the over-dressed woman in the hay-colored wig, must have been the
                     representative of a certain portion of real estate, or her mercantile partner
                     would never have selected her as his companion in the voyage of life. It solved
                     a doubt in his mind as to Mr. Smith's entire sanity when he made the choice, as
                     he had been mentally accusing that respectable individual of remarkable want of
                     taste in his judgment of the fairer part of creation. As to himself, he
                     regarded Mrs. Smith as a frightful specimen of the sex, whom it would be a
                     penance to be even distantly connected with, and wondered how so passable a
                     girl as Kate could be the daughter of such a mother.
                  Miss Smith skipped toward her impassive papa, and seizing his chilly hand, made
                     a point, of carrying it to her lips, and said—
                  "Permit me, dearest father, to have the pleasure of presenting you to a
                     delightful new friend, for whose acquaintance we are indebted to cousin Jack.
                     Mr. Grandval, my father will appreciate you, I assure you."
                  With great show of courtesy for him, Mr. Smith put forth his hand, and took
                     that of our hero in its clammy clasp, while he scanned him with quite an
                     appreciative glance, for he was well aware of the game for a husband which was
                     then in progress.
                  "Glad to see you sir: hope we shall often have that pleasure in future," said
                     Mr. Smith with great appearance of cordiality for one of his reserved demeanor;
                     but to the Southerner his manner seemed barely civil.
                  After some conversation, which was an odd jumble of fashion on the part of Mrs.
                     Smith, sentiment on that of her daughter, sporting on that of cousin Jack, and
                     commercial affairs on the part of the merchant and his son, a waiter was
                     brought in containing fruits and wine.
                     Miss Smith did the honors so gracefully, and had so many witty or sentimental
                     toasts to propose, that when the hour of departure at length arrived, our hero
                     was in quite a state of exhilaration. He squeezed Miss Smith's hand at parting,
                     and breathed a few words in the vicinity of her long curls, which caused her to
                     blush and smile sweetly as she said—
                  "She would think of it."
                  With the assistance of Medler, Grandval was safely seated in a cab; for, to
                     tell the truth, he was not in the habit of drinking, and the wine he had taken
                     produced such a confusion in his brain, that he was not very capable of judging
                     which would be the best method of getting into the vehicle; but seemed to have
                     a very decided opinion that to climb over the back part, would be the most
                     eligible.
                  Medler at last succeeded in depositing him in his own room in safety, and left
                     him to his slumbers, with the comfortable conviction in his own mind, that his
                     young friend had decidedly committed himself to his fair cousin; and unless he
                     had more nerve than he gave him credit for possession, Miss Kate Smith would
                     soon be Mrs. Grandval.
                  On the following morning, our hero awoke with a violent head-ache, and a
                     feeling of decided disgust toward the reminiscenses of the past evening. It was
                     late in the day, and he hastily rang his bell; a servant soon answered the
                     summons, and he ordered soda water and a shower bath. When the man returned, on
                     the waiter beside the soda bottle, lay a delicate rose-colored billet, sealed
                     with Cupid's bow, and highly perfumed.
                  "Where did this come from?" he asked in surprise.
                  "Mr. Medler met me on the stairs, and told me to deliver it to you, sir."
                  With many misgivings, Grandval took the note, and motioned to the man to leave
                     him alone. With nervous trepidation he broke the seal, and in the tiniest and
                     most elegant caligraphy, he found merely an invitation from, Mrs. Smith to a
                     musical soirée at her house on the following evening. To this, Miss Smith had
                     added on her behalf a few lines, hoping they would not be disappointed in
                     seeing him, and hinting very intelligibly, that a call would in the meantime be
                     very acceptable.
                  "Your parting words," concluded the young lady, "gave rise to many waking
                     visions of a most Eden-like nature, and when I slept, the same rosy hues
                     pervaded my dreams.
                  "What the deuce did I say?" thought the bewildered youth. "I have not the
                     slightest recollection of what occurred for half an hour before I left. I
                     surely did not make love to this 'counterfeit presentment' of my adorable
                     Mary."
                  While endeavoring to recall the events of the latter portion of his visit, he
                     completed his toilette, and having ascertained that Medler was in his room,
                     proceeded thither to demand an explanation of that gentleman; for as Miss Smith
                     signed herself Kate and not Mary, his perfidious confidant must have been fully
                     aware that she was not the lady he sought.
                  He found Medler seated in a chair which rested on two legs, with his feet
                     mounted on the back of another, while he enjoyed the delights of a cigar.
                  "Come in, old fellow—glad to see you all right. Pretty well used up last night,
                     eh? What with the wine, and the bright eyes of my handsome cousin, you were
                     quite bewildered, or enthused, to use a convenient word of modern carriage. Sit
                     down, and make yourself comfortable. Had a note from Kate this morning, I know.
                     What did the sweet sparkler have to say?"
                  Grandval sat down, looking very grave.
                  "So her name is Kate, and yet you took me to visit her, when I expressly stated
                     that my Miss Smith is named Mary. Why have you acted thus, Mr.
                     Medler? I confided in you in good faith, and certainly expected to be treated
                     differently."
                  "My dear boy, do not take this affair so seriously, or I shall never pardon
                     myself. These Smiths are charming people and very agreeable acquaintances. To
                     tell you the simple truth, I thought, as Mary Smith is only a passing steamboat
                     acquaintance, you might find her rivaled by her interesting namesake, although
                     she had the misfortune to have been baptized Kate instead of Mary. She is a
                     lovely girl—nay, a splendid one, in my opinion, and in that of many others too,
                     for Kate Smith is quite a toast in a certain set, which is well entitled to
                     rank among the upper ten."
                  "All that may be very true, Mr. Medler, but she is not the girl I am in search
                     of, and you knew she was not, when you took me to see her. I am aware that I
                     made a fool of myself last night, after drinking the wine which your fair
                     friend almost forced on me, and this note is the result. Read it—as you are
                     doubtless familiar with her tactics it can be no violation of confidence."
                  "There you're mistaken," replied Medler coolly. "It would take a wiser man than
                     Napoleon and Wellington together, to understand the tactics of any woman; but I
                     have no objection to read Kate's note. She is a devilish smart girl, and always
                     writes to the purpose. Hum—invitation to a party. Of course you'll accept; for
                     it is something to again the entree to such a fashionable house as that of my
                     cousin's the Jeremiah Smiths. Eden-like, rose-hued—ah—h—girlish
                     nonsense—nothing more. I dare say Kate has said as much to twenty others, and
                     nothing came of it. You see she is still Miss Smith."
                  "And Miss Smith she is likely to remain so far as I am concerned," replied
                     Grandval deceidedly, "therefore I considered it best to decline this
                     invitation."
                  "Afraid to trust yourself in such fascinating society, eh? Well, if
                        that is your motive, I cannot blame you. Kate is a charming
                     girl, and not used to be slighted; but I dare say I can make an apology that
                     will be received But really, now, Grandval, I think you are too scrupulous.
                     Take the goods the gods provide, and be thankful. I thought I was doing quite a
                     good thing for you, when I introduced you into a family of consideration like
                     that of the Jeremiah Smiths. You know a stranger may be rich, well bred, and
                     all that, and yet fail to get in a good set in a city like New York, for want
                     of proper introductions."
                  "That is very true," replied our hero, a little shaken in his determination,
                     for he was fond of society, and as he intended remaining some time in the city,
                     he was naturally desirous of forming eligible acquaintances.
                  Medler saw his advantage, and hastened to follow it up with so many arguments
                     in favor of accepting the invitation that at last Grandval yielded. The next
                     concession to be obtained was a morning call, which Medler had predetermined
                     should be a tète a tète between his fair
                     cousin and his young friend; but this Grandval anticipated, and insisted so
                     decidedly on his remaining in the room during the few moments devoted to a
                     fashionable visit, that he was compelled to yield.
                  These prelimnaries arranged, they entered Medler's cab and soon arrived at the
                     door of Mr. Jeremiah Smith. The parlors were judiciously darkened, and Miss
                     Kate overdressed but looking very handsome, received them with great empressement. Fearing her manner might be too
                     demonstrative, and our young gentleman take the alarm, Medler found means to
                     whisper,
                  "Be cautious, Kate—the bird is shy."
                  Thus warned, Miss Smith played her part admirably; sprightly, graceful, and
                     amusing she detained them more than half an hour beyond the orthodox limits of
                     a fashionable morning call, and on their return Grandval voluntarily
                     acknowledged to Medler, that she was "very fascinating."
                  This was duly reported to Miss Smith, and with great elation of spirits she
                     prepared for a coup de main at the
                     soiree.
                  In due time Mr. Medler presented himself at the mansion of Mr. Jeremiah Smith
                     on the appointed evening, accompanied by his young friend. On entering the
                     hall, they were greeted with notes of preparation in the shape of long drawn
                     sounds from a bass viol, which seemed like prolonged snores suddenly broken
                     off. This was accompanied by the squeaking of wind-instruments, and no wonder
                     they gave forth distorted sounds, for human ingenuity seemed to have tortured
                     itself to produce such hideous inventions as many of them were.
                  These instruments were presided over by dark snuffy-looking gentleman, with a
                     superfluity of moustache and whiskers, and very luxurious crops of hair.
                  
                  Miss Smith, dressed as a soi disant
                     representative of St. Cecilia, stood beside a harp which was ornamented with
                     wreaths of artificial flowers, she had a very vague idea of the costume
                     properly belonging to the patroness of music, for in the pictures of that
                     saintly lady which she had seen, there was a scantiness of attire which might
                     be appropriate to a saint, but would certainly have argued a deficiency in
                     laces and muslins on the part of her earthly representative, had she closely
                     imitated her model.
                  Miss Smith considered her costume a happy and medium between modern fashion and
                     classic taste. Over a white silk under-dress, she wore several skirts of
                     gossamer material, embroidered at the edges in an oak-leaf pattern which had
                     quite a rich effect. Her arms were bare to the shoulder, and glittering with
                     bracelets; her dress was cut very low on the bosom, and a species of Roman toga
                     made of lace and embroidered to match her dress, was thrown over her fair neck,
                     and fastened over the left shoulder with an immense cameo. Her hair was drawn
                     back and twisted in a classic knot at the back of the head, from which a few
                     curls escaped, and her brow was encircled with a wreath of laurel.
                  Grandval was quite struck with her appearance and agreed with Mr. Medler's
                     asertion, that she was a magnificent looking girl, and would reflect honor upon
                     the man who should be so fortunate as to win her consent to take him for better
                     or for worse.
                  It had occurred to Mrs. Smith, that as her daughter was dressed in character,
                     it would be quite as appropriate for the mistress of the mansion to be so too,
                     and she accordingly decided to appear as Minerva; the only token thereof being
                     a sort of helmet made of-black velvet and surmounted by a plume of marabout
                     feathers; the last being an innovation of her own, and considered by her as
                     quite an improvement. The remainder of her dress was in the height of the last
                     fashion plate, consequently Minerva would have been at a loss to recognize her
                     representative, had she looked in on the assemblage.
                  On this occasion Miss Angelica Smith, the second daughter, who was quite a
                     musical prodigy, was permitted to appear in society. She was a young lady of
                     tall and rather attenuated proportions, who looked as if she had outgrown her
                     clothes; for her dress was absurdly short, and was eked out by continuations of
                     pink satin, made a la Turque, and buttoned
                     above a white satin slipper, certainly not of fairy-like proportions. She was
                     sallow dull-looking, and seemed as if she felt herself out of place in a grown
                     up assemblage, for although pretty well grown herself, she had been carefully
                     kept in the back ground, and made to dress as a child until her elder sister
                     should obtain an establishment.
                  Mr. Smith, looking as white and cold as ever, played the part of the courteous
                     host and Mr. Jonas, as brown and dry as on their first meeting, accosted
                     Grandval and seizing him by the button commenced a dissertation on the state of
                     the money market, which was only ended by the united crash of all the
                     instruments performing an overture.
                  Young ladies in white, blue, and pink, adorned with streaming ribbons of all
                     the colors of the rainbow, and the gayest flowers and jewels, fluttered through
                     the rooms attended by cavaliers attired in the last mode.
                     Altogether it was quite a fashionable and distingushed gathering, and Miss
                     Smith thought her new acquaintance must be favorably impressed with the
                     position her family held in society.
                  
                  Our hero we are sorry to say, had not much taste for the kind of music he was
                     now stunned with. He liked a ballad, sung with sweetness and simplicity by some
                     loved voice, and many of the negro melodies he had heard chanted by the slaves
                     when at work in his native fields possessed a great charm for him; but
                     scientific music he could not appreciate. He however applauded with the rest,
                     and enthusiastically encored Miss Smith when she performed a solo on her
                     flower-laden harp. This was followed by a very loud and very shrill performance
                     by Miss Angelica, which the bearded gentlemen of the musical profession,
                     pronounced "magnificent."
                  Grandval had no doubt it was so, but he had more than once been tempted during
                     its continuance to seek relief for his tortured ears by a retreat to the
                     balcony; and would doubtless have done so had not the contortions of the
                     performer held him spell-bound. Apprehensive that they might end in spasms, he
                     looked around for some restorative in case of need, and seeing nothing better
                     than a pitcher of lemonade which stood on a side table, he mentally resolved on
                     a shower bath of that should it prove necessary.
                  Fortunately the performance ended without any fatal catastrophe, and then there
                     was a recess to allow refreshments of the lightest description to be handed
                     among the crowd, for Mrs. Smith fully understood the impolicy of over eating
                     for those who were to exercise their vocal powers, and her musical soirees,
                     among her own set, had long since obtained the soubriquet of starvation
                     parties.
                  During the evening Miss Smith had so successfully maneuvred as to keep Grandval
                     near herself, and he was rather amused to observe the evident annoyance this
                     occasioned to a small pink-looking man, with particularly light hair and eyes,
                     who colored if any one looked at him. He kept a strict watch over all the
                     movements of Miss Smith, and seemed amazed and confounded that she should over
                     look himself in favor of any other person.
                  At the conclusion of the performance, when she arose from her seat this
                     gentleman advanced, with a timid and awkward air of
                     hesitation, as if to offer his arm; she looked over him in the coolest manner
                     and, with a smile and nod, invited our hero to join in the promenade which the
                     rest of the company had already commenced.
                  "I know you have enjoyed the music," she said, "for you have a soul attuned to
                     harmony, I am sure your looks indicate it."
                  Grandval bowed, glad she took it for granted that it had afforded him pleasure,
                     for he could not conscientiously say so himself, and he was too polite to be
                     willing to confess the truth.
                  "Here is a waiter of refreshments, Mr. Grandval. Will you take something?"
                  "Nothing, thank you—shall I help you?"
                  "O, no—at musical parties it seems to me that we should forget our mundane
                     nature, and only exist on the nectar of sweet sounds. Let us make our way to
                     the balcony. Do you know that has become a hallowed spot to me since those
                     happy moments I enjoyed there in your society?"
                  Grandval was naturally a bashful man, though no one could accuse him of
                     timidity. He blushed at this avowal, and an observer might have mistaken his
                     embarrasment for that of a doubtful lover, in place of suspecting the actual
                     predicament in which he found himself, of being made love to by a very stylish
                     and elegant looking girl.
                  Uncertain how to act, he suffered himself to be led like a lamb to sacrifice,
                     and in a few moments found himself alone with Miss Smith on the balcony, for
                     the remainder of the company were not so ethereal as she professed to be, and
                     they were in the enjoyment of such creature comforts as had been provided for
                     them in the shape of float, which consisted of an island of pink froth resting
                     on a sea of skimmed milk, seasoned with sugar and wine. This was accompanied by
                     the more solid edibles of sponge cake and candies.
                  Miss Smith drew her reluctant companion to the place on which they had sat a
                     few evenings before, and turning her melting eyes upon him, with their most be
                     witching expression said,
                  "Do you remember the simple ballad with which I closed our charmed interview on
                     the evening of our first happy meeting? O halcyon hour, long to be cherished as
                     the brightest souvenir of my existence!"
                  "I—I—am sure you will pardon me, Miss Smith, but—I—I—really, I have been so
                     dull as to forget."
                  "Forget!" she exclaimed with a tragic start, while her eyes changed their
                     languishing for a most upbraiding expression—"Forget! thus it ever is with your
                     most perfidious sex. You practice your deluding flatteries but to decieve."
                  "Upon my word you misunderstood me," said the wretched Grandval, "I think you a
                     lady of transcendent charms, and, if my heart were free to choose, I should
                     doubtless have been deeply impressed by them; but, really, I must speak the
                     truth—"
                  
                  "What is it?" she faintly asked, "Is it not true that you love me, as your
                     words led me to believe on the evening of our first interview?"
                  'I—I had no intention to deceive you Miss Smith. I am sorry that you should
                     have misinterpreted mere words of unmeaning gallantry. Your cousin, Mr. Medler,
                     could have told you that I am desperately in love with
                     another lady."
                  "Unmeaning gallantry—love another," murmured the fair Kate.
                        "O, cruel cruel, my heart is broken by the
                        unmanly trifling. What did you whisper in my ear on your
                     departure on that first evening? Words which I have dwelt on so fondly—clasped
                     to my heart with such passionate joy—and they were mere professions; I grow
                     faint, I believe I am dying."
                  There was no resource left for the unhappy young man, and he was compelled to
                     offer his arm as a support to the tottering frame of the young lady. Her head
                     rested on his shoulder, and her lips almost came in contact with his cheek,
                     even in this bewildering position, his curiority, to ascertain what he really
                     had said to her, triumphed over every other feeling and he urgently asked,
                  "What could I have said to produce such on unhappy crisis as the present
                     one?"
                  "Said, ah cruel monster, you feign forgetfulness," gasped the young lady,
                  "Upon my soul I do not. I am serious enough, now I assure you."
                  "And you were not serious when you clasped my hand, and asked me if I would
                     sing, 'Am I not fondly thine own?' when we next met?"
                  "Ah h," sighed Grandval, infinately relieved, "Was that all?"
                  "All," murmured she faintly "was not that enough?"
                  At that moment she caught a glimpse of a figure standing in the French window,
                     and became extremely ill on the instant. Her form fell
                     heavier on his arm, and he was about to call for assistance,
                     reckless of what might ensue, when Mr. Jonas came forward and said,
                  "What on earth is the matter? Has Kate lost her senses, that she acts such a
                     scene where strangers may see her?"
                  "I believe she has," said Grandval, hastily transferring the drooping form to
                     young Smith, "If she has not, I must have lost mine. I will send Mrs. Smith, or
                     the other young lady."
                  Thus speaking he hurriedly passed into the house, but as he had a shrewd
                     suspicion that Miss Kate's indisposition was only a feint he did not trouble
                     himself to find the representative of Minerva, but seized the first hat he came
                     to, and rushing into the open air walked rapidly toward his boarding-house in a
                     perfect fever of anger and indignation.
                  He saw through it all, and Medler's anxiety to take him to this party was
                     explained. A regular net had been spread for him in the belief that he would be
                     dull enough to be snared in its meshes. They had deceived themselves, and that
                     was some comfort, though the reflection did not abate his resentment at being
                     supposed a fit victim for so shallow a plot.
                  On the following morning before Grandval had arisen, two missives were brought
                     to him. One was from Mr. Jonas Smith, demanding the cause of his singular
                     escapade on the preceding evening; and very intelligibly hinting at the
                     comfortable alternative of matrimony with his fair and broken-hearted sister,
                     or pistols for two. Grandval had expected something of the kind, and had
                     already made up his mind as to the course he should pursue.
                  On opening the other letter, he found the following words:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "SIR:—Although I am not a fighting man, and am incapacitated from
                                 it by shortness of sight, and a degree of nervousness which is very
                                 painful, still I cannot permit my claims to be trampled on, and my
                                 happiness destroyed, without an effort on my part to avert such
                                 disastrous consequences, though I have never had courage to speak
                                 to Miss Smith on the subject, still a perfect understanding has
                                 existed between us for some time, that when I could
                                 manage to put my devotion in words, she would not reject it. I am a
                                 painfully bashful man, and if you have any sympathy you must feel
                                 it for one situated as I am. This his young lady is probably the
                                 only one I shall ever have courage to approach as a lover, while
                                 such a dashing blade as yourself may select among the fairest.
                              Pray take these circumstances into consideration Mr. Grandval, and
                                 withdraw from your pursuit of Miss Smith while there is yet time;
                                 for in case of a refusal, I must resort to the barbarous and
                                 uncivilized custom of the duels, which is so strangely sustained
                                 among a people who profess to be enlightened and christianized.
                              I shall the more willingly do this, as life will
                                 be shorn of all its promised joy, if you bear off from me the
                                 affections of the girl I prefer above all others. With respect,
                              
                                 MICAJAH SIMMONS.
                              
                           
                           
                              P. S. Do not consider this last clause in the light of a threat,
                                 for I am emphatically a man of peace, and would very much prefer an
                                 amicable settlement of this difficulty; which settlement must, of
                                 course, involve the quiet resignation of the lady in dispute, to
                                 him who has prior claims upon her affections.
                              
                                 M. S."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  This singular epistle Grandval read several times, and in spite of the
                     vexatious predicament in which he found himself, he laughed long and loud over
                     it. Mr. Micajah Simmons was evidently a character, and but for the absurd
                     rivalry in which they were placed, he would certainly have sought his
                     acquaintance. He had little difficulty in identifying him with the pink-looking
                     gentleman with light hair, who had been treated so cavalierly by Miss Smith on
                     the previous evening. He seized a pen, and immediately replied—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR SIMMONS:—God forbid that I should take either your life or your
                                 love. Retain them both, I beg, and long may you continue to do so,
                                 is the earnest wish of him you have honored with your eloquent
                                 appeal.
                              Miss Smith is nothing more to me than the passing acquaintance of
                                 the hour, though I consider her a very charming girl, and am not
                                 surprised at your devotion to her. Since my
                                    visits have interfered so materially with
                                 your happiness, I shall cease to make them in future, and you may
                                 consider the field as indisputably your own.
                              Permit me, in conclusion, to give you a piece of advice. Overcome
                                 your bashfulness and give language to your passion, or some youth
                                 more enamored than myself, may step in and bear off the young lady
                                 from one whose devotion renders him so eminently worthy of her.
                              
                                 Yours very respectfully,
                                 M. GRANDVAL."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  The reception of Mr. Simmons' communication a little
                     modified his course toward Mr Jonas Smith. He enclosed that gentleman's letter
                     to him with the following words—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "From the enclosed you may see that your fair sister will not be
                                 very materially damaged in her affections by our brief
                                 acquaintance. If, as I have every right to believe, Miss Smith
                                 wishes to obtain an establishment of her own, the devotion of Mr.
                                 Simmons places it in her power to do so; whereas a duel, and all
                                 the idle gossip which it must give rise to, will very seriously
                                 compromise her chance of such a denouement.
                              As to myself, I assure you, I am neither to be wheedled nor bullied
                                 into matrimony. My youth may have led you into the error of
                                 supposing me entirely inexperienced in affairs of this kind; but
                                 such is not the case. I have already been out once, and although it
                                 would be repugnant to my feelings to do so in the present instance,
                                 on account of the ridiculous misconception out of which this whole
                                 affair has arisen; still I will fight sooner than become an object
                                 of contempt to myself, as that most egregious of all fools, a man
                                 thrust into the fetters of Hymen without his own full and free
                                 consent.
                              Yours, with or without pistols, as you may decide,
                              
                                 M. GRANDVAL."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  These letters despatched, Grandval inquired for Medler, but that gentleman had
                     wisely remembered a promise to visit some friends in the country, and had
                     departed at an early hour, leaving this untoward affair to be settled before
                     his return.
                  Grandval received no further communication from Mr. Jonas Smith, and he
                     concluded the young gentleman had decided in the present instance, that
                     "discretion was the better part of valor." We may as well mention here that,
                     before the summer was over, or his own quest completed, he accidentally saw the
                     marriage of Mr. Micajah Simmons to Miss Katharine Smith announced in one of the city papers; thus proving that Mr.
                     Simmons had profited by his advice.
                  Our hero, now left to his own resources, took to wandering about the streets,
                     and reading the names on the plates, in the hope that he might find a John
                     Smith whose residence looked as if it might shelter the object of his pursuit.
                     He found this so tiresome a proceeding that he finally procured a city
                     directory, and turned to the column dedicated to the Smiths. This capped the
                     climax of his bewilderment, for among them were no less than thirty John
                     Smiths, scattered widely apart, and inhabiting sections of the city as diverse
                     as were their fortunes.
                  Still the quest must be followed; for, in addition to the love he cherished for
                     the fair Mary, his pride was now enlisted in bringing the pursuit to a
                     successful termination. Besides, he felt in his heart a deep conviction that
                     this young girl must certainly become his wife, and no other. With this belief,
                     he was only inspired with new energy by every new defeat.
                  "I must find her," was the first thought of his waking hours, and
                     the last that remained with him before he lost all consciousness in his nightly
                     slumbers Mrs. Wilson regarded his infatuation as a species of monomania, and
                        vainly endeavered to dissuade him from any further
                     attempt to discover his lost love.
                  Grandval now concluded to employ a cab to drive slowly through the streets of
                     the city, and pause near the location of some one of the John Smiths, while he
                     alighted and reconoitered the premises, with a strong belief that when he came
                     to the right one some intuitive conviction would flash upon his mind that he
                     had at last reached the desired haven.
                  Thus occupied many days and each evening he returned in a state of despondency;
                     for although he found the homes of the Smiths, from the stately mansion of
                     wealth to the humble cottage of the poor, he failed to discover one he dared
                     approach with the belief that his Mary dwelled therein as a holy presence.
                  The cabman thought him deranged, but he was well paid for
                     attending to so harmless a whim, and he looked as particularly after our hero
                     as if he had been some lost child he was employed to restore to his afflicted
                     parents. He continued this quest more than a week, and was really beginning to
                     despond; when, one evening, as he was proceeding slowly through one of the
                     thoroughfares leading from the city, an open carriage drawn by two magnificent
                     bays came dashing up the street. It whirled past like a flash, but in that
                     brief moment a young, fair face was turned toward Grandval; a look of surprised
                     recognition and a salutation came to him at the same moment; starting up, he
                     exclaimed:
                  "'Tis she, 'tis herself, at last! Turn, quick—after that carriage, driver, and
                     if you overtake it I will double, treble your fare!'
                  Though the man did not comprehend the cause of this excitement, he understood
                     the offer of increased pay very well, and as quickly as possible obeyed his
                     command: but, alas! their horse was already wearied, and before they succeeded
                     in obtaining another view of the carriage, which had passed at so rapid a pace,
                     it was already half-a-mile ahead of them. Grandval seized the whip, and in a
                     state of mind bordering on distraction, belabored the unlucky animal until he
                     exasperated his wearied limbs into a gallop; but a few minutes convinced him
                     that the chase was desperate, and he sank back in a state of discouragement,
                     from which the recollection of the passing smile that beamed upon him, could
                     alone arouse him.
                  As they failed to overtake them, it then occurred to Grandval that the
                     occupants of the carriage lived in the environs of the city, in the direction
                     whence it came, and if he remained long enough, the vehicle would return. He
                     ordered the driver to draw up to one side of the road, while he watched for the
                     re-appearance of the carriage, with the desperate resolution to stop the
                     driver, speak to Miss Smith, and request the favor of her address, with a view
                     of calling on her. This proceeding was, he knew, quite out of rule, but his
                     case was nearly desperate, and he must resort to a desperate remedy, trusting
                     to his eloquence to obtain forgiveness, when he could once
                     more unrestrainedly converse with his idol.
                  Many vehicles of every description passed, and once our lover was deluded into
                     the belief that he was about to succeed in stopping the right one, when the
                     sound of a deep curse from a gruff voice, arrested his hand in the act of
                     making a signal to the driver. Daylight waned, and the gas
                     was lighted, yet Grandval still clung to the fallacious hope that she would
                     return. Nine, ten, eleven pealed forth from the clock on a neighboring steeple,
                     and still he seemed as much on the qui vive
                     as ever.
                  At length the patience of the good-natured driver was exhausted, and he
                     said:—
                  "Look'e here, Mr. Granwil, you are a very nice sort o' gentleman, only a leetle
                     touched in the upper story, and I am willin' to let you have your own way wi'
                     my cab consarn, as long as it's reasonable, 'specially as you pays well; but
                     this passes mortal patience. It is now 'leven o'clock, and my hoss is in a
                     starvin' condition; he have traveled pretty near all day, a huntin' up these
                     Smiths what never turn out to be the right ones, and I think it's time for all
                     rational people to go home, and quietly forget their whimsies in a comfortable
                     sleep."
                  Grandval sighed deeply.
                  "You are right, Brian. There is now no hope that she will return. Drive to Mrs.
                     Wilson's, and be sure to come back to-morrow at an early hour. I have a new
                     idea which may lead to success at last."
                  "She will return," thought Brian, as he put his horse in motion
                     once more. "Ah, I might a' known that a woman is at the bottom of all this
                     scrimble scramble after the Smiths. Lord help the lad! there can't be much
                     difficulty in finding plenty of gals of that name, though may be
                     in the muss he can't get at the right one."
                  Our hero did not sleep much that night, but when slumber did descend upon his
                     eyelids, he had most enchanting dreams of his charming Mary, and consequently
                     arose the following morning in excellent spirits. Brian was punctual in obeying
                     his orders, and he commanded him to take the same road they had traveled on the
                     preceding evening. They continued to drive on until the open country, thinly
                     dotted over with residences, was attained. Then Grandval checked their speed,
                     and critically examined the different places as they slowly passed them. They
                     at length came to a summer residence built in the Moorish style, and the yard
                     was embellished with statues and vases filled with rare flowers. A closely
                     shaven lawn was shaded by a groupe of fine trees, beneath which gamboled a pet
                     deer, and a pair of goats, decorated with blue ribbons.
                  "This, surely, must be the abode of my Peri," thought the enraptured youth;
                     "and those beautiful animals are her playful companions. She betrays the
                     tenderness of her heart even in her love for the brute creation."
                  He alighted, entered the enclosure, and loitered toward the house, stopping by
                     the way to form an acquaintance with the deer, which bounded toward him with
                     the familiarity of a favored pet, as soon as he descried him. Grandval had not
                     quite made up his mind as to the course he should pursue, and he was glad to
                     gain a few moments for reflection, while he caressingly smoothed the glossy
                     coat of his new friend.
                  With a quickly palpitating heart he at length approached the light verandah,
                     entered, and rang at the door. A respectable servant appeared, and, he thought,
                     eyed him somewhat suspiciously; he however replied respectfully to the inquiry
                     our adventurer had resolved to hazard, as to whether Mr. Smith was at home.
                  "No, sir," replied the man. "Mr. Smith has gone to the city on particular
                     business, and will not be back before night."
                  This was a disappointment; but something was gained in ascertaining that this
                     was really the domicile of Mr. Smith. Grandval took courage to ask—
                  "Can I have the pleasure of seeing the young lady of the house in the absence
                     of her father?"
                  "The young ladies have also gone to the city, sir, to spend several days"
                  "Ah," thought Grandval, "they were on their way when I met them last
                     evening."
                  He sighed, and was turning away, when the man said—
                  
                  "Any name, sir? The young ladies is very pertickler about the gentlemen as
                     calls in their absence."
                  Grandval drew forth a card, and handed it to him. He proceeded slowly down the
                     walk, so pleasantly shaded, and inhaled the fragrant breath
                     of the flowers, with the intoxicating belief that the presence of his Mary had
                     recently hallowed the very ground on which he trod.
                  He could not resolve to return to town, but dismissed Brian with directions to
                     come for him to the same place in the evening. Then striking into the woods, he
                     spent the day in the rural companionship of the birds and insects which inhabit
                     the sports that man has not invaded. The Moorish castle was viewed from every
                     possible point of view, and sketches of it transferred to his pocket book, to
                     be retained as souvenirs of the auspicious day which witnessed the discovery of
                     the abode of his beloved.
                  Late in the evening, Brian in some uneasiness of mind, returned to the place
                     agreed on for he had many misgivings as to Grandval's capacity to take care of
                     himself even for a single day, but he was much relieved to find him walking
                     slowly toward the place of rendezvous, in quite a sane condition.
                  The following day was spent in a similar manner, for there was an attraction
                     about the supposed residence of the fair Mary, that was irresistible, although
                     he knew it did not then shelter her. Late in the evening a close carriage was
                     driven to the door, and two ladies alighted from it. Grandval was not near
                     enough to distinguish features, but he saw that the taller of the two, was
                     about the size of her he was in pursuit of, and he gazed on her form as long as
                     it was visible, with a strong inclination to rush forward, and claim her
                     acquaintance. He however remembered that the day had been warm and dusty—and he
                     had lounged about under trees in grassy places until his clothes would be much
                     more becoming to a gentleman of his condition, if they had a through brushing.
                     Taking this into consideration, he refrained from making his presence known,
                     and walked slowly forward to meet his cab.
                  The next day he arose in great elation of spirits, and set forth upon his
                     pilgrimage to the shrine of his divinity. At an hour suitable for such calls,
                     he was set down at the gate of the Moorisa Castle. Wishing to enjoy the
                     promenade to the house, he would not permit Brian to enter the enclosure, but
                     commanded him to draw up under the shadow of some trees on the roadside. The
                     bright sunshine was playing on the grassy lawn; the pets were frolicking in its
                     beams, and accompanying them was a slender girl clad in white, with a green
                     vail thrown carelessly over her head.
                  Certain that this must be the Miss Smith, Grandval was seized with
                     such a fluttering at the heart, that he was forced to pause some moments before
                     he could summon courage to advance upon the gravelled walk. She was stooping
                     over, and so busily engaged arranging the ribbons on the collar of her deer,
                     that she was not aware of his presence, until he came quite near, and
                     spoke.
                  "Pardon me Miss Smith, but I have presumed on the acquaintance formed—"
                  He paused horror-struck, for at the sound of his voice, the young lady raised
                     her head, turned quickly, and throwing aside her vail, revealed the face of an
                     utter stranger! A face too as unlike that of the true Mary, as it was possible
                     for human features to be. Brown as a berry, with a snub-nose, very full lips,
                     and light grey eyes, she looked to Grandval absolutely hideous. She surveyed
                     him with surprize, and then said—
                  "Excuse me sir, but this seems to me a very singular intrusion, especially as
                     my name is not Smith but Jones."
                  Grandval could have torn his hair with vexation.—"I—I—really, Miss Jones, I
                     have but one explanation to offer, which is that I have played the fool most
                     egregiously. Pardon me for interupting you, and I will make the only atonement
                     in my power, by retiring as speedily as possible. Good morning."
                  He was turning away overwhelmed with confusion, when a loud voice shouted—
                  "Hillo! young man, not so fast if you please. A word with you, before you
                     go."
                  Our hero looked in the direction of the voice, and saw a fat, red faced man,
                     attended by an enormous dog, advancing rapidly upon him.
                  "Mr. Jones I presume," said Grandval, with a polite bow, as he came within
                     speaking distance, "I am very sorry, sir, that a misconception on my part,
                     should have led to so unpleasant a——"
                  "Fal-lal—words—words—I know," interrupted the choloric gentleman.
                     "Are you not the same fellow that called here two days ago, and inquired for
                     Mr. Smith?"
                  Before Grandval could recover from his astonishment at this address, made in so
                     discourteous a manner, a voice at his elbow replied for him,
                  "Yes, sir, it is the same, I'll take my affidavy of it."
                  Looking around, the young man saw that the servant who had answered his
                     inquiries on the occasion of his first call at the Castle had advanced on them
                     by a side path.
                  "I'm not disposed to deny it," replied Grandval with as much dignity as he
                     could assume, "I was under the impression that a gentleman of that name resided
                     here, and I called to renew an acquaintance with himself and his daughter
                     which—"
                  "Well, sir," interrupted the fat man, "a gentleman of that name does reside
                     here, and that is myself. I am Smith—Green Smith at your service
                     sir; now what have you to say ssr, for you are no acquaintance of
                     mine.'
                  "Nothing, sir, except that you are not the person I expected to find; and I
                     will add that just now, Red Smith would be a more suitable name for you."
                  "While you appropriate my soubriquet, eh? said Mr. Smith, "I must
                     acknowledge it would fit you well; any one could have told you that this is the
                     residence of John Jones, Esq., who I flatter myself is sufficiently well known
                     to the world in general, as one of the millionaires of our land; and I, sir, am
                     his brother-in-law. Your intrusion, sir, is so unwarrantable, and made under so
                     flimsy a pretext, that after the occurrences of last night, I feel it my duty
                     to arrest you."
                  "Arrest me, and by what authority? For what offense? To what occurrences do you
                     allude, that can give you a shadow of excuse for such an indignity?" asked our
                     hero angrily.
                  "O, of course you are very indignant, but the circumstances are suspicious
                     enough to bear me out in the course I intend to pursue. You called here two
                     days ago, hoping by your genteel appearance to gain admittance as a visitor,
                     when you could make such observations as you desired for the furtherance of
                     your purpose. Baffled in that by the absence of the family you pretended to
                     know, you lurk around the premises for two days, spying out their most
                     accessible points, and last night your companions came, doubtless accompanied
                     by yourself, and robbed the house of valuables to the amount of over a thousand
                     dollars."
                  At this unlooked for charge, Grandval stood aghast. Amid all the difficulties
                     he might encounter in his search after happiness he had never anticipated the
                     possibility of such an accusation being preferred against him. He said,
                  "Really, sir, if this were not so absured as to be amusing, I could find it in
                     my heart to be angry at having such language used to me. I am a gentleman as
                     you may see, if you have any knowledge of what constitutes that manner of
                     man."
                  "O, yes," sneered Mr. Smith, "You of the swell mob are always gentlemen I know,
                     so far as dress can make you so, and your outfit is
                     undeniable, however it won't do. I shall take you to the police office in the
                     city, and prefer my charge at once, and I do not think there will be much
                     chance to disprove either."
                  "I warn you, sir, that you do this at your peril, I can easily prove myself
                     above all suspicion of such villainy as you accuse me of and I will not permit
                     myself to be thus outraged and insulted, without seeking such redress as the
                     law allows."
                  "I'll take the consequences young man, and I feel myself amply able to bear
                     them.—Thomas did you not see this person examining the house from every
                     direction for two days before the robbery was committed?"
                  "Yes, sir, his behavior was so suspicious like, that I took the spy-glass and
                     spied on him, and he made drawings of it I am certain for he used a paper and
                     pencil a many times, and he stood a long time a staring at the north window
                     through which the thieves entered."
                  
                  Grandval struck his clenched hand upon his forehead; he could have execrated
                     himself for his sentimental wanderings around the home of the hideous Miss
                     Jones, who stood an amused and interested listener to the conversation; and
                     stared at our hero through a little eye-glass suspended from her watch chain,
                     as coolly as if he had been some species of animal brought there for her
                     especial examination. He asked indignantly,
                  "And do you really mean, sir, that I shall be forced to submit to the
                     degradation of being examined before a police magistrate, on the charge of
                     robbery?"
                  "I certainly do," replied Mr. Green Smith decidedly, while he patted his dog
                     affectionately. "I would advise you not to make any attempt to escape, for this
                     animal is an ugly customer, and would spring upon you at a motion of my
                     finger."
                  "I shall make no such effort, sir. The cab that brought me hither is near the
                     gate; permit me to write a few lines to a friend of mine, to meet me at the
                     police court, and you will then see that you have been
                     betrayed into insulting an innocent man. If I had robbed your house, I should
                     scarcely have attempted to call on the family this morning."
                  "Oh, there's no telling the impudence of you gents of the flash order. Came
                     here to make love to my niece there, I shouldn't wonder."
                  At this, Grandval looked so disdainfully at the ugly little brownie, that she
                     dropped her glass, and turned away, while Mr. Green Smith went on—
                  "Well, well—write your note, and Thomas may go with the cabman, as there is no
                     knowing but he may be a confederate."
                  The young man disdained a reply, and, taking out his pocket-book, sought for a
                     piece of blank paper on which to scrawl a few lines to an old and well-known
                        merchant in New York, who was his uncle's business
                     correspondent, and through whose house he drew his own income. While thus
                     employed, a paper dropped on the grass, which was picked up by Thomas, who
                     displayed it to his master, with an exclamation.
                  "Strong presumptive evidence," said Mr. Smith, as he looked on the pencilled
                     outlines of that portion of the Moorish Castle in which was situated the
                     identical north window, through which the burglars had made their ingress.
                     "'Murder will out,' as the proverb goes; and so, for that
                     matter, will robbery, where it is quickly traced up, as I mean to follow this
                        up. What do you say to this, young man?"
                  "Nothing more than I have already said," replied Grandval, haughtily. "You will
                     soon learn that your evidence is entirely worthless, so far as I am
                     concerned."
                  He folded the few lines he had written, and politely requested the company of
                     Mr. Smith to the gate, as he wished to give his directions to the driver
                     himself. That gentleman complied, and Brian, who had discovered that something
                     strange was going on, was quite horror struck when his employer informed him of
                     the dilemma in which he was placed and desired him to permit Thomas to take his
                     seat in the cab, while he made all haste to the house of Drew & Co., and
                     delivered the note with which he was entrusted.
                  "Oh! oh!" exclaimed the poor fellow scratching his head ruefully. "I never
                     thought you was 'zackly non compos but I
                     didn't expect you would get into quite such a scrape as to
                     be tuck up for breakin' the law. Howsever, that are red-faced gentleman had
                     better mind what he is after, I can tell him."
                  "And you had better attend to what you are ordered to do, friend,"
                     replied Mr. Smith, with great sang froid, "or
                     you may find yourself placed in the same predicament as an accomplice."
                  "Oh, it's myself that is not afraid of you, nor all your kith nor kin, even if
                     you could buy the town wi' your money; for I mind my own business, and cheat no
                     man out of a penny that belongs to him. His honor, the Police Judge, knows me,
                     too, as honest Brian, for I've been afore him as a witness more than onct."
                  "Then you had better interest him for your friend here, for he will soon stand
                     in need of his good offices. Come, be off. Jump in, Thomas and be on your guard
                     that no trick is played on you. Keep a bright look out, and meet me, in an hour
                     and a half, at the police court."
                  "Oh, but he shall pay dearly for this ride in my cab," muttered Brian, as
                     Thomas stepped briskly into the vehicle, and, giving a smart cut to the horse,
                     trotted off in the direction of the city.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  CLOSELY attended by the mastiff, which showed his teeth and snailed if our hero
                     diverged a step from the pathway, the two walked back to the house, on the
                     steps of which Grandval was commanded to wait in the custody of the dog, and a
                     gardener who was summoned for the purpose.
                  Very different was this reception from the one he had anticipated as he came
                     out, and bitterly mortifying were his reflections. In a few moments a close
                     carriage with the curtains securely buttoned, was driven to the door; at the
                     request of Mr. Smith, Grandval got in, and was immediately followed by that
                     gentleman and his dog. In utter silence they rolled onward to their place of
                     destination.
                  When the carriage stopped, Mr. Smith summoned a police officer, in whose charge
                     he placed our hero, and guarded by the two, he walked into the dingy looking
                     room occupied by his honor, and his court. A party of Irish were before him,
                     for engaging in a drunken riot; and their friends, a motley crew, were grouped
                     around.
                  Grandval threw himself into a seat, and pulling his hat over his brows,
                     endeavored to conceal his features from the prying observation of the loungers
                     who always infest a scene of the kind. He earnestly hoped that Mr Drew would
                     make his appearance before the case now in progress was dismissed; for it was
                     terrible to him to have his name, and the accusation accompanying it, thus
                     brought forward. He watched the entrance with intense interest, hoping every
                     moment to see the wiry figure of his old friend appear therein, but time rolled
                     on, the rioters received their sentence and were dismissed, yet Brian nor him
                     he had been sent to summon, made not their appearance.
                  In a state of miserable wretchedness, Grandval heard the judge say to his
                     captor,
                  "Well, Mr. Smith, I hope you have obtained a clue to the affair of the robbery,
                     as you come before me thus attended. Since Mr. Jones called on me this morning
                     to lay in his complaint, some of my gang have been making efforts to trace the
                     perpetrators, but they have not yet had time to make a report; you have been
                     more successful I see."
                  "Yes, I believe I have nabbed one sure enough, he puts on the indignant, and
                     threatens me heavily if I persist in prosecuting the charge."
                  "Ah—ah, an old story. Those flash gentlemen are always innocent, according to
                     their own account. This one, however, must be a new hand, for he seems terribly
                     downhearted. Hillo, young man, look up at me, that I may see if I know your
                     face."
                  Grandval paid no attention to this command and Mr. Smith commenced a concise
                     narrative of the events of the morning, and the proofs of the prisoner's guilt,
                     which he considered conclusive.
                  Just as he was completing his statement, a slight bustle was heard without, and
                     the voice of Brian, in exulting tones, exclaimed,
                  "Hooroar, thanks to the blessed Lord, we are in time yet."
                  The next moment, a tall, thin man, with gray hair and whiskers, entered the
                     room, followed by the two messengers, who had been dispatched for him. He bowed
                     to the judge, and hurrying toward Grandval, said,
                  "God bless my soul! how could such a thing happen, as a charge of burglary to
                     be brought against you? The driver has been giving me such an account of your
                     late proceedings, as incline me to believe that he must have been
                     romancing."
                  "I have been playing the fool, I sincerely believe, Mr. Drew, but I have done
                     nothing to entitle me to such an indignity as this. Release me from durance,
                     and I will give you a true account of the cause of my visit to Mr. Jones'
                     house."
                  In the meantime Thomas had whispered a few words in Mr. Smith's ear, which
                        caused that personage to flush more
                     deeply than ever and he seemed quite discomfitted when Mr. Drew turned to the
                     judge, and said,
                  "Great injustice has been practised toward this young gentleman, Judge——I am
                     Andrew Drew, of the firm of Drew & Co., as you already know, and I assure
                     you that the prisoner is a southern gentleman of unimpeached honor, and
                     independent fortune. If this absurd charge is instantly relinquished my young
                     friend will pass over what has occurred this morning. If not, I will aid him in
                     prosecuting his false accuser with the ut most rigor of the law."
                  Both the judge and Mr. Smith were well acquainted with the character and
                     position of Mr Drew, and knew that his guarantee as to the respectability of
                     the prisoner was quite sufficient.
                  Mr. Smith hastened to apologize for the mistake he had made, and even invited
                     our hero to make another descent upon the Moorish Castle, when he should be
                     more hospitably received than on the former occasion. Grandval coldly thanked
                     him, and told him he was quite satisfied with his first experiment in that
                     quarter, and had no idea of ever making another.
                  Ashamed of the part he had played. Mr Smith silenced the audible comments of
                     Brian by a douceur sufficiently large to pay him four-fold for the seat his
                     servant had occupied in his cab, and accompanied by that observant individual,
                     he left the police office, and retired to the privacy of his own carriage, in
                     which he was driven home in a state of great chagrin at the blunder he had
                     made.
                  Grandval accepted from Mr. Drew an invitation to dine with him, and over their
                     wine he frankly related to him the origin of the difficulty
                     of the morning. He received much sage advice from the old gentleman, and
                     returned to his boarding house, resolved to profit by it.
                  The services of Brian were no longer in requisition; and the
                     whole family of Smiths appeared suddenly to have lost all interest for him. Mr.
                     Green Smith seemed to have thoroughly disgusted him with all of that name.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  IN this reasonable state our young gentleman continued for an entire week.
                     Although his dreams were haunted by the sweet face of Mary Smith, he was firm
                     in his resolution to be wise, and no longer seek one whom, it seemed, each
                     attempt to find only plunged him into some absurd difficulty from which he was
                     extricated at the expense of his own dignity.
                  This last adventure had so thoroughly disgusted him that he
                     dreaded the idea of making another effort to discover her "whereabouts."
                  Grandval might, in time, have recovered his entire sanity, had he not
                     unfortunately strolled into the rooms of a distinguished daguerreotypist, and,
                     among the pictures hanging upon the walls, recognized the likeness of the
                     enchanting Mary. In a breathless state, he sought the proprietor, and inquired
                     of him the name of the original.
                  "It is Miss Smith. Mary, or Maria—I forget which is her name."
                  "Yes, yes; I was certain I could not be mistaken; but are you aware of the
                     residence of this young lady, or can you furnish me any clue by which I shall
                     be enabled to find her?"
                  "You seem deeply interested," said Mr. ——, with a smile. "I am sorry to say
                     that among the numerous Smiths which adorn my rooms, there are very few I could
                     undertake to find, and this young lady is not among the number. Now here is a
                     Tom Smith, a Sam Smith, and a half a dozen John Smiths. I think so large a
                     family should be as original in the selection of their names as an old
                     gentleman I once knew, who had thirteen children, to each of whom he gave an
                     appellation beginning with the letter Z. When he exhausted his vocabulary, he
                     invented names, and some of them were curious enough to identify even a
                     Smith."
                  Grandval scarcely listened to him. He had taken down the miniature, and was
                     gazing fondly upon its fair lineaments.
                  "What will induce you to sell me this picture?" he asked.
                  "Really, that is rather out of my way. It is understood, when a man of my
                     profession retains a specimen copy, that he will not part with it."
                  "It hangs upon your wall for all to gaze at; where is the difference in
                     allowing only one that liberty? I warn you," he added, with a smile, "that if
                     you refuse to part with it to me, your rooms will be feloniously entered, and
                     this one precious possession abstracted."
                  "Oh, in that case, perhaps it will be better to let you have it at a fair
                     price."
                  "Thank you. Remove it from its present setting, and put it in the handsomest
                     locket you have. Put your own valuation upon it, and I will cheerfully pay
                     it."
                  The fair image, enshrined in a golden case, was soon transferred to our
                     enraptured hero, who placed it next his heart, paid the some what exorbitant
                     demand of the artist, and returned to his own room to dream over it—to worship
                     it—to grow almost frantic with the conviction that, if the original could not
                     be discovered, the happiness of his life was forever marred.
                  At length it occurred to him that he would write to Miss Smith, detail the
                     circumstances of their first meeting, that no mistake might be made, and then
                     inform her of his fruitless quest after her charming self. No sooner was it
                     thought of, than he commenced putting it in execution. After spoiling about a
                     quire of paper, and consuming three days in the mental labor, he produced such
                     a missive as he was willing to dispatch. Then his courage failed him, and he
                     retained the letter several days, read and re-read it, made so many alterations
                     and erasures that it was necessary to recopy it. This done, in a state of
                     desperation, he hurried to the post-office and dropped it in before he had time
                     to repent, though ten minutes afterward he would have given much to be able to
                     recall it.
                  There was now no alternative but to wait for an answer with as much composure
                     as he could command. One, two, three days passed, and he was almost in a state
                     of despair, when a small white envelope, sealed with a bouquet of flowers,
                     reached him. It was redolent of patchoules; and in an ecstacy he rushed back to
                     his room, and, locking the door against all intruders, as carefully unclosed
                     the precious document as if he were afraid of hurting it by rough handling.
                  Within was a sheet of highly embossed note paper, on which fair and flowing
                     characters, to the following effect, were traced:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. GRANDVAL: Your letter reached me in safety on the day after it
                                 was mailed, and, on reading it, I perfectly remembered our meeting
                                 on the boat, though pardon me when I state that your name had
                                 escaped my recollection. I have a singularly defective memory for
                                 names, though faces are never forgotten by me, and yours is not
                                 likely soon to pass from the tablet of one's fancy.
                              "I would comply with your request, and give you my father's address
                                 now, but as I am on the eve of visiting the country, I defer that
                                 gratification until my return, which will take place in two weeks;
                                 and, in the meantime, we can correspond. Letters are a charming
                                 medium of communication between kindred souls, and from their
                                 interchange we gain a deeper insight into the character of the
                                 writer's mind. The heart is more completely unmasked in the freedom
                                 of correspondence, and many things said by the pen that the lips
                                 would never utter.
                              "Then let us write daily, that when we meet we may be better known
                                 to each other than if hours had been spent together amid the social
                                 circle.
                              "Address your letters to the care of S. M., and they will be safely
                                 forwarded to me. Hoping to receive another of your beautiful
                                 effusions on to morrow, I remain
                              
                                 "Yours, truly,
                                 "MARY SMITH."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Grandval read and re-read this letter in a transport of extravagant delight,
                     and he immediately set about answering it. He commenced with "Divine Mary,"
                     changed it to "Angelic Mary," and finally concluded that "Adorable Girl" would
                     be the most appropriate address. He went on with such a passionate effusion of
                     love joy and hope, that Miss Smith must have been more than mortal if she had
                     not been flattered and charmed by his eloquence.
                  
                  Her reply duly came, and every day for two weeks these mutual professionsof
                     admiration were exchanged, until he was more desperately in love than ever, and
                     considered his fair correspondent as positively pledged to become his bride. He
                     discovered the most remarkable similarity in their tastes during this romantic
                     exchange of vows. Miss Smith was evidently literary, and so was he; she
                     believed in sympathy, and involuntary attraction, and these were two of his own
                     strong points of faith; more than all, in one of her later letters she had
                     ventured to assert that she believed Grandval and herself had been created for
                     each other, and no other person could have rendered the other happy in the
                     sacred tie of marriage.
                  His elation at this exceeded all bounds, and he replied to it by such a
                     passionate outpouring of love and ecstacy that Miss Smith thought his feelings
                     were wrought up to the proper point, and she therefore informed him that the
                     hallowed spot of ground which sustained her angelic frames might be found in a
                     cross-street, of respectable pretensions, which branched off from Broadway. She
                     intended returning to her home on that day, and in the evening would have the
                     happiness of receiving him beneath her father's roof. He would not find her
                     entirely alone, for a young friend, who was in her confidence, had consented to
                     bear her company; but she would be discreet enough to employ herself with a
                     book, while her presence satisfied the scruples of her father on the score of
                     propriety:
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  Punctual to the appointment, Grandval found himself in front of a block of
                     houses, the lower floors of which were evidently used for stores, and he
                     concluded that the family he came to visit lived above. He had very particular
                     directions to look for a certain number, and on one side of the main door a
                     smaller one would be found, bearing an old-fashioned brass knocker. A few blows
                     on this would be the open sessame, and the lover speedily
                     find himself in the presence of his mistress.
                  He found the door, struck twice, but before a third blow
                     could fall, it suddenly unclosed, and a narrow alley paved with brick, and diml
                     lighted with gas, was before him. He looked to see by what agency the opening
                     had been so quickly achieved, and saw a small boy with a frightened expression
                     behind the door, staring at him with all his might.
                  "Which way am I to go?" he asked of the urchin.
                  He pointed toward the dim obscurity in the distance, and said,
                  "Up stairs, please sir. The Gov'ner's done gone out, and Miss Mary is in the
                     front room with Miss Sally Muggridge, a waitin' for you"
                  "Good Heavens!" mentally exclaimed our hero, "can my refined and intellectual
                     Mary have a friend with such a name? Shakspeare need not say a rose by any
                     other name would smell as sweet; for if Miss Muggridge were as beautiful as
                     Helen, she would still be repulsive to one of fastidious taste, on account of
                     that odious patronymic."
                  These reflections were made as he stumbled up a stairway, on which the dim
                     gas-light only served to make darkness visible, while the whole atmosphere was
                     poisoned by its exhalations. He reached the upper floor in safety, and saw a
                     shaded lamp through an open door from which at the same time came a suppressed
                     giggle.
                  A little disconcerted, he hesitated to advance, until a strange voice said,
                  "Walk in Mr. Grandval. My friend will receive you in a few moments. She is
                     slightly discomposed, and has retired for a little while. Pray come in."
                  As this address was made, the round fat figure of a very dumpy girl, with a
                     profusion of red hair, hanging in corkscrew ringlets over her rosy cheeks
                     appeared in the doorway.
                  She returned his elaborate bow by a little nod, and stepping backward made way
                     for him to enter the apartment. It was feebly lighted, but the extreme
                     dinginess of every thing in it was not to be concealed even by that means. A
                     dark colored carpet covered the floor, which dust and hard usage had all
                        JOHN SMITH, THE FOUNDER OF THE SMITH FAMILY.
                     
                      most bereft of any distinct
                     pattern—the tables were nearly concealed by woollen draperies which seemed to
                     have been chosen of as dull a color as possible, that their neutral tints might
                     not betray the want of tidiness, and on them lay a few books, which evidently
                     had seen hard service. Heavy curtains still draped the
                     windows, probably to catch the dust from the street without; for they looked as
                     if a touch would bury one beneath an avalanche of the material of which we may
                     be made, but from which we instinctively recoil in its primitive state.
                  Grandval was fastidiously neat; his early years had been spent in his light and
                     beautiful southern home, and the vision of elegance blended with taste, which
                     rose up before his memory, had unconsciously become his standard, and rendered
                     him observant of strange little things which those of his sex do not often
                     heed.
                  Miss Muggridge poured forth excuses and reasons for her friend's nervousness
                     with extreme fluency, while he looked around him with a feeling of discomfort
                     he was ashamed of. He endeavored to make excuses for the appearance of things,
                     by reflecting that Mr. Smith was evidently not rich, and he lived in a wretched
                     street to retain any appearance of neatness, for it was a constant
                     thoroughfare, and it must be impossible to keep the house in respectable order.
                     The most particular people would become discouraged after awhile, and suffer
                     the dust to have its own way.
                  He thus reasoned himself into a more complacent state of feeling, and after
                     uttering a vast quantity of words, which might as well have been Choctaw for
                     any comprehension our hero had of them, the good-humored little chatterbox
                     vanished through a side door, with the avowed object of bringing back her dear,
                     darling, nervous Mary.
                  Some moments elapsed before the door again unclosed, and Grandval was beginning
                     to become impatient for the meeting so unnecessarily delayed. It did open at
                     last, and disclosed the fat figure of Miss Muggridge, leading in a willowy
                     drooping form, which was as remarkable for thinness as her own was for embonpoint.
                  
                  Grandval started up in irrepressible consternation, for this time
                     he had believed it impossible that any mistake could have been made; and the
                     thought flashed upon him that he had actually committed himself in writing to
                     this lackadaisical girl, with a large nose, a slight squint, and a complexion
                     as untransparent as beeswax.
                  "O," groaned the wretched youth, "this caps the climax of all my
                     misadventures!"
                  He stood uncertain how to act, or what to say, a most pitiable object of
                     bewilderment, until Miss Smith advanced quite close to him, and held out a hard
                     long hand, while a smile gleamed on her thin lips. She spoke in a voice that
                     was any thing but musical,
                  "Dearest Mortimer, for as such I feel myself privileged to address you, I bid
                     you welcome to my father's house. How my heart has yearned for this meeting I
                     can never express to you, but I am now happy, O, blissfully happy in your
                     presence."
                  Grandval listened to this address in an agony of feeling language can not
                     depict, and he could have gnashed his teeth in rage at the terrible blunder he
                     had committed. He at length faltered.
                  "Do—do you really believe that we have met before, Miss Smith?"
                  "Can I doubt it? Your graceful form, your beaming eyes, your soul-stirring
                     voice, all made an impression upon me that time can never erase. I admired you
                     then, but your charming letters have completed the conquest of a heart
                     overflowing with sensibility."
                  "O, yes," chimed in Miss Muggridge, "my sweet Mary is all sentiment and
                     sensibility. She will render you the happiest and most enviable of men, Mr.
                     Grandval."
                  "Good God, this is too dreadful!" exclaimed Grandval, goaded beyond endurance.
                     "I—I—really, ladies, you must pardon me, but my own memory is to treacherous
                     that—that I have not the slightest recollection of ever meeting either of you
                     before. I am sorry to say so, Miss Smith, but a very singular mistake has
                     occurred, and my letters have been received by the wrong person."
                  Miss Smith shrieked, uttered a slight exclamation, and fainted. The bewildered
                     Grandval stood a mere spectator, while the fat little friend, with much ado,
                     supported the rigid figure to a chair, placed her on it, and as she made not
                     the slightest effort to assist herself, her feet rather ungracefully scraped
                     the floor, while her long arms hung down in two straight lines, the ends of her
                     fingers nearly touching the carpet.
                  Little Miss Muggridge then drew several deep breaths, which sounded very like
                     the sighs of a whale, and violently fanned herself and her insensible friend
                     with a bunch of ostrich feathers, such as are commonly used as dusters, but
                     whose office in that house must have been a sinecure. When she gained breath
                     enough to speak, she said:—
                  "I really think you are the strangest man I ever saw—to stand there like a
                     statue, and never offer to help me get this darling sensitive creature in a
                     safe position, when you know, too, you have reduced her to this condition."
                  Thus admonished Grandval aroused himself from his stupor, and looked around to
                     see if any thing could be found which might be of use in restoring an
                     insensible lady. A boquet of faded flowers stood on a table, and he thought the
                     water in which they were immersed might be beneficial, as a tiny shower bath;
                     he hurried forward, and seizing them, found that the vase was empty, and the
                     flowers them selves artificial. They were in his hands, and with a sort of
                     desperation he approached Miss Smith and held them beneath her nose.
                  However novel, it proved an efficient remedy, for she inhaled the dust with
                     which long exposure had covered them, and it produced such a violent fit of
                     sneezing, that the young lady started to her feet, and stamped them upon the
                     floor in the vexation of her spirit. It was contrary to the rules of all
                     romance, to have a scene so effectively got up, spoiled in so absurd a manner;
                     for, who ever before heard of a heroine recovered from a swoon by the
                     application of vulgar dust to her ol-factories?
                  Our hero certainly viewed its effects with consternation, for Miss Smith's pale
                     grey eyes sparkled, her brown complexion actually grew red, and she turned on
                     her friend reproachfully, and said:—
                  "Why did you allow him to treat me thus? O, false friend! I believe you wished
                     to render me ridiculous in his sight."
                  Miss Muggridge was justly offended at this charge, she threw up her head, and
                     shook her curls scornfully:—
                  "I need not attempt what you can do so much more effectually for
                     yourself, my dear. I dare say, Mr. Grandval thinks the recovery the least
                     absurd portion of the scene."
                  "O, my heart is wounded unto death," murmured Miss Smith, leaning her head upon
                     her hand, and weeping. "The man who has won my affections by his insidious
                     flatteries proves perfidious, and the friend of my soul treats me with
                     unfeeling levity. I feel as deserted as Ariadne when she wandered on the shores
                     of her lovely island, bewailing the loss of her Theseus. Mine, alas! is a worse
                     fate, for I seem to have lost both lover and friend."
                  The tender-hearted Muggridge could not stand this reproach: she drew near to
                     her, and placing her arm affectionately over her shoulder, said:—
                  "Forgive me, Mary; you know that I love and admire you, and it was you who
                     uttered the first taunt. To prove my sincerity, I will endeavor to bring this
                     gentleman to a sense of what is due to you. Are you certain, Mr. Grandval, that
                     the unfortunate mistake which has occurred, can not yet be made conducive to
                     your happiness and that of my friend? It seems to me an intervention of
                     Providence, to point out to you the plain road to future bliss."
                  "I cannot agree with you, Miss Muggridge" replied our hero, who began to
                     recover his self-possession. "Neither can I imagine how Miss Smith remembers
                     me, when I have not the slightest recollection of ever seeing her before, and
                     she certainly is an entirely different person from the one to whom my letters
                     really were addressed."
                  Miss Smith uttered little shrieks at this assertion, and seemed on the point of
                     fainting again; but as she was uncertain what other ridiculous remedy might be
                     sought for by her visitor, she thought better of it.
                  Miss Muggridge turned to her, and said:—
                  "You hear what he asserts, my dear. Tell him when you met him; recall the
                        whole scene to his mind, and
                     perhaps you may convince him that you have not played a part to entrap him into
                     this visit."
                  Miss Smith, thus adjured, assumed a more perpendicular position, and, fixing
                     her tearful eyes on Grandval, asked:—
                  "Did I not see you on the Empire State, in the month of July?"
                  Grandval started and looked more keenly at her; but in vain—he could not
                     remember her presence there.
                  "I certainly did go as far as Albany on that boat, in the month referred
                     to."
                  "And, and, do you not recall the fact that we sat opposite to each other at
                     dinner? There was a small hump-backed woman with me, whom you afterward
                     assisted through the crowd, and for whom you found a seat on deck, after we had
                     dined?"
                  "I remember that incident distinctly, but pardon me when I say that I scarcely
                     noticed her companion, and should never have recognized her in yourself. I saw
                     that the little woman had no protector, and she was pushed about in the crowd;
                     I extricated her from a simple impulse of humanity, and had no idea such an
                     adventure as the present could grow out of an act of ordinary politeness."
                  Miss Smith sighed, and looked very downcast at this unflattering explanation.
                     She said:—
                  "You will at least admit that when I received your letters, I was not to blame
                     in retaining them and believing they were addressed to myself?"
                  Grandval bowed, and replied:—
                  "It was unfortunate, but I can not attach any blame to you, Miss Smith."
                  "Then," exclamed Miss Muggridge, impetuously, "I see no reason why you shal not
                     make good your professions of devotion. As a gentleman, I certainly consider
                     your honor as pledged, for my friend's affections are irrevocably engaged, and
                     I dread for her the consequences of a refusal on your part to fulfill the
                     contract your letters will clearly prove."
                  Grandval winced—he replied:—
                  "I am sure your friend has too much pride of character to claim a hand offered
                     under such a misapprehension. The lady to whom those letters were addressed, I
                     met while descending the Hudson; and to prove to you my sincerity, I will show
                     you her picture, which I accidentally discovered in a Daguerrian gallery a few
                     days since, and succeeded in purchasing."
                  He drew forth the image of the true Mary Smith and held it up. Miss Muggridge
                     eagerly scanned the fair lineaments, but her friend, after taking one glance,
                     shut her eyes as tightly as if she never intended to open them again, and
                     hysterically bade them to take it away.
                  Grandval hastened to conceal it next to his troubled heart, and then ventured
                     to say,
                  "As those letters fell into your hands through a mistake, Miss Smith, I trust
                     you will not consider me impertinent if I request you to restore them to me
                     before I leave you. I pledge you my honor, your own shall be placed in your
                     hands at as early an hour as possible on to-morrow."
                  At this, the disappointed fair one grew decidedly hysterical, and she muttered
                     amid such singular contortions as were far from improving her appearance.
                  "No—no—no. I can not relinquish those precious souveniers of the most thrilling
                     event of my whole existence."
                  "But what value can they possess, when you know they were addressed to another
                     person?" remonstrated the young man.
                  "O, I can read them—weep over them, dream over them, and delude myself into the
                     belief that he who penned them was sincere in his professions. That he would
                     not willingly break a heart he has taught to adore him."
                  To this outburst, Grandval knew not what to reply; but Miss Muggridge thought
                     it the right time to attempt to touch his sensibilities in favor of her
                     afflicted friend. She said,
                  "You must be aware, Mr. Grandval, that the professions in those letters you are
                     so anxious to regain, would entitle my friend to damages before any court. My
                     Pa is a lawyer, and I know something of breach of promise cases. This would
                     make a fine one, I assure you. Had you not better make up your mind to accept
                     my dear Mary as your bride, and save all the trouble that may ensue? I can tell
                     you Mr. Smith is not a man to permit his daughter's affections to be trifled
                     with for nothing."
                  "O," said Grandval, haughtily, "if your friend wishes to make this untoward
                     affair a matter of speculation, I am quite ready to pay any reasonable sum for
                     the possession of my letters."
                  "O, Sally, Sally, how could you be so barbarous as to insinuate mercenary
                     motives to him whom you know I love so entirely, that I have not a thought or
                     wish beyond the possession of his affections," sobbed Miss Smith. "Go—go, false
                     man. I pardon you your perfidy, and when the sod rests upon my broken heart,
                     you may be moved to too late remorse for your inhuman conduct."
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  Glad to be dismissed, Grandval arose to leave. He heard Miss Muggridge say to
                     her friend,
                  "Your Pa will not allow the affair to end thus, my love. Cheer up, I hear him
                     coming up the stairway now."
                  In fact, a heavy step was heard, and before our hero could effect his escape
                     from the room, the doorway was filled up by a figure that looked more like a
                     wine cask set on a pair of slender understandings than any thing else. A red,
                     burly face, immense nose, and a shining bald head were the most prominent of
                     Mr. Smith's attractions.
                  As if his own house did not furnish a sufficient quantity of dust for his
                     consumption, he carried a box in his hand, from which he took an immense pinch
                     of snuff every few seconds, and liberally dispensed it over his face and shirt
                     bosom.
                  He surveyed the party in some surprise, and then said,
                  "Hoity-toity, what's to pay here? Weeping and wailing Moll, when I expected
                     that by this time you had reg'larly appointed the day. Good evening, young man;
                     I hope you are not the cause of those tears, because I do not allow any body
                     but myself the privilege of making my girl cry."
                  "An unfortunate misunderstanding which I deeply regret, has happened, Mr.
                     Smith," said Grandval, with as much dignity as he could assume. "Unfortunately,
                     it is now too late to remedy it; so with your permission I will take my
                     leave."
                  "Not so fast, if you please, my young friend, Before you leave, I wish to
                     comprehend the nature of this misunderstanding, and perhaps I may be able to
                     set it right. I know all that has gone before, for my daughter has no
                     concealments from me; and as you seemed to be serious in your offer, I allowed
                     her to receive you to-night in company with her young friend here. How is it,
                     Sally? Your tongue is glib enough, and you will have to explain, for Moll is in
                     one of her die-away humors; and this youngster seems struck dumb by my
                     appearance."
                  With great volubility, Miss Muggridge gave her own version of the story, which
                     certainly placed our hero in no very enviable position in the eyes of the
                     father. When she concluded, Grandval said,
                  "It is useless, Mr. Smith, for me to give you my views of this affair. I will
                     only say to you that your daughter is not the lady to whom my
                     letters were addressed, and I demand their immediate restoration."
                  "Softly—softly, young gentleman. Such missives are sometimes valuable in more
                     senses than one. A lover's sighs may be made useful to raise the wind; the
                     fragments of a broken heart may serve to repair a shattered fortune, eh? Don't
                     you comprehend? You have a choice between matrimony or a matter of money, ha!
                     ha!"
                  Grandval replied, indignantly,
                  "I have already informed these young ladies that I will purchase them, if that
                     is what is desired. Pledge yourself to place them in my hands to-morrow, and in
                     return receive a fair equivalent in money, together with those of your
                     daughter, and I shall consider myself well freed from a most annoying
                     position."
                  Mr. Smith took a huge pinch of snuff, and after a pause, said,
                  "I will take a night to consider of your proposal, and my decision shall be made known to you to-morrow. Good evening
                     sir."
                  As nothing further was to be gained, Grandval made a general bow, stumbled
                     through the obscurity of the passage, nearly fell over the young porter who sat
                     on the stairs asleep, and found his way into the open air, with a feeling of
                     having escaped a fate he shuddered to contemplate
                  He made an irrevocable vow that nothing should tempt him to make another effort
                     to find the girl of his heart; and on reaching his room, he heroically removed
                     the beloved image from his person, and plunged it into the deepest recesses of
                     his trunk, where its attractions could no longer tempt him to commit another
                     folly in behalf of the original.
                  On the following morning, at an early hour, he was waited on by a gentleman of
                     portly dimensions, with a crop of very red hair, whom he had no difficulty in
                     identifying as the father of Miss Muggridge, even before he announced his
                     name.
                  He entered in quite a bustle, rubbed his hands together, as if very pleasant
                     thoughts were in his mind, and after introducing himself, said:—
                  "Happy to make your acquaintance, Mr. Grandval, though unfortunately it's not
                     in the most agreeable manner that could be thought of. All in a professional
                     way, however."
                  Grandval politely thanked him, and said he supposed Mr. Muggridge came on
                     behalf of the friends of his daughter, with whom he had become so unpleasantly
                     entangled.
                  "Exactly so, my dear sir; and I trust that after a night spent in meditation on
                     the blighted hopes and withered affections of my charming client, you have
                     concluded to be just to her and generous to yourself, in appropriating the hand
                     and heart of one of the most amiable and most excellent of girls. I have known
                     Miss Smith, sir, for years, and she is a paragon—a paragon, I assure you, and
                     might with justice be set up as a pattern to the rest of the sex."
                  "I do not dispute Miss Smith's excellent qualities, Mr. Muggridge," replied our
                     hero. "I am willing to concede to her every thing you claim, except my freedom.
                     I made it perfectly clear last evening, that I had no intention to marry this
                     young lady. The blunder I have already made is sufficiently mortifying without
                     consummating my own folly by giving my hand to a woman for whom I have not the
                     slightest preference. I hope you are the bearer of my letters."
                  "Why—ye-e-s—they certainly are in my possession," replied Mr. Muggridge
                     deliberatively; "but I cannot surrender them except on conditions."
                  "Name them, sir," said Grandval impatiently.
                  "In fact, the party interested has no objection to bring a suit which must
                     result in heavy damages."
                  He kept his eye fixed on the young man to watch the effect of his words. He
                     smiled, and scornfully said:—
                  "Which simply means that I must bid high to prevent those silly effusions from
                     coming before a jury, and covering me with ridicule. Name your price at once,
                     sir; circumlocution will be of no avail, for my mind is made up.
                  Mr. Muggridge sighed—
                  "I regret it deeply, my young friend, if such you will allow me to call you on
                     so brief an acquaintance. But really, now, is there no chance to induce you to
                     heal the wounded heart of this young lady?"
                  "None whatever, except with a golden salve," replied the inexorable Grandval,
                     decisively. "Again I say, name your terms."
                  Mr. Muggridge assumed a calculating air—
                  "You informed Miss Smith yourself, that you are a young gentleman of
                     independent fortune; in case a suit is brought, the damages will be laid in
                     proportion to your estate, say ten thousand, at the most moderate
                     calculation—perhaps twenty thousand. The jury always levy a heavy contribution
                     on the pockets of faithless lovers; which is quite right, in my opinion. Let me
                     see—the actual award would probably be from three to five thousand dollars,
                     besides the expense of going to law. Taking all things into consideration, I do
                     not think a cool thousand too much to pay to get out of the scrape."
                  "It is too much by half," replied Grandval. "I am willing to give five hundred,
                     and consider that as paying dearly for my folly; but I will give it, to be
                     saved all further annoyance."
                  "But consider, sir, you disappoint the well grounded expectation this young
                     lady entertained, of sharing your prosperity; and then you offer her in
                     exchange for the priceless gift of her affections, the paltry sum of five
                     hundred dollars."
                  "I have considered, Mr. Muggridge, and the disappointment for which money can
                     purchase a panacea, is not very likely to affect her happiness long. Therefore
                     I consider five hundred as much as it is worth; it is, at least, as much as I
                     will give; and this is my ultimatum."
                  This was decisive, and after a few more feeble attempts to obtain better terms,
                     the letters were exchanged, and Mr. Muggridge departed with an order on Drew
                     & Co. for five hundred dollars, payable at sight.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  SEVERAL weeks rolled by, and our hero had not once ventured to take a peep at
                     the concealed miniature, for he dreaded that a sight of it would renew his
                     restless desire to discover the original.
                  About this time Medler ventured to return from the country, and soon made
                     overtures of reconciliation to his former dupe. Grandval, however, resented his
                     conduct too much to accept them, and that gentleman forthwith determined to
                     play some trick on him that should avenge his coldness. As his mind was fertile
                     in expedients, he soon resolved on his course.
                  The suggestion he had once made to Grandval, to call a convention of all the
                     Smiths, occurred to him, and he resolved to act on it without consulting the
                     person most interested in its success. He forthwith sent an advertisement to a
                     daily paper, which had a very wide circulation, headed thus:
                  
                     "AN ESTATE WANTING AN HEIR—An eccentric humorist, lately deceased, left a
                        considerable property in one of the southern states to a certain John Smith,
                        a resident of New York, with whom he formed an acquaintance while traveling.
                        The said John Smith having extended some ordinary civility to him, caused
                        him to be remembered, and he bequeathed the whole of his
                        fortune to him. An agent is now in the city who has the means of identifying
                        the true heir, and he will be glad to receive the gentleman of that name on
                        Thursday morning, at nine o'clock. His address is M. G., No. —, ——
                        street."
                  
                  Great was the commotion produced among the John Smiths, and they all began to
                     recall his traveling adventures, in the hope of being able to remember the
                     generous acquaintance who so handsomely rewarded ordinary civilities. Each one
                     was convinced in his own mind that he was the true heir, and many joyful hearts
                     went on their way to Mrs. Wilson's boarding-house on the appointed morning.
                  All the boarders had not breakfasted, and the man whose double duty it was to
                     attend the door and wait on the table was kept in a state of distraction by the
                     repeated demands upon him from both quarters.
                  On the first application, he was about to turn the visitor
                     away, with the assurance that no Mr. Magee lived there—for thus he understood
                     the initials given—but Medler had purposely placed himself in the way, and
                     explained to the waiter that M. G. meant Mr. Mortimer Grandval, who he knew had
                     made an appointment with some friends for that morning.
                  A message was forthwith dispatched to Mr. Grandval, who had not yet risen, and
                     before his toilette was completed, no less than twenty gentlemen, of all ages
                     and all sizes, were in the parlor, regarding each other with a most telligerent
                     expression—for each one intuitively felt that the others had come to claim the
                     inheritance to which he considered himself indubitably entitled.
                  At length the waiter rushed into Grandval's room in such a state of aggravation
                     that he could no longer remember the respect due to a gentleman of his
                     liberality, and exclaimed:
                  "For God's sake, Mr. Grandval, come down stairs, for every body in town is
                     inquiring after you. The front room is full of—I was going to say gentlemen,
                     but some of 'em don't seem to be that; but most of 'em are well
                     enough in looks to pass for it."
                  
                  Grandval stared.
                  "And what interest have I in these people?" he asked.
                  "I don't know, I'm sure, sir; but they all came to see you, and if you don't
                     come down I shall lose my senses directly; for they keep a coming, and them
                     that's there keep ringing the parlor bell to know when you will come down."
                  "This is very extraordinary; and did none of them send up their names?"
                  "They seemed to think you'd know all about 'em, sir, and it was of no use; but
                     two or three of our gentlemen came along and happened to know some of 'em, and
                     they called 'em all Smith. As sure as I'm living, I believe every man down
                     there is named Smith."
                  Our hero started, and grew pale. He felt certain that a trick had been played
                     on him by some one who was aware of his mad search after Mary Smith, but he had
                     spirit enough to meet the Smith family assembled below without flinching.
                  It occurred to him that he might even turn it to his own account, and he drew
                     forth the miniature of his beloved, and placing it in his pocket, descended to
                     the parlor. He paused a moment at the door, to contemplate the eager faces and
                     expectant air of the crowd within.
                  "Good morning, gentlemen," he affably said. "I feel myself highly honored by
                     having so many good citizens to make me a call; and if I lived in your midst, I
                     should expect that you came to solicit me to permit myself to be nominated as
                     your next Governor, or at least as a candidate for Congress. Permit me,
                     gentlemen, to inquire the cause of your appearance."
                  Thereupon arose a chorus of voices, amid which he could only distinguish the
                     words, "advertisement," "fortune," "heirs," "John Smith," etc.
                  "Excuse me, gentlemen; but if you will favor me by allowing one among you to
                     act as speaker, I shall the sooner be enabled to understand why you have
                     honored me with your presence."
                  Thereupon a well-grown specimen of the race of John Smiths, who towered to the
                     height of six feet two, drew a paper from his pocket, and, brandishing it above
                     his head; pointed to the advertisement.
                  "This is our authority for seeking you," said he, in a voice worthy of his
                     frame, "and it appears to me very singular that you were not expecting
                        me, at least, for I am certain I am the person referred
                     to."
                  "What gives you that certainty?" inquired many voices, "for I, and
                        I, and I, am the rightful heir," was chorussed
                     around him.
                  "Grandval waited until there was a slight lull, and then said—
                  "Permit me, gentlemen, if you please, to look at the advertisement referred to,
                     for I am sure I am innocent of having any thing to do with it."
                  "Are you not M. G.? And are you not from the south?" was aked by Hercules
                     Smith.
                  Our hero reflected.
                  "My initials are certainly M. G., for my name is Mortimer Grandval, and I came
                     from the south."
                  By this time the paper had reached him, and glancing at the notice with so
                     inviting a head, he said to the expectant crowd—
                  "I am sorry to inform you, gentlemen, that this is a hoax; and one I assure
                     you, on my honor, I am entirely innocent of participating in. I believe the
                     malice to be leveled at myself, but to that I am indifferent. I only regret
                     that your expectations should have been so shamefully raised only to be
                     disappointed."
                  There was an air of sincerity about him which, together with his graceful and
                     gentlemanly bearing, impressed the John Smiths favorably toward him, and
                     several shook hands with him on the spot, and hoped that this would not be
                     their last meeting. He returned them his thanks, and then said—
                  "Since you have assembled here, gentlemen, I will inquire if there is one among
                     you who remembers seeing me on an Albany steamer in July last? I had then the
                     pleasure of meeting with a gentleman of your somewhat extensive family, who was
                     in company, with his wife and daughter. I should be extremely happy to renew my
                     acquaintance with him."
                  "Bless my soul! is it possible?" said a voice from the farthest corner of the
                     room. "I—I had nearly forgotten the circumstance, or rather I was heedless, for
                     now I remember you perfectly. Excuse me, Mr. Grandval; I am in affliction, and
                     only accompanied a friend here who hoped to be benefitted, for I do not myself
                     reside in New York."
                  As he spoke, a middle-sized, gentlemanly-looking man came forward, looking
                     thinner and more care-worn than when our hero had last seen him; but he
                     instantly recalled him to his recollection.
                  "I am delighted to meet with you, Mr. Smith, I do assure you. Pray how are your
                     excellent lady and charming daughter?"
                  At the mention of his daughter, the father's face became gloomy, and Grandval
                     felt himself grow pale.
                  "Mrs. Smith is quite well, thank you, but I am sorry to say that the failing
                     state of Mary's health brings me to the city."
                  "Nothing serious, I hope?" gasped the agitated listener, nearly breathless with
                     emotion.
                  "I am afraid it is. She is now confined to her bed the greater part of the
                     time, and her disease seems to baffle the skill of her physicians."
                  To find her but to lose her, by the stern decree of death, was too terrible,
                     and Grandval showed such manifest emotion that the crowd of Smiths had
                     sufficient delicacy to depart, and leave him with his newly found friend.
                  "Mr. Smith," said he, mournfully, "I will not conceal from you that your
                     daughter made an indelible impression upon me, and I have spent my time, since
                     I lost sight of you, in endeavoring to trace you in this city, in the belief
                     that you resided here."
                  "No, my dear young friend, I live in Geneva. We left for our own home on the
                     same day we parted from you, but my wife and daughter have not forgotten their
                     pleasant steamboat acquaintance; they have frequently mentioned you since. Mary
                     must have taken cold from imprudent exposure on that night, for she has never
                     been well since. Five weeks ago we came to New York to consult Dr. ——, and I
                     now remember that my daughter said that she had seen you when out riding. Since
                     that evening she has steadily grown worse, and I greatly fear that her days are
                     numbered."
                  Grandval was overwhelmed. In the anguish of his spirit he related the history
                     of his quest to the afflicted father, and declared that if Mary perished, the
                     light of his life would be extinguished.
                  After a conversation of some length the two parted. Mr. Smith gave his address
                     to Grandval, and invited him to visit him very soon, when he hoped that better
                     news of his daughter's state might he imparted to him.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  Grandval wrote down the address, and carried it to his room. He placed it on a
                     table, where he could see it at every turn in his troubled walk across the
                     floor, and gave way to the emotions of mingled joy and fear that filled his
                     mind. He would not believe that he had found her only to be parted irrevocably
                     from her; she would yet recover, and be won by such true love as he could
                     offer.
                  In the midst of his reflections he was summoned to breakfast, and leaving the
                     card upon the table, he descended to the discussion of a cup of coffee and a
                     hot muffin, for which delicacies he had very little appetite, for the sad news
                     of Mary's illness almost counterbalanced his satisfaction in having at last
                     discovered her.
                  Medler, hoping to witness a rare scene, had stationed himself in the room next
                     to the parlor, from which he could be an unseen witness of all that passed in
                     the interview between our hero and the Smiths. He was greatly disappointed when
                     he saw how well Grandval sustained himself in so embarrassing a
                     predicament.
                  He was vexed and surprised to find that the long sought one proved to be among
                     them; and listened eagerly to the conversation which ensued between the
                     two.
                  He still resented Grandval's indifference to the charms of his fair cousin, and
                     his refusal to receive his own overtures for a reconciliation, still further
                     exasperated him; until he was resolved to repay him in such a manner as should
                     inflict as much annoyance on him as he had himself endured.
                  
                  While meditating on the most feasible plan to pursue, he passed Grandval's
                     room; the door was half open and looking in, he saw that it was unoccupied. In
                     a comprehensive glance around, his eye 
                        ligthed
                        lighted
                      on the card of address; in an instant it was in his hand, and a new
                     scheme in rapid process of formation in his active brain.
                  The address was written with a pencil, and the number thirteen on it, was
                     easily changed to fifteen by a light dash over the last figure, which was very
                     carelessly made. Believing that Grandval would much sooner trust to the
                     evidence of the numbers on the card than to his own memory, he laid it down in
                     great elation, and hastened to his own room.
                  In the afternoon, just as our hero was preparing to call on Mr. Smith for the
                     purpose of inquiring after the fair invalid, an urgent message came from Mr.
                     Drew, which demanded his immediate presence at the residence of that gentleman.
                     He hurried thither at once, and after some circumlocution, was informed by him
                     of the severe illness of his uncle, which threatened to terminate fatally. A
                     telegraphic dispatch had been forwarded to Mr. Drew, requesting him to
                     communicate immediately with Grandval, and inform him that by departing as soon
                     as possible, he might be enabled to reach home before the fatal event.
                  The young man was deeply affected, for his uncle was the only near relative he
                     possessed, and he was sincerely attached to him. To make arrangements for
                     immediate departure was necessary, and together the two gentlemen went out to
                     ascertain what steamers were up for the port of Charleston, and to engage a
                     berth without delay.
                  Grandval returned at a late hour to Mrs. Wilson's, after completing every
                     preparation for his departure on the following evening at six o'clock.
                  "I will seek Mr. Smith to-morrow," he thought, and inform him of the reasons
                     for my sudden departure. I will endeavor to induce him to write me an account
                     of Mary's convalescence, for I am certain she must recover."
                  With this thought he fell into a troubled slumber, which was interrupted by
                     terrific dreams. He awoke unrefreshed, and in a state of great depression
                     wended his way to the counting house of Drew & Co., where business
                     imperatively demanded his presence.
                  When he was released it was to late to call on Mr. Smith, for his lodgings were
                     in quite a different portion of the city from his own.
                  At four o'clock in the afternoon, he entered Brian's cab, and again set forth
                     with that worthy in his old search.
                  "Is it after them Smiths, again, Mr. Grandval?" he asked, "I hope ye knows this
                     time where to go to, for by my conscience I think that last scrape at the
                     pollis office ought to giv' ye a lastin' disgust to the whole of the
                     family."
                  "I have the address this time, Brian, so there can be no mistake. Drive on
                     quickly to number 15 —— street."
                  Brian touhced his horse, and rapidly passed streets and houses, until they came
                     to the required one. As they drove toward the number they sought, Grandval's
                     heart sank within him; for there was a long array of carriages before the
                     house, headed by a hearse; and the cold conviction came to him that his Mary
                     was no more. A dimness came over his vision, and when the cab drew up in the
                     rear of the other carriages, he had recovered so far as to see that they were
                     bringing out a coffin covered with white, and a gentleman and lady he took to
                     be Mr. and Mrs. Smith followed it, and stepped into the vehicle nearest the
                     hearse.
                  "What shall we do next?" asked Brian in a low tone.
                  "You won't go a visitin' at that house this evenin' I
                     suppose?"
                  "Follow the proeession," replied Grandval feebly, "I can, at least, see her
                     laid in her grave."
                  "Blessed Lord! you don't say that the Miss Smith you've had such a time a
                     lookin' after, has gone and died just as you've found her?"
                  "I shall never find her now, until we meet in heaven, Brian. Say no more, my
                     good fellow, I can not bear it."
                  Brian looked very sympathetic, and when the slow march to the burying-ground
                     was finished, he made some inquiries of the bystanders about the deceased, and
                     the replies he received to them only served to confirm Grandval in his gloomy
                     error.
                  "The young lady had been sick some time, but her death was at last sudden and
                     the physicians had said it was caused by disease of the heart"
                  Grandval saw the remains of her he believed to be his Mary deposited in a
                     vault, and without attempting to speak to the afflicted parents, took his way
                     to the steamer in a state of terrible depression.
                  His voyage was a melancholy one, but some consolation awaited him at its close.
                     He found his beloved uncle convalescent, and in his gratitude for this mercy,
                     endeavored to reconcile himself to the loss of his first love.
                  Widowed in heart he considered himself, and he spent hours each day in
                     contemplating the image of his lost Mary, in the full belief that no other
                     could fill the place in his affections left vacant by her untimely death.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  AS TIME waned, and the memory of his lost Mary became rather a pleasing
                     melancholy than an acute suffering, a strong desire sprang up in the heart of
                     Grandval to write to her parents, and express to them the tender feeling of
                     reverence and respect which filled his mind toward those who stood in so near a
                     relation to his lost love. We have said that he was romantic, and this desire
                     perhaps will prove it, but the wish to offer sincere sympathy to those who had
                     suffered so terrible a bereavement, also proved that he possessed warm and true
                     feeling.
                  His letter was naturally and gracefully expressed, and was dispatched as soon
                     as finished. He looked with much anxiety for a reply; it came in due course of
                     time, and the revulsion in his feelings be imagined when he read the following
                     words:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND,—The reception of your letter filled me with
                                 pleasure, and also with astonishment. How so strange a
                                 misconception has occurred I can not imagine, but certain it is,
                                 that no such afflicting event as the loss of my beloved daughter
                                 has taken place; for she is sitting before me now, looking delicate
                                 it is true, but in no danger of a speedy departure to the land of
                                 shadows. For several days after our last meeting, we expected you
                                 to call, and I watched with some solicitude. I accidentally saw a
                                 list of the passengers on a southern steamer, and among them was
                                 your name. I supposed that you had been suddenly summoned home, and
                                 I must confess that I looked for a communication from you for many
                                 weeks. As none came, I concluded that you had relinquished your
                                 pursuit, just as it promised to terminate successfully.
                              Since you have so freely confessed your sentiments toward my
                                 daughter, I need feel no hesitation in saying to you that there is
                                 an inexplicable connection between her illness and her acquaintance
                                 with yourself. My observations have convinced me of this, though it
                                 seems strange that a brief association of a few hours should exert
                                 such an influence on even the most sensitive of natures.
                              When I returned home on the morning of our memorable interview, I
                                 related what had occurred, to my wife and daughter. The brightening
                                 eyes, and flushed cheeks with which Mary listened, gave me a clue
                                 to the cause of her listlessness, and failing health, which, I own,
                                 took me quite by surprise. From that hour there was a perceptible
                                 improvement in my daughter's health and spirits. Although you did
                                 not come as you promised, some internal voice seemed to whisper of
                                 hope and happiness in the future. She again went forth with the
                                 delicate bloom of renewed health upon her cheek, and a sweet light
                                 in her blue eyes, that seemed to speak of inward joy.
                              During the winter, this mental source of content sustained her
                                 spirits, but as spring opened, and we heard nothing further from
                                 you, she again drooped, and all my fears for her were renewed.
                                 Yesterday morning she sat before me with her white hands folded,
                                 and her clear eyes fixed on the distant clouds that floated over
                                 the azure sky; as I looked on her, I could not help fancying that
                                 she too would soon pass as a soft shade from amid those who so
                                 tenderly lover her. Letters were brought in, and among them I found yours. I read it and
                                 then placed it in her hands. She trembled, flushed, and grew pale
                                 alternately, and tears fell as she perused your lamentations over
                                 her supposed death. She covered her face with her thin hands for
                                 some moments, and seemed to pray fervently—she then looked up at me
                                 with the serene expression of a seraph, and said,
                              "I was wrong to lose my trust in the future, dear father. I have
                                 often said in my heart, 'he will surely come,' but of late I again
                                 doubted and was desolate."
                              I inquired,
                              "How can this be, my child? your acquaintance with Mr. Grandval was
                                 too brief to produce any permanent influence upon your fate?"
                              "I know not how it is," she gently rejoined, "I only know that when
                                 I lost sight of him, it seemed to me that the brightest hopes of my
                                 existence had departed with him. I became restless, hopeless, the
                                 sun no longer fell upon my pathway, and I was cold and desolate. It
                                 is a mystery to me, my father, but I simply tell you the
                                 truth."
                              This avowal I give to you, because your constancy, your sincere
                                 affection for my daughter, even when you believed that the portals
                                 of the grave had closed upon her, seem to demand it. Come then, and
                                 give me a son in one I know to be worthy of the affection he has
                                 inspired. Already Mary's face wears a brighter expression—her form
                                 seems to have lost that drooping lassitude which so deeply
                                 distressed us. She smiles, and the light of happiness is once more
                                 in her eyes.
                              
                                 Your sincere friend.
                                 JOHN SMITH.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  To paint the extatic joy which thrilled the soul of Grandval at the perusal of
                     this letter, would be impossible. He acted many extravagances, which in his
                     more sober hours he blushed to recall; but we shall not relate them, as we have
                     a sincere respect for him, and a warm interest in his happiness.
                  It was the latter part of May when the knowledge that Mary still lived was
                     conveyed to him, and he lost no time in preparing for a summer tour to the
                     north. At the same time he issued extensive orders for beautifying, and
                     refurnishing his house for the reception of his bride. Delighted with the
                     prospect of having a new niece, and one as charming as Grandval declared his
                     lady love to be, his uncle undertook to have every thing arranged to his
                     satisfaction by the time he had completed his bridal trip. With a heart beating
                     most joyfully, our hero journeyed toward Charleston, at which port he embarked
                     for New York.
                  On the day of his arrival in that city, it chanced that a new and magnificent
                     steamer was about to depart for Liverpool. As Grandval had never visited one of
                     the English lines, and he had a few hours of leisure be ore him, he determined
                     to go on board.
                  He was walking around the cabin, examining the embellishments, when suddenly he
                     felt his hand grasped, and turning, beheld the florid features of Mr.
                     Muggridge, beaming upon him as brightly as if ill-humor were a thing unknown to
                     him even by name.
                  "My dear sir, this is the happiest renconter," he said. "I was wishing only
                     yesterday, that you could know the astonishing results of that little business
                     transaction of ours. 'Pon, my honor, I am amazed when I think of it."
                  "I am glad to hear that some good has grown out of that stupid affair to one of
                     the parties concerned," said Grandval, pleasantly. "Pray, how is Miss
                     Smith?"
                  "Miss Smith no longer," replied Mr. Muggridge, pointing mysteriously toward the
                     ladies' cabin. "She is in there, about to depart on a tour to Europe with her
                     husband, Samuel Brown, junior, who was fortunate enough to be a clerk in the
                     firm to which advices were sent, and he was wise enough to offer himself before
                     the news of the golden shower reached either the lady or her father. He
                     happened to have some slight acquaintance with Miss Smith before, and it was no
                     difficult matter to persuade her that he was desperately smitten with her long
                     nose and sallow face; for between you and me, Miss Smith is'nt the handsomest
                     woman born since the days of Venus."
                  "Pray, explain, Mr Muggridge. What connection have I with this
                     good fortune of hers?"
                  "O, it all came from your five hundred. Her father was advised to take shares
                     in a California mining company; he invested the whole of it in that way; bought
                     shares at a discount from those who had become discouraged by the accounts from
                     Eldorado. Just then, the miners turned the bed of a river—found a bar that
                     yielded enormously, and the last steamship brought out the news that Miss
                     Smith's investment of five hundred had yielded about fifty thousand clear.
                     Lucky fellow, was'nt he? Don't you feel sorry now that Mr. Brown was before
                     you! If you had come back only a few weeks sooner, you might have stepped in
                     and won; for I believe she has a weakness toward you yet. Those sentimental
                     love-letters made a deep impression."
                  "Pooh! nonsense! I am happy to hear that the young lady has been so fortunate,
                     and no longer regret the sacrifice of the sum I paid her, since it has produced
                     such magnificent cent results. Pray, how is Miss Muggridge? I assure you, I
                     remember her with much more interest than her lackadaisical friend."
                  "Thank you. My daughter is also married to a young man in prosperous business—a
                     cousin of Miss Smith. My only objection was to his name, which is far more
                     common than my own."
                  "Tell her from me, if you please, Mr. Muggridge, never to wrong a son so deeply
                     as to bestow on him the name of John."
                  Mr. Muggridge laughed.
                  "I shall be sure to deliver your message. But pray, how speeds your own search?
                     Have you found the true owner of the name yet?"
                  "I have been so fortunate, and I am now on my way to claim her. This time there
                     is no mistake."
                  "Glad to hear it, my young friend; but here comes the bridal party."
                  The cabin doors unclosed, and a group of persons stood together, among whom
                     Grandval recognized Mrs. Brown, and the ci
                        devant Miss Muggridge. A small, insignificant looking man, whose
                     head barely reached her shoulder, stood beside his former correspondent while
                     the dumpy little woman looked as if she were standing on tiptoe to reach the
                     arm of an immensely tall personage to which she clung.
                  Grandval surveyed the party at a distance, and then excusing himself from a
                     nearer approach, bade adieu to Mr. Muggridge, and took his departure.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  IT was night when our lover reached the charming little city of the lake; as
                     lovely a night as moonlight ever aided to make glorrious. It was too late to
                     visit Mr. Smith's family that evening, so our romantic young gentleman
                     concluded that a sail on the lake would pleasantly fill up the hours until he
                     felt disposed to sleep. Ah, little did he imagine that what he would there
                     behold would murder sleep effectually for him; unfortunate wight that he
                     was!
                  A boat was easily procured, and wrapped in a dreamy reverie, he lounged
                     indolently in the stern, listening to the measured dips of the oars as the
                     fairy craft glided over the silvery water, whose placid surface resembled
                     another concave heaven, sparkling with the gems of night.
                  Suddenly, long lines of earthly light shed their yellow radiance in tremulous
                     lines across this blue expanse, and looking up, Grandval saw that the windows
                     of a magnificent mansion had been thrown open, and the illuminated rooms were
                     reflected in the water. A party of gay young people seemed to occupy them, for
                     the murmur of conversation and musical laughter came in blended confusion upon
                     the summer air. While several groups promenaded on a terraced walk which
                     overhung the lake, two persons descended a flight of stone steps, the lower one
                     of which was washed by the waves; a small boat of elegant shape, and highly
                     ornamented, was moored to an iron ring; into this the gentleman assisted his
                     white-robed companion, placing his arm around her waist to steady her
                     movements, and murmuring words in her ear of which Grandval could well divine
                     the import. As a poisoned barb to his inmost soul was this scene, for in the
                     lithe figure, blonde curls, and fair face of the girl, he recognized her he had
                     believed devoted to himself, listening with downcast eye and blushing cheek to
                     the whispered words of love from another!
                  A light breeze was stirring, and after placing his companion in safety among
                     the cushions in the stern, the young man set a small sail, and throwing himself
                     at her feet, together they floated out upon those star-lit waves, oblivious of
                     all the world beside themselves Grandval saw her bend forward until her fair
                     curls almost touched his brow; beheld him clasp her white hand, and press it to
                     his lips; he could endure no more.
                  His own boat lay in the shadow flung by a large tree across the water, and at a
                     motion of his hand, the oarsman had stopped, thus permitting him to behold
                     himself the evidences of inconstancy on the part of her he had believed the
                     purest and loveliest of her sex. Bewildered, crushed, madly jealous, he gazed a
                     few moments on the receding pair, and then, in a stern tone, commanded the man
                     to return to the point from which they had started. This person had not before
                     spoken, but he now said,
                  "That is the bride elect. To-morrow morning Miss Smith marries the gentleman
                     who is in the boat with her."
                  "Marries him! so soon! Impossible!" exclaimed Grandval.
                  "Not so very soon. She saw him in Albany a year ago, and he followed her home;
                     but I believe it was only lately settled that she should marry him."
                  This was the severest blow of all! To be encouraged to hope; to believe that
                     the heart of his chosen one responded mysteriously to his own; to seek her in
                     the firm faith that a pure mutual love existed, and to find her on the eve of
                     marriage with another! It was too dreadful. She must have deceived her father
                     most shamefully, yet this want of truth in her did not lessen the bitter pang
                     which struck to his heart with the
                     conviction of her unworthiness.
                  He did not sleep that night; he made no effort to retire, but sat wretched, and
                     bowed down beside his window, and thought almost to madness upon the unexpected
                     close to his bright dreams of future happiness. He would ee her once more; he
                     would in person behold her consummate her treachery to himself by giving her
                     hand to another, and then abjuring the perfidious sex forever, would return to
                     the seclusion of his own plantation, follow the example of his uncle, and dwell
                     in single blessedness.
                  Grandval had ascertained from the boatman that the marriage was to take place
                     in the Episcopal Church in the town. At an early hour he betook himself toward
                     the edifice, and finding the doors unclosed, he entered and sought a seat so
                     far removed from the altar as to avoid observation, yet near enough to see all
                     that might transpire there.
                  Two wretched hours passed, when the silence was broken by the entrance of a
                     considerable party. First came the bride and groom, supported by four
                     attendants; her father and mother, with a number of friends, followed, and
                     crowded around the altar. Grandval saw but one figure among them, his lost
                     love, looking in her white robes and shadowy veil, more like some bright spirit
                     from another sphere, than a fair, frail, inconstant flesh and blood-being,
                     belonging to this."
                  How he steeped his soul in wretchedness as he listened to the words which gave
                     her to another! Until they were actually spoken he would not believe that such
                     a thing could be; even then, he almost fancied himself suffering under the
                     tortures of a terrible nightmare.
                  Grandval fixed one last despairing glance upon the features
                     which would never more smile for him, and was about to rush forth, when one of
                     the attendants approached and raised her face to imprint a kiss upon the cheek
                     of the bride. He stood as one electrified, and light, hope, joy, once more
                     streamed into his agitated heart. The two were so nearly alike, that but for
                     the slight dissimilarity in costume, it would have been impossible to
                     distinguish them apart. He knew at a glance that they must be twin sisters, and
                     she who acted as bridesmaid was his own Mary.
                  He sat down, overcome by the sudden revulsion of feeling, and when he recovered
                     himself, the pageant had passed out, and the Church was once more quiet.
                  
                  THAT evening, two persons were beside each other on the terrace which overhung
                     the lake. Grandval had at last overcome all difficulties, and stood beside his
                     fair traveling companion, with her hand clasped in his own, while he related
                     his adventures in search of herself, at which she laughed with a girlish
                     merriment it was delightful to listen to.
                  "And you really believed I had jilted you at last?" she said. "Pray, tell me
                     how you passed last night with this terrible conviction in your mind."
                  "As I hope never to pass another," replied Grandval, seriously. "I suffered
                     inexpressibly. Recal the desolation which, by your own confession, you once
                     have known, dear Mary; mingle with it in fancy, a fiery feeling of wrong and
                     jealousy, and you may have a faint conception of my sufferings. I would not
                     pass such another night for worlds."
                  "Your misconception was very natural. Augusta and myself are so nearly alike,
                     that as children we wore different ornaments to enable those around us to
                     distinguish us apart. When I met you, we had left her in Albany with an aunt,
                     with whom she remained until late in the fall. It was while with her that she
                     became acquainted with Mr. Kingston. But pray, what do you mean by my
                     desolation? I am sure I have not made any confession of the kind."
                  "Ah, Mary, seek not to deprive me of half the happiness of this hour by
                     practicing a coquetry which I am sure is foreign to your nature. You dreamed of
                     me, as I of you; and your spirit pined for the presence of its familiar. Was it
                     not thus?"
                  "Have it so, if it flatters you," she replied, with a smile and a blush.
                     "People with common sense would say that I took cold during our promenade on
                     that night of our first meeting; but as we are lovers, we are privileged to
                     talk nonsense; so you may cherish your own belief on the subject."
                  Within two weeks from that evening, Grandval's perseverance was rewarded by
                     receiving the hand of the fair Mary.
                  He has consented that his trials shall be published, as a warning to the Smith
                     family, never again to call a son John.
               
               THE END.
            
            
               BLANCHE DE BEAULIEU.
               BY DUMAS.
               
                  I.
                  WHOEVER, on the evening of the fifteenth of December, 1795, might have left the
                     little town of Clisson, to go to the village of Saint Crepin, and had stopped
                     upon the crest of the mountain at the foot of which runs the river la Moine,
                     would have seen a strange sight on the other side of the valley.
                  At first, in the spot where he would have looked for the village hidden among
                     the trees, in the midst of the horizon, already dusky in the twilight, he would
                     have perceived three or four columns of smoke, which, separate at their base,
                     joined in widening, floated a moment like a burnished dome, and, yielding
                     quietly to a damp west wind, rolled in that direction, lost in the clouds of a
                     lowering, hazy sky. He would have seen this base redden slowly, then all smoke
                     cease, and, in its place, forked tongues of flame burst from the roofs of the
                     houses, with a dull roaring, then twisting spirally, then again curving and
                     raising itself like the mast of a vessel. It would have appeared to him, that
                     soon after all the windows opened to belch forth fire. Occasionally, when a
                     roof fell in, he might have heard a dull sound, he might have seen a brighter
                     flame filled with thousands of sparks, and, by the red glare, of the increasing
                     conflagration, the shining of arms, a circle of soldiers extending afar. He
                     might have heard shouts, and bursts of laughter; and, he might have said in his
                     fright, "God pardon me! It is an army warming themselves by burning a
                     village."
                  In fact, a republician brigade of some twelve or fifteen hundred men had found
                     the village of Saint Crepin deserted, and had set it in flames.
                  This was not cruelty, but an expedient of war; a plan of the campaign, as any
                     other might have been; and the one which experience had proved to be the
                     best.
                  Nevertheless, a cottage standing by itself was not consumed; they appeared even
                     to take every necessary precaution to prevent the fire from reaching it. Two
                     sentinels guarded the entrance, and every moment orderly officers and
                     aids-de-camp went in and out carrying orders.
                  He, who issued these orders, was a young man; he appeared to be from twenty to
                     twenty-two years old; with long, light-colored hair, parted on his forehead,
                     which fell wavingly on each side of his pale and thin cheeks; his entire face
                     bore the impress of that fatal sadness which is to be seen upon the brow of
                     those destined to an early grave. His blue cloak, while enveloping him, did not
                     entirely conceal the badge of his rank, two General's epaulettes; though these
                     epaulettes were made of worsted—the Republican officers having made a patriotic
                     offering to the Convention of all the gold ornaments about their dress. He was
                     leaning upon a table, with a geographical chart spread out before him, on which
                     he was tracing in pencil, by the light of a lamp, which was itself eclipsed by
                     the glare of the conflagration, the route that his soldiers were about to
                     follow. It was General Marceau, who, three years later, was killed at
                     Altenkirchen.
                  "Alexandre!" called he, raising himself self half-way, "Alexandre! everlasting sleeper, are you dreaming of San
                     Domingo, that you sleep so long?"
                  "What's the matter?" inquired he to whom this was addressed, starting upright
                     in surprise, and whose head almost touched the ceiling of the cabin, "What's
                     the matter? is the enemy upon us?"—and these words were pronounced with that
                     light creole accent which preserved its softness, even in the midst of the
                     threatening tone.
                  "No, but an order has arrived for us from the commander-in-chief, General
                     Westermann."
                  And whilst his colleague read the order, for he to whom he had spoken was his
                     colleague, Marceau looked with childish curiosity upon the muscular form of the
                     herculean mulatto before him.
                  He was a man twenty-eight years old, with short, crisp hair, brown complexion,
                     high forehead and white teeth; whose almost supernatural strength was well
                     known to the army, which had seen him in a fight split a helmet down to the
                     cuirass, and once upon a parade strangle a fractious horse, which he was
                     riding, between his thighs. Nor had he long to live, but, less fortunate than
                     Marceau, he must die far from the battle field, poisoned by the order of a
                     king. This was General Alexandre Dumas—my father.
                  "Who brought this order?" asked he.
                  "The people's representative, Delmar."
                  "'Tis well, and where are these poor devils going to meet?"
                  "In a wood, a league and a half from here; look at the map, there it is."
                  "Yes; but on the map there are no ravines, no mountains, no tree stumps, no by
                     ways, embarassing the true route, where one can scarcely find one's self even
                     in the daytime. Infernal country! and withall that it is always so cold."
                  "Look!" said Marceau, pushing the door open with his foot and showing the
                     village on fire, "go out and warm yourself.—Ha! what is the matter,
                     citizens?"
                  This question was addressed to some soldiers, who, in seeking for provisions,
                     had discovered, in a sort of kennel attached to the cottage where the two
                     Generals were, a Vendean peasant, who seemed so drunken, that it was probable
                     he was unable to follow the villagers when they had abandoned their homes.
                  Let the reader figure to himself, a stupid faced farmer, with a large hat, long
                     hair, and grey waiscoat; a being, formed in the image of a man, but a degree
                     lower than the brute; for it was evident that instinct was wanting to this mass
                     or flesh. Marceau put a few questions to him; his patois and the wine rendered
                     his answers unintelligible. He was about to give him up as a laughing stock to
                     the soldiers, when General Dumas, briskly ordered the cottage to be evacuated,
                     and the prisoner to be shut up in it. He was still at the door, a soldier
                     pushed him inside; he went staggering against the wall, tottered an instant,
                     swaying about on his half-bent legs; then, falling heavily, stretched himself
                     out and remained without moving A single sentinel remained before the door, and
                     they did not even take the trouble to close the window.
                  "We shall be able to leave in an hour," said General Dumas to Marceau, "we have
                     a guide."
                  "Where is he?"
                  "That man."
                  "Yes, if we start to-morrow, that may be. There is sleep enough in what that
                     fellow has drunken to last him twenty-four hours."
                  Dumas smiled, "Come," said he, and he led him to the shed where the peasant had
                     been found; a single partition separated it from the interior of the cabin, and
                     it was filled with cracks which allowed everything that occurred there to be
                     seen, and the least word of the two Generals, who an instant before had been
                     there, to be overheard.
                  "And now," added he lowering his voice, "look!"
                  Marceau did so, giving way to the ascendency which his friend exercised over
                     him, even in the most common affairs fairs of life. He had some, difficulty in
                     distinguishing the prisoner, who had accidentally fallen into the darkest
                     corner of the cottage. He laid like a sick man, still in the same spot; Marceau
                     looked around to seek his colleague; he had disappeared.
                  When he again looked into the cottage, it appeared to him that the fellow had
                     made a slight movement; his head had been moved to a place whence he could see
                     at once all the inside of the room. Soon after he opened his eyes with the long
                     yawn of a man just awaking, and he saw that he was alone.
                  A single flash of joy and intelligence passed over his features.
                  Then it was evident to Marceau that he had been the dupe of this man, if a
                     look, still more scrutinizing, had not already convinced him of it. He examined
                     him then with renewed attention; his face had resumed its former expression,
                     his eyes had closed again his movements were those of a man about to fall
                     asleep again; in one of these movements, he struck the small table upon which
                     were the map and the order of General Westermann, which Marceau had thrown upon
                     it; it fell with a crash; at the noise, the soldier on duty opposite the door,
                     put his head in, saw what had caused it, and said laughingly to his comrade,
                     "'Tis that citizen dreaming."
                  The prisoner heard these words; his eyes re-opened, a look of hatred, for an
                     instant, followed the sentinel, then, with a rapid movement, he seized the
                     paper upon which the order was written, and concealed it in his bosom.
                  Marceau held his breath; his right hand seemed to clutch his sword hilt, his
                     left hand and, his forehead only supported his body against the partition.
                  The object of his attention was at this time resting on his side; soon, by
                     means of his elbow and knee, he advanced slowly, still lying down, toward the
                     door of the cabin; through the opening between the door and the sill he saw the
                     legs of a group of soldiers who were in front of it. Then patiently and slowly
                     he began to glide toward the open window; then, when he had reached within
                     three feet of it, he sought in his bosom for his arms, concealed there,
                     gathered himself up, and with a single spring, the spring of a panther, threw
                     himself out of the cabin. Marceau shouted; he had not had time to foresee or
                     prevent this flight. Another shout replied to his; it was a curse. The Vendean,
                     in falling out of the window, found himself face to face with General Dumas; he
                     tried to stab him with his knife, but the latter seized him by the wrist,
                     turned it against his own breast, so that the Vendean had but to push to stab
                     himself.
                  "I promised you a guide, Marceau, here he is; and a knowing one, I hope." "I
                     can have you shot, my fine fellow," said he to the peasant, "but it is more
                     convenient for me to let you live. You have heard our conversation, but you
                     shall not carry it to those that sent you—citizens," he addressed himself to
                     the soldiers whom this curious scene had gathered, "some two of you take each a
                     hand of this man, and place yourselves with him at the head of the column; he
                     shall be our guide; if you perceive that he deceives you, if he makes an
                     attempt at flight, blow his brains out and throw him over the hedge."
                  Then a few orders, given in a low tone, passed throughout this broken line of
                     soldiers, which extended itself around the ashes of what was once a village.
                     These groups arranged themselves; each platoon seemed to fasten itself upon the
                     one before it. A black line was formed; it descended along the deep road which
                     separates Saint-Crepin from Montfaugon, fitted into it like a wheel into a rut,
                     and when, a few moments after, the moon shone out between two clouds and was
                     reflected for an instant by this string of silent shining bayonets, one would
                     have believed that he saw an immense black serpent with steel scales, gliding
                     in the darkness.
               
               
                  
                  II.
                  A night march is a melancholy thing for an army. War is a beautiful thing, on a
                     fine day when the sky shines upon the mêlée; when people arrange themselves
                     around the battle-field like the seats in a circus, and applaud the conquerors;
                     when the quivering tones of brass instruments cause the undaunted heart-strings
                     to thrill; when the smoke of a thousand cannon covers you like a shroud; when
                     friends and enemies are by to see how bravely you die: it is sublime! But at
                     night! Ignorant how you are attacked, and how to defend yourself; to fall
                     without seeing who struck the blow, or whence it came; to feel those still
                     standing wounding you with their feet, and marching over you without knowing
                     who you are! Oh! then, 'tis no time to take positions like a gladiator; one
                     rolls, and twists, bites the ground, and tears it up with his fingers—'t is
                     horrible!
                  The reason why that army marched sadly and silently, was because it knew that
                     on each side of its route extended high hedges and entire fields of broom and
                     thorn bushes; and that, at the end of this road, there would be a fight—a fight
                     in the dark.
                  It marched on for half an hour: from time to time, as I have already said, a
                     ray of the moon would shine between the clouds, and show the peasant who acted
                     as guide at the head of that column, his ear attentive to the least noise, and
                     constantly guarded by the two soldiers that marched at his side. Sometimes they
                     would hear on the flanks a rustling of leaves; the head of the column would
                     stop suddenly, and many voices cry out "Who goes there?" Nothing
                     replied, and the peasant said, laughing "'Tis a hare starting from its resting
                     place." Sometimes the two soldiers thought they saw something move before them,
                     which they could not make out; they said to each other, "Look there!" and the
                     Vendean replied, "'Tis your shadow, let us keep on." Suddenly, at a turn in the
                     road, they saw two men stand before them; they essayed to shout; one of the
                     soldiers fell without having time to speak a word; the other staggered a
                     second, and had only time to say, "Help!"
                  Twenty muskets were fired in an instant; by the glare of this light, they could
                     see three men running; one of them staggered, and drew himself along the
                     declivity for a moment, hoping to reach the other side of the hedge. They ran
                     up to him, it was not the guide; they questioned him, he made no answer; a
                     soldier pierced his arm with his bayonet, to see if he were really dead; he
                     was.
                  Marceau then became the guide. The study which he had made of the localities,
                     gave him a hope that he would not lose himself. At last, after a march of a
                     quarter of an hour, they saw the black mass of the forest. It was there,
                     according to the information which the Republicans had received, that the
                     inhabitants of a few villages, the remnants of a number of armies, some
                     eighteen hundred men were to assemble, to hear mass.
                  The two generals divided their little band into a number of columns, with
                     orders to surround the woods, and to follow all the paths which led toward its
                     center; they calculated that half an hour would suffice to take up these
                     respective positions. A platoon stopped on the road which they found before
                     them; the others extended themselves in a circle upon its wings; for a moment,
                     the noise of their regular tramp could be heard, and then it grew fainter as
                     they receded; it ceased suddenly, and all was silent. The half hour which
                     precedes a battle passes rapidly. Scarcely has the soldier time to see that his
                     musket is in order, and to say to his comrades, "I have twenty or thirty francs
                     in the corner of my knapsack; if I am killed, you will send them to my
                     mother."
                  The command, Forward! sounded, and each one trembled, as though he
                     had not been awaiting it there.
                  As they advanced, it seemed to them that the cross-roads, which formed the
                     center of the forest, were lighted up; on approaching, they perceived torches
                     shining; soon objects became more distinct, and a sight, which none of them had
                     any idea of, presented itself to their view.
                  Upon an altar, clumsily represented by a few stones heaped together, the Curé
                     of Sainte-Marie de Rhe was saying mass; old men surrounded the altar, torch in
                     hand; outside of them, women and children prayed on their knees. Between the
                     Republicans and this group was placed a wall of men, which, upon a smaller
                     scale, presented a plan of battle prepared for defense or attack; it was
                     evident that they had been forewarned, even if the runaway guide had not been
                     recognized in the front rank; now he was a Vendean soldier, in full uniform,
                     bearing upon his left breast the red heart, which served as a rallying badge,
                     and in his cap, the white handkerchief which replaced the plume.
                  The Vendeans did not wait to be attacked: they had spread sharp-shooters
                     throughout the woods; they commenced firing: the Republicans advanced with
                     carried arms, without firing a shot; without replying to the continued fire of
                     their enemies; without offering any words after each discharge, other than
                     these "Close up the ranks! close up the ranks!"
                  The priest had not terminated mass, he still continued; his audience seemed
                     unconscious of what was passing around them, and remained upon their knees. The
                     Republican soldiers still advanced. When they were some thirty paces from their
                     enemies, the front rank knelt; three rows of muskets were levelled, like corn
                     bent by the wind. The firing commenced: they saw the ranks of the Vendeans grow
                     thin; and a few balls, passing through them, reached the foot of the altar,
                     killing women and children. There was then a moment of shouting and tumult in
                     the crowd. The priest raised the Host, all heads bowed to the earth, and all
                     was silent.
                  The Republicans made a second discharge at the distance of ten paces, as calmly
                     as if on review, with as much precision as if before a target. The Vendeans
                     replied smartly, but neither had time to reload: it was now work for the
                     bayonet; and here, all the advantage was on the side of the regularly armed
                     Republicans. The priest still continued to perform mass.
                  The Vendeans gave way. Entire ranks fell without noise other than curses. The
                     priest perceived this; he made a sign; the torches were extinguished, the
                     combat continued in the darkness. Thenceforth it was a scene of disorder and
                     carnage, where each one struck blindly and fiercely, and died without asking
                     quarter; quarter, so seldom given, even when demanded in the same language.
                  Nevertheless these words: "Mercy! Mercy!" were pronounced in an imploring voice
                     at Marceau's feet, as he was about to strike.
                  It was a Vendean youth, an unarmed child, who was striving to get out of this
                     horrid mêlée.
                  "Mercy! Mercy!" cried he; "Save me! in the name of heaven, in the name of your
                     mother!"
                  The General drew him some paces from the battle-field, out of view of the
                     soldiers, but he was soon compelled to stop; the young man had fainted. This
                     excess of fright on the part of the soldiers astonished him; he did not hasten
                     the less however to relieve him; he opened his coat to give him air—it was a
                     woman!
                  There was not a moment to lose; the orders of the Convention were strict; all
                     Vendeans found with arms in their hands, or taking part in any assemblage,
                     whatever the age or sex, must perish upon the scaffold. He seated the young
                     girl at the foot of a tree, and ran to the field of battle. Among the dead, he
                     perceived a young Republican officer, whose height seemed to be near that of
                     the unknown; he quickly took the uniform and chapeau and returned to her. The
                     coolness of the night soon brought her out of her fainting fit.
                  "Father! Father!" were her first words; then getting up and putting her hands
                     to her forehead, as if to collect her wandering thoughts. "Oh! this is frightful: I was with him,—I have left
                     him;—my father! my father! he will be killed!"
                  "My young mistress,—Mademoiselle Blanche," said a voice which came from a head
                     which appeared suddenly behind a tree, "the Marquis de Beaulieu lives, he is
                     safe. Hurrah for the king and the good cause!"
                  He who uttered these words disappeared like a shadow; but not so quickly,
                     however, but that General Marceau had time to recognize the peasant of
                     Saint-Crepin.
                  "Tinguey! Tinguey!" cried the young girl, extending her arms toward the
                     farmer.
                  "Silence! a word will denounce you; I will not then be able to save you, and I
                     wish to do so! Put on this coat and this chapeau, and await me here."
                  He returned to the field of battle, gave his soldiers orders to retire upon
                     Chollet, left his colleague in command of the troops and returned to the side
                     of the young Vendean girl.
                  He found her ready to accompany him. Both directed themselves toward a kind of
                     road which crosses Romagne, where Marceau's servant awaited him with led
                     horses, which could not traverse the interior of the country where the roads
                     were ravines and gulleys. There, his embarassment was increased: he feared that
                     his young companion could not bestride a horse, and would, therefore, be
                     compelled to walk; but she soon re-assured him by managing her horse, with less
                     strength, perhaps, but with all the grace of the best cavaliers.*
                        She noticed Marceau's surprise and smiled.
                  
                     
                     *Though what follows will not account for this skill, so rare among our
                        women, yet the custom of the country justified it. The ladies of the
                        castle bestrode a horse, literally speaking, like a fashionable gentleman
                        of Long Champs; they wore under their dresses, which were raised by the
                        saddle, pantaloons similar to those which are put on children. The women
                        of the common people did not take even this precaution, although the
                        color of their skin made me believe to the contrary for a long time.
                  
                  "You will be less astonished," said she to him, "when you know me; you will see
                     by what a train of circumstances the exercises common to men have become
                     familiar to me; you appear to be such a good man, that I will tell you the
                     events of my life, so young yet so full of trouble."
                  "Yes, yes, by and by," said Marceau; "we shall have plenty of time, for you are
                     my prisoner, and on your own account I do not wish to set you free. Now we must
                     get to Chollet as soon as possible. So seat yourself securely in your saddle
                     and gallop my cavalier."
                  "Gallop it is," replied the Vendean girl, and three quarters of an hour
                     afterward they entered Chollet. The Commander-in-chief was at the Mayor's
                     office. Marceau ascended, leaving his servant and his prisoner at the door. In
                     a few words he gave an account of his mission, and returned with his little
                     escort to seek a lodging at the hotel Sans
                        Culottes, an inscription which had replaced the one formerly on
                     the sign—Au Grand St. Nicholas.
                  
                  Marceau engaged two rooms; he led the young girl to one of them and advised her
                     to throw herself, still dressed, upon the bed, to take a few moments repose, of
                     which she must have been in great need after such a frightful night as she had
                     just passed, and then went to shut himself in his own room, for now he had a
                     life dependent upon him, and it was necessary that he should find means to
                     preserve it.
                  Blanche, on her part, had need of thought also; first of her father, and then
                     of this young Republican General, with his sweet face and soft voice. It all
                     seemed a dream to her. She walked about to assure herself that she was really
                     awake, stopped before a mirror, to convince herself that it was truly she, then
                     she wept to think of the deserted situation in which she found herself; the
                     idea of her death, death upon the scaffold, did not occur to her; Marceau had
                     said with his soft voice, "I will save you."
                  And then, why should they cause her, born but yesterday, to die? Beautiful
                     tiful and inoffensive, why should men desire her head and her blood? Scarcely
                     could she convince herself that she was in any danger. Her father on the
                     contrary, a Vendean chief—he slew and might be slain; but she, poor young
                     thing, still hand in hand with childhood—oh! far from believing in these
                     sorrowful prestiges—life was beautiful and joyous, the future immense; this war
                     would cease, the deserted castle would see its master return. Some day, a young
                     man, fatigued, would come there to ask hospitality; he would be twenty-four or
                     five years old, with a sweet voice, light hair, and a general's uniform; he
                     would stay a long time;——dream on, dream on, poor Blanche!
                  There is a time in youth, when misfortune is so much a stranger to existence,
                     that it appears they never can become acquainted; however melancholy an idea
                     may be, 'tis cast aside with a sigh. It is because they see life only on one
                     side of the horizon; it is because the past has not had time to make them
                     suspect the future.
                  Marceau dreamed likewise, but he had already looked into life; he knew the
                     political hatreds of the time; he knew the unreasonableness of revolutions, he
                     sought a way to rescue the sleeping Blanche. One only presented itself to his
                     mind: that was to conduct her himself to Nantes, where his family dwelt. For
                     three years he had not seen either his mother or his sister, and finding
                     himself only a few leagues from that city, it would appear very natural that he
                     should ask leave of absence, of the General-in-chief. He stopped at this
                     thought. Day began to break, he presented himself at General Westermann's
                     quarters; that which he asked was granted without difficulty. He wished to be
                     allowed to go at once, thinking that Blanche could not leave any too soon; but
                     it was necessary that his leave of absence should bear a second signature, that
                     of the representative of the people, Delmar. Not an hour since he had arrived
                     from the expedition, with the troops; he was taking a short repose in an
                     adjoining room, and as soon as he awoke the General-in-chief promised Marceau
                     to send it to him.
                  On re-entering the inn he met General Dumas, who was seeking him. The two
                     friends had no secrets from each other, he soon knew all the adventures of the
                     night. Whilst breakfast was preparing, Marceau ascended to the room of his
                     prisoner, who had already asked for him; he announced the visit of his
                     colleague, who hastened to present himself; his first words reassured Blanche,
                     and, after a short conversation, she felt only the bashfulness natural to a
                     young girl, seated between two men whom she scarcely knows.
                  They were about to seat themselves at the table, when the door opened. The
                     people's respresentative, Delmar, appeared upon the threshhold.
                  Scarcely have we had time at the commencement of this story, to say a single
                     word about this new personage.
                  He was one of those men whom Robespierre placed as an arm, at the end of his
                     own, in order to reach into the provinces; whom he thought had learned his
                     system of regeneration, because he had said to them: We must regenerate; and
                     under whose hands the guillotine was more active than discriminating.
                  This sinister apparition made Blanche tremble, even before she knew who he
                     was.
                  "Ah! ah!" said he to Marceau, "you wish to leave us already, citizen General,
                     but you behaved so well last night that I cannot refuse you anything;
                     nevertheless, I am a little vexed with you for allowing the Marquis de Beaulieu
                     to escape—I had promised to send his head to the Convention."
                  Blanche stood up, pale and frigid as a statue of terror. Marceau placed himself
                     before her, without attracting attention.
                  "But that which is deferred is not lost," continued he. "The grey-hounds of the
                     Republic have good noses and sharp teeth, and we will follow his trail. Here is
                     your leave-of-absence," added he; "it is countersigned; you may depart when you
                     please; but, before you go, I have
                     come to breakfast with you: I do not wish to part with so brave a man as you,
                     without drinking to the safety of the Republic, and to the extermination of all
                     brigands."
                  "In the position in which the two generals found themselves, just then, this
                     mark of esteem was any thing but agreeable. Blanche had seated herself and had
                     gained some little courage. They seated themselves at the table, and the young
                     girl, to avoid facing Delmar, was obliged to take a place at his side. She
                     seated herself far enough away not to touch him, and was reassured, by degrees,
                     as she perceived the people's representative was more occupied by the meal,
                     than by the guests who partook of it with him. Nevertheless, from time to time,
                     one or two bloody words fell from his lips and caused a chill to pass through
                     the frame of the young girl; but, beside this, no real danger seemed to
                     threaten her: the generals hoped he would leave without speaking a word to her
                     directly. The desire to set out was a pretext, on Marceau's part, for
                     shortening the meal; it was nearly finished. Each one began to breathe more
                     freely, when a volley of musketry was heard in the city square, opposite the
                     inn; the generals jumped to their arms, which they had laid aside near them.
                     Delmar stopped them—"Well done, my brave fellows," said he laughing, and
                     balancing himself in his chair. "Good! I like to see you on your guard; but
                     re-seat yourselves there is nothing for you to do there."
                  "What is this noise, then?" asked Marceau.
                  "Nothing," replied Delmar, "only shooting the prisoners taken last night."
                  Blanche screamed with fright.
                  "Oh! the unfortunate beings!" cried she.
                  Delmar put down the glass which he was about to carry to his lips—turned slowly
                     toward her,
                  "Ah! this is mighty fine," said he; "now if soldiers tremble so like women, we
                     must dress women like soldiers; you are very young, 'tis true," added he,
                     taking her two hands and looking in her face, "but you'll get used to it."
                  "O! never! never!" cried Blanche, without thinking how dangerous it was for her
                     to manifest such sentiments before such a witness. "Never could I get used to
                     such horrors."
                  "Child!" said he, letting her hands drop, "do you think that a nation can be
                     regenerated, without letting blood? repress factions, without building
                     scaffolds? Have you ever witnessed a revolution pass the level of equality over
                     a people, without cutting a few heads off? Woe then, woe to the great, for the
                     wand of Tarquin has pointed them out!"
                  He was still a moment, then continued:
                  "Besides, what is death? A sleep without dreaming, without awaking; what is
                     blood? a red liquid, almost like that in this bottle, and which produces its
                     effect upon our mind, only by the ideas we attach to it. Sombrueil has drunken
                     it. Well! you are silent! Let us see, have you not, at your tongue's end, some
                     philanthropic argument? In your place a Girondist would not be silent."
                  Blanche was now compelled to continue the conversation.
                  "Oh!" said she, tremblingly, "are you sure that God has given you the right to
                     kill thus?"
                  "Does not God himself kill?"
                  "Yes, but he sees beyond life; but man, when he kills, knows not what he gives
                     or what he takes away."
                  "Well! so be it; the soul is either immortal, or it is not; if the body is only
                     matter, is it a crime to return, a little sooner, to matter, that which God has
                     loaned it? If a soul inhabits it, and this soul be immortal, I cannot kill it;
                     the body is but a covering, that I take from it, or, rather, a prison from
                     which I release it. Now, listen to advice, for I really wish to give it to you;
                     keep your philosophical reflections, and your school-boy arguments, to defend
                     your own life, should you ever fall into the hands of Charette or Bernard de
                     Maringy; for they will grant you no more mercy than I have to their soldiers.
                     As for myself, you will repent the repeating them a second time in my hearing:
                     bear this in mind." He went out.
                  There was a moment's silence. Marceau laid down his pistols, which he had
                     loaded during this conversation.
                  "Oh!" said he, following him with his finger, "Never did man, surely, come so
                     near death as you have just done, and miss it. Blanche, do you know that if a
                     word or a gesture had escaped him which could have proved that he had
                     recognized you, do you know, I would have blown his brains out?"
                  She did not listen. A single thought possessed her; it was that this was the
                     man commissioned to follow the remnant of the army commanded by the Marquis de
                     Beaulieu.
                  "Oh my God!" said she, concealing her face in her hands—"Oh! my God! when I
                     think that my father may fall into the hands of this tiger; that if he had been
                     made prisoner last night, it is possible that there, before——'T is execrable,
                     't is atrocious; is there then no pity in this world? Oh! forgive me, forgive,"
                     said she to Marceau: "who ought to know to the contrary better than I? My God!
                     oh God!"
                  At this moment the servant entered, and announced that the horses were
                     ready.
                  "Let us go; in heaven's name let us go! There is blood in the very air we
                     breathe here."
                  "Let us go," said Marceau, and the three descended at once.
               
               
                  III.
                  Marceau found a detachment of thirty men at the door, which the
                     General-in-chief had caused to be mounted to escort him as far as Nantes. Dumas
                     accompanied them some distance; but, a league from Chollet, his friend strongly
                     insisted that he should return; further on, and it might be dangerous to return
                     alone. He then took leave of them, put his horse to the gallop, and disappeared
                     soon after at a corner of the road.
                  Then Marceau wished to find himself alone with the young Vendean. She had the
                     story of her life to relate to him, and it seemed to him that her life ought to
                     be full of interest. He rode up to the side of Blanche.
                  "Well!" said he, "now that we are quiet, and have a long journey before us, let
                     us talk—let us talk of yourself; I know who you are, and that is all. How came
                     you in that assemblage? Where did you become accustomed to wear men's clothes?
                     Speak. We soldiers are accustomed to hear short and hard words. Speak to me now
                     at length—of yourself, of your childhood, I pray you.
                  Marceau, without knowing why, could not accustom himself, in speaking to
                     Blanche, to use the Republican language of the time.
                  Blanche then related to him the events of her life: how her mother died while
                     she was yet young, and left her still a child in the hands of the Marquis de
                     Beaulieu; how her education, superintended by a man, had familiarized her with
                     those manly exercises, which, since the breaking out of the insurrection of La
                     Vêndée, had been very useful to her, and had enabled her to follow her father.
                     She unfolded to him all the incidents of that war, from the émuette at
                     Saint-Florent up to the fight in which Marceau had saved her life. She spoke at
                     length, as he had wished, for she saw he listened with satisfaction. At the
                     moment she finished her recital, Nantes appeared on the horizon, its lights
                     trembling in the haze. The little troop crossed the Loire, and, a few moments
                     after, Marceau was in the arms of his mother.
                  After the first salutations, he presented his young fellow-traveler to his
                     family; a few words sufficed to interest his mother and sisters deeply in her
                     behalf. Scarcely did Blanche manifest a wish to retake the dress of her sex,
                     ere the two young girls, carried away by emulation, disputed between themselves which should have the pleasure of
                     acting as her femme-de-chambre.
                  This conduct, simple as it might seem at first sight, was nevertheless, greatly
                     enhanced by the circumstances of the time. Nantes was struggling under the
                     pro-consulate of Carrier.
                  'Tis a strange sight to the mind and the eye, to witness a whole city bleeding
                     in the grasp of a single man. One asks whence came this strength, that takes
                     its own way over the eighty thousand souls which it governs? and how is it that
                     when this single being says, "I will it," they do not all rise to
                     say "'Tis well! but we do not wish it." It is because there is in
                     the souls of the mass a habit of slavishness—though single individuals may
                     sometimes have ardent desires to be free. It is because the people, as
                     Shakspeare has said, know no other way of recompensing the assassin of Cæsar
                     than by making Cæsar of him. This is why there are tyrants of liberty, as there
                     are monarchal tyrants.
                  Then blood ran through the streets of Nantes, and Carrier—who was to
                     Robespeirre what the hyena is to the tiger, and the jackal to the lion—gorged
                     himself with the purest of this blood, waiting till he should pay it back
                     mingled with his own.
                  There were entirely new modes of massacreing; the guillotine did its work too
                     quickly. He invented the Noyade,
                     *
                      the name of which is synonymous with his; boats were built expressly
                     for it in the port; it was well known for what purpose, and the people came to
                     see them in the dock-yard; it was a new and curious thing, with its twenty feet
                     trap doors, which opened to precipitate the unfortunate beings, destined to
                     this punishment, into the depths of the sea, and the day on which the trial was
                     made, there were almost as many people on the banks of the river as when they
                     launch a vessel with a bouquet at her main-mast and flags on every yard.
                  
                     
                     *A machine for drowning several persons at once.
                  
                  Oh! three times woe to men, who, like Carrier, apply their genius to the
                     invention of various instruments of death; for all ways of destroying man is
                     easy to man! Woe to those who, without reflection, have caused useless murders!
                     They have made our mothers to tremble on pronouncing the words revolution and
                     republic, synonymous with them, with the words massacre and destruction. And,
                     our mothers made men of us at fifteen years of age, which of us, on leaving the
                     hands of his mother, did not, like them, tremble at the words revolution and
                     republic? Which of us had not his political education to remodel before daring
                     to look those figures—93—which he had regarded so long as fatal, cooly in the
                     face? Which of us did not need the strength of mind of a man of twenty-five to
                     look steadily at those three Collossuses of our revolution, Mirabeau, Danton,
                     and Robespierre? But now we have become accustomed to the sight of them, we
                     have studied the ground upon which they trod, the principles upon which they
                     acted, and, we involuntarily recall to mind those terrible words of another
                        time—"chaque un d' eux n' est tombé que parce qu' il
                        a voulu enrayer la charètte du bourreau qui avait encore besonge a
                        faire;"*
                      it was not they who went ahead of the revolution, but the revolution
                      went ahead of them.
                  
                     
                     *Each of them fell only because he wished to clog the wheel of the
                        executioner which still had work to do.
                  
                  Nevertheless, let us not complain, modern rehabilitations are quickly made, for
                     now people write the history of the people. It was not so in the time of the
                     gentlemen historians of the crown; have I not heard it said, while yet a child,
                     that Louis XI was a bad king, and Louis XIV a great prince?
                  Let us return to Marceau and to a family, whom his name protected even against
                     Carrier himself. Such was the reputation of the young General for pure
                     republicanism, that suspicion dare not even attach to his mother and sisters.
                     This is why one of them, a young girl of sixteen, like one ignorant of what was
                     passing around her, loved and was beloved, and the mother of Marceau, timid as
                     all mothers are, saw a second protector in a husband, and hurried as much as
                     she could, a marriage just on the point of being accomplished, as Marceau and
                     the young Vendean arrived at Nantes; so his return at that time was a source of
                     double rejoicing.
                  Blanche was placed between these two young girls who became her friends on
                     kissing her—for there is an age when each young girl thinks she finds an
                     eternal friend in the acquaintance of an hour. They went out together; a thing
                     almost as important as a wedding occupied them—a woman's toilette. Blanche
                     ought no longer to wear her male attire.
                  Soon they brought her back—dressed by their double assistance. She had to wear
                     the dress of one, and the shawl of the other. Foolish girls! 'tis true that the
                     ages of the three did not equal that of Marceau's mother, though she was still
                     handsome.
                  When Blanche re-entered, the young General took a few steps toward her, and
                     stopped astonished. In her first dress he had scarcely remarked her celestial
                     beauty and elegance, which she seemed to have resumed with her woman's dress.
                     She had, 'tis true, done all she could to appear beautiful; for a moment, she
                     had forgotten war, La Vêndée and carnage, before her glass; it was because the
                     most innocent soul has its coquetry when it begins to love, and because it
                     wishes to please him it loves.
                  Marceau endeavored to speak, but could not utter a word; Blanche smiled and
                     held out her hand to him joyfully, for she saw she had appeared as beautiful to
                     him as she wished to appear.
                  In the evening, the betrothed of Marceau's sister came, and, as all love is
                     selfish, from self-love to maternal affection, there was one house in the city
                     of Nantes, an only one, perhaps, where all was joy and happiness, whilst around
                     them all was grief and tears.
                  Oh! how Blanche and Marceau gave themselves up to this new life! how far
                     beneath them did any other seem! it was almost a dream; occasionally only would
                     Blanche's heart beat and tears tremble in her eyes; it was when, suddenly, she
                     thought of her father; Marceau reassured her; then, to wean her attention from
                     these thoughts, he would recount to her his early campaigns; how the collegian
                     became a soldier at fifteen, an officer at seventeen, a colonel at nineteen,
                     and a general at twenty-one. Blanche would make him repeat these things
                     frequently, for, in all that he said, there was not a word of loving
                     another.
                  And yet, Marceau had loved, loved with all the power of his soul—at least he
                     thought so. Then, soon he had been deceived, betrayed; contempt, after much
                     struggling, had taken possession of a young heart filled with prejudices. The
                     blood which burned in his veins cooled slowly; a gloomy lethargy had replaced
                     excitement; Marceau, in fine, before becoming acquainted with Blanche was only
                     a sick man, deprived, by the sudden absence of fever, of energy and strength,
                     which he owed only to its presence.
                  Well, all those dreams of happiness, all those elements of a new life, all
                     those fascinations of youth, which Marceau had believed lost to him forever,
                     returned upon him in a future still in distinct, but which he could attain some
                     day; he was himself astonished that a smile would sometimes come and pass
                     across his lips without a cause; his lungs played freely, and he no longer felt
                     any of that difficulty in breathing which, only yesterday, wasted his strength
                     and made him wish for an early death as the only relief from his
                     sufferings.
                  Blanche on her part, first drawn toward Marceau by a natural feeling of
                     obligation, attributed to this sentiment the various emotions that agitated
                     her. Was it not perfectly natural that she should constantly wish for the
                     presence of the man who had saved her life? Words coming from his mouth, could
                     they be indifferent to her? his features, stamped with so deep a melancholy,
                     ought they not to awake pity? and when she saw that he sighed on looking at
                     her, was she not always ready to say,
                     "What can I do for you, my friend, for you who had done so much, for me?"
                  Thus, agitated by these various feelings, which every day gained new strength,
                     Blanche and Marceau passed the first days of their stay at Nantes; at last the
                     time appointed for the marriage of the young general's sister arrived.
                  Among the jewels ordered for her, Marceau had selected a costly brilliant
                     ornament, which he offered to Blanche. Blanche looked at it with the coquetry
                     of a girl, then quickly closing the casket,
                  "Do jewels become my situation?" said she, sorrowfully; "jewels for me! whilst
                     my father is perhaps flying from farm-house to farm-house, begging a morsel of
                     bread to keep life in him—a barn for his sleeping place! whilst proscribed
                     myself No let my plainness conceal me from all eyes; think I might be
                     recognized."
                  Mareeau urged in vain, she would consent to accept nothing but an artificial
                     red rose which she found among the ornaments.
                  The churches were closed, the marriage was performed at the Hotel de Ville; the
                     ceremony was short and sad, the girls regretted the absence of the choir,
                     ornamented with wax tapers and flowers; the dais hung over the heads of the
                     newly married couple, under which they exchanged smiles with those that held
                     it; and the blessing of the priest who says: "Go children, may you be
                     happy."
                  At the door of the Hotel de Ville, a deputation of watermen awaited the newly
                     married couple. The rank of Marceau had caused this mark of respect for his
                     sister; one of the men, whose features did not seem unfamiliar, had two
                     bouquets; he presented one to the bride; then advancing to Blanche, who looked
                     attentively at him, he offered her the other.
                  "Tinguey, where is my father?" asked Blanche, growing pale.
                  "At St. Florent," replied the waterman, "take this bouquet, there is a letter
                     inside of it. Hurra for the king and the good cause, Mademoiselle Blanche!"
                  Blanche wished to stop him, to speak to him, to question him, but he had
                     disappeared. Marceau had recognized the guide, and could not but admire the
                     devotedness, the skill, and the boldness of the peasant.
                  Blanche read the letter anxiously. The Vendeans had sustained defeat after
                     defeat; an entire population had emigrated, retreating before fire and famine.
                     The remainder of the letter was filled with thanks to Marceau. The Marquis had
                     learned all through the watchfulness of Tinguey. Blanche was very sad, that
                     letter had carried her back into the midst of the horrors of war; she leaned on
                     Marceau's arm more than usual; she spoke to him nearer and in a tone more soft.
                     Marceau would have wished her still more sorrowful; for the greater the sorrow,
                     the more do we give way to it, and, as I have already said, there is a great
                     deal of selfishness in love.
                  During the ceremony, a stranger, who had, he said, something of the utmost
                     importance to communicate to Marceau, had been introduced into the hall. On
                     entering, Marceau, whose head was bent over Blanche, whose arm was resting on
                     his, did not perceive him at first, suddenly felt that arm tremble, he looked
                     up; Blanche and he were face to face with Delmar.
                  The representative of the people advanced slowly, his eyes fixed upon Blanche,
                     a smile on his lips; Marceau, with perspiration on his brow, saw him approach,
                     as Don Juan saw the statue of the commander.
                  "Citizeness, have you a brother?"
                  Blanche stammered, and was ready to throw herself into the arms of Marceau.
                     Delmar continued.
                  "If my memory and your likeness do not deceive me, we breakfasted together at
                     Chollet. How is it that since that time I have not seen him in the ranks of the
                     Republican army?"
                  Blanche felt her strength about to fail; the piercing eye of Delmar followed
                     every movement, and she was on the point of falling under his gaze, when he
                     turned from her and fixed his eyes up on Marceau.
                  Then it was that Delmar trembled in his turn. The young General had his hand
                     upon the hilt of his sword which he grasped convulsively. The features of the
                     representative of the people soon retook their habitual expression; he appeared
                     to have entirely forgotten what he had just been saying, and taking Marceau by
                     the arm, he led him to the recess of a window, conversed with him some time
                     upon the present situation of La Vêndée, and told him that he had come to
                     Nantes to concert with Carrier new measures of severity which it was necessary
                     to take on account of the revolts. He told him that General Dumas had been
                     recalled to Paris, and soon leaving him, he passed with a bow and a smile,
                     before the couch upon which Blanche had fallen on quitting the arm of Marceau,
                     and where she still remained, cold and pale.
                  Two hours afterward, Marceau received orders to start without delay to rejoin
                     the army of the West, and there resume the command of his brigade.
                  This sudden and unlooked for order astonished him; he thought he saw some
                     connection between this and the scene which had taken place a short time
                     before; his leave did not expire for a fortnight yet. He hastened to Delmar to
                     get some explanation of the affair; he had left, immediately after his
                     interview with Carrier.
                  He must obey; to hesitate was to be lost. At this time the generals were
                     subject to the power of the representatives of the people sent by the
                     Convention, and, if some reverses were caused by their want of experience, more
                     than one victory also was due to the alternative constantly before these
                     chiefs, either to conquer, or lose their heads upon the scaffold.
                  Marceau was near Blanche when he received that order. Stupified by a blow, so
                     unexpected, he had not the courage to tell her of his departure, which would
                     leave her alone and unprotected in the center of a city each day sprinkled with
                     the blood of her countrymen. She saw he was troubled, and her uneasiness
                     surmounted her timidity; she approached him with the anxious look of a well
                     beloved wife, who knew that she had a right to question, and she did question
                     him. Marceau handed her the order which he had just received. Scarcely had
                     Blanche cast her eyes upon it, ere she understood to what danger want of
                     obedience would expose her protector; her heart broke; nevertheless she found
                     strength to prevail on him to set off without delay. Women possess this sort of
                     courage more strongly than men, because at home they lay bashfulness aside.
                     Marceau looked at her sorrowfully, "And you too, Blanche," said he, "do you
                     order me to go away? Indeed," said he, rising, and as if speaking to himself,
                     "who could make me believe to the contrary? Madman that I am! When I thought of
                     this departure, I sometimes believed it would cause regrets and tears." He
                     strode rapidly. "Fool! regrets, tears! As if I was not indifferent to them!" On
                     turning about he found himself opposite to Blanche; two tears rolled down the
                     cheeks of the silent girl, whose bosom heaved with suppressed sobs. In his turn
                     Marceau felt tears in his eyes.
                  "Oh! pardon me, Blanche, pardon me," said he; "I am so unhappy, and unhappiness
                     makes us suspicious. Always at your side, my life appeared to be mingled with
                     yours; how then can I separate my hours from your hours my days from you days?
                     I had forgotten every thing; I thought it would be forever thus. Oh! misery,
                     misery! I dreamed, and now I awake. Blanche," added he, more calmly, and in a
                     sadder tone, "the war which we carry on is a cruel and bloody one, it may be
                     that we shall never see each other again. "He took the hand of the sobbing
                     Blanche. "Oh! promise me, that if I fall, stricken down far from you—Blanche, I
                     have always had a presentiment that my life would be short—promise me that your
                     memory will sometimes recall me to your thoughts, my name in your lips, that it
                     was not a dream; and I. I promise you, Blanche, that if there be time with me,
                     between life and death, to pronounce
                     nounce a name, a single name, it shall be yours."
                  Blanche was choked with tears; but in her eyes shone a thousand promises, more
                     tender even than those Marceau asked of her. With one hand she pressed that of
                     Marceau, who was at her feet, and with the other she showed the red rose in her
                     hair.
                  "Always, always!" murmured she, and she fell fainting. Marceau's cries brought
                     his mother and sisters. He thought Blanche dead; he rolled in agony at her
                     feet. In affection, hopes and fears, every thing is exaggerated. The soldier
                     was but a child.
                  Blanche opened her eyes, and blushed at seeing Marceau at her feet, and his
                     family around her.
                  "He goes" said she, "perhaps to fight against my father, Oh! spare my father;
                     if he should fall into your hands, remember that his death would kill me.—What
                     would you more?" added she, lowering her voice; "I thought of my father only
                     after having thought of you." Then, soon gathering fortitude, she prayed
                     Marceau to depart; he, even, comprehended the necessity of doing so, and no
                     longer resisted her entreaties and those of his mother. The necessary orders
                     for his departure were given, and, an hour after, he had received the farewell
                     of Blanche and his family.
                  In leaving Blanche, Marceau followed the road which he had traveled with her;
                     he advanced, without hastening or slackening the pace of his horse; and each
                     locality recalled to his mind some word of the story of the young Vendean girl;
                     he reviewed, in a manner, the history which she had related to him; and the
                     danger which she ran, of which he had not thought much while near her, but
                     which, now that he was away from her, appeared to him very great. Each word of
                     Delmar's rang in his ears; each moment he was about to stop his horse, and
                     return to Nantes; and he had need of all his strength of mind, not to give way
                     to his wish of returning to see her.
                  If Marceau had been able to occupy himself with any thing but what was passing
                     in his own mind, he would have perceived, at the end of the road, and coming
                     toward him, a cavalier, who, after having hesitated a moment to assure himself
                     that he was not mistaken, had put his horse to the gallop to meet him, and he
                     would have recognized General Dumas as soon as he had been recognized by
                     him.
                  The two friends jumped from their horses and threw themselves into each other's
                     arms.
                  At the same instant, a man, his hair reeking with perspiration, his features
                     bloody, clothes torn, jumped over the hedge, rolled, rather than walked the
                     length of the slope, and fell without strength and almost voiceless at the feet
                     of the two friends, uttering the single word, "arrested!" It was
                     Tinguey.
                  "Arrested! who? Blanche?" cried Marceau.
                  The peasant made an affirmative gesture; the unhappy man could no longer speak.
                     He had come five leagues, running over fields, hedges, furze and thorns;
                     perhaps he might have run a league or two further, if necessary, to overtake
                     Marceau, but having reached him, he fell.
                  Marceau looked upon him, with his gaping mouth and staring eyes.
                  "Arrested! Blanche arrested!" repeated he, constantly, while his friend applied
                     his wine-flask to the closed teeth of the peasant. "Blanche arrested! This,
                     then, is why they sent me away. Alexandre," cried he, taking his friend's hand
                     and compelling him to rise, "Alexandre, I return to Nantes. You must follow me
                     there, for my life, my fortune, my happiness, all is there." His teeth
                     chattered violently; his whole body shook with convulsive movements. "Let him
                     tremble who has dared to place hand upon Blanche. Do you know that I love her
                     with all my heart; that life without her is nothing to me; that I will save her
                     or die? Oh! fool! Oh! madman that I was to leave! Blanche arrested! And where
                     have they taken her?"
                  Tinguey, to whom this question was addressed, had begun to recover. The veins
                     on his forehead could be seen to swell as if they were about to burst; his eyes
                     were blood-shot; and so oppressed was his breathing that scarcely could he, to
                     the question, "Where was she taken?" a second time repeated, reply—
                  "To the prison at Bouffays."
                  Scarcely were these words uttered ere the two friends had taken the road to
                     Nantes, at a gallop.
               
               
                  IV.
                  There was not a moment to lose; it was toward Carrier's house, Place de Cours,
                     then, that the two friends directed their steps. When they reached it, Marceau
                     threw himself from his horse, mechanically took his pistols, which were in the
                     holsters, concealed them under his coat and rushed to the apartment of him who
                     had the fate of Blanche in his hands. His friend followed him more coolly,
                     though ready, nevertheless, to defend him if he had need of his aid, and to
                     risk his life with as much carelessness as if on the battle-field. But the
                     deputy from La Montagne,*
                      knew too well how he was execrated not to be unjust, and neither by
                      importunity nor threats could the Generals obtain an interview with him.
                  
                     
                     *
                        La Montagne, or Les Montagnards, the Mountain, or the
                        Mountaineers, a party of the French revolution, so called
                        from their occupying the higher benches of the hall. The Deputies of the
                        Mountain faction sent into the departments, as Carrier
                        was, were called in derision, proconsuls.—Trans.
                  
                  Marceau descended more tranquilly than his friend had expected. He appeared
                     within a moment to have adopted a new plan which he had hastily matured. And
                     there was no longer any doubt of it, when he suddenly stopped, and requested
                     General Dumas to go instantly to the post-house, and with two horses and a
                     carriage, await him at the gate of Bouffays.
                  The rank and the name of Marceau gave him admittance into that prison; he
                     ordered the jailer to conduct him to the dungeon where Blanche was confined.
                     The latter hesitated a moment, Marceau reiterated his order in a more
                     imperative tone, and the keeper obeyed, making a sign to him to follow.
                  "She is not alone," said his conductor, on opening the low arched door of a
                     dungeon, the darkness of which made Marceau shiver; "but she will not be long
                     in getting rid of her companion—they guillotine him to-day." With these words,
                     he closed the door upon Marceau, making him promise to shorten, as much as
                     possible, an interview which might compromise him.
                  Still blinded from his sudden passage from the light of day to the darkness of
                     night, and not being able to see into the obscurity which surrounded him,
                     Marceau reached out his hands like a man in a dream, endeavoring to pronounce
                     the word Blanche, which he could not articulate; he heard a scream: the young
                     girl threw herself into his arms; she had recognized him instantly; her sight
                     had already become habituated to the darkness.
                  She cast herself into his arms, for it was a moment when terror made age and
                     sex forgotten; it was a question of life or death. She fastened herself upon
                     him like a shipwrecked man upon a rock, with inarticulate sobs and convulsive
                     grasp,
                  "Ah! ah! you have not forsaken me, then!" cried she, at last. "They arrested
                     me—dragged me here; in the crowd that followed me I saw Tinguey; I cried to him
                     'Marceau! Marceau!' and he disappeared. Oh! I was far from hoping to see you
                     back—here—but you are here—you are here. You will not leave me again?——You will
                     take me with you, will you not?——You will never leave me here."
                  "I would snatch you away this instant at the price of my life; but——"
                  "Oh! look; feel these streaming walls, this dirty straw; you, who are a
                     General, can you not——"
                  "Blanche, this is what I can do; I can knock at this door, dash out the brains
                     of the keeper who may open it; lead you to the yard, let you breathe the fresh air, see the sky, and be
                     killed in your defense; but I dead, Blanche, they would bring you back to this
                     dungeon, and there would not exist upon this earth a single man who could save
                     you."
                  "But can you?—you?"
                  "Perhaps."
                  "Soon?"
                  "Two days, Blanche, I ask two days. But now reply in your turn,—reply to a
                     question upon which depends your life and mine—answer as you would answer to
                     your God—Blanche, do you love me?"
                  "Is this a time and a place where such a question should be put, and where it
                     should be answered? Do you think that these walls are accustomed to hear
                     avowals of love?"
                  "Yes, this is the time—for we are between life and the grave, between existence
                     and eternity. Blanche, hasten and reply to me—each moment steals a day from us,
                     each hour a year,——Blanche, do you love me?"
                  "Oh! yes, yes."—These words escaped from the heart of the young girl, who,
                     forgetting that her blushes could not be seen, hid her head in the arms of
                     Marceau.
                  "Well then! Blanche, you must accept me as your husband this moment."
                  The body of the girl shook with emotion.
                  "What can be your intention?"
                  "My intention is to snatch you from death; we will see if they dare to send the
                     wife of a Republican general to the scaffold."
                  Blanche then comprehended his thoughts. She shuddered at the danger to which he
                     would expose himself to save her. Her love gained new strength from it; but
                     collecting her fortitude, "It is impossible," said she, firmly.
                  "Impossible!" interrupted Marceau, "impossible! But this is folly:—and what
                     obstacle can intervene between us and happiness, since you tell me you love me?
                     Do you believe, then, that this is play? But listen, then, listen, 'tis thy
                     death! See! the death of the scaffold, the executioner, the axe, the cart!"
                  "Oh! pity! pity! 'tis frightful! But yourself—once your wife, if that title
                     will not save me, it will lose you with me!"
                  "This, then, is the motive that has caused you to reject the only way of safety
                     left you! Well! now listen to me, Blanche; for I have an avowal to make; on
                     seeing you, I loved you; love has become a passion; I look upon it as my life;
                     my existence is yours, and my lot shall be yours; happiness or the scaffold, I
                     will share all with you; I will not leave you again—no human power shall
                     separate us; or, if I quit you, I have only to shout, Hurrah for the
                        King! these words would re-open to me your prison doors, and we would
                     go out again only together. Well! so be it; it will be something to be a night
                     in the same dungeon, a passage in the same cart, and a death upon the same
                     scaffold."
                  "Oh! no, no—go then; leave me, in heaven's name leave me."
                  "Go away! Take care what you say, and what you wish—for if I go
                     hence without your being mine, without your having given me the right to defend
                     you, I will go and find your father; your father of whom you no longer think,
                     and who weeps for you, and I will say to him: 'Old man, thy daughter could have
                     saved herself, and she would not; she wished that thy last days should pass in
                     mourning, and that her blood should spurt out even upon thy white hairs. Weep,
                     old man, weep—not that thy child is dead, but that she did not love thee enough
                     to live.'"
                  Marceau had repulsed Blanche; she had fallen upon her knees some distance from
                     him, and he walked about with his teeth clenched, his arms across his breast,
                     with the laugh of a maniac or the damned. He heard the sobs of Blanche; tears
                     came to his eyes; his arms dropped lifeless, and he fell at her feet.
                  "Oh! in pity,—by that which is the most sacred in this world, by the grave of
                     your mother, Blanche, Blanche, consent sent to become my wife; you must; you
                     ought."
                  "Yes, you ought, young girl," interrupted a strange voice, which made them
                     tremble, and both rise. "You ought, for it is the only way of preserving a
                     life, scarcely begun; religion commands it, and I am ready to bless your
                     union."
                  Marceau, astonished, turned around and recognized the Curé of Saint-Mariede
                     Rhé, who took part in the assembly which he had attacked the night Blanche
                     became his prisoner.
                  "Oh! father," cried he, seizing his hand and drawing him toward her, "O father!
                     obtain, from her, her consent to live."
                  "Blanche of Beaulieu," replied the priest, in a solemn tone, "in the name of
                     thy father, whom my age and the friendship uniting us gives me the right of
                     representing, I adjure you to accede to the importunity of this young man; for
                     your father himself, if he were here, would do what I am doing."
                  Blanche seemed actuated by a thousand opposite feelings; at last she threw
                     herself into the arms of Marceau;
                  "Oh! my friend!" said she to him, "I have not strength to resist you longer.
                     Marceau, I love you! I love you, and I am your wife."
                  Their lips joined; Marceau was at the height of joy; he seemed to have
                     forgotten every thing. The voice of the priest soon snatched him from his
                     ecstacy.
                  "Hasten children," said he, "for my moments are numbered here below; and if you
                     still delay, I can no longer bless you, except from heaven."
                  The two lovers trembled; that voice called them back to earth.
                  Blanche walked to him with looks of affright,
                  "Oh, my friend," said she, "what a time to unite our destinies! What a temple
                     for a marriage ceremony! Do you believe that an union consecrated under these
                     dark and dismal vaults can ever be a durable, and happy one?"
                  Marceau trembled, for he was himself touched with a superstitious dread. He led
                     Blanche toward a place in the dungeon where the light, shining through the
                     cross-bars of a narrow window, made the darkness less deep; and there, both,
                     upon their knees, awaited the benediction of the priest.
                  The latter extended his arms and pronounced the sacred words. At the same
                     moment, a sound of arms and of soldiers was heard in the passage; Blanche,
                     frightened, threw herself into Marceau's arms.
                  "Can it be that they have come for me already?" cried she. "Oh my friend, my
                     friend, how frightful death would be at this time."
                  The young General had thrown himself before the door, a pistol in each hand.
                     The soldiers fell back astonished. "Reassure yourselves," said the priest,
                     presenting himself, "it is I they seek—it is I who am about to die."
                  The soldiers surrounded him.
                  "Children," said he, in a strong voice, addressing the newly married couple;
                     "children, kneel; for, with one foot in the grave I send you my last blessing,
                     and the blessing of a dying man is sacred."
                  The astonished soldiers kept silent; the priest had taken from his breast, a
                     crucifix, which he had succeeded in concealing from all their searches; he
                     extended it toward them; about to die himself, it was for them he prayed. There
                     was a moment of silence and solemnity in which all there believed in God. "Let
                     us go," said the priest.
                  The soldiers surrounded, him; the door was closed, and all disappeared like a
                     vision of the night.
                  Blanche threw herself into Marceau's arms.
                  Oh! if you leave me, and they should come for me like this—if I have you not to
                     assist me to pass this door. Oh! Marceau, think of it,—the scaffold! I! I upon
                     the scaffold! far away from you, weeping and calling upon you, without your
                     answering me. Oh! do not go away, do not go away! I will throw myself at their
                     feet, I will tell them I am not guilty,—that if they will leave me in prison
                     all my life with you, I will bless
                     them. But if you leave me——Oh! do not leave me then."
                  "Blanche, I am certain of saving you, I will answer for your life; in less than
                     two days I will return with your pardon, and then it will not be a whole life
                     in a prison and a dungeon, but in the free air, in happiness—a life of freedom
                     and love."
                  The door opened, the jailer appeared. Blanche held Marceau more closely in her
                     arms; she would not let him go, though each moment was precious; he softly
                     loosed his hands from the chain that held them, promised her that he would
                     return before the expiration of the second day: "Love me always" said he,
                     rushing out of the dungeon. "Always," said Blanche, falling back, and showing
                     him, in her hair, the red rose which he had given her; and then the door closed
                     upon her like that of hell.
               
               
                  V.
                  Marceau found General Dumas at the house of the keeper, he asked for ink and
                     paper.
                  "What are you going to do?" asked General Dumas, alarmed at his agitation.
                  "To write to Carrier, to request two days delay of him, and to tell him that
                     his life shall answer to me for the life of Blanche."
                  "Unhappy man," replied his friend snatching the letter from him which he had
                     just commenced, "you threaten, when you are in his power; have you not
                     disobeyed the order you have received to join the army? do you think, that once
                     doubting you, his fears will even stop to seek for a plausible excuse? In less
                     than an hour you would be arrested; and what then could you do for her or
                     yourself? Believe me, your silence will induce forgetfulness on his part, for
                     his forgetfulness alone can save her."
                  Marceau's head rested upon his hands; he seemed to reflect deeply.
                  "You are right," said he getting suddenly up, and he led his friend into the
                     street.
                  A few persons were collected about a post-chaise. "If it should be foggy this
                     evening," said a voice, "I do not know what would prevent a score of good lads
                     entering the city and carrying off the prisoners; it is a pity to see how
                     Nantes is guarded." Marceau trembled, turned around, recognized Tinguey,
                     exchanged looks of intelligence with him and hastened into the carriage.
                     "Paris!" said he to the postillion giving him gold; and the horses started off
                     with the speed of lightning. Everywhere the same diligence, everywhere by dint
                     of money Marceau obtained promises that horses should be ready for the morrow,
                     that no obstacle might prevent his return.
                  It was on this journey that he learned that General Dumas had sent in his
                     resignation, demanding, only as a favor, to be employed as a soldier in some
                     other army; he had consequently been placed at the disposal of the committee of
                     Public Safety, and was on his way to Nantes when Marceau met him upon the road
                     to Clisson.
                  At eight o'clock in the evening the carriage which held the two generals
                     entered Paris.
                  Marceau and his friend separated at the Palace Egalité. Marceau went on foot to
                     the street Saint Honoré, turned down it on the side of Saint-Roch, stopped
                     before the house number 366, and asked to see citizen Robespierre,
                  "He is at the Theatre de la Nation," replied a young girl, some sixteen or
                     eighteen years of age, "but if you will return in two hours, citizen General,
                     he will have returned."
                  "Robespierre at the Theatre de la Nation! are you not mistaken?"
                  "No citizen."
                  "Well, I will go and seek him there, and if I do not find him I will return and
                     await him here. Here is my name; Citizen General Marceau"
                  The Theatre Francois had just split into two troupes; Talma, accompanied by the
                     patriotic commedians had gone to the Odeon. It was to this theater, then, that
                     Marceau went, quite surprised to find that he should have to look for the
                     austere member of the Committee of Public Safety at a play. The play was the
                        Death of Cæsar. He entered the balcony; a young man offered
                     him a seat by his side in the front row. Marceau accepted it hoping to be able
                     from that position to see him whom he sought.
                  The play had not commenced, a strange uneasiness was visible among the
                     audience, bursts of laughter and an exchanging of signs proceeded from a group
                     seated near the orchestra, as from head quarters; that group overlooked the
                     house, a man overlooked that group—that man was Danton. Around him, speaking
                     when he was silent, and silent when he spoke, were Canille Desmoulins, his
                     idol, Phillippaux, Hérault d' Séchelles and La Croix, his apostles.
                  This was the first time Marceau had been in the presence of this Mirabeau of
                     the people; he had recognized his loud voice, his imperious gestures, his
                     domineering brow, even before his name had been frequently pronounced by his
                     friends.
                  We must now be permitted to say a few words on the state of the different
                     factions into which the Convention was divided; they are necessary to a full
                     understanding of what is about to follow.
                  The Communes and the Mountain had united to effect the revolution of the
                     thirty-first of May. The Girondists after having vainly tried to federalize the
                     provinces, had fallen, almost without defense, in the midst of those whom they
                     had elected, and who dared not even give them an asylum in the days of their
                     proscription. Before the thirty-first of May, power was nowhere; after that
                     day, the need of an unity of strength was felt, to effect a promptness of
                     action; the Assembly possessed the most extended authority; a faction had made
                     itself master of the Assembly; a few men commanded this faction; power
                     naturally fell into the hands of these men. The Committee of Public Safety, up
                     to the thirty-first of May, had been composed of neutral members of the
                     Convention; the time of its renewal arrived, and the extreme Mountaineers took
                     their seats there: Barrère remained as representative of the old Committee, but
                     Robespierre was elected a member of it; Saint-Just, Collot d' Herbois,
                     Billaud-Varennes, sustained by him, were checks upon their colleagues, Hérault
                     de Séchelles and Robert Lindet. Saint-Just took upon himself the office of
                     surveillance, Couthon that of softening those propositions the most violent in
                     their principles, Billaud-Varennes and Collot d' Herbois, directed the
                     proconsulates of the departments; Carnot busied himself with the war
                     department; Cambon with that of finance; Prieur (Cote d' Or) and Prieur (of the
                     Marne), with the business of the interior and the administrative departments,
                     and Barrére, who soon united with them, became the daily spokesman of the
                     party. Whilst Robespierre, without having any definite functions, watched over
                     the whole, directing this body politic as the head directs the body corporal,
                     and moved each limb at will.
                  It was in this party that the revolution was embodied—it wished it with all its
                     consequences, that the people might some day enjoy its results.
                  This party had to contend with two others; one of which wished to go all
                     lengths, the other to curb it—these two parties were,
                  That of the Communes, represented by Hébert.
                  The other of the Mountain, represented by Danton.
                  Hébert made himself popular in the Pere
                        Duchesne by obscenity of language; insults followed the victims
                     there—laughter the executions. In a short time his progress became formidable.
                     The Bishop of Paris and his Vicars abjured Christianity; Catholic worship was
                     replaced by that of reason; the churches were closed; Anacharis Klootz became
                     the apostle of the new goddess. The Committee of Public Safety was alarmed at
                     the power of this ultra-revolutionary faction which they thought had fallen with Marat, and which based
                     itself upon immorality and atheism; Robespierre determined to attack it alone.
                     On the fifth of December, '93, he attacked it from the tribune, and the
                     Convention, who had strongly applauded his abjuration against the demands of
                     the Communes, decreed, at the request of Robespierre, who also had his religion
                     to establish, that all violence and measures against the liberty of
                        worship were forbidden.
                  
                  Danton, in the name of the moderate party of the Mountain, demanded the
                     cassation of the revolutionary government. The Vieux
                        Cordelier, edited by Camille Desmoulins, was the organ of the
                     party. The Committee of Public Safety, that is to say, the dictatorship, had
                     not been, according to him, created but to repress disorders within and conquer
                     without; and, as he believed it had repressed in the interior and conquered on
                     the frontier, he demanded that this power, now, in his opinion, useless, should
                     be broken, to the end that hereafter it might not become dangerous; the
                     revolution had been put down, and he wished to re-establish it upon ground not
                     yet cleared.
                  It was these three factions, which, in the month of March, '94, the time at
                     which the events of our story occurred, divided the Convention. Robespierre
                     accused Hébert of atheism and Danton of venality; and, in his turn, was accused
                     by them of being ambitious, and the word dictator began to circulate.
                  This then was the state of affairs when Marceau, as we have said, saw Danton
                     for the first time, making a tribune of the orchestra, and casting upon those
                     that surrounded him, his powerful sentiments. The play was the Death of
                        Cæsar; a kind of word of command had been given to the Dantonists;
                     they were all at the representation, and, upon a signal to be given by their
                     chief, they were to apply the following lines to Robespierre. 
                        
                           "Oui, que César soit grand, mais que Rome soit libre.
                           Dieu! Maitresse de l'Inde, esclave au bord du Tibre,
                           Qu'importe que son nom commande a l'univers.
                           Et qu'on l'appelle reine alors qu'elle est aux fers?
                           Qu'importe à ma patrie, aux Romains que tu braves,
                           D'apprendre que César a de nouveaux esclaves?
                           Les Persans ne sont pas nos plus fiers ennemis,
                           Il en est de plus grands; je n'ai pas d'autre avis."*
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Yes, let Cæsar be great, but let Rome be free. God! Mistress of
                        the Indies, yet a slave on the banks of the Tiber. What matters
                        it that her name commands a world, and that they call her queen,
                        while she is in chains? What matters it to my country, to you
                        brave Romans, to know that Cæsar has new slaves? The Persians
                        are not our fiercest enemies—there are greater ones. This is my
                        opinion.
                  
                  This is why Robespierre, who had been informed of this by Saint-Just, was at
                     the Theatre de la Nation that evening, for he comprehended what a weapon this
                     would be in the hands of his enemies if they could make the accusation they had
                     against him popular with the people.
                  In the meantime, Marceau looked vainly for him in this brilliantly illuminated
                     house, where the single row of boxes remained in the slight shadow caused by
                     the projection of the gallery above them, and his eyes, wearied with the
                     fruitless search, reverted every moment to the group in the orchestra, whose
                     noisy conversation attracted the attention of the entire audience.
                  "I saw our Dictator to-day," said Danton; "they wished to reconcile us."
                  "Where did you meet him?"
                  "At his house; I was compelled to go up to the third story room of the
                     'Incorruptible.'"
                  "And what did you say?"
                  "That I was aware of the hatred the Committee bore me, but that I did not fear
                     it. He replied that I was wrong, it had no bad intentions toward me, but it was
                     necessary I should explain myself."
                  "Explain yourself! Explain yourself! that were well with men of good
                     faith."
                  "Exactly what I replied to him; then his lips contracted, his brow wrinkled. I
                     continued, 'Certes the royalists must be repressed; but necessary blows only
                     should be struck, and the innocent ought not to be confounded with the guilty.'
                     'Eh! who has told you,' replied Robespierre, sharply, 'that we have caused one
                     innocent one to perish?'—'What do you think of that? not an innocent one has
                     perished!' exclaimed I, addressing Hérault de Sechelles, who was with me, and I
                     left."
                  "And was Saint-Just there?"
                  "Yes."
                  "What did he say?"
                  "He passed his hands through his fine black hair, and from time to time
                     arranged the tie of his cravat like that of Robespierre."
                  Marceau's neighbor, whose head was resting on his hands, trembled, and that
                     kind of hissing which comes from between the closed teeth of a man restraining
                     himself, was heard. Marceau took no further notice of him, but turned his
                     attention again to Danton and his friends.
                  "The fop!" said Camille Desmoulins, speaking of Saint-Just. "He thinks so much
                     of himself that he carries his head as high on his shoulders as the consecrated
                     Host."
                  Marceau's neighbor removed his hands; he recognized the soft and handsome face
                     of Saint-Just, pale with rage.
                  "And I," said the latter, rising in all his pride, "Desmoulins, I will make you
                     carry yours like a Saint Dennis." He turned about, they opened to let him pass
                     out, and he left the balcony.
                  "Eh! who thought he was so near?" said Danton, laughing. "Ma foi, the packet
                     reached its destination that time."
                  "Apropos," said Phillippeaux to Danton, "have you seen De Laya's pamphlet
                     against you?"
                  "What! De Laya write pamphlets! Let him re-write L' Ami
                        des Lois; I would like to read it: is the pamphlet sensible?"
                  "Here it is;" Phillippeaux handed him a small work.
                  "What! he has put his signature to it, pardieu! But don't he know, then, that
                     if he don't come under my protection, they will cut his throat? Hush! hush! the
                     curtain rises."
                  "Hush!" was heard throughout the house; a young man, who was not in the
                     conspiracy, nevertheless kept up a private conversation, although the actors
                     were on the stage. Danton reached out his arm, touched him on the shoulder with
                     the end of his finger, and with a courtesy in which there was a slight tinge of
                     irony,
                  "Citizen Arnault," said he to him, "allow me to listen as though they were
                     performing Marius a Minturnes."
                  The young author had too much pride not to accede to a wish expressed in these
                     terms; he ceased, and the most perfect silence allowed one of the worst
                     exhibitions that ever took place in a theatre to be listened to,—that of
                        The death of Cæsar.
                  
                  Notwithstanding this silence, it was evident that not one member of this little
                     conspiracy, which we have pointed out, had forgotten the object for which he
                     came; glances were exchanged; signals crossed each other, and became more
                     frequent as the actors approached the lines which were to cause the explosion.
                     Danton said to Camille in a low voice, "'Tis Scene Third;" and he even repeated
                     the lines at the same time with the actor, as if to hurry his delivery, when he
                     came to those which preceded them,—
                  
                     
                        "Cæsar, we await thy august clemency,
                        A gift most precious, a boon most just,
                        Above all the offices bestowed by thy goodness."
                     
                     
                        "CÆSAR,
                        —What do you dare to ask, Cimber?
                     
                     
                        "CIMBER.
                        —Liberty."
                     
                  
                  Three rounds of applause welcomed these words.
                  "All goes well," said Danton, half rising.
                  Talma commenced— 
                        "Oui, que César soit grand, mais que Rome soit libre,"*
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *See page 62.
                  
                  Danton rose upright, looking about him with the glance of a general at the head
                     of an army, who wishes to assure
                     himself that every one is at his post, when his eyes suddenly rested upon a
                     point in the house; the grating of a box had just risen; Robespierre drew his
                     sharp, livid features into the shade. The eyes of the two enemies met, nor
                     could they withdraw them from each other; there was in the expression of
                     Robespierre's all the irony of triumph, all the insolence of security. For the
                     first time, Danton felt a cold sweat over his body; he forgot the signal he was
                     to have given; the lines passed by without applause or disapprobation, he fell
                     vanquished. The grating of the box closed, and all was finished. The Guillotineurs
                     *
                      got the better of the Septembriseurs:
                     †
                     
                     ninety-three fascinated ninety-two.
                  
                  
                     
                     *Robespierre's party.
                  
                  
                     
                     †The Jacobin party, who justified the murder of the prisoners at Paris and
                        Versailles, on the 3rd September, 1793.
                  
                  Marceau, whose pre-occupied mind thought of any thing but the tragedy, was
                     perhaps the only one who saw this scene, which lasted but a few seconds,
                     without comprehending it; yet he had had time to recognize Robespierre; he
                     threw himself out of the balcony, and arrived in time to meet him in the
                     lobby.
                  He was as calm and cool as though nothing had occurred; Marceau presented
                     himself, giving him his name. Robespierre extended his hand to him; Marceau,
                     giving way to his first impulse, drew back his own. A dark smile passed across
                     the lips of Robespierre.
                  "What is your business with me?" said he to him.
                  "A few minutes' interview."
                  "Here, or at my house?"
                  "At your house."
                  "Come, then."
                  And these two men, agitated by emotions so different, walked beside each other;
                     Robespierre indifferent and calm, Marceau anxious and agitated.
                  This, then, was the man who held the fate of Blanche in his hand—the man of
                     whom he had heard so much said—whose incorruptibility alone was evident, but
                     whose popularity would seem problematical. Indeed, to gain it, he had not used
                     any of the means employed by his predecessors. He had neither the stirring
                     eloquence of Mirabeau, nor the paternal firmness of Bailly, nor the impetuosity
                     of Danton, nor the smutty eloquence of Hébert: if he worked for the people, it
                     was without parade, and without accounting to the people. In the midst of the
                     general leveling of language and dress, he had preserved his polished language
                     and fastidious dress.*
                      In fine, as much pains as others took to lose themselves in the mass,
                     so much he appeared to take to raise himself above it; and it was perceptible,
                     at first sight, that this singular man could only be to the multitude an idol
                     or a victim: he was both.
                  
                     
                     *The habitual costume of Robespierre is so well known, that it has become
                        almost proverbial. The 20th Prariel, the day of the fete de l'Etre Supreme, of which he was the
                        pontiff, he was dressed in a dark blue coat, muslin vest, embroidered
                        upon a rose-colored ground; breeches of black satin, white silk
                        stockings, and shoes with buckles completed his costume. It was in this
                        same dress he went to the scaffold.
                  
                  They arrived; a narrow stairway led them to a room in the third story;
                     Robespierre opened the door; a bust of Rousseau, a table, upon which the
                        Social Contract and Emile lay open, a bureau
                     and a few chairs formed all the furniture of the apartment. The greatest order
                     was visible throughout it.
                  Robespierre noted the effect that this sight had upon Marceau.
                  "Here is the palace of Cæsar," said he, smiling—"what have you to ask of the
                     dictator?"
                  "The pardon of my wife, condemned by Carrier."
                  "Your wife, condemned by Carrier! the wife of Marceau the Republican of ancient
                     days! the Spartan soldier! What is he doing at Nantes, then?"
                  "Committing atrocities."
                  Marceau then drew for him the picture which we have placed before the eyes of
                     the reader. Robespierre, during the recital, moved uneasily
                     in his chair, without interruption, then Marceau ceased.
                  "This is how I am always compromised mised!" said
                     Robespierre in a hoarse tone, for the internal emotion which he felt, sufficed
                     to effect this alteration in his voice. "Every where, where my eyes are not to
                     see, or my hand to arrest, is there useless bloodshed! There is, nevertheless,
                     enough blood which must be shed, and we have not yet reached the end."
                  "Well, then, Robespierre, my wife's pardon!"
                  Robespierre took a sheet of white paper.
                  "Her maiden name?"
                  "Why do you wish it?"
                  "'Tis necessary to assure her identity."
                  "Blanche de Beaulieu.'
                  "The daughter of the Marquis de Beaulieu—the brigand Chief?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *The Vendean leaders were called Brigands.
                  
                  "Blanche of Beaulieu, the daughter of the Marquis de Beaulieu."
                  "And how did she become your wife?"
                  Marceau related the circumstances to him.
                  "Young fool! young idiot!" said he, "you ought——"
                  Marceau interrupted him,
                  "I want neither abuse nor advice; I ask you for a pardon, will you give it to
                     me?"
                  "Marceau, the ties of family, the influence of love, will they never lead you
                     to betray the Republic?"
                  "Never."
                  "If you should find yourself, in arms, opposed to the Marquis of Beaulieu?"
                  "I would fight him, as I have already done?"
                  "And, should he fall into your hands?"
                  Marceau reflected a moment—
                  "I would send him to you, and yourself should ."
                  "You would send him to me?"
                  "Upon my honor."
                  Robespierre retook his pen.
                  "Marceau," said he to him, "you have had the good fortune to keep yourself
                     uncontaminated in the eyes of all; for a long time I have known you, for a long
                     time I have wished to see you." Perceiving Marceau's impatience, he wrote the
                     first three letters of his name, and then stopped. "Listen: in my turn," said
                     he, looking at him fixedly, "I ask five minutes of you; I give you a life for
                     five minutes; 'tis well paid for."
                  Marceau signified that he would listen; Robespierre continued:
                  "I have been calumniated to you, Marceau; nevertheless, you are one of those
                     rare men, by whom I desire to be known; what matters to me the opinions of
                     those I care not for? Listen, then; three Assemblies have in turn managed the
                     destinies of France, have placed them in the hands of one man, and have
                     accomplished the mission with which the time had charged them. The Constituent,
                     represented by Mirabeau, has shaken the throne; the Legislative, embodied in
                     Danton, has overturned it. The labor of the Convention is immense, for it must
                     complete its overthrow, and it must begin to rebuild. I have high hopes there:
                     'tis to become the representative of that epoch, as Mirabeau and Danton have
                     been the types of theirs. There will be three men in the history of France,
                     represented by three different figures—91, 92, 93. If the Supreme Being gives
                     me time to finish my work, my name will be above all these names; I will have
                     done more than Lycurgus among the Greeks, than Numa at Rome, than Washington in
                     America; for all of these had but a new-born people to still, and I!—I have an
                     old society to regenerate. If I fall,—my God! spare me any blasphemy against
                     Thee in my last hours; if I fall before the wished for time arrives, my name,
                     which will not have accomplished one half of what it had to do, will retain the
                     bloody stain, which the other half would have obliterated; the revolution will
                     fall with it, and both will be calumniated.——This is what I had to say to you,
                     Marceau, for I wish, at all events, that there shall be a few men, who will
                     keep my name living and pure in their hearts, like the flame in the
                     tabernacle,—and you are one of those men."
                  
                  He finished writing his name.
                  "Now here is your wife's pardon—you can go without even taking my hand."
                  Marceau took it and pressed it strongly; he wished to speak, but tears
                     prevented his articulating a word, and Robespierre himself spoke first and said
                     to him:
                  "Come, you must go—there is not a moment to be lost; Au revoir."
                  Marceau rushed down the stairs; General Dumas came up as he was going down.
                  "I have her pardon!" cried he, throwing himself into his arms. "I have the
                     pardon, and Blanche is saved——"
                  "Congratulate me in my turn," replied his friend; "I have been appointed
                     General-in-chief of the army of the Alps, and I come to thank Robespierre for
                     it."
                  They embraced each other. Marceau hurried into the street, ran to the
                     Palais-Egalité, where his carriage awaited him, ready to return with the same
                     speed with which it had brought him.
                  Of what a weight was his heart relieved! what happiness did he anticipate! what
                     felicity, after so many trials! His imagination plunged into the future; he saw
                     the moment when, from the threshold of the dungeon, he would shout to his
                     wife—"Blanche, you are free! you are free through my means; come, Blanche, and
                     let your love and your kisses repay me this debt of life."
                  Nevertheless, an indefinable uneasiness would cross his mind—occasionally, a
                     sudden shivering would seize his heart; then he would urge the postillions,
                     promise them gold—shower it upon them, and promise them still more; the wheels
                     rolled, the horses dashed at full speed. Still it appeared to him that he
                     scarcely advanced. Every where relays were ready,—no delays; all seemed to
                     share the agitation which tormented him. In a few hours he had left Versailles,
                     Chartres, Le Mans, La Flèche behind him! he perceived Angers; suddenly he felt
                     a terrible, dreadful shock—the carriage was overturned and broken; he got up,
                     wounded and bloody, separated the traces of one of the horses with his sabre,
                     jumped upon him, reached the first post-house, there took a race-horse, and
                     continued his journey still more rapidly.
                  At last he has crossed Angers; he sees Ingrande, reaches Varades, passes
                     Ancenis—his horse streaming with foam and blood. He discovers Saint-Donatien,
                     then Nantes—Nantes! which holds his soul, his life, his future! A few moments
                     more, he will be in the city—he reaches the gates; his horse falls before the
                     prison of Bouffays: what cares he—he has arrived!
                  "Blanche! Blanche!"
                  "Two carts have just gone from the prison," replied the keeper—"she is in the
                     first."
                  "Curses upon him!" and Marceau rushed, on foot, into the midst of the people,
                     who crowd about him, who hurry to the Grand Square; he overtook the last of the
                     carts; one of the condemned men recognized him.
                  "Save her, General! I could not, and I have been taken. Hurrah for the King and
                     the good cause!" It was Tinguey.
                  "Yes! yes!" and Marceau opened a way for himself; the crowd wounds him, presses
                     him, but drags him on; he reaches the Grand Square with it; he is opposite the
                     scaffold, he waves the paper in the air, shouting "Pardon! pardon!"
                  At this instant the executioner, seizing the head of the young girl by its
                     light hair, showed the hideous sight to the people: the crowd, terrified,
                     turned away in affright, for they thought they saw her vomit
                     streams of blood! Suddenly, in the midst of this silent crowd, a fierce cry,
                     which appeared to exhaust the entire human strength, was heard: Marceau had
                     recognized, between the teeth of that head, the red rose which he had given the
                     young Vendean.
               
            
            
               A MASKED-BALL.
               I HAD given the order—"not at home to any body;" one of my friends forced himself
                  upon me.
               My servant announced Mons. Antony R——. I perceived, behind Joseph's livery, the
                  corner of a black riding coat; it was probable that the wearer of that riding coat
                  had also seen the flap of my robe-de-chambre—it was impossible to deny myself;
                  "Very well! ask him in," said I aloud, "Let him go to the devil," said I to
                  myself.
               When at work, it is only the woman we love that can disturb us with impunity, for
                  she is always desirous of knowing what we are doing.
               I advanced to meet him, then, with the half sulky face of an author interrupted in
                  one of those moments when he wishes least to be so. But when I saw him so pale and
                  wan, the first words I uttered were these:
               "What is the matter with you? what has happened?"
               "Oh! let me breathe," said he, "I am going tell you about that; besides it may be
                  a dream, or perhaps I am a fool."
               He threw himself upon a sofa, and let his head fall into his hands.
               I looked at him with astonishment; his hair was damp with the rain—his boots, his
                  knees, and the lower parts of his pantaloons, were covered with mud. I went to the
                  window; I saw his servant and his cabriolet at the door; I could not comprehend
                  it.
               He saw my surprise.
               "I have been to the Cemetery of Père La Chaise," said he.
               "At ten o'clock in the morning?"
               "I was there at seven——Cursed masked-ball!"
               I could not guess what a masked-ball and Père La Chaise had to do with each other.
                  I decided upon my course, and turning my back to the chimney, I began to roll up a
                  cigaretto, between my fingers with all the phlegm and patience of a Spaniard.
               When I had completely finished it, I handed it to Antony, who I knew was
                  ordinarily very susceptible to this sort of attention.
               He made me a sign of thanks with his head, but pushed back my hand.
               I stooped to light the cigaretto for myself; Antony stopped me.
               "Alexandre," said he to me, "I pray you, listen to me."
               "But you have been sitting there a quarter of an hour and have said nothing to
                  me."
               "Oh! 't is a strange adventure!"
               I arose, put my cigar upon the mantel and crossed my arms like a man resiged to
                  his fate; and I began to believe, like himself, that he must have become a
                  fool.
               "Do you remember the ball at the Opera, where I met you?" said he to me after an
                  instant's silence.
               "The last, where there were some hundred persons or more?"
               "The same—I left you with the in tention of visiting the one at the Varieties,
                  which had been spoken of to me as a curiosity, in the midst of the many curious
                  things of our time; you tried to dissuade me from going there; but a fatality
                  urged me on. Oh! why were you not there to see—you who have the faculty of
                  description? Why was not Hoffman, or Collet, there to paint the picture, at once
                  fantastic and burlesque, which was spread
                  out before my eyes? I had left the Opera empty and sad, I found the hall full and
                  joyous; lobbies, boxes, pit, all were full. I made a tour of the hall; twenty
                  masks called me by my name and told me theirs. There were some of the highest
                  aristocracy and richest men in the disguises of clowns, postillions, harlequins,
                  or fishermen. They were all young people of worth, good hearts, and good families,
                  and there, forgetting family, arts, politics, reënacting a night of the Regency,
                  in the midst of our grave and strict age. I had been told it, but I did not
                  believe it!——I went up a few steps, and resting myself against a column, half
                  concealed by it, I fixed my eyes upon this sea of human beings moving beneath me.
                  Those dominos of every color, those mingled costumes, those grotesque disguises,
                  formed a spectacle which resembled nothing human!——The music began to play—oh! it
                  was then!——These strange beings moved to the sound of the orchestra, whose harmony
                  reached me, mingled with shouts, laughter, and huzzas; they seized each other by
                  the hands, by the arms, around the neck, a large circle was formed; begining by a
                  circular movement, the dancers, male and female, stamped with their feet, raising
                  a dust, with the noise, whose atoms were visible in the dim light of the lustres;
                  turning in their rapid crossings with fantastic postures, obscene jestures, and
                  shouts full of debauchery; turning more and more rapidly, staggering like drunken
                  men, shrieking like lost women, with more of delirium than joy, more of madness
                  than pleasure; like a chain-gang of the damned, accomplishing an infernal penance
                  under the rod of demons. All this passed before my eyes, under my feet. I felt the
                  wind caused by the rapidity of their course; each one of those that knew me, threw
                  at me as they passed, words to make me blush.
               All this noise, all this buzz, all this confusion, all this music, was in my head
                  as well as in the hall! Suddenly, I did not know whether what I saw before my eyes
                  was a dream or reality. I began to ask myself if it was not I that was foolish and
                  they who were in their senses; strange desires to throw myself into the midst of
                  that Pandemonium seized me, like Faust among the witches, and I felt that then I
                  would have cries, gestures, postures, laughter like theirs. Oh! from thence to
                  madness was but a step. I was frightened, I rushed out of the hall, pursued even
                  to the street door, with yells which resembled the roarings of love which comes
                  from the caves of wild beasts.
               "I had stopped an instant under the portico to collect my thoughts, I was
                  unwilling to risk myself in the street in such a confusion of mind; perhaps I
                  should have lost my way; perhaps been thrown under the wheel of some vehicle which
                  I might not have seen coming. I was as a drunken man must be when he begins to
                  recover reason enough in his darkened brain to perceive the state he is in, and
                  who, feeling that he is recovering his senses, but not yet his strength, remains
                  immovable, his eyes fixed in astonishment on some post in the street, or on a tree
                  in some public walk.
               "At this time a carriage stopped in front of the door, a woman got out of the
                  door, or, rather, threw herself out. She entered the portico, turning her head
                  right and left like one lost; she was dressed in a black domino, had her face
                  covered with a velvet masque. She presented herself at the door.
               "'Your ticket?' said the door-keeper.
               "'My ticket?' replied she 'I have none.'
               "'Then get one at the office.'
               "The domino returned to the portico, searching rapidly in all her pockets,
               "'No money!—Ah this ring—a ticket of admission for this ring,' said she.
               "'Impossible,' replied the woman who distributed the tickets, 'we do'nt make those
                  kind of bargains here.' She pushed back the brilliant, which fell to the ground
                  and rolled to my feet. The domino remained without moving, forgetting the ring,
                  lost in thought.
               "I picked up the ring and handed it to her. I saw her eyes fix on mine through the
                  mask, she looked at me a moment with hesitation; then suddenly passing her arm
                  through mine,
               "'You must procure me an entrance,' said she to me—'in pity you must.'
               "I am just going out, Madam,' I replied.
               "'Then give me six francs for this ring, and you will have rendered me a service
                  for which I will bless you all my life.'
               "I put the ring back upon her finger; I went to the office, I bought two
                  tickets—we entered together.
               "Arrived in the lobby, I felt that she staggered; she then formed with her other
                  hand a kind of ring about my arm.
               "'Do you suffer?' asked I.
               "'No, no, 'tis nothing—a dizziness, that is all,' replied she.
               "She led me into the hall.
               "We entered this joyous Charenton.
               "Three times did we make a tour of it, avoiding with much trouble those seas of
                  masks which rushed upon each other; she, trembling at each obscene word she heard;
                  I blushing to be seen with a woman on my arm who dared to hear such words; then we
                  returned to the end of the hall, she fell upon a seat, I remained standing before
                  her, my hand resting on the back of the seat.
               "'Oh! this must appear to you strange,' said she, 'but not more so than to me, I
                  assure you; I had not any idea of that (she looked at the ball), for I have never
                  seen such things, even in my dreams. But they wrote me, look you, that
                     he would be here with a woman; and what a woman must she be who
                  can come to such a place as this?'
               "I made a gesture of surprise, she understood it.
               "'I am here, you would say, would you not? Oh! but with me, 'tis a different
                  thing; I seek him, I am his wife. These people, 'tis
                  madness and debauchery which brings them here; oh! with me—with me—'t is infernal
                  jealousy! I would have gone anywhere to seek him; I would have passed a night in a
                  cemetery; I would have been at the Grève, on a day of execution; and yet I assure
                  you, while a girl, I was never once in the street without my mother; as a wife, I
                  have not taken a step out of doors unattended by a lackey; and, nevertheless, here
                  I am, like these women who know the place, behold me taking the arm of a man whom
                  I do not know, blushing under my mask at the opinion with which I must inspire
                  him! all this I know!—Have you ever been jealous, Monsieur?'
               "'Frightfully so,' replied I.
               "'Then you will pardon me—you know all; you know that voice which shouts to you,
                  go! as in the ears of a madman; you have felt that arm which urges you on to
                  shame, to crime, like that of fate; you know how, at such a moment, we are capable
                  of doing anything, provided we can revenge ourselves.'
               "I was about to reply; she got up suddenly, her eyes fixed upon two dominos
                  passing at this moment before us.
               "'Be silent,' said she, and she drew me after them. I was thrown into the midst of
                  an intrigue of which I did not comprehend anything; I felt all the strings
                  vibrate, but none of them could lead me to the end; but this poor woman seemed so
                  agitated, so very interesting, I obeyed her like a child, so imperious is true
                  passion, and we began to follow the two dominos, one of whom was evidently a man,
                  the other a woman. They spoke in low tones; the sounds scarcely reached our
                  ears.
               "''Tis he!' murmured she, ''t is his voice; yes, yes, 'tis his height.'
               "The taller of the two masks began to laugh.
               "''Tis his laugh,' said she, ''t is he, Monsieur, 'tis he! the letter spoke truly.
                  Oh God! oh God!'
               "The masks kept on, we followed them continually; they left the hall, we went out
                  after them; they took the stairs to the boxes, and we ascended in their company;
                  they did not stop till they reached the highest row; we seemed their shadows. A
                  little box with a grating door opened; they went in; the door closed upon
                  them.
               
               "The poor creature that I held upon my arm frightened me by her agitation; I could
                  not see her face; but pressed against me as she was I could feel her heart
                     beat, her body shiver, her limbs tremble. There was
                  something very strange in the way in which this spectacle of unheard of
                  sufferings, which I had before my eyes, of which I did not even know the victim,
                  and the cause of which I was completely ignorant, had happened with me, yet for
                  nothing in the world would I have abandoned this woman at such a moment.
               "When she had seen the two masks enter the box, and the door close upon them, she
                  remained a moment perfectly still, as if thunder struck; then she threw herself
                  against the door to listen. Placed as she was the least movement would betray her
                  presence and lose her; I drew her away violently by the arms, I opened, by pushing
                  the spring, the box adjoining, I drew her in there with me, I lowered the grating
                  and shut the door.
               "'If you will listen,' said I to her, 'at least listen here.' She fell upon her
                  knees and glued her ear to the partition, and I stood upon the other side, my arms
                  folded, head bowed, and thoughtful.
               "All that I had been able to see of this woman, had appeared the very type of
                  beauty. The lower part of her face, not concealed by the mask, was youthful,
                  finely colored, and rounded; her lips vermillion and fine; her teeth, which the
                  velvet reaching to them, made appear still more white, were small, separated and
                  shining; her hands, perfect models; her two hands could span her waist; her hair,
                  fine, black and silky, escaped in profusion from the hood of her domino, and the
                  child's foot which peeped out from her dress seemed scarcely able to sustain her
                  body—light, graceful, aerial as it was. Oh! she must be a wonderful creature! Oh!
                  he who had held her in his arms—had seen all the faculties of that soul employed
                  in loving him—who had felt against his heart those palpitations, those tremblings,
                  those nervous spasms, and who could say 'all that—all that is from love—from love
                  of me, for me alone among men, for me, angel elect, oh! that man!—that man!——'
               "Such were my thoughts, when I saw this woman suddenly rise, turn toward me and
                  say in a broken and angry voice:
               "'Monsieur! I am handsome, I assure you; I am young; I am nineteen. Up to this
                  time I have been as pure as an angel of creation——well!' she threw her two arms
                  around my neck, 'Well! I am yours,—take me!'—
               "At the same moment I felt her lips glued to mine, and the effect of a bite rather
                  than a kiss, ran throughout her trembling and distracted body; a cloud of flame
                  passed before my eyes.
               "Ten minutes afterward, I held her in my arms fainting, half-dead and sobbing.
               "She recovered slowly. I perceived her haggard eyes through her mask; I saw her
                  pale face, I heard her teeth chatter as in the shiverings of a fever. I saw
                     all that.
               
               "She recalled to mind what had just passed, she fell at my feet.
               "'If you have any compassion,' said she to me sobbing, 'any pity, turn your gaze
                  from me, do not seek to know me; let me depart and forget all; I will remember for
                  both of us!'
               "At these words she got up, rapid as a thought that escapes us, rushed to the
                  door, opened it, and turning once more toward me,
               "'Do not follow me; in heaven's name, Monsieur, do not follow me!' said she.
               "The door, pushed violently, shut itself between us, robbing me of her like an
                  apparition. I have never seen her again!
               "I never saw her again! and during the six months that have passed since then, I
                  have sought her everywhere, at balls, at the play, on the public walks; every time
                  that I saw at a distance, a woman with a small waist, with a child's foot, with
                  black hair, I have followed her, I have approached her, looked into her face,
                  hoping that her blushes would betray her. In no instance did I meet her, no where
                  did I see her again, except in the night, except in my dreams! Oh! there, there
                  she returns, there I feel her, I feel her embraces, her kisses, her caresses, so
                  ardent that they have something infernal in them; then the mask drops, and a most
                  strange face appears to me, sometimes indistinct as if covered with a cloud;
                  sometimes shining as if surrounded with glory; sometimes pale, with a skull, white
                  and bare, with the sockets of the eyes empty; with teeth few and loose. In fine,
                  since that night, I have not lived; burning with a senseless love, for a woman
                  whom I do not know, hoping ever, and ever deceived in my hopes, jealous without
                  any right to be so, without knowing of whom I ought to be so, not daring to avow
                  such folly, and yet followed, undermined, consumed, devoured by it."
               On finishing these words he took a letter from his bosom,
               "Now that I have told you all," said he to me, take this letter and read it."
               I took it and I read,
               "Perhaps you have forgotten a poor "woman who has forgotten nothing, "and who dies
                  because she cannot for-"get?
               "When you receive this letter, I "shall no longer be. Then go to the "Cemetery of
                  Père La Chaise, ask the "keeper to show you among the last "graves, that which
                  will bear upon its "tomb-stone, the simple name of Mariè, "and when you are
                  opposite to it kneel "down and pray."
               "Well!" continued Antony "I received this letter yesterday, and I have been there
                  this morning. The keeper led me to the grave, and I kneeled there two hours,
                  praying and weeping. Do you understand? she was there, this woman! The burning
                  soul was stolen; the body, gnawed by it, had bent until it broke under the weight
                  of jealousy and remorse; she was under my feet; she had lived, and she had died
                  unknown for me; unknown!——and taking a place in my life, as she has taken one in
                  the grave, unknown; and shutting up my heart in a cold and inanimate corpse, as
                  she has been shut in a tomb. Oh! do you know of anything like this? Do you know of
                  any event so strange? So now there is no more hope. I shall never see her again. I
                  would dig open her grave, but I should not find the features with which I could
                  recompose her face, and I love her always! Do you understand, Alexandre? I love
                  her like a madman; and I would kill myself this moment to rejoin her if she would
                  not remain unknown to me in eternity as she has been in this world."
               At these words he snatched the letler from my hands, kissed it many times, and
                  began to weep like a child.
               I took him in my arms, not knowing what to reply to him. I wept with him.
            
            
               
               JAMES I. AND JAMES II.
               HISTORICAL FRAGMENTS.
               
                  I.
                  
                     INTRODUCTION, by the aid of which the reader will become acquainted with the
                        principal personages of this history, and with the author who wrote it.
                  
                  IN 1830, passing by Chevet's door, I perceived an Englishman in the shop, who
                     was turning about and turning about, in every sense of the words, a tortoise
                     which he was bargaining for, with the evident intention, when it should become
                     his property, of making turtle soup of it.
                  The air of profound resignation with which the poor animal allowed itself to be
                     examined by the cruelly gastronomical looks of its enemy, without even
                     withdrawing itself by entering its shell, touched me. A sudden wish to snatch
                     it from the pot, into which its hind legs were already plunged, seized me, and
                     I entered the shop, where I was well known at that time, and winking at Madame
                     Beauvais, I asked her if she had kept the tortoise for me that I had engaged
                     yesterday in passing.
                  Madame Beauvais comprehended me with that quick wit which characterizes the
                     class of Parisian shop-keepers, and, politely sliding the animal from the hands
                     of the customer, she gave it to me, saying, in English, with a very marked
                     accent, to the Islander who looked at her with astonishment,
                  "Pardon, Milord, the petite tortue, it was sold to Monsieur this morning."
                  "Ah!" said our impromptu lord to me, in very good French; "does this beautiful
                     animal belong to you, Monsieur?"
                  "Yes, yes, Milord," replied Madame Beauvais.
                  "Well! Monsieur," added he, "you have a little animal that will make beautiful
                     soup; I am only sorry that it is the only one of the kind which Madame has at
                     this time."
                  "We have the hope of them to receive others to-morrow," replied Madame
                     Beauvais.
                  "To-morrow will be too late," carelessly replied the Englishman; "I have
                     arranged all my affairs to blow out my brains to-night, and I desired to eat a
                     bowl of turtle-soup before that."
                  On uttering these words, he bowed to me and departed.
                  "Pardie!" said I to myself, after a moment's reflection, "it is no more than
                     right that so gallant a man should be humored in his last wish."
                  And I rushed out of the shop shouting, like Madame Beauvais, "Milord! Milord!"
                     But I could not tell where Milord had gone; I could not put my hand upon
                     him.
                  I went home quite thoughtful: my humanity toward an animal had become
                     inhumanity to a man. What a singular machine is this world, where good cannot
                     be done to one without doing harm to another. I reached la rue de l'Université,
                     I mounted to my third story, and placed my purchase upon the carpet.
                  It was only a tortoise of the most common species; Tesludo Lutaria, sive aquarium dulcium; which means, according to
                     Linnæus among the ancients, or Ray among the moderns, the marsh, a fresh-water
                        tortoise.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *It is known that reptiles are divided into four classes: the Chelonians,
                        or tortoise, forming the first class; the Saurophians, or lizards, the
                        second; the Ophidians, or serpents, the third; and last, the Batracians,
                        or frogs, the fourth.
                  
                  Now, the fresh-water tortoise, holds nearly the same place in the social order
                     of the Chelonians, that grocers do among us in the civil rank, and the National
                     guard in the military order.
                  It was, besides, the most singular body of a tortoise, that ever drew its four
                     feet, its head and its tail under the cover of a shell. Scarcely did it feel
                     itself upon the floor, ere it gave me evidence of its eccentricity, by spurring
                     right toward the fire-place with a speed that entitled it, at that moment, to
                     the name of Gazelle, and by using all its exertions to get
                     through the wires of the fender, to reach the fire, the light of which
                     attracted it; at last, after an hour's trial, seeing that what it desired was
                     impossible, it concluded to go to sleep, first passing its head and fore feet
                     through the openings nearest to the fire; thus selecting for its own peculiar
                     enjoyment, a temperature of some fifty or fifty-five degrees of heat, which
                     made me think that, whether it was its inclination, whether it was its fate, it
                     was destined to be roasted some day or another, and that I had only altered its
                     mode of cooking in rescuing it from the seething pot of the Englishman, to
                     carry it to my room. What follows in this history will show that I was not
                     mistaken.
                  As I was compelled to go out, and fearing some mishap might befall Gazelle, I
                     called my servant.
                  "Joseph," said I, when he appeared, "take good care of that animal."
                  He approached it with curiosity.
                  "Ah! look," said he, "'t is a turtle—it would bear a carriage on its back."
                  "Yes, I know it would; but I desire you may never undertake to make a trial of
                     it."
                  "Oh! it wouldn't do it any harm," replied Joseph, who was anxious to display
                     his knowledge of natural history before me; "the Laon diligence might pass over
                     its back without breaking it." Joseph mentioned the Laon diligence because he
                     was from Soissons.
                  "Yes," said I to him, "I believe that the great sea-turtle, the testudo mydas, would be able to support such a
                     weight, but I doubt if this one, which is of a smaller species——"
                  "No matter for that," replied Joseph, "these little animals are like Turks;
                     and, look you, a carrier's cart might pass over——"
                  "Well, well; you will buy salad and snails for him."
                  "What! snails! has he got the belly-ache? The master with whom I lived before
                     coming with you, used to take snail broth because he was sick. Well! even that
                     didn't prevent——"
                  I went out without listening to the rest of the story; half way down the
                     stairs, I noticed I had left my pocket-handkerchief. I returned immediately. I
                     found Joseph, who did not hear me re-enter, acting Apollo Belvidere—one foot on
                     the back of Gazelle, the other suspended in the air, so that not a grain of the
                     one hundred and thirty pounds that the scamp weighed, was lost to the poor
                     animal.
                  "What are you doing there, fool?"
                  "I told you so, Monsieur," said he, proud of having demonstrated to me in part,
                     what he had advanced.
                  "Give me a handkerchief, and let that animal alone."
                  "Here it is, Monsieur," said Joseph, bringing me the handkerchief, "but there
                     is not the least fear for him—a waggon might pass over——"
                  I escaped as rapidly as possible, but I had not descended twenty steps when I
                     heard Joseph, as he was closing my door, mutter between his teeth—
                  "Pardie! I know what I say—and then, besides, it can be seen by the
                     conformation of these animals, that a cannon loaded to the mouth might——"
                  Fortunately the noise in the street prevented my hearing the termination of
                     this confounded speech.
                  In the evening, as usual, I returned quite late. The first step I took in my
                     room I felt something crack under my boot. I quickly raised my foot, throwing
                     all the weight of my body on the other leg; the same cracking was heard again;
                     I thought I was walking on eggs. I lowered my light—my carpet was covered with
                     snails.
                  
                  Joseph had obeyed me to the letter; he had bought salad and snails, had put
                     them all in a basket, in the middle of my room; ten minutes after, whether it
                     was that the heat of the apartment had enlivened them; or whether it was the
                     fear of being devoured had put them all in motion, the whole caravan had
                     started, and had already made considerable headway, which it was very easy to
                     judge of by the shining traces left upon the carpet and on the furniture.
                  As to Gazelle, she was resting at the outside of the basket, the sides of which
                     she could not climb. But some empty shells convinced me that the flight of the
                     Israelites had not been so rapid but that she had had her teeth upon some of
                     them, before they had had time to cross the Red Sea.
                  I soon began a critical review of the batallion which manœuvred in my room, and
                     by which I had no wish to be charged during the night; then with my right hand
                     delicately picking up the promenaders, I put them, one after another, into
                     their guard-house, which I held in my left hand, the cover of which I closed
                     upon them.
                  In about five minutes I saw that if I left all this menagerie in my room, I
                     should run the risk of not sleeping a minute; there was a noise as though a
                     dozen mice had been shut up in a bag of nuts. I decided upon taking them all to
                     the kitchen.
                  Walking along, I thought that, in the way Gazelle was going on, I should find
                     her dead of indigestion in the morning if I left her in the midst of a
                     storehouse of provisions so well filled; at that instant, as if by inspiration,
                     I remembered a certain tub, placed in the yard, and in which the Restaurateur,
                     on the lower floor, put his fish to clean; that seemed to me such an admirable
                     hotel for a testudo aquarium dulcium, that I
                     thought it useless to break my head in seeking another for her, and on taking
                     her from her refectory, I carried her directly to the place of her
                     destination.
                  I went up again quickly and went to sleep, persuaded that I was the most
                     ingenious man in France, in the way of expedients.
                  In the morning Joseph aroused me quite early.
                  "Oh! Monsieur, here is a farce!" said he, planting himself before my bed.
                  "What kind of a farce?"
                  "Something your tortoise has done."
                  "What?"
                  "Well! Do you believe that she left your room, I do n't know how, that she went
                     down the three stories, and coolly put herself into the Restaurateur's
                     fish-tub?"
                  "Simpleton! Could you not guess that I had put her there myself?"
                  "Ah well! You have made a pretty piece of business of it, any how!"
                  "How so?"
                  "How so! because she has eaten a Tench, a beautiful Tench weighing
                     three pounds."
                  "Go and find Gazelle, and bring me the scales."
                  While Joseph executed this order, I went to my library, opened my Buffon at the
                     article, Tortoise, for I was determined to convince myself whether these
                     Chelonians were Icthyophagists, and I read as follows:
                  "This fresh water tortoise, Testudo "aquarium
                        dulcium [that was it] loves "marshes and still waters
                     particularly; "when it is in rivers or ponds, it at-"tacks all kinds of fish
                     indiscriminately, "even the largest; it bites them under "the belly, wounding
                     them severely, "and when they are weakened by the "loss of blood, it devours
                     them with "great avidity, and scarcely leaves the "bones, the head, and even
                     the swim-"ming bladder, which sometimes as-"cends to the top of the water."
                  "The devil!" said I "the Restaurateur has Mons. Buffon on his side; what he
                     says may indeed be true."
                  I was in a train of reflection upon the probability of the accident, when
                     Joseph returned, holding the accused in one hand and the scales in another.
                  "You see," said Joseph, "they eat a good deal, these kind of animals do, to
                     keep up their strength, and of fish in particular, because it is very
                     nourishing ing; do you believe without that they would be able to bear a
                     carriage on their backs? See how hearty the sailors are in the seaports, it is
                     because they eat nothing but fish."
                  I interrupted Joseph.
                  "How much did the tench weigh?"
                  "Three pounds—the fellow demands nine francs."
                  "And Gazelle has eaten it all up?"
                  "Oh! she has only left the bones, the head, and the bladder."
                  "It must be so; Mons. Buffon must be a great naturalist.*
                      Nevertheless," continued I, in a low voice, "three pounds——that seems a
                      great deal."
                  
                     
                     *As we must give to each one their due—it was the continuator of Buffon,
                        Mons. Dandin, that should receive this eulogy.
                  
                  I put Gazelle in the scales, she weighed but two pounds and a half, shell and
                     all.
                  The result of this experiment was, not that Gazelle was innocent of the act of
                     which she was accused, but that she must have committed the crime upon a whale
                     of much smaller dimensions.
                  This seemed also to be the opinion of the fellow himself for he appeared very
                     well content with the five frances that I gave him as an indemnity.
                  The adventure with the snails, and the accident with the tench, rendered me
                     less of an enthusiast about my new acquisition; and, as chance would have it,
                     that same day I met one of my friends, an original, and a painter of genius,
                     who, at this time, had turned his study into a menagerie, I told him that on
                     the morrow I would augment his collection by a new specimen, belonging to the
                     estimable class of Chelonians, which seemed to please him very much.
                  Gazelle slept that night in my room, where everything passed very quietly,
                     seeing the snails were absent.
                  In the morning Joseph came into my room, as usual, rolled up the carpet at the
                     foot of my bed, opened the window and began to shake it to beat out the dust,
                     but suddenly he screamed, and leaned out of the window as if about to jump
                     out.
                  "What is the matter Joseph?" asked I, half awake.
                  "Ah! Monsieur, your tortoise was asleep upon the carpet and I did not see
                     it——"
                  "And——."
                  "And, without intending it, I shook it out of the window."
                  "Simpleton," and I jumped out of bed.
                  "Look!" said Joseph, whose face and voice assumed an expression of ease quite
                     encouraging. "Look! she is eating a cabbage!"
                  Indeed the animal had instinctively withdrawn its body within its cuirasse and
                     had fallen upon a heap of oyster-shells, the looseness of which had weakened
                     the blow, and finding at her door a vegetable to her taste, she had gently put
                     out her head from her shell, and occupied herself with a breakfast as
                     tranquilly as though she had not just fallen from a third story window.
                  "I told you so, Monsieur!" repeated Joseph in the gladness of his heart, "I
                     told you that nothing could hurt these animals. Well! while she is eating, look
                     you, a carriage might pass over—"
                  "No matter, go down quickly, and bring her to me."
                  Joseph obeyed. During this time I dressed myself, an occupation which I had
                     finished before Joseph reappeared; I went down then to meet him, and found him
                     haranguing in the midst of a circle of inquisitive folks, to whom he was
                     explaining the circumstance which had just occurred.
                  I took Gazelle from his hands, jumped into a cab, which took me to faubourg
                     Saint Denis, No. 109. I mounted to the fifth story, and I entered the study of
                     my friend who was about to paint.
                  He had around him a bear lying on his back and playing with a faggot; an ape
                     seated upon a chair, tearing the hairs out of a brush one after another; and in
                     a large jug, a frog squatted upon the third round of a little ladder by means
                     of which it could reach the surface of the water.
                  
                  My friend was named Decamps, the bear Tom, the ape James I,*
                        and the frog Mademoiselle Camargo.
                  
                     
                     *Thus named to distinguish him from James the Second, an individual of the
                        same species, belonging to Mr. Tony Johannet.
                  
               
               
                  II.
                  
                     How James I vowed a deadly hatred to James II, and that on account of a
                        Carrot.
                  
                  My entrance created a sensation.
                  Decamp raised his eyes from that wonderful little picture of the learned dogs,
                     which you all know, and which he was then finishing.
                  Tom let the faggot, with which he was playing, fall upon his nose, and fled
                     growling to his niche, built between the two windows.
                  James I quickly threw the brush behind him, and picked up a straw which he
                     innocently carried to his mouth with his right hand, whilst he scratched his
                     thigh with his left and raised his eyes piously to heaven.
                  Indeed Mademoiselle Camargo languidly ascended another step of her ladder,
                     which, under other circumstances, would have been considered as a sign of
                     rain.
                  I placed Gazelle at the door upon the threshhold of which I had stopped,
                     saying, "My dear friend, there is the animal—you see I have kept my word."
                  Gazelle was not happy in a moment; the motion of the cab had so disarranged
                     her, that, probably to collect her thoughts and to reflect upon her situation
                     during the journey, she had retired all of her person within her carapace; so
                     that when I put her down, she had every appearance of an empty shell.
                  Nevertheless, when Gazelle felt, by the retaking of her center of gravity, that
                     she was on solid ground, she ventured to show her nose at the largest opening
                     of her shell; for greater security, however, this portion of her person was
                     prudently accompanied by her two fore feet, and as though all her limbs had
                     simultaneously obeyed the elasticity of a hidden spring, the two hinder feet
                     and the tail appeared at the hinder end of the carapace. Five minutes later and
                     Gazelle had spread all her sails.
                  Nevertheless she remained a moment lying-to, moving her head from right to
                     left, as if to take her bearings; then her eyes became suddenly fixed,——she
                     advanced as rapidly as though she was disputing the race with the hare of La
                     Fontaine, toward a carrot laying at the foot of the chair which served as a
                     footstool to James I.
                  This latter, saw the new arrival advance toward him indifferently enough, at
                     first, but when he saw the end she had in view, he gave signs of real
                     uneasiness, which he manifested by low growling, which changed as she advanced,
                     into sharp cries, interrupted by the chattering of his teeth. At last, when she
                     was not more than a foot distant from the precious vegetable, James' agitation
                     became real despair; he seized the back of his chair with one hand and the
                     cross-piece covered with straw with the other, and probably with the hope of
                     frightening the spunging animal that was about to rob him of his feast,
                     throwing out his two feet like a kicking horse, accompanying these evolutions
                     with all the gestures and all the grimaces that he thought likely to nonplus
                     the automaton-like impassability of his enemy. But all in vain, Gazelle did not
                     move a step slower for all that. James I did not know to what saint he should
                     now apply.
                  Happily for James I unexpected assistance arrived at this moment. Tom, who had
                     retired to his den, on my arrival, had become accustomed to my presence, and
                     like us, lent some attention to the passing scene; astonished at first to see
                     the unknown animal move, now become, thanks to me, a messmate in his lodgings,
                     he had followed him in his course toward the carrot with growing curiosity.
                     Now, Tom did not dislike carrots, and when he saw Gazelle about to reach the
                     precious vegetable, he took three steps, trotting, and raising his big paw, he
                     placed it heavily upon the back of the poor animal, who, laying flat upon her
                     shell, incontinently entered her carapace, and remained immovable two inches
                     from the eatable which at this time had a tripple struggle in play for it. Tom
                     seemed very much surprised to see head, legs, and tail disappear as if by
                     enchantment. He placed his nose near the shell, smelled noisily at the
                     openings; at last, and as if to be perfectly satisfied with the singular
                     organization of the object he had before him, he took it up, turning it about
                     and around between his paws; then as though convinced that he had been deceived
                     in conceiving so absurb an idea as that such a thing was endowed with life and
                     could walk; he let it fall carelessly, took the carrot between his teeth and
                     started to regain his den.
                  This was not what James wished, he had not thought that the service which his
                     friend Tom had rendered him would be spoilt by such an exhibition of
                     selfishness; but as he did not have the same respect for his comrad as for the
                     stranger, he jumped rapidly from the chair, where he had prudently remained
                     during the scene we have just described, and seizing by its green top, the
                     carrot which Tom held by the root, he pulled with all his strength, grimacing,
                     scolding, chattering his teeth, whilst with the hand which was still free, he
                     struck strong blows upon the nose of his pacific antagonist, who, without
                     replying, but also without letting go the object of the contest, contented
                     himself with lowering his ears upon his neck, shutting his little black eyes
                     every time the nimble hand of James came in contact with his big face; at last
                     victory remained as things usually happen, not with the strongest, but with the
                     most impudent. Tom opened his teeth, and James, possessor of the unhappy
                     carrot, jumped upon a shelf, carrying the spoils of the fight which he hid
                     behind a bust of Malagutti, on a shelf six feet from the floor; this operation
                     accomplished, he descended more tranquilly, certain that neither bears nor
                     tortoises could reach it there.
                  On reaching the last step, and when he was about to put his foot upon the
                     floor, he prudently stopped, and, looking toward Gazelle whom he had forgotten
                     in the heat of his quarrel with Tom, he perceived that she was in a position
                     anything but offensive.
                  Indeed, Tom, instead of replacing her carefully in the position in which he had
                     found her, had, as we have already said, negligently let her fall haphazard, so
                     that on coming to her senses the unhappy animal, instead of finding herself in
                     her proper situation, that is to say upon her belly, was turned upon her back,
                     a position, as every one knows, repugnant in a supreme degree to every
                     individual of the race of Chelonians.
                  It was easy to see, by the expression of confidence with which James approached
                     Gazelle, that he had decided at first sight, that her accident had put it out
                     of her power to make any defense. Notwithstanding, arrived within some six
                     inches of this monstrum horrendum, he stopped
                     a moment, looked into the opening on his side and began with an appearance of
                     apparent carelessness to make a tour of cautious inspection, examining her as a
                     general would a city he wished to besiege. The reconnoisance finished, he
                     stretched out his hand, touched the extremity of the shell with the end of his
                     finger; then soon throwing himself boldly backward, he began, without losing
                     sight of the object that occupied him, to dance joyously on his feet and hands,
                     accompanying the movement with a kind of song of victory, habitual to him
                     whenever, by a difficulty overcome or a danger boldly met, he thought he ought
                     to felicitate himself upon his skill or courage.
                  Nevertheless, this dance and song was suddenly broken off; a new idea crossed
                     James' brain, and seemed to absorb all his thinking faculties. He looked
                     attentively at the tortoise, to which his hand, in touching it, had imparted a
                     rocking motion, which was rendered still more lengthy by the spherical form of
                     its shell, he approached her, walking sideways like a crab; then, when near
                     her, he raised himself upon his legs,
                     straddled her like a man would his horse, saw her move for a moment between his
                     legs; at last, perfectly assured by the searching examination he had just made,
                     that all was as it appeared, he seated himself upon this moveable seat, and,
                     without taking his feet from the ground, he imparted an oscillating movement to
                     it, balanced himself joyously, scratching his side and winking his
                     eyes—gestures which, to those who knew him, were the expression of exquisite
                     happiness.
                  Suddenly James uttered a piercing cry, made a perpendicular bound of three
                     feet, fell upon his back, and rushing to his shelf, went to take refuge behind
                     the head of Malagutti. This revolution was caused by Gazelle, who, fatigued
                     with a game where it was evident none of the pleasure was hers, had at last
                     given signs of life by scratching the naked legs of James I with her cold and
                     sharp claws, who was the more confused by this aggression, as an attack from
                     that quarter was the last thing he expected.
                  At this moment a customer entered, and Decamps signed to me that he wished to
                     be left alone with him. I took my hat and cane and went away.
                  I had already reached the landing place, when Decamps called me back.
                  "Apropos," said he to me, "come to-morrow and spend the evening with us."
                  "What are you going to do to-morrow?"
                  "We have a supper and reading."
                  "Bah!"
                  "Yes, Mademoiselle Camargo is going to eat a hundred flies, and Jadin to read a
                     manuscript.
               
               
                  III.
                  
                     How Mademoiselle Camargo fell into the possession of Mons. Decamps.
                  
                  Despite the verbal invitation from Decamps, on the morrow I received a printed
                     one. This double notice was to remind me to be punctual, and that the guests
                     were admitted only in robes-de-chambre and slippers. I was prompt at the hour
                     and exact as to uniform.
                  It is a curious thing to see the study of a painter when he has coquettishly
                     decorated his four walls, to do honor to the invited guests with his holiday
                     gems furnished by the four quarters of the globe. You think you are entering
                     the dwelling of an artist, and you find yourself in the midst of a museum, that
                     would do honor to an incorporated French city. That armor representing Europe
                     in its earliest days, dating from different reigns, and, by their forms,
                     betraying the time of their fabrication. This one, burnished on the two sides
                     of the breast, with its sharp and shining angle, and its engraved crucifix, at
                     the foot of which is a virgin, praying, with this inscription—Mater Dei, ora pro nobis, was made in France and
                     presented to Louis XI, who had it hung upon the walls of his old chateau at
                     Plessisles-Tours. That one, whose convex breast still carries the marks of
                     blows from the mace, from which it had shielded its owner, was embossed at the
                     tournay of Maximilian, and came to us from Germany. That other one, which shows
                     the labors of Hercules in relief, has perhaps been worn by king Francis I, and
                     certainly came from the Florentine study of Benvenuto Cellini. That Canadian
                     tomahawk and this scalping-knife, came from America; the one had broken French
                     heads, and the other taken off perfumed locks. Those arrows and this dagger,
                     are East Indian; the point of the one and the blade of the other are deadly,
                     because they have been poisoned by the juice of herbs of Java. This crooked
                     sabre was tempered at Damascus. That yataghan, which carries upon its blade as
                     many notches as it has cut off heads, was snatched from the dying grasp of a
                     Bedouin. And last, that long gun, with the butt-plate and bands of silver, was
                     brought from Casauba by Isabey perhaps, who may have got it from Yousouf in
                     exchange for a sketch of the bay of Algiers, or a drawing of the Emperor's
                     fort.
                  Now that we have examined in succession these trophies, each one of which
                     represents a nation, let us cast our eyes upon those tables, where a thousand
                     different objects are scattered pell-mell, all astonished at finding themselves
                     gathered there. Here are Japanese porcelains, Egyptian figures, Spanish knives,
                     Turkish poniards, Italian stilletos, Algerine slippers, Circassian pantaloons,
                     idols from the Ganges, crystals from the Alps; look well; there are enough of
                     them to occupy a day.
                  Under your feet are skins of the tiger, the lion and the leopard, brought from
                     Asia and Africa; over your head, with wings extended, and as if endowed with
                     life, there are the sea-gull, who, at the instant when a wave curves itself,
                     ready to break, passes through its vault as through an arch; the margat, which,
                     when it sees a fish appear near the surface of the water, folds its wings and
                     falls like a stone upon it; the sea-turtle-dove, which, at the instant the
                     hunter aims at him, dives to reappear at a distance that puts him out of reach;
                     and last the king-fisher, this halcyon of the ancients, whose plumage shines
                     with the brightest colors of the beryl and the lapis lazuli.
                  But that which, on a reception evening at a painter's study, is most worthy of
                     fixing the attention of an amateur, is the heterogenous collection of carved
                     pipes which await, like Prometheus' man, that the fire of heaven should be
                     stolen for them. For, you must know, that nothing is more fantastic and
                     capricious than the minds of smokers. One prefers the plain earthen pipe, to
                     which our old grumblers have given the name of burn-mouth; another
                     fills with common government tobacco, called corporal tobacco; another cannot
                     bring anything in contact with his delicate lips, except the amber mouth-piece
                     of an Arabian chibouque, and that filled with the black tobacco of Algiers, or
                     the green of Tunis. This one, solemn as one of Cooper's Indian Chiefs,
                     methodically draws from the peaceful calumet, whiffs of the Maryland weed; that
                     one, more sensual than a nabob, winds the flexible tube of his Indian hucca
                     like a serpent around his arm, which permits only the smoke of the latakie,
                     cooled and perfumed with rose and benzoin, to reach his lips. There are those
                     who, from habit, prefer the foam pipe of the German student and the strong
                     Belgian cigar cut fine, to the Turkish narghile, extolled by Lamartine, and to
                     the tobacco of Sinai, the reputation of which is enhanced or depreciated
                     according to where it is cultivated, whether on the mountains or on the plain.
                     Others there are, in fine, who would break their necks to keep the gourgouri of
                     the negroes in an upright position, whilst an accommodating friend, mounted on
                     a chair, endeavors, with a full supply of live coals and of breath, first to
                     dry, then to light the clayey grass of Madagascar.
                  When I entered the house of this Amphytrion, the selections had all been made,
                     and all the places occupied; on seeing me they all moved closer to each other;
                     and, by a movement which, by its precision, would have done honor to a company
                     of the National Guard, every pipe, whether of wood or earthen, horn or ivory,
                     jasmin or amber, was taken from the loving lips that embraced them and extended
                     toward me. I made a sign of thanks with my hand, drew a paper of regulation
                     tobacco from my pocket, and began to roll up between my fingers the Andalusian
                     cigarrito, with all the patience and skill of an old Spaniard.
                  Five minutes after, we swam in an atmosphere sufficiently dense to support a
                     steamboat of an hundred and twenty horse power.
                  As soon as the smoke would allow, there were seen, besides the guests, the
                     ordinary inmates of the house with whom the reader has already become
                     acquainted. There was Gazelle, who, from the evening of her arrival, had taken
                     up a singular occupation; it was no less than attempting to climb the marble
                     chimney-piece, to reach a lamp by which to warm herself, and who gave herself
                     up obstinately to this futile exertion. There was Tom, of whom Alexander ander Decamps had made a resting
                     place, somewhat as one would use the cushion of a divan, and who occasionally
                     raised his head sadly under his master's arms, breathing loudly to expel the
                     smoke which had entered his nostrils, then laid himself down again with a heavy
                     sigh. There was James I. seated upon a stool by the side of his old friend Fau,
                     who had, by dint of the whip, brought his education to the perfection which it
                     had attained, and for which he had the greatest thankfulness, and above all the
                     most submissive obedience. And last, in the midst of the circle, in her jar,
                     was Mademoiselle Camargo, whose exercises, gymnastic and gastronomic, were more
                     particularly to be the subject of the evening's entertainment.
                  It is important, on reaching the point at which we are, to glance back, and
                     show our readers by what a strange concurrence of circumstances Mademoiselle
                     Camargo, who was born on the plains of Saint-Denis, found herself in company
                     with Tom, who had his origin in Canada, with James, who saw day on the coast of
                     Angola, and Gazelle, who was fished out of the marshes of Holland.
                  It is well known what a commotion is to be witnessed at Paris in the
                     neighborhood of Saint-Martin and Saint-Denis, when the month of September
                     ushers in the hunting season; one then meets none but citizens returning from
                     the canal, where they have been to try their hands upon swallows,
                     leading dogs in leashes, carrying guns upon their shoulders, hoping to be less
                        bungling this year than last, and stopping all their
                     acquaintances to say to them—"Are you fond of quails and
                     partridges?"—"Yes."—"Well! I will send you some by the third or fourth of next
                     month."—"Thank you."—"By-the-by, I killed five swallows in eight shots."—"Well
                     done."—"That was not bad shooting, was it?"—"Excellent."—"Adieu."—"Good
                     night."
                  Now, toward the end of the month of August, one thousand eight hundred and
                     twenty-nine, one of these hunters entered the great gate of the house No. 109,
                     Faubourg Saint-Denis, asked the porter if Decamps was at home, and, on his
                     replying affirmatively, went up the five flights of stairs leading to the study
                     of our celebrated painter, leading his dog, step by step, and knocking the
                     barrel of his gun against the wall as he went.
                  He found no one there but the brother Alexander.
                  Alexander is one of those intellectual and original men, who would be
                     recognized as artists only from seeing them pass, who are capable of any thing,
                     if they were not too inveterately idle ever to busy themselves seriously about
                     any one thing; having an appreciation of the beautiful and just, recognizing
                     them wherever they may find them, without inquiring whether a work with which
                     they are pleased, is acknowledged by a coterie or is signed with a name;
                     otherwise, a good fellow in every acceptation of the term, ever ready to empty
                     his pockets for his friends, and, like all men prepossessed with one idea (who
                     are worth the trouble), easy to lead, not by weakness of character, but by a
                     distaste for argument and by fear of fatigue.
                  With this disposition of mind, Alexander allowed himself to be easily persuaded
                     by his newly arrived friend that he would take great pleasure in hunting with
                     him on the plain of Saint-Denis, where there were, they said, this year, bevies
                     of quail, covies of partridges and flocks ot hares.
                  In consequence of this conversation, Alexander ordered a hunting coat of
                     Chevreuil, a gun of Lepage and gaiters of Boivin; all costing him six hundred
                     and sixty francs, without reckoning the shooting license which was given to him
                     by the Prefect of the Police on his presenting a certificate of good moral
                     character, which the Commissioner of his district gave him without
                     hesitation.
                  On the thirty-first of August, Alexander perceived that he still needed one
                     thing more to become a complete sportsman, that was a dog. He immediately went
                     to the man who, with his pack, had sat to his brother for the picture of the
                     learned dogs, and asked him if he had not what he wanted.
                  The man replied that he had some animals of wonderful instinct in that way,
                     and, passing into a room on the same floor, communicating with his kennel, he,
                     in a trice, took off the three-cornered hat which decorated a kind of black and
                     white briquet,*
                      returned immediately and showed him to Alexander as a dog of the true
                     breed. The latter remarked that this dog of the true breed had straight,
                     pointed ears, which was contrary to all received opinions in such matters; but
                     to this the man replied that Love was an English dog, and that it was the
                     height of fashion among English dogs to have ears like these. As, all things
                     considered, this might be so, Alexander was satisfied with the explanation, and
                     carried Love home with him.
                  
                     
                     *Untranslatable, meaning something similar to our terms whiffet, or
                        pheiss-dog.
                  
                  The next morning at five o'clock, our Sportsman came to waken Alexander, who
                     was sleeping like a happy fellow; he rated him soundly for his idleness,
                     reproached him on account of the delay, thanks to which, they would find the
                     plains, on their arrival, all alive with shooters.
                  In fact, as they approached the barrier,†
                      the detonations became more frequent and noisy. Our sportsmen quickened
                     their steps, passed the customhouse, turned into the first lane that led to the
                     fields, throw themselves into a cabbage bed, and fell at once into the midst of
                     a very busy scene.
                  
                     
                     †Gates, where duties are collected from persons bringing provisions, etc.,
                        into the city.
                  
                  
                  It is necessary to have seen the fields of Saint-Denis on the opening day of
                     the shooting season, to form an idea of the mad scene which is there presented.
                     Not a lark, not a sparrow, passes that is not saluted with a thousand shots. If
                     it falls, every game-bag is opened, thirty shooters claim it, and thirty dogs
                     quarrel about it; if it continues its flight, all eyes are fixed upon it; if it
                     alights, every body runs; if it rises again, every body fires. It sometimes
                     happens that here and there a few pellets of shot, aimed at animals, reach the
                     men—this must not be minded; besides, there is an old proverb current among the
                     sportsmen of Paris, which says that "lead is man's friend." On this score, I
                     can count three friends whom a fourth has lodged in my thigh.
                  The smell of the powder and the noise of the guns produced their usual effects.
                     Scarcely had our Sportsman snuffed the one and heard the other, ere he threw
                     himself into the melée and immediately began to take his part in the infernal
                     racket which had surrounded him in its circle of attraction.
                  Alexander, less susceptible than he, advanced with a more moderate gait,
                     closely followed by Love, whose nose did not leave his master's heels. Now,
                     every one knows that the duty of a sporting dog is to beat the fields, and not
                     to examine if there be any nails missing in one's boots. This reflection
                     naturally occurred to Alexander in about half an hour. Consequently, he made a
                     motion with his hand to Love and said, "Seek!"
                  Love immediately raised himself upon his hinder legs and began to dance.
                  "Look!" said Alexander, placing the but of his gun upon the ground and looking
                     at his dog; "it seems that Love, besides his University education, possesses
                     some very amusing talents. I think I have made an excellent purchase."
                  Nevertheless, as he had bought Love to hunt, and not to dance, he took
                     advantage of his being once more on his four feet to make another motion to him
                     more expressive, and to say to him in a louder tone, "Seek!"
                  Love laid himself out full length, closed his eyes and imitated death.
                  Alexander took his eye-glass, and looked at Love. The knowing animal was
                     immovability itself; not a hair of his body stirred; one would have thought he
                     had died some twenty-four hours since.
                  "This is very fine," said Alexander; "but, my dear friend, this is not the time
                     to give ourselves up to this kind of
                     amusement; we came here to hunt, let us hunt. Hie on! beast, hie on!"
                  Love did not budge.
                  "Mind! mind!" said Alexander, drawing from the ground a pole which had been
                     used to support pea-vines upon, and advancing toward Love with the intention of
                     applying it to his shoulders.
                  Scarcely did Love see this pole in the hands of his master, whose movements he
                     had followed with an expression of remarkable intelligence, ere he got upon his
                     feet. Alexander, who saw this, defered the punishment, hoping that he was now
                     about to be obeyed; he held out the pole before Love, and said to him for the
                     third time, "Seek!"
                  Love took a run and jumped over the pole.
                  Love understood three things admirably; how to dance upon his hinder legs, how
                     to imitate death, and how to jump for the king.
                  Alexander, who at this time did not appreciate this last talent any more than
                     the others, broke the pole upon Love's back, who ran howling to the side of our
                     Sportsman.
                  Now, just as Love reached him, our Sportsman fired, and, by the greatest
                     chance, an unhappy lark, killed by the shot, fell into
                     Love's mouth. Love thanked Providence for sending him such a blessing; and,
                     without troubling himself as to whether it was roasted or not, he made but one
                     mouthful of it.
                  Our Sportsman threw himself upon the unfortunate dog with the most terrible
                     imprecations, seized him by the throat and squeezed it so tightly that he was
                     compelled to open his mouth, whatever wish he might have had to the contrary.
                     The Sportsman franticly plunged his hand into the gullet and drew out three
                     feathers from the lark's tail. As to the body that was safe enough.
                  The owner of the lark sought in his pockets for his knife to disembowel Love,
                     and by that means regain possession of his game; but, unfortunately for him,
                     and fortunately for Love, he had lent it the evening before to his wife to
                     sharpen the skewers, in advance, with which she should have to spit the
                     partridges, and she had forgotten to return it to him. Compelled, in
                     consequence, to resort to some less violent mode of punishment, he gave Love a
                     kick sufficient to break down a gate, carefully put the three feathers which he
                     had saved into his game-bag, and shouted at the top of his voice to
                     Alexander—"Make yourself easy, my dear friend, I will never hunt with you in
                     future. Your shabby Love has just eaten up a fine quail for me. Ah! come here,
                     rascal!—"
                  Love had no desire to return there. On the contrary, he ran, as fast as his
                     legs would carry him, to his master's side, which proved that, all things
                     considered, he preferred the blows from the pole to the kicks of the foot.
                  Nevertheless, the lark had given Love an appetite, and, as he saw individuals
                     that seemed to him to belong to the same species rise before him from time to
                     time, he began to run every where, in the hope, no doubt, that he would finally
                     meet with a second windfall like the first.
                  Alexander could scarcely keep up with him, and cursed while following him, this
                     was because Love hunted in a way entirely contrary to that adopted by other
                     dogs—that is to say, with his nose up and his tail down. This denoted that his
                     sight was better than his smell; but this exchanging of physical faculties was
                     intolerable to his master, from whom he always kept some hundred paces distant,
                     raising the game at double gun-shot distance, and chasing and barking till it
                     was out of sight.
                  This way of acting lasted the entire day.
                  About five o'clock in the afternoon, Alexander had traveled about fifteen
                     leagues, and Love more than fifty; the one was weakened by shouting and the
                     other by barking; as to the Sportsman, he had accomplished his purpose, and had
                     separated from the others, to go and shoot snipe in the marshes of Pantin.
                  All at once Love pointed.
                  But it was a point so staunch, that one would have said, like the dog of
                     Chephalus alus, he was changed into stone. At this sight, so strange for him,
                     Alexander forgot his fatigue, ran like a madman, fearing all the time that Love
                     would break his point before he could arrive within gun-shot. But of this there
                     was no danger; Love was as if nailed to the earth.
                  Alexander reached him, took the direction of his eyes, saw that they were fixed
                     upon a tuft of grass, and under this tuft of grass he saw something brown. He
                     thought it was a young partridge separated from its company; and, trusting more
                     to his cap than to his gun, he laid his piece upon the ground, took his cap in
                     his hand and approached softly as a child wishing to catch a butterfly, then
                     lowered the cap upon the unknown object, quickly inserted his hand under it,
                     and drew out a—frog.
                  Any one else would have thrown the frog away; Alexander, on the contrary,
                     thought that since Providence had sent this interesting animal to him in a
                     manner so wonderful, it was because it had some ulterior, hidden design in
                     view, and that it was destined to great things.
                  So he put it carefully into his gamebag, carried it safely home, put it, on his
                     arrival, into a jar, out of which we had the day previous eaten the cherries,
                     and poured upon its head all the water in the decanter.
                  These cares for a frog would have appeared extraordinary on the part of a man
                     who might have found it in a manner less complicated than Alexander had done;
                     but Alexander knew what this frog had cost him, and he treated it
                     accordingly.
                  It cost him six hundred and sixty francs, without reckoning anything for his
                     shooting licence.
               
               
                  IV.
                  
                     Continuation of the history of Mademoiselle Camargo.
                  
                  "Ah! ah!" said Doctor Thierry on entering the study the next day, "you have a
                     new lodger."
                  And without paying any attention to the friendly growling of Tom, or the
                     forward grimaces of James I, he advanced to the jar containing Mademoiselle
                     Camargo and plunged his hand into it.
                  Mademoiselle Camargo, who did not know that Thierry was a very learned Doctor,
                     and a very intelligent man, began to swim, in circles, as fast as she could,
                     which did not prevent her being seized in an instant by the end of her left
                     leg, and drawn out of her domicil feet first.
                  "Look," said Thierry turning it about somewhat as a country woman does her lace
                     bobbin, "it is the Rana temporaria: so called
                     because of those black spots reaching from the eye to the tympanum; which sees
                     as well in running water as in still; that some authors call the dumb frog,
                     because it croaks only under water, whilst the green frog can croak only out of
                     water. If you had some two hundred like this, I would advise you to cut off
                     their hind legs, serve them up like a chicken fricasee, send to Corcelet's for
                     two bottles of Bordeaux-Mouton, and invite me to dinner; but having but one we
                     will content ourselves, with your permission, with clearing up, by its means, a
                     still uncertain point in Natural History, though many authors hold it as a
                     fact; it is that this frog can remain six months without eating.
                  At these words he let Mademoiselle Camargo fall, who immediately began, with
                     that joyous suppleness of which her limbs were capable, to make the circuit of
                     her jar two or three times; after which perceiving a fly that had fallen into
                     her domain, she sprung to the surface of the water and swallowed it.
                  "I will let you have that one," said Thierry, "but understand, that is all you
                     will get for one hundred and eighty-three days;" for, unfortunately for
                     Mademoiselle Camargo, 1830 was leap year; science gained twelve hours by this
                     solar accident.
                  Mademoiselle Camargo did not appear at all troubled by this threat, but
                     remained boldly with her head out of
                     water, her four legs hanging carelessly, and with the same perpendicularity as
                     though she was resting on solid ground.
                  "Now," said Thierry opening a drawer, "let us provide furniture for the
                     prisoner."
                  He took out two cartridges, a gimblet, a penknife, two brushes and four
                     matches. Decamps watched him in silence, and without comprehending anything of
                     the work to which the Doctor paid as much attention as if he were preparing for
                     a surgical operation; then he emptied the powder into a snuffer-tray, and kept
                     the balls, threw the feather and badger hair to James and kept the brush
                     handles.
                  "What devilish nonsense are you about there?" said Decamps snatching his two
                     best brushes from James, "you will ruin my establishment."
                  "I am making a ladder," said Thierry gravely.
                  In fact, by the aid of the gimblet he had just pierced the two leaden balls,
                     had fitted the ends of the brush handles into the holes, and, in these,
                     intended for the uprights, he fitted the matches cross ways to serve for steps.
                     In about five minutes the ladder was completed and lowered into the jar, on the
                     bottom of which it rested fixed there by the weight of the two bullets.
                     Mademoiselle Camargo had scarcely become proprietress of this piece of
                     furniture, ere she made a trial of it, as if to be assured of its strength, by
                     mounting to the topmost round.
                  "We shall have rain," said Thierry.
                  "The Devil!" said Decamps, "do you think so? And my brother wished to go
                     hunting to-day."
                  "Mademoiselle Camargo would not advise him to do so," replied the Doctor.
                  "How so?"
                  "I have just made you an economical barometer, my dear fellow. Each and every
                     time Mademoiselle Camargo shall climb her ladder, it will be a sign of rain;
                     whenever she shall descend it, you may be sure of fine weather; and when she
                     shall keep herself in the middle, do not venture out without a parasol or a
                     cloak: changeable, changeable."
                  "Well, well, surely!" replied Decamps.
                  "Now," continued Thierry, "we will close the mouth of the jar with parchment as
                     if it still contained all its cherries."
                  "Here," said Decamps, handing him what he asked for.
                  "We will tie it with a string."
                  "Here is some."
                  "Then I must ask you for some sealing-wax; good: a light; that's it: and, for
                     my own satisfaction (he set fire to the wax, covered the knot, and placed the
                     signet of his ring upon it); there, that will do for six months."
                  "Now," added he, making a few holes in the parchment with the penknife, "now, a
                     pen and ink?"
                  Did you ever ask for pen and ink of an artist? No?—well!—never do so, for he
                     will do as Decamps did; he will offer you a pencil.
                  Thierry took it and wrote upon the parchment. 
                        "2 SEPTEMBER, 1830."
                     
                  
                  Now, on the evening of this party, of which we have been trying to give our
                     readers an idea, one hundred and eighty-three days—that is to say, six months
                     and twelve hours was completed, during which time Mademoiselle Camargo had
                     invariably, and without being once mistaken, indicated rain, fine and
                     changeable weather; a regularity so much the more astonishing, as, during that
                     lapse of time she had not imbibed an atom of nourishment.
                  So when Thierry, drawing out his watch, announced that the last second of the
                     sixtieth minute of the twelfth hour had expired, and the jar had been produced,
                     a universal feeling of pity spread through the company on seeing to what a
                     miserable state the poor animal was reduced, who, at the expense of its
                     stomach, had just thrown so great and important a light upon an obscure point
                     of science.
                  "Look," said Thierry triumphantly, "Schneider and Roësel were correct."
                  "Correct, correct," said Jadin, taking the jar and raising it to the height of
                     his eye, "I am not satisfied yet that Mademoiselle Camargo is not defunct."
                  "We must not listen to Jadin," said Flers; "he was always very hard upon
                     Mademoiselle Camargo."
                  Thierry took a lamp and held it behind the jar; "Look," said he, "and you will
                     see her heart beat."
                  And truly, Mademoiselle Camargo had become so thin, that she was as transparent
                     as crystal, and all the circulatory vessels could be distinguished; it could
                     even be seen that the heart had but one ventricle and but one auricle; but
                     these organs performed their functions so feebly, and Jadin was so near
                     correct, that it was scarcely worth while to contradict him, for no one would
                     have given the poor creature ten minutes to live. Her legs had become as
                     slender as a thread, and the hind legs held to the hinder part of the body only
                     by the bones which formed the spring, by the aid of which frogs jump instead of
                     walk. A kind of moss had grown upon her back, which, through a microscope,
                     appeared a real marine vegetable, with its stems and flowers. Thierry, in his
                     character as a botanist, even pretended that this almost imperceptible moss
                     belonged to the class of lentisks and water-cresses. No one discussed the point
                     with him.
                  "Now," said Thierry, when we had all examined Mademoiselle Camargo, "we must
                     let her sup quietly."
                  "And what is she going to eat?" asked Flers.
                  "I have her supper in this box;" and Thierry, raising the parchment, introduced
                     into the space filled with air so large a number of flies, deprived of one
                     wing, that it was evident he had passed the entire morning in catching them,
                     and the whole of the afternoon in mutilating them. We thought that Mademoiselle
                     Camargo had sufficient for the remaining six months; one of us made a remark to
                     that effect.
                  "Mistake," said Thierry; "fifteen minutes hence there will not be one
                     left."
                  The most incredulous of us manifested some doubt of this. Thierry, strong in
                     his recent success, carried Mademoiselle Camargo back to her resting place,
                     without even deigning to reply to us.
                  He had not yet reseated himself when the door opened, and the keeper of a
                     neighboring restaurat entered, bearing a waiter upon which was a tea-pot, a
                     sugar-dish and some cups. He was closely followed by two lads carrying a two
                     handled willow basket, in which were munition-bread, briòche,*
                      a head of salad, and a large number of small cakes, of every shape and
                      of all kinds.
                  
                     
                     *A kind of cake.
                  
                  The munition-bread was for Tom; the briòche for James I., the salad for
                     Gazelle, and the little cakes for ourselves.
                  They began by waiting upon the animals first; then they told the gentlemen that
                     they were at liberty to help themselves as they could; which seemed to me, for
                     want of a better plan, to be the best possible way of doing the honors of the
                     house.
                  There was a moment of seeming disorder, whilst each one helped himself to his
                     liking and according to his ability. Tom, growling, carried his bread to his
                     den; James, with his briòche, hid behind the busts of Malagutti and De Rata;
                     Gazelle drew the salad slowly under the table; and as for ourselves, we took,
                     as is usual in such cases, a cup in the left hand and a cake in the right, and
                        vice versa. In about ten minutes, the tea
                     and the cakes had disappeared. Consequently, the keeper of the restaurat was
                     summoned; he appeared with his acolytes,—"More" said Decamps; and the
                     Restaurateur went out backward and bowing to fulfill this order.
                  "Now, gentlemen," said Flers, looking at Thierry with a bantering smile, and at
                     Decamps with a respectful air,—"while waiting for Mademoiselle Camargo to
                     finish her supper, and whilst they are bringing some more cakes, I think it
                     will be well to fill up the time by reading Jadin's manuscript. It treats upon
                     the early years of James I, whom we all have the honor of knowing intimately,
                     and in whose welfare we have so great
                     an interest that the smallest details collected concerning him, acquire great
                     importance in our eyes. Dixi."
                  Each one of us bowed in token of approbation; one or two even clapped their
                     hands.
                  "James, my friend," said Fau, who in his character of teacher, was the most
                     intimate of any of us with the hero of this story, "you see they are talking
                     about you; come here." And immediately after these two words he whistled in a
                     peculiar manner, which was so well understood by James that the intelligent
                     animal made but one jump from his shelf to the shoulders of him that spoke to
                     him.
                  "Well done, James; 't is very nice to be obedient, particularly when you have
                     your cheek-pouch full of briòche. Salute these gentlemen,"—James carried his
                     hand to his forehead military fashion,—"and should your friend Jadin, who is
                     going to read your history, utter any calumny about you, tell him he is a
                     liar."
                  James bowed his head up and down in token of a perfect understanding.
                  This was because James and Fau were bound in the bonds of harmonious
                     friendship. It was, on the part of the animal more especially, a love such as
                     is seldom seen much of among men; and to what was this owing? We must
                     acknowledge, to the shame of the monkey tribe be it said, it was not by
                     embellishing his mind as Fenelon did for the Grand Dauphin, but by flattering
                     his vices, as Catharine did with Henry III, that the teacher had acquired such
                     a deplorable influence over his pupil. Thus James, on arriving at Paris, was
                     but an amateur in good wines, Fau had made a drunkard of him; he was a sybarite
                     only after the manner of Alcibiades, Fau had made a cynic of him of the school
                     of Diogenes; he was delicate like Lucullus, Fau had rendered him a glutton like
                     Grimaud de la Reyniere. It is true that he had gained by this moral corruption
                     a crowd of physical enjoyments, which made a very distinguished animal of him.
                     He knew his right hand from his left, imitated death for the space of ten
                     minutes, danced upon a rope like Madame Saqui, went to hunt with his gun upon
                     his shoulder and a game-bag on his back, showed his shooting license to the
                     forest-keepers and his backside to the gend'armes. In short, he was a charming
                     wild fellow, whose only mischance was, that he was born under the Restoration
                     instead of having been born under the Regency.
                  So, if Fau knocked at the street door, James would tremble; if he ascended the
                     stairs, James would feel that he was coming. Then he uttered short cries of
                     joy, jumped about on his hind feet like a kangaroo; and, when Fau opened the
                     door, he jumped into his arms in the way they do at the Theatre Français in the
                     play of the Two Brothers. In fact, all that was James' was
                     Fau's, he would have taken the briòche out of his mouth to offer it to him.
                  "Gentlemen," said Jadin, "seat yourselves if you please, and light your pipes
                     and cigars. I am ready."
                  Each one complied. Jadin hemmed, opened the manuscript and read what
                     follows.
               
               
                  V.
                  
                     How James I was torn from the back of his expiring mother, and taken on
                        board of the trading brig Roxelana, Captain Pamphile.
                  
                  On the twenty-fourth of July, 1827, the brig sailed from Marseilles to load
                     with coffee at Mocha, spices at Bombay, and tea at Canton; it stopped to renew
                     its provisions at the bay of Saint-Paul de Loanda, situated, as every body
                     knows, in the center of Lower Guinea.
                  Whilst this change was being made, Captain Pamphile, now on his tenth voyage to
                     the Indies, took his gun, and, with the thermometer at seventy, amused himself
                     by ascending the banks of the river Bango. Captain Pamphile was the greatest
                     hunter before God that had appeared upon the earth since Nimrod.
                  He had not advanced twenty steps into the tall grass bordering the banks of the
                     river, when he felt his foot turn upon something round and slippery like the
                     trunk of a young tree. At the same moment, he heard a sharp whistling, and saw
                     the head of an enormous boa, upon whose tail he had trodden, raised some ten
                     steps before him.
                  Any other than Captain Pamphile would certainly have felt some fear on seeing
                     himself threatened by that enormous head, whose bloody eyes shone like two
                     carbuncles while looking at him; but the boa did not know Captain Pamphile.
                  "God's throne, reptile, do you hope to scare me?" said the Captain; and at the
                     instant the serpent opened his jaws, he sent a ball, which passed through the
                     palate and out at the top of its head. The serpent fell dead.
                  The Captain began by quietly reloading his gun; then, taking his knife from his
                     pocket, he went toward the animal, opened its belly, separated the liver from
                     the entrails, as the angel Tobias did, and, after a moment's active search, he
                     there found a little blue stone about the size of a hazel-nut.
                  "Good," said he, and he put the stone into his purse where there was already a
                     dozen similar ones. Captain Pamphile was as learned as a Mandarin; he had read
                     the Thousand-and-one-Nights, and sought for the Bezoard enchanted by the prince
                     Caramalzaman.
                  Since he thought he had found it, he started again to hunt.
                  In about fifteen minutes he saw the grass shake some forty paces in front of
                     him, and heard a terrible roaring. At this noise every living creature seemed
                     to recognise the master of creation. The birds ceased singing; two gazelles,
                     frightened, jumped up and rushed over the plain; a wild elephant, which could
                     be distinguished at the distance of a fourth of a league from there, upon a
                     hill, raised his trunk to be ready for the fight.
                  "Prrrrou! Prrrrou!" said captain Pamphile, as if he was about to
                     flush a bevy of patridges.
                  At this noise, a tiger that was lying down till then, got up lashing this
                     flanks with his tail, it was a royal tiger of the largest size. He made a leap
                     and neared the hunter some twenty paces.
                  "Scoundrel!" said captain Pamphine, "do you think that I am going to shoot at
                     that distance, and spoil your hide? Prrrrou! Prrrrou!"
                  The tiger made a second spring which brought him twenty paces nearer; but the
                     instant he touched the ground the gun was fired, and the ball entered his left
                     eye. The tiger rolled over like a rabbit and immediately expired.
                  Captain Pamphile quietly reloaded his gun, took his knife from his pocket,
                     turned the tiger on his back, cut its skin open on the belly, and took it off
                     as a cook would a hare's, then he wrapped himself in the hide of his victim,
                     as, four thousand years before then, the Nemean Hercules had done, from whom,
                     as a Marseillais, he pretended he was descended; then he started again to
                     hunt.
                  Half an hour had not passed when he heard a great noise in the waters of the
                     river whose banks he was following. He ran quickly to the brink and saw that it
                     was a hippopotamus, swimming against the current, and which from time to time
                     came to the surface to breathe.
                  "Bagasse!" said Captain Pamphile, "here is what will save me six francs in
                     glass ware;" that being the price of cattle at Saint-Paul de Loanda, and
                     Captain Pamphile was considered very economical.
                  Consequently, guided by the air bubbles which showed when it was coming to the
                     surface to breathe, he followed the course of the animal, and, when its
                     enormous head was out of the water, the hunter, selecting the only vulnerapart,
                     put a ball into its ear. Captain Pamphile could have hit Achilles heel at five
                     hundred paces.
                  The monster turned about several seconds, groaning frightfully, and lashing the
                     water with its feet. For one moment one would have thought it was about to be
                     swallowed up in the vortex which it
                     made in its agony; but soon its strength failed, it rolled over like a bale;
                     then by degrees the white and shining skin of its belly appeared in place of
                     the black and rough skin of its back, and in the last effort it made it
                     grounded on its back among the grass which grew at the edge of the river.
                  Captain Pamphile quietly reloaded his gun, took his knife from his pocket, cut
                     down a small tree about the size of an axe-helve, sharpened it at one end,
                     split it at the other, pushed the pointed end into the belly of the
                     hippopotamus, and put a sheet from his memorandum book into the split end, upon
                     which he wrote with a pencil "To the cook of the trading brig
                     Roxelana, from Captain Pamphile, hunting upon the banks of the
                     river Bango."
                  Then he pushed the animal with his foot, which, taking the current, quietly
                     descended the river ticketed like the portmanteau of a commercial traveler.
                  "Ah!" said captain Pamphile, when he saw his provisions well under way for his
                     vessel, "I think I have well earned my breakfast." And as though this were a
                     truth only necessary to be known to himself for all the consequences that could
                     be deduced therefrom at that time, he spread out the skin of the tiger, seated
                     himself upon it, took a flask of rum from his left hand pocket which he placed
                     at his right side, took from his right hand pocket a magnificent guiava which
                     he placed at his left side, and from his game-bag a bit of biscuit which he put
                     between his knees; then he began to fill his pipe that he might have nothing
                     fatiguing to do after his meal.
                  It may be that you have seen Deburau prepare with great care his breakfast for
                     the harlequin to eat;—you recollect his face, do you not, when turning around
                     he saw his glass empty and his apple stolen?—yes?—well! look at Captain
                     Pamphile who found his flask of rum overturned and his guiava gone.
                  Captain Pamphile, to whom the Minister of the Interior had not interdicted the
                     use of speech, uttered the most wonderful "Throne of God!" that
                     ever issued from the mouth of a provincial since the foundation of Marseilles;
                     but as he was less credulous than Deburau, had read the ancient and modern
                     philosophers and had learned, in Diogenes and in Mons. Voltaire, that there was
                     no effect without a cause, he began at once to seek for the cause, the effect
                     of which had been so injurious to him, but without appearing to do so, without
                     moving from the spot where he was, and seeming all the time to be munching his
                     dry bread. His head only moved for nearly five minutes like that of a Chinese
                     doll, and that fruitlessly, when suddenly something fell upon his head and
                     stuck in his hair. The Captain raised his hand to the spot and found the rind
                     of the guiava. Captain Pamphile raised his head and saw directly over him an
                     ape grimacing among the branches of a tree.
                  Captain Pamphile stretched out his arm for his gun without losing sight of the
                     thief; then placing the butt against his shoulder, he fired—the ape fell at his
                     side.
                  "Robber!" said captain Pamphile looking upon his new prey, "I have killed a
                     double-headed ape."
                  In fact the animal lying at Captain Pamphile's feet had two distinct and
                     separate heads, and the phenomenon was the more remarkable as one of these two
                     heads was dead, and had the eyes closed, whilst the other was living and had
                     its eyes open.
                  Captain Pamphile, who was desirous of clearing up this strange point in natural
                     history, took the monster by the tail, examined it attentively; but at the
                     first glance all astonishment ceased. The ape was a female, and the second
                     head, that of its young one, which she had upon her back at the moment when she
                     was shot, and which had fallen with her without leaving its maternal back.
                  Captain Pamphile, whom even the devotedness of Cleobis and Biton would not have
                     caused to shed a tear, took the little monkey by the skin of its neck, tore it
                     from the dead body which it held in its embrace, examined it a moment as
                     attentively as Monsieur Buffon would have done, and, pinching his lips with an
                     air of internal satisfaction.
                  "Bagasse!" cried he, "'t is a green-monkey; it is worth fifty francs if a
                     farthing, delivered at the port of Marseilles;" and he put it into his
                     game-bag.
                  Then as captain Pamphile was fasting, in consequence of the incident we have
                     related, he concluded to return to the bay. Besides, although the hunt had
                     lasted only about two hours, he had killed in that time, a boa, a tiger, a
                     hippopotamus, and carried back a living green-monkey. There are a great many
                     Parisian shooters who would be content with such luck for all their lives.
                  On reaching the deck of the brig, he saw the entire crew engaged about the
                     hippopotamus, which had fortunately reached its destination. The surgeon of the
                     vessel pulled out its teeth to make knife handles for Villenave and false teeth
                     for Désirabode; the boatswain took off the skin and cut it into strips to made
                     dog-whips and gaskets to punish the younkers; and lastly, the cook cut off some
                     steaks from the chine, and some broiling pieces from the ribs, for Captain
                     Pamphile's table; the rest of the animal was to be cut up and salted for the
                     use of the crew.
                  Captain Pamphile was so well pleased with this activity that he ordered an
                     extra distribution of rum to the crew, and deducted five lashes of the gasket
                     from the count of a younker condemned to receive seventy.
                  That night they sailed.
                  In view of the extra supply of provisions, Captain Pamphile judged it useless
                     to stop at the Cape of Good Hope, so, leaving Prince Edward's Islands to the
                     right and Madagascar to his left, he launched himself upon the Indian seas.
                  The Roxelana sailed bravely on before the wind, making her eight
                     knots an hour, which (so sailors say) is a good rate for a trading vessel, when
                     a sailor on the look-out at the mast-head cried "Sail ho!"
                  Captain Pamphile took his glass, pointed it at the reported vessel, looked at
                     it with his naked eye—again pointed his glass at it, then after a moment of
                     attentive examination he called his mate and silently put the instrument into
                     his hands. This latter immediately put it to his eye.
                  "Well! Policar," said the Captain, when he thought that he, whom he spoke to,
                     had had time to examine the object in question at his ease, "what do you make
                     of this patache?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *A small light vessel.
                  
                  "Faith, Captain, I say she is of a curious build; as to her colors (he carried
                     the glass once more to his eye), Devil burn me if I know what power she
                     represents; it is a green and yellow dragon upon a white ground."
                  "Well, bow to the ground, my friend, for you have before you a vessel belonging
                     to the son of the Sun, to the father and mother of the whole human family, to
                     the king of Kings, to the sublime Emperor of China, and of Cochin-China; and,
                     further, I notice, by her round bows and slow sailing, that she does not return
                     to Pekin with an empty hull."
                  "The devil! the devil!" said Policar, rubbing his ear.
                  "What say you to attacking her?"
                  "I think it would be funny——"
                  "Wouldn't it? Well, I think so, too, my child."
                  "Then we must——"
                  "Get our old iron upon deck, and spread every rag of sail."
                  "Ah! she sees us now."
                  "Then let us wait till dark; until then let us keep upon our course that she
                     may suspect nothing. As well as I can calculate by her sailing, before five
                     hours we shall be up with her; we will sail side by side all night and in the
                     morning, we will say 'Good day' to her."
                  Captain Pamphile had adopted a system—instead of ballasting his vessel with
                     rocks and pig-iron, he placed at the bottom of the hold a half dozen of
                     swivels, four or five twelve pound carronades and a long eight pound piece;
                     then by mere chance, he had added a few
                     thousand cannon cartridges, some fifty muskets and a score of boarding
                     cutlasses. Whenever an occasion like the present offered itself, he had all his
                     little ballast brought upon deck, fixed the swivels and carronades upon their
                     pivots, trained the long eight-pounder to the rear, distributed the muskets
                     among his men, and began to establish what he called his "system of barter." It
                     was in this commercial attitude that the Chinese vessel found him the next
                     morning.
                  The astonishment on board of the Imperial ship was great. Yesterday the captain
                     had recognized a merchant vessel, and had gone to sleep upon it, smoking his
                     pipe of opium; but, behold, in the night, the cat had become a tiger, and
                     showed his claws of iron, and his teeth of brass.
                  They went to tell captain Kao-Kiou-Koan what a fix they found themselves in. He
                     had just finished a delicious dream; the son of the Sun had just given him one
                     of his sisters in marriage, so that he found himself brother-in-law to the
                     Moon.
                  So he could scarcely comprehend what Captain Pamphile wanted. 'Tis true, this
                     latter spoke Provençal, and the newly married one replied in Chinese. At last a
                     native of Provence was found on board of the Roxelana that could
                     speak Chinese a little, and on board of the sublime Emperor's vessel a Chinese
                     that could speak Provençal tolerably, so that the two captains were at length
                     enabled understand each other.
                  The result of this dialogue was that one-half the cargo of the Imperial vessel
                     Captain Kao-Kiou-Koan passed at once into the hold of the trading bring Roxelana, Captain Pamphile.
                  And as this cargo was composed entirely of coffee, rice and tea, the result was
                     that Captain Pamphile had no occasion to stop at either Mocha, Bombay or Pekin;
                     which was a great saving to him in time and money.
                  This put him into such good humor, that, on passing the Island of Rodrigo, he
                     bought a parrot.
                  "Gentlemen," said Jadin, breaking off, "as it has been impossible for me to
                     learn whether this parrot was a Jacot or a Cacatoës, and as the thing was
                     important, I wrote to Captain Pamphile to obtain from him the most exact
                     information relative to the family of this new personage that we have brought
                     upon the stage; but, after having disposed of his merchandise to advantage he
                     had departed on his eleventh voyage to the Indies. Madam Pamphile did me the
                     honor to reply, that her husband would return about the months of September or
                     October next. I am compelled, then, to defer, till that time, the continuation
                     of the history of James I and James II."
                  This declaration of Jadin's naturally recalled the minds of all of us to the
                     present, and our eyes to the clock. It was midnight, the military hour for
                     nearly all of us that lodged above the fifth story.
                  Each one got up to retire, when Fau reminded Doctor Thierry, that there was
                     still a verification of his assertion to be made.
                  The Doctor took the jar, exposed it to the view of all of us. There was not a
                     single fly left; in exchange Mademoiselle Camargo had reached the size of a
                     turkey egg, and seemed to have come out of a pot of wax.
                  Each one went away complimenting Thierry on his extensive erudition.
                  Next morning we received a letter conceived in the following words:
                  "Messrs. Louis and Alexander Decamps have the honor of informing you of the
                     grievous loss they have just suffered in the death of Mademoiselle Camargo, of
                     indigestion, during the night of the second of September."
               
            
         
      
   
