
    ----CITATION----
        Greenough, Richard S., Mrs. (1827-1885). In Extremis .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6554
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            In extremis :
             
                 IN EXTREMIS.      IN EXTREMIS. A NOVELETTE. BY MRS. RICHARD S. GREENOUGH, AUTHOR OF "ADY TREMYSS"AND "ARABESQUE" BOSTON: ROBERTS BROTHERS. 1872.     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by R. S. GREENOUGH, In the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. CAMBRIDGE: PRESS OF JOHN WILSON AND SON.   TO "F0 E L+OR "1FLOS E FLORE."     I   Jo I. UNCLE MERTOUN.     iPl   IN EXTRE1MS. I. THE summer after I left school I was very weak and languid. The doctors said I had overworked myself, and mamma took me to Lenox, hoping that the bracing air would strengthen me. I did not suffer any pain, I only felt tired all the time, so that I did not care to read or talk; but I was very happy, lying still all day long in the hammock on the piazza, watching the shifting cloud shadows and bursts of golden sunshine along the hills and over the val- leys, and enjoying the luxury of perfect rest. But I was still happier when my Uncle Mertoun, whom I had not seen for two years, arrived to pass his summer vacation     4      IN EXTREMIS. with is. He was a minister, and much older than mamma. How I loved him! I have never seen any one so lovable. There was an atmosphere of gentle tenderness about him that made sweet his slightest word. His very look was a benediction. He had suffered much in his life, but his own sorrows never clouded the joys of oth- ers; and if the shadows of his young wife and little new-born child glided always by his side, as I used to think they did, it was all clothed in viewless shining raiment, and chanting sweet soundless music to his ear. He lived in the life of others. He never seemed to think of himself. Yet sometimes when I stood beside him in the evening and saw his gentle, thoughtful face upturned to- wards the stars, I would think I read on it a look of yearning, of longing, as if his soul were saying within him, "How long, O Lord! how long?"   UNCLE MER TOUN.      5 He had always been very fond of me, and I, who had no father, loved him as if he were uncle and father in one. I felt that he knew me better than any one else did, better even than mamma; and I was never so happy as when sitting by him and telling him all I thought and felt, as I could never do to any other person. His sympathy seemed to draw the words from my lips, the thoughts from my heart. And he was so tender, so gentle, so wise! I shall never again see any one like my Uncle Mertoun. He had been with us about a week, and was sitting one morning beside me on the piazza, and we were silently gazing together on the lovely, broad spread landscape, all shimmering with the glory of the summer sunshine, when mamma, with a letter in her hand, came out through the long, open win- dow, saying, "William, there is something that will in-     6      IN EXTREMIS. terest you in this letter," and she read: "I have just heard of the death of Mrs. Eyre at Interlachen." Uncle Mertoun did not speak for a mo- ment; then he said, solemnly, "That closes the tragedy." And he began to walk up and down the piazza with his hands clasped behind him. I was just going to say, "What tragedy?" But a warning look from mamma checked me. Presently Uncle Mertoun took his hat and walked away to the grove, and then I asked mamma what he meant. It seemed to me that I had heard the name of Mrs. Eyre before. "Of course you have," mamma answered. "She used to be Mrs. Irving. She was the mother of that beautiful Helen Irving, that pet of your uncle's, who married so strangely."   UNCLE MERTOUN.      7 "How did she marry strangely?"I asked. "Why, my dear," mamma said, "she married Mr. Alton, a horrid man, old enough to be her father, but immensely wealthy. All New York went to see her diamonds at Tiffany's. How your uncle felt about it I never knew, but it must have been a great shock to him. People can stand a good deal, but every one agreed that this was really a disgraceful match, and what made it all the stranger was that the girl had money of her own." "But why did Uncle Mertoun say, 'That closes the tragedy '?"I asked, after a pause. "Because, dear, the whole family has died off within the last two or three years. Mrs. Eyre was the last. But I must go and see my things put into the trunks now," said mamma, who was going for a fortnight to Saratoga. And she kissed me as I lay in my hammock, and went away, and I had no     8      IN EXTRE1IS. more opportunity then to question her any further. The day after mamma had gone, there came up from the post a letter and a heavy sealed packet for Uncle Mertoun. He read the letter before me, but he left the packet untouched until after our country early din- ner; then he took it up to his room. A long time, passed, but he remained upstairs. It began to rain, and I left my usual place on the piazza and laid down on the sofa in the parlour. At intervals I heard Uncle Mer- toun's step pacing the room above. That was the way in which he showed when any thing troubled him. I began to feel uneasy. He did not come down stairs until tea was ready. Then he came, paler than usual, and with a sadder look on his face than I had ever seen there. He ate almost nothing, and I grew more anxious than before. I did not dare to ask if any thing were the   UNCLE MER TO U.      9 matter, for although he was so gentle, I do not think any one ever questioned him about any thing he held in reserve, but I sum- moned courage to ask if he did not feel well. "I have no bodily ail, my child," he an- swered, and that was all. "He was very silent that evening and all through the next day. In the evening he went out alone on the piazza, but imme- diately called me to come. I went and stood beside him and looked with him upon a sight so grand, so glorious as I cannot describe. All the southern sky was wrapt in the illu- mination of a mighty, silent thunderstorm. The heavens were opened and let through such a blaze of glory that it almost seemed as if we saw the Great White Throne. I scarcely dared to look, so majestic, so awful was the sight. And darting towards the west, great fiery serpents ran along the sky, cleaving the outer darkness with their flam- 1'     I      IN EXTREMIS. ing links. We gazed long in total silence, then by slow degrees the glory darkened and the night closed down. After a while I said, "Uncle, though it has been so wonderful and glorious to us who stood here so far away that we could hear no sound, just think how terrible this storm has been to those close by." And he answered, "It is as you say, my child. And if it is true of the storms with- out, how much more true of the storms within. Yes, God's beauty is our terror, His love our agony, His blessing our desolation. His ways are past our finrding out. We can but trust and wait." He was silent for a while, then he said, "I am glad I saw this. I needed it. I have been very sad, dear." "Yes, uncle, I saw it, but I did not dare to speak," I said.   UNCLE MERTOUN.      I I After a few moments he spoke again. "Did your mother tell you any thing about Helen " "Yes," I answered, hesitatingly. " hat was it?" he asked. "She said she was beautiful and a pet of yours," I stopped. "And what more?" "And that she married an old man for money," I answered in a low tone, for I felt that I was giving him pain. "My poor Helen!" was all he said, but there was such a depth of compassion in his voice! We went back into the parlour, and he sat down on the sofa beside me and rested my head on his shoulder. -I knew the dear kind heart so close to me was aching, and I longed to say something to lessen its pain. Then I remembered how it had always comforted me to tell him my troubles, and how the     12     IN EXTREMIS. mere telling them to him seemed to lift their weight off my heart, and it seemed to me that perhaps putting his sad thoughts into words would be better for him than keeping them all locked up; so I said, though I was half afraid to say it, "Uncle, dear, would you mind telling me a little about your Helen? I should so much like to know about her." "Certainly, my child, if you wish it," he replied slowly; " but it will be a sad story for you to hear." "Please tell me all," I said. "Then I must begin with her father," he answered, " for my love for Helen was one with my love for him. How long ago it seems." And he stopped and was silent so long that I began to be afraid he had for- gotten that he was going to tell me about Helen. But at last he spoke. "When I was first settled at Eastlake I   UNCLE MERTO UN.     13 took pupils to fit for college. Helen's father was then about fifteen, a noble, spirited boy; and he was the first. We grew into friends. He wrote to me all through his college life, and through his travels in Europe afterwards; and when he was en- gaged, I was the first person to whom he sent the news. He was married abroad to an American girl he met in Paris, and about a year afterwards returned and settled him- self at the Pines. His wife was a lovely young creature, not of much force of char- acter, but gentle and winning; one of those appealing women who seem born only to be cherished and petted and loved. "A few months after their return I was wakened at midnight by an urgent sum- mons to the Pines. Mrs. Irving had been taken suddenly and dangerously ill. I found Frank in the library. The doctors had humanely sent him out of the sight of     "     IN EXTREMIS. his wife's agony. He wrung my hand, but we neither of us spoke. My own wounds were fresher then, dear, than they are now. I had felt all that my boy was feeling. My own past anguish was to me as the measure of his, and I wrestled with God in prayer that he would spare Frank that cup whose bitterness I had drained drop by drop to the dregs. All night I watched with him, passing continually from the library to the door of his wife's room, bringing what com- fort and encouragement I might; but her danger was gieat, and it seemed more than once that the last moment had come. Such hours as those try a man's soul. Frank's heart lay open to me as never before. My love for him doubled in that night; and when in the first red light of morning I led him upstairs, and his little new-born daugh- ter was laid in his arms, I forgot my own sorrows in gratitude for his happiness.   UNCLE MERTOUN.      15 "Helen grew into a singularly attractive and interesting child, high-spirited, gener- ous, impulsive, full of frolicsome pranks, and very warm-hearted. In her was a fund of passionate attachment for those around her, which could always be called upon to bring her to reason when any thing went wrong. She was especially fond of running away to the parsonage, where she would play by the hour in the garden porch out- side my study, and where she was alter- nately petted and scolded by my old servant, who had petted and scolded Frank when he was my boy pupil, and who inwardly delighted in Helen's most mischievous feats, even while austerely taking her to task for them. But under all her gayety I saw, while she was still very little, indica- tions of a peculiarity of temperament that made me anxious.  She was tender and pitiful in the extreme to the distresses of     I6     IN EXTREMIS. others, but she never wanted any pity for herself. She shrank instinctively from sympathy. Not when she was glad. When she was happy she wanted all the world to share her happiness, but if any thing grieved her, she kept it to herself; she found no solace in telling of her pain. It was strange and sometimes sad to see her reticence, child as she was. -I remember that she had a dog called Puck, a little ragged, ugly Scotch terrier, with a dash of colly blood in him. To do him justice he was the most loving and intelligent little creature I ever saw. He was her inseparable companion for a year. Then he died. The child's grief was dis- tressing to behold, yet, intense as it was, it was silent. She never talked about her dead pet, but would shut herself up alone and mourn by the hour together. And she could never be induced to give him a suc- cessor. If it were proposed, her eyes   UNCLE MERTOUN.      I7 would fill with tears, and for only answer she would shake her head; but she never spoke of him. I always vaguely felt that there was something ominous in the child's reserve and tenacity of feeling. It was the little warning cloud seen at times even then. But there would be months when it would not show itself, for she was of a gay and cheerful nature, full of laughter and frolic, usually the happiest of little children; and so she grew up, loved by-all, and loving all around her. She was de- voted to her mother, tireless in waiting on her, for Mrs. Irving had never been well again since Helen's birth; but she fairly doted on her father. Tender as was the love between her and her mother, the bond between her and her father was a far closer one. Their minds kept step, all unequal as were their ages. They seemed to under- stand each other without the aid of words. B     I8     IAr EXTREMIS. They had the same tastes, the same talents. She early showed her father's love for music, and I think I never saw her so pleased as on that first evening, when after weeks of patient toil, the little thing perched herself upon the music stool and faultlessly played the accompaniment for her father as with his clear ringing voice he sang K6rner's Battle Hymn." "But how could such a child appreciate music like that?"I asked. "Because, my dear, she had a natural and intuitive appreciation for all that was noble and beautiful. Her mind was like a touchstone for the pure gold of Art. She had the poetic temperament, -that tells it all." "Please go on," I said, for I was afraid that he would again lose himself in his thoughts away from his story. "Yes, dear," he answered, but he didn't   UNICLE MER TO UI.     9 go on for some time, and I determined then not to interrupt him again. After a while he said "Those were happy days. I do not like to leave them, but to tell you her story I must. Helen never went to school nor had a governess. Frank and I taught her ourselves. We loved her too much to trust her to strangers. Suddenly, when Helen was fourteen, Frank fell ill. An epidemic had broken out in a manufactur- ing village near us. It was the old story-- bad drainage and bad water. The authori- ties were helpless and ignorant. Frank came to the front. He improvised a hos- pital, employed workmen, oversaw and directed them himself under the burning August sun, and just when the work was done, he fell ill with the prevailing disease. He had risked his life knowingly to save  that of others, and he lost it. One more     20     IN EXTREMIS. mystery where all is mystery, all save the love of God. "Night and day Helen and I watched over him. A friend supplied my place in the parish. I could not leave my boy. I think from the first Helen knew that he would die. There was a rigidity about her mouth, a fixed, dilated look in her eye, that never left her during that dreadful week. He was unconscious; -that was merciful. It would have been harder to bear had he known us. How Helen endured the fatigue I cannot tell, but she never left her father for more than a few minutes at a time. She took all the doctor's orders and saw to every thing herself. Mrs. Irving was ut- terly prostrated from the moment Frank fell ill, and was only an added care. Even then, when I knew that her soul was wrung to the uttermost, Helen made no moan. It was not hardness, there was no hardness in   UNCLE MER TO UN.     2I her. It was that same strange, shrinking reserve she had always shown.  In the midst of all her anxiety she was as thought- ful for me as if she had nothing else to think of. My food, my rest, all was seen to by her; her tender care of me never failed; and more than once as I sat looking at Frank, I felt her hand laid caressingly on my forehead or shoulder, and her lips pressed on my cheek. She was ever ready to give that loving sympathy which she shrank from receiving. My heart ached for her, but I could say nothing to help her. "Seven days we watched him, and then the last came. Helen and I were alone with him that night. The red morning rays were streaming into the room, the very room where fourteen years before his child had been laid in his arms, when Frank died - quietly - no struggle - breathing away his life. As I laid down the hand I had     22     IN EXTREMIS. been holding, Helen dropped on the foot of the bed and fell asleep. It was the first time I had seen her sleep since Frank was taken ill. I sat and watched them both. She slept until the cautious stir of the house roused her. Then she stood up - I do not think she knew she had slept - said 'I must go to mamma,' and left the room. There was no tear, no sob, no cry, but I saw the great vein in her throat pulsing as she turned away. "Ten minutes later Mrs. Irving's hysteri- cal shrieks ,were sounding through the house, and Helen's watch beside her father was exchanged for one beside her mother, who was half delirious with grief, and utterly incapable of controlling herself. "Those days changed Helen from a child into a woman. I think she then first com- prehended her mother's weakness of char- acter, but the perception did but increase   As       DUNCLE MERTOOUN.     23 her tenderness. I judged from words that she let fall at this time that she looked upon the care of her mother as a legacy from her father, and that she had formed the resolu- tion to bear through life her mother's burdens as much as was possible.  Her governing idea was to fill, as far as she could, Frank's place. The whole charge of the household, which was a large one, F .  devolved upon her.  She continued her father's correspondence with the various be- nevolent and charitable societies, to which he was a contributor, she oversaw the work- men on the place and carried out all Frank's plans for its improvement. It was too I:  much care and responsibility for so young a girl, but if I said so she only answered ap- pealingly, 'Please let me work. I must work.' And I saw that in work she found the only alleviation of her unspoken grief. "So the fall and winter passed. Helen   e--*W      24      IN EXTREMIS. grew tall and slender, her face had quite lost its childlike look, her manner its old playfulness, and I began to feel seriously distressed as to the probable effect of such an unnatural life upon a girl of her age, when Mrs. Irving grew so much worse that they were ordered abroad for an indefinite time. It was a sad day for me when they left, but I was glad to have them go. "Helen wrote to me regularly. At first her letters were sad and full of homesick- ness, but little by little a healthier tone made itself felt in them.  Her artistic nature began to expand in the new exist- ence opened to her.  She haunted the galleries, the concert halls, the churches. She persuaded her mother into a Cathedral pilgrimage. She had masters, followed out her father's plans with regard to her educa- tion, and she especially devoted herself to music. The letter in which she told me of   UNCLE MERlTOU. 2U her voice having been tried by a greal master, and pronounced of fine quality and great compass, was written in an outhurst of delight. 'I have always envied the birds,' she wrote. 'In the morning at the Pines I used to lie awake listening to their song, beginning in soft, delicate whispers, and growing clearer and fuller as the day grew brighter, and ending at last in a burst so exulting, so full of thankfulness to God who made all things so glad and beautiful, that I used to cry because I felt so dumb and mute whilst listening to their sweet singing; and now to think that, perhaps, one day I may be a bird myself, and sing all I cannot speak, as they do!' "Her happiness in this newly discovered gift was intense; she had the best masters and practiced assiduously. Music became a passion with her. Yet, amid all her vari- ous interests, she devoted herself untiringly 2     26     IN EX7TYREMIS. to her mother, who, it was plain to see, leaned on her in all things. "It was in the second year they were abroad that she first spoke of their meeting a young man named Robert Hay, a distant relative of Mrs. Irving. He had recently inherited Easthourne from a cousin, -a place about five miles from the Pines. They were in Rome together, and Helen wrote in great glee that he was such a very sober and old young man that her mother trusted him to ride with her over the Cam- pagna, a pleasure for which she had been longing. From this time her mention of young Hay was frequent; he went every- where with them, and, as far as I could judge from her letters, was fairly installed as one of their party. He lent Helen books and studied up antiquities with her, and I soon saw had inspired hbr with a strong feeling of friendliness. But there   I - UNVCLE MER TO UN. ':  was not a touch of sentiment in any thii 1   that she wrote of him, and it was plain ji   me that if there were any love betwe( them it was all on his side. I made i quiries about the young man and learn that he bore a high character, that he ha graduated well at West Point, and that 1 was of a good old family, but of sma fortune; so that Easthourne was likely prove an incumbrance to him, as he w averse to selling or letting it, and could i afford the money to keep it up. At the en of the winter he came home and was in mediately sent to a post on the Wester *1  ffrontier, and little by little Helen ceased t mention him. J";   e"It was four years before Mrs. Irvin '1   and Helen returned. My first feeling o seeing Helen was of keen and painful die appointment. She was so altered that should not have known her. Not a trac     28     IN EXTREMIS. was left of my little laughing pet of old, nor of the pale, slender young girl I had said good-by to. My heart sank as I first caught sight of the unfamiliar face, ex- quisite though it was. It was not my little Helen: she was lost to me forever. But  the next moment her arms were round my neck, and I saw her eyes full of tears as she kissed me again and again with all her old childish warmth of affection. She had come back fresh, loving, unspoiled as when she left. She was still my little Helen. "She was filled with delight at getting home and seeing again her old friends and her old haunts, and resuming her former liberty. She had regained her early gayety and was full of girlish spirits. In a short time it seemed as if she had never left the Pines, so quickly did she knit together the threads which bound her present to her past. All her old interests and affections   UNCLE MERTOUr  .    29 she had kept intact, but every thing she did or planned had reference to her mother. It was easy to see that Mrs. Irving's comfort and pleasure was Helen's chief aim in all things. I never saw a more unselfish nature, and her sense of duty was most re- markable in one so young. Self-forgetful- ness comes usually only after hard combat and long discipline, but Helen possessed it as it were by the grace of God. And this complete absence of self-consciousness gave a peculiar and singular charm to her beauty. I doubt if she ever dreamed how beautiful she was. To one who had la- bored and toiled so long as I had done among the stony and barren places of life, sometimes well nigh despairing of the good in humanity, so much evil had it been my fate to see, the contact with this sensitive, joyous, healthy moral nature was such a re- freshment and solace as I cannot describe.     30     IN EXTREMIS. And she loved me so much. She treated me like a companion, and confided in me as if I were of her own age. "One day she appeared at the parsonage, her eyes bright with suppressed laughter, her whole face dimpling with mischievous merriment, and produced a letter for me to read. It was from a German who had met Helen abroad the year before, and had pro- posed for her. The letter was the most amusing specimen of broken English I ever saw. 'And poor mamma's in such a state,' she exclaimed with a burst of glee. ' She fairly wrung her hands when she got it, for she's dreadfully afraid of him, he is so tall and has got such bushy moustaches, and such a great, gruff voice. She told him last year that I was too young, only seven- teen, and she couldn't think of my being married. And he's so conceited he be- lieved that was the only objection, and so   UNCLE MER TOUN.     31 he's coming now that I'm a year older, to put me in his pocket and carry me away. He's an hereditary something or other, and he told mamma as an inducement to my marrying him, that he had power of life and death on his estates, and if anybody dis- pleased me he could hang them up on the nearest tree, and nobody had the right to say aly thing about it. Mamma almost fainted, for she immediately concluded that if I displeased him he would hang me up in the same cheerful little way.' I shook my head at her and told her that if this were a worthy gentleman and fond of her she had no right to laugh at him. Her face flushed with scorn as she replied, 'But he isn't fond of me, not a bit.' He went to our banker before he spoke to mamma about me, and he told a friend of ours that he knew I had " moche monee." But there's no use in being sober about it.     32     IN EXTREMIS. You will see. I am going to ask the twins to stay with me. One of them, you know, looks so much like me that we can scarcely be told apart. And he's near sighted too!' And Helen laughed aloud with delight. "She did as she had said. Her twin cousins came for a visit, and, as he had an- nounced, the young German appeared. He was a heavy, thick lipped, somewhat stupid looking youth, with a wholly disproportion- ate idea of his own importance. His visit at Eastlake was a series of mystifications, all planned and carried out with great glee by Helen, who was ably seconded by her cousins. The contretemps and complica- tions which the likeness between the two girls gave rise to, effectually bewildered the unfortunate man, and defeated all his efforts to gain a hearing. The Pines were alive with mischievous though demure mirth.   UNCLE MERTOUN.      33 Helen kept me informed of all that passed, and her. delight was unbounded when the German took his departure, as he did at last, completely baffled, not having found a single opportunity to urge his suit. I never saw a merrier creature than Helen was the summer she returned. "She especially delighted in singing to me. Music was as I have said a passion, almost a devotion, with her. I have heard other voices as clear, as full, and as sweet as hers, but I never heard any with the same touching quality of tone. I knew nothing of the German music which she loved so much, and her singing opened to me a new world. Sometimes when I sat at evening in the great drawing-room at the Pines, the air filled with the fragrance of flowers, the moon shining in and tracing the shadows of the vines upon the floor, the hush of summer stillness all around, whilst Helen's sweet, 2*       c     34     IN EXTREMIS. pure tones rose on the shadows, I would feel all earthly cares and griefs fall away from me, and her voice would bear me up and up till its sound seemed to mingle with the mur- mur of the crystal Waters of Life, and I would lose myself away from the music in dreams of that time when there shall be no more sorrow nor sighing, and God shall wipe all tears from the eyes that are so weary now and dim. "One evening Helen had been singing and we were all three sitting silent after she had ended, when a visitor was announced, a Mr. Eyre. Mrs. Irving received him very cordially, but although in the twilight I could not see Helen's face, I was struck by the coldness of her manner. She rang for lights despite the visitor's protest in favor of the twilight. When they were brought I saw a tall, well made man of middle age and decidedly handsome. But there was some-   UNCLE MER TO UN.     35 thing about him which impressed me un- favorably. His eye was cold and calculating, his forehead retreating, his nostrils were pinched, and there was a nervous indecision in the movement of his lips. The more I looked at him the less I liked him, although he certainly conversed very agreeably. I drew my chair a little back so as to take myself out of the circle and to be able to make my observations more at leisure. By his references I perceived that he had been a fellow-passenger with Mrs. Irving and Helen on their return, and I rather won- dered that Helen had never spoken of him, since he seemed on such friendly terms with her mother. I had not once since her return seen Mrs. Irving so animated as she now ap- peared, but in proportion as her mother's vivacity increased, Helen's reserve of man- ner deepened. She withdrew by degrees from the conversation, and sat with her eyes     36     IN EXTREMHS. cast down and a painful air of constraint over her whole figure. Mr. Eyre made a long call, and when he left it was with per- mission from Mrs. Irving to call soon again. I went home that night oppressed with a vague disquietude. And yet it did not fairly enter my mind that Frank's widow could en- tertain the idea of marrying again so soon, and moreover a man so inferior to Frank as was Mr. Eyre. Nevertheless from that time I was uneasy, and I saw that Helen was still more so. I learned from her that whilst she herself was kept in her berth by a severe sprain received soon after sailing, this Mr. Eyre had been devoted to her mother; but that she had never expected to see him again, and his appearance at the Pines was a most unwelcome surprise to her. She said nothing of her mother's evident pleasure at meeting him, and I could see that her sensitive and loyal nature would seal her lips with regard   UNCLE MER TO UN.     37 to any thing like an approach to censure of Mrs. Irving, whatever might be the event. It was a miserable time. Mr. Eyre came constantly, and before long made a parade of his attentions, while Mrs. Irving showed a childish pleasure in accepting them. Helen looked more and more wretched day by day. She withdrew from all mention of her mother. There was nothing for any one to do but to hope for the best. But the worst came. Before many weeks Mrs. Irv- ing had formally accepted Mr. Eyre, and three months afterwards I performed the marriage service for them. "All through this time, though grieved, perplexed, and astonished by this new phase of her mother's character, Helen's tone to her never varied from its tender and affec- tionate respect. When she came, at Mrs. Irving's request, to inform me of the engage- ment, she did so without any comment, save     38     IN EXTREMIS. to say,' If this makes mamma any happier, I ought to be glad.' But her lips quivered as she spoke, and it was plain to see how repug- nant the whole thing was to her. However, she did her utmost to like Mr. Eyre from the time of his engagement. Yet she could not help seeing what he was. There was a complete disagreement between them on every subject. His lpw, commonplace, sel- fish views were at utter variance with her generous and noble cast of mind. He an- noyed her without ceasing, but without in- tention and without perceiving that he did so, for he was obtuse and self-complacent. Fortunately Mrs. Eyre was blind to all his defects. I never could understand why she loved him, unless it were for his personal beauty and his good nature, for he was good- eitured. But love him she certainly did, and I think he was as fond of her as his sel- fish and limited nature allowed. He was a   UNCLE MERTO UN.      39 kind and attentive husband, and she, as I said, could see none of his faults, not even when they pressed heavily on Helen. "Mrs. Eyre had a large income in her own right. By the terms of Frank's will all his property, including the Pines, was secured to Helen. But from the time of Mr. Eyre's marriage he acted as if the Pines had become his own exclusive possession. He assumed the control of every thing, even to the laying out of the flower beds, which had hitherto been Helen's favorite charge. For some months she bore this assumption of authority in silence, unwilling, it was evident, to disturb her mother by any oppo- sition to Mr. Eyre. His obtuseness made him, I suppose, attribute this forbearance on Helen's part either to indifference or to fear, and his meddling became daily more ob- trusive. But one day he passed the limits of Helen's endurance. We were returning     40     IN EXTREMIS. together one afternoon from a walk under the just opening trees by the riverside, when as we entered the avenue we heard the sound of an axe. Helen started violently, then hurried forward. I kept pace with her. As we came to a turn in the avenue we saw two strange workmen hewing at a fine young maple, one of a clump that Frank had planted with his own hand. Helen was on the spot in an instant. ' Stop! she said, peremptorily. The men dropped their axes. She laid her hand on the already gashed and disfigured trunk. ' Who ordered you to cut down this tree?' she said, in a voice vibrat- ing with pain and anger. 'Sure it was the master, miss,' said the older of the two. Helen's eyes flashed. She pressed her lips tightly together and stood for a moment without speaking. Then she said, 'You seem to be strangers, and I must tell you that there is no master here save myself   UNCLE MERTOUN.      41 This place belongs to me. No orders are to be carried out except those that I give. Take your tools and go.' 'And the pay, miss ' asked the man, half sulkily, half sub- missively, 'who 's to pay us? We was hired to cut down them trees here that stands be- twixt the house and the road.' Go up to the house. Ask to see Mr. Eyre. Ask him for your pay, and tell him what I say,' she answered, haughtily. When the men were gone Helen threw her arms around the mutilated tree and pressed her forehead to its trunk. She fairly shook with emotion and excitement. I felt nearly as indignant as she did, and at the same time I was glad that something intoler- able had occurred to put an end to this false position. After a few moments I put my hand on her arm and drew her away. ' Was I right?' she asked, as we went towards the house. 'It was more than I could bear,     42     IN EXTREMIS. and yet I am so sorry to do any thing that may trouble mamma.' ' I told her she had done perfectly right, and that she might be sure Mr. Eyre would never let her mother know any thing about it. And so it proved. Mr. Eyre met us with unusual suavity, he was almost cring- ing in his politeness to Helen. He tacitly accepted the situation as she had defined it, and from that day Helen resumed her right- ful place in the household. But the Pines had become distasteful to her. Her mother, absorbed as she was in her new ties, no longer needed her society as she had done before, and Helen's chief occupation was gone. She gradually formed the habit of passing much of her time at the parsonage with me. She sent to New York for a cabinet piano for my little parlour, and she used to practise there, for she especially disliked singing before Mr. Eyre. She had   UNCLE MERTOUN.      43 lost most of her former interest in studying and reading, but she sang more than ever. She was lonely and sore at heart, poor child, and it was a relief to her to sing all that she could not and would not speak. "It was just then that Robert Hay came to Easthourne. One day towards sunset, as Helen was driving me in her pony carriage, we overtook on the brow of a hill a horse- man who had checked his horse and was looking down over the broad expanse of the valley. His powerful figure was relieved against the golden sky, and as I caught sight of his face in passing, I thought how well its manly features and somewhat stern ex- pression suited with his commanding atti- tude. "When we had gone by, Helen said quietly, 'That is Robert Hay.' Before I had time to answer, we heard the beat of his horse's hoofs, and he rode up to the car-     "     IN EXTREMIS. riage and asked me the way to the Pines. Helen bent forward smiling  and said, 'Robert!' The young man looked quickly at her with a surprise which changed into half incredulous pleasure. 'Helen!' was his answer, and the next moment he was on her side of the carriage, their hands were clasped, and they were exchanging the greetings of old friends. He was on his way to call at the Pines, but finding that Helen was going back to take tea and spend the evening with me, he accepted the invi- tation to return with us. "It was a pleasant evening, the pleasant- est we had passed for months. Young Hay could scarcely take his eyes from Helen, and when she laughingly taxed him with having forgotten her face, he frankly owned that he had not recognized her. I liked that he said it without any compliment, open or implied, for I saw that he had not   UNCLE MERTOUN.      45 expected her to be so beautiful. He had come only to look at Easthourne, and in- tended to spend the rest of his leave of absence in travel. "But day after day passed, and week followed week, and still young Hay re- mained. He spoke no more of leaving, and seemed to have forgotten all his first plans. It was plain to see that he was becoming deeply interested in Helen. But Helen's sentiments were more difficult to make out. She treated him with frank and even affec- tionate cordiality, was always pleased to see him, would walk, ride, and drive with him by the hour together, but I could see no consciousness of any new emotion on her side. She was simply renewing an old friendship, that was all. I used to wonder at her, for Robert Hay was such a man as might well interest any girl; a noble fellow, staunch as iron, true as steel. He was more     "     IN EXTREMIS. grave and thoughtful than most men of his age, but he had led a peculiarly isolated life, and his affections had had but scant food to nourish them. It was beautiful to see the softening of his somewhat stern na- ture under the influence of his fast increas- ing attachment to Helen. His eye became gentler, his voice took new inflections, his smile grew tender when he looked at or spoke to her; his whole being seemed draw- ing in sunshine. And all this time I think he was totally unconscious of the state of his own mind. His habit was to deal with outer facts, not inner fancies; a man prompt in action, cool in reflection, not given to curious speculation and study of things within; and, in the absence of nearer rela- tives, he was disposed to attach much weight to the relationship between Helen and him- self, distant though it was. He thought he cared for Helen simply as a cousin and a   UNCLE MERTO UN.      47 friend. It was Mr. Eyre who opened his eyes. "I had seen for some time previous to this that Mr. Eyre was becoming restless and pre-occupied. He complained of the neces- sity of going so often to New York, and talked about giving up business.- He had also, it appeared to me, taken a dislike to the Pines since he could no longer command there, and he used frequently to speak of his conviction that the air of Eastlake was not good for his wife, and that she would be in better health if she were in Europe. Like most people of his superficial stamp, he con- sidered Paris an earthly paradise, and I could see that he was now incessantly working upon his wife to induce her to say that she wished to live there. But one of Mrs. Eyre's few strong points was great force of local attachment, and she was so fond of the Pines that I did not think it probable he would succeed. But I was mistaken.     48     IN EXTREfMS. "One day I had been dining there in com- pany with young Hay. The dinner had been a cheerful one, for Mr. Eyre was in remark- ably good spirits, and Robert and Helen were always happy when near each other. Mrs. Eyre was more silent than usual, but then she never talked much. After dinner she complained of headache, and Helen went with her to her room, whilst Robert and Mr. Eyre smoked their cigars on the piazza. Mr. Eyre took this opportunity to inform me that his wife had that morning told him she did not think her health would bear another winter at the Pines, and that he had decided to give up business and take her abroad. 'And Helen' I asked. 'Oh, Helen will go too, of course,' he replied. 'You don't suppose any thing would keep that girl away from her mother? And it's the best thing she can do, to go to Paris. With her beauty and her money, there's no   UNCLE MERTOUN.      49 reason she shouldn't marry as well as any girl who has gone out for the last five years. It's getting to be the fashion there to marry Americans. You'll see her a duchess yet, I'll be bound.' And his laugh sounded harsh and loud above our silence. Robert tossed away his cigar, folded his arms across his chest, and spoke not a word, but I felt as it were through the air the sudden shock and storm of emotion within him. Mr. Eyre, secure in his obtuse self-complacency, talked on, but neither of us heeded or answered until he said, And to-morrow I shall write to engage our passages in the steamer of the third of August.' 'So soon' I said, and just then Helen came down looking ex- tremely disturbed. She told Mr. Eyre that her mother wished to see him. He went, and she sat down by me and took hold of my hand. 'He has told you what mamma has been telling me,' she said, looking sor- 83      D     50     IN EXTREMIS. rowfully up at me, without noticing the hungry look Robert riveted upon her. I nodded. 'Just as I was being so happyI' she added; and then we sat without speaking till Mr. Eyre came down, bringing his wife with him. The conversation was uneasy and interrupted, there were too many under-cur- rents, and before long Robert and I took our leave. He parted from me at the gate of the Pines, instead of walking home with me as he usually did when we had been to- gether. I pitied the young fellow from my heart, but I did not dare to say a word of even implied encouragement. It seemed evident to me that Helen cared for him only as a friend. "Early the next day I received a note from Robert. He had left Eastlake on im- portant business, and wrote to say good-by. In the course of the morning Helen came. There was a startled, unquiet look in her   UNVCLE MER TOUN.     5 eyes, very different from that of the day be- fore. I at once saw that she had heard from Robert. He had written to her mother, and sent a farewell message,-that was all. Helen went presently out of the study, for she had found me busy on a sermon, and stood leaning against one of the pillars of the garden porch, and absently playing with the tendrils of the vine that clambered round it. I looked up and saw her through the open door. I see her now as she stood, her white-clad figure resting against the green- wreathed column, her graceful head bent down, the light unconscious movement with which she slowly passed the little tendrils through her fingers. She was absorbed in her thoughts, she did not know that I was gazing at her. It was not Helen alone that I was watching, it was the eternal dream of humanity clothed in human form. I felt that the great miracle of God was being     52     IN EXTREMIS. wrought in the soul before me, and I sat reverent, as became the holy time. Like slowly moving shadows on still waters, the onward movement of her thoughts pictured itself upon her face. Its absent, dreamy look deepened into wistfulness, then sad- dened into regret. Then as I gazed on my darling, I saw a look of reverence grow up- on her face, then of humility. She stood motionless now, the vine tendrils had fallen from her touch. After a while she slowly folded her hands and looked upward. I saw her upturned face but for one instant. My old eyes filled with tears. I felt an aching tenderness towards her, as before me she passed with maiden step from out the gates of childhood, carrying her new-born love in her heart. When I looked up again Helen was gone. "Day after day passed, and I heard noth- ing of Robert. Helen was kept very busy   UNCLE AMERTOUN.     53 by her mother's manifold anticipated wants for the voyage, for all of which, as usual, Helen was to make provision. But when- ever she could she came down to me, and always with a look of sweet repose upon her face, that no hurry nor home vexation could avail to chase. She had not reached the point of longing for Robert's presence. As yet it was enough for her to love. "One afternoon, about a fortnight after Robert had gone, I was sitting with her un- der the great pine trees beyond the lawn. It was a secluded spot, shaded and fragrant, her favorite haunt. She was very quiet and a little sad. I saw a clump of wind flowers growing not far from us, and I went and picked them and gave them to her. As she took them her eyes filled with tears, and I remembered that Robert had given her wind flowers the last time we had walked to- gether. As she still held them, a step drew     54     IN EXTREMIS. near, unheard on the thickly strewn pine needles. Robert was close to her before she was aware of his approach. Joy flooded her face. She sprang up with a short, quick cry, then flushed violently, her eyes fell, and she sat down again without a word. Robert took her hand, and bend- ing over her said, 'I have come back. You knew I would come back.' Then turning to me he told how he had gone to Washing- ton to offer to the War Department an in- vention of his which he had had by him for some time; that it had been well received, and he had reason to suppose it would be ultimately accepted. He stopped and looked at Helen, and then I saw why he had gone on to Washington. I went and left them alone together under the pines. "When I next saw Helen her face wore that radiance that comes but once. And although she told me nothing, I saw without   UNCLE MERTOUN.      55 the telling that Robert had spoken and that her heart was at peace. "Mr. and Mrs. Eyre were entirely uncon- scious of what was taking place before them. Young Hay, in virtue of his relationship, had been made at home at the Pines, and his peculiarly grave manner and serious cast of mind gave him the appearance of being so much older than he really was, that the idea of his becoming attached to Helen ap- parently never entered the head of either her mother or step-father. "Soon after his return from Washington, Robert went back to his post. I at first dreaded the effect of his departure on Helen, but I had no cause for fear. So strong was this new affection that it seemed to lift her above the sorrow of parting. The time for the sailing of the steamer drew near. All was in readiness for their leaving, when suddenly there came an unex-     56     IN EXTREMIS. pected crisis in the money market, one of the severest we have ever had. It spread terror and ruin through the country. Banks broke one after the other, the firmest houses stopped payment, money could not be had, no one's credit stood safe.- It was a time of dismay. I hastened to New York to see about some investments in which I had placed the greater part of my little property. As I was going down the city in an omnibus, Mr. Eyre got in. He did not see me. His face was haggard and drawn, his eyes were bloodshot. He looked like a man who saw ruin close upon him. I had short space for observation. He got out at the end of a few blocks. "I found my money safe, and went back to Eastlake. At the end of some days Mr. Fyre returned, looking fatigued, but otherwise much the same as usual, saVe that he seemed feverishly anxious to get   UNCLE MERTOUN.      57 away; and it was decided that they should try to exchange their passages for still earlier ones. "A few days after Mr. Eyre's return, Helen came in looking perplexed and annoyed. She said that a Mr. Alton, a friend of Mr. Eyre's, had called the day before, and had been, invited to dine at the Pines. She asked if I knew any thing of him. I knew him by report, and did not wonder at Helen's repugnance to having him asked to the house. He was a self- made man, no longer young, and had led what is called a fast life. He had never been married. He was a noted financier, and had accumulated a very large fortune. Whenever I met Helen during the ensuing days, she seemed preoccupied and anxious. I saw her but little save in company, for there was an incessant round of entertain- i  ments at the Pines, all given in honour of -\ 3*     58     IN EXTREMIS. Mr. Alton. He seemed to be completely fascinated by Helen, and took no pains to conceal his admiration. She seemed an- noyed by it, but did not appear to take it at all as a serious thing. But I soon per- ceived that he was deeply in earnest, and as I saw the look on his face as he sat gazing at her, I felt a sense of uneasy apprehen- sion which defied my reason. Helen's manner to him never varied in its cold, sweet dignity, but I noticed that she never came towards that part of the room where he was, if she could possibly avoid it. "He had been at Eastlake about ten days, when one morning Mrs. Eyre came hastily into my study, threw herself down and burst into an agony of tears. It was some time before she could speak; at length she begged me to get into the carriage and go back with her to the Pines, to see Helen, to talk with her; to reason with her, to im-   UNCLE MERTOUN.      59 plore her not to do this dreadful thing. She could scarcely bring herself to speak the words, but finally she told me that Helen was going to marry Mr. Alton. I thought Mrs. Eyre had suddenly lost her senses, and tried to calm and soothe her as best I could. She saw what I thought, and said she did not wonder I believed her crazy, but declared that it was true, and said that Mr. Eyre had told her so that morning just before he had gone to town. But I still thought her insane and still tried to calm her excitement. How could I be- lieve her! She went on to tell me that when she came home from driving the day before, she had found Helen locked in her room, and she did not leave it all the rest of the day; that in the morning when Mr. Eyre told her she couldn't believe him. She ran up to Helen's room and knocked, and begged a long time to be let in before     60     IN EXTREMIS. Helen opened the door. Helen had not been in bed all night. She looked exceed- ingly ill. She had told her mother she was going to marry Mr. Alton, and had not answered a word to Mrs. Eyre's arguments, expostulations, and entreaties. "Mrs. Eyre's whole story seemed to me utterly incredible, but despite myself I began to feel alarmed. There was no mis- taking the reality and depth of the mother's distress, and there was no incoherence, no wandering in what she said. Yet, how was it possible to believe that Helen, my Helen, Frank's child, could do this thing! A con- fusion of sore and bitter thoughts rose within me as I went back to the Pines with Mrs. Eyre. I had spent my life in battling with the yearly increasing poison of world- liuess around me. I had sought with all the strength God had given me, to lift those committed to my charge above the low,   UNCLE MERTO UN.      61 material views which pervade society. I had striven to show them the beauty of things unseen, the blessedness of purity, the sanctity of truth, the holiness of love; and now here was the plague-spot of cor- ruption showing itself upon the one soul which had seemed to me above suspicion of such taint. ' Helen, even Helen!' I repeated to myself over and over again, as I waited for her to come down. Presently a message was brought saying that she would see me in her mother's sitting room upstairs. The room had formerly been Helen's nursery, and had been but recently fitted up anew. As I entered it, her happy childhood rose before me. How often in this room I had seen Frank tossing her, a baby, in his arms, and laughing like a boy as he carried her on his shoulder, or lifted her to kiss the pictures on the wall. And now Frank was dead, and Helen- How should I, whom he     62     .IN EXTREMIS. so loved and trusted, answer to him for that little one, just grown to womanhood- this day entering on her fearful, downward path! The door opened, and Helen entered and stood before me. As I looked upon her face, all the anger died out of me. There was no room left for any thing but compassion. I went to her and took her hand. 'Helen,' I said, 'Helen, my dear, dear child!' And I led her to the sofa and sat down by her, and drew her -to me and rested her head upon my shoulder. She sat silent. After a while I said, ' Helen, have you nothing to say to me ' She whispered, 'Nothing.' I waited a little, then I said, 'Is what your mother has told me true?' She did not reply. 'Tell me,' I said, 'is it, can it be true that you are going to marry Mr. Alton?'  She paused for a moment, then  slowly answered, 'Yes.' Then there was again silence between us,   UN27LE MERTOUN.     63 a silence in which I felt my heart drawing away from hers. I released her from my arm and said, ' Helen, do you know what you are doing? You are throwing away your every chance of earthly happiness. You are laying up for yourself a life of misery such as you cannot as yet imagine, such as will be revealed to you too late. So surely as I speak here to you, the days will come when you will pray the rocks to fall upon you, the mountains to cover you, and will pray in vain.' Still she sat silent. 'Child,' I said, ' do you know that you are about to lose the respect of all whose respect is worth having, that you are about to degrade yourself to the level of the lowest of your sex? Do you dare to face this earthly, this eternal shame? Do you dare to draw down God's curse upon your head?' She quivered all over as I spoke. For an instant I thought I had moved her,     "     IN EXTREES. but my hopes fell as she answered in the same tone as before, 'I must.' 'Do not say "I must," ' I replied with growing indig- nation. ' No earthly power can force a girl in this country into such a marriage as this. Say, "I will." Say "I have cast good repute, peace, innocence and truth, behind me." Say, "I have denied the love within me; I have deceived the man who trusted me-" Helen stretched out her hands towards me in supplication, then dropped them, and I saw her lips turn white; but as I watched for her yielding, again the look of resolve hardened upon her face. She stood up and looked me steadily in the eyes. 'I know all you have said is true,' she answered. ' I know that from to-day you will never res- pect nor care for me nor love me any more; that no one ever will again, except mamma. And yet, wicked and heartless as you think me, and as I seem, I cannot do any thing   UNCLE MERTOUN.      65 else. I must marry Mr. Alton. And now, good-by; say good-by for this one last time to your little Helen.' And she came to me and wound her arms about my neck, and kissed me on my lips. "I think it was the mercy of God that sent at that instant conviction through my mind. I clasped her to me, and I said, as well as I could for weeping, ' Helen, I love you, I trust you; I will believe in you, and I will wait for this mystery to be cleared up, if I must wait until we meet before the judgment seat in Heaven.' One heavy sob broke from her as I held her to me, then she commanded herself as she had done throughout. Again she kissed me, and then the door closed upon her, and I went home to pray for light to be made within this darkness. But it was not the will of God to answer me. "The marriage was pushed forward by Mr. E     "     IN EXTREMIS. Alton with, what seemed to me, indecorous haste. The plan of going abroad was post- poned. The family was to travel for six weeks. Then Helen was to be married. They left the Pines and Mr. Alton joined them in New York. The engagement was publicly announced. I saw it noticed in the daily papers, and Helen's beauty com- mented upon as if she belonged to the stage. I knew Robert would see the an- nouncement. I was in a state of great perplexity. I wanted to write to him, but what could I say? There was the truth, and I could say nothing to lessen its bitter- ness. I waited until one day there came to me d letter from the far West. I knew as soon as I saw it that it was from young Hay. It contained only the words, 'Is it true ' I wrote to him and told him word for word my interview with Helen. It was all I could do. I could not clear up what   UNCLE MER TOUN.     67 was so mysterious. I could but hope that the conviction 1 held that Helen was not a voluntary agent would take hold of his mind also. I never had any answer from him. c"Helen did not return to the Pines until the day before her wedding. I could not bear to perform the marriage ceremony for her, and I had written to Mrs. Eyre saying so. But in her answer she implored me not to refuse, and said that it was the only thing about which Helen had expressed any wish. I yielded, but it cost me a severe struggle. Apart from my unwillingness, I doubted my right, as a minister of God, to assist at this mockery of the great and holy Sacrament of Love. But my affection for Helen overbore my questionings. In her request I felt her unspoken prayer for the support of the presence of her old friend in this anguish; and so I took my place at the     68      IN EXTREMIS. altar on that morning, feeling sadder far than if I stood waiting for the coffined corpse of my darling to be brought in and laid down before me to speak over it the farewell words of peace. "The church was crowded and rustling with life, but as Helen entered and every eye was turned upon her face, there was a sudden hush. She stood before me shrouded in lace and glittering with diamonds; beau- tiful, but with the wan, inanimate beauty of death itself. I wished, as I looked at her, that she had died before she stood before me thus. I read the service over them. Mr. Alton's responses echoed through - the church; there was something almost defiant in their tone. Helen's lips moved as she repeated the words after me, but no sound came forth.  As she turned from the altar and passed down the aisle on her husband's arm  there was a silence   UNCLE MERTO UN.     69 through the gazing crowd as of awed com- passion, none of the customary joyous stir and murmur of voices; in silence they dis- persed; the tones of the organ ceased, and all was over. "Mr. Alton took Helen on a wedding tour. At the end of a month he brought her back to the Pines. When I saw her I felt as if I saw a stranger. She seemed as if she had been frozen. A barrier was around her which no sympathy could overpass. "She spent most of her time bending over her embroidery frame, mechanically occupying herself. She did not take any interest in what was going on around her, she did not listen to or even seem to hear the conversation that passed before her. She never opened the piano, nor touched a pencil, nor read a book, but sat in her mag- nificent toilette - for Mr. Alton chose she     70     IN EXTREMIS. should always be superbly dressed--hour after hour moving her hand back and forth over the frame before her.  Her soul seemed to have gone away from her, to have withdrawn itself where my loving thought could not follow. "Mr. Alton was devoted to his wife. He was untiring in his efforts to give her pleasure, in his care for hei comfort. He watched her unceasingly, guarding her from heat, from cold, from fatigue, from all that might annoy her, with a solicitude that began to touch me, despite my constant sense of indignation at the cruel part he had played. Contact with Helen seemed to have developed something finer in his nat- ure than he had known before. I began against my will to feel something like com- passion for him, as it became evident to me how bound up in her he was. Helen's manner was to him what it was to every one   UiNCLE MERTOUN.      71 else, not excepting her mother,--distant, cold and lifeless. I could see him some- times wince under it, but it did not alter his devotion. "I was passing the evening at the Pines, some weeks after Helen and Mr. Alton's return. Mr. and Mrs. Eyre were in the library. I was alone with Helen and her husband. She was, as usual, bending over her embroidery frame. Candles were burn- ing on a little stand near her, and cast their light upon her work. It illumined her profile and separated her from the rest of the room. Her husband sat at some dis- tance, watching her with a weary, care- worn look on his face. I did not wonder at the fixedness of his gaze, for I had never seen Helen look more beautiful.  Her dress, of some thin, light material, seemed like a blue cloud floating around her, and gave something transparent to the tints of     72     IN EXTREMIS. her face. She looked almost unearthly as she sat there, so lovely, so sad, so still. All at once, by an unguarded motion, she brought her arm against one of the candles at her side. Her loose sleeve took fire. The flame darted up higher than her head. With one bound her husband was on the spot. He caught the tissue in his hands and pressed out the blaze before it had harmed her.  Then he went back to his place, ashy pale and trembling from head to foot. Helen went on with her embroidery as if nothing had happened.  Shaken though I was by the danger that had leapt forth to seize her before our eyes, I observed that her face had lost its stillness. A look of poignant regret had come over it. But as I looked and read, her features resumed their usual expression, and the curtain sank again between us. "A few evenings later Mr. Alton came   3H-     UUNCLE MER TOUN.     7 73 to see me, to bid me good-by. He was going to New York to fit up his house for Helen. As he was about to leave, he put into my hand a cheque for three thousand dollars, saying that the school house was not good enough, and that he would like to have a new one put up. I had wanted one for a long time, and was much gratified. As I thanked him, I said, 'That will please Helen.' 'Please her! I wish any thing would please her,' was his rejoinder, and he got up and began to walk up and down the room. Presently he came and threw him- self down on a chair in front of me, and said, 'Mr. Mertoun, I judge from your face that more than one man has told you what he wouldn't any one else, and I'm going to now. The worst thing I ever did in my life was marrying that girl. I wish to God I hadn't, but it's too late for wishing now. I didn't know what I was doing. I judged 4     74     IN EXTREMZS. her by the other women I'd known, and I thought that kindness and petting, and giv- ing her finer things than any one else had would make her happy.  I never really    cared for any woman but one before. And I did love her. I was young then. I toiled day and night to get money enough to marry her. I did the work of two men. And just as I thought I saw every thing clear before me, she jilted me. Married a  richer man. That was the end of the good in me. I've been bad enough since then, but not so much worse than other men are, only I took no pains to conceal it. And I've been a prosperous man; that is, I got whatever I wanted. I wanted Helen, and'I've got her; and I wish I'd never seen her face. If I weren't a coward I'd kill myself and let her go. I love that girl with all the strength that's in me. And listen to this,- I woke up one night and heard her praying   UNCLE MERTOUN.      75 that she might die, or if God wouldn't let her die, that he would take her away from me where I should never see her, never look at her, never touch her again. My God! I've got my punishment. Think of a man hearing that from the lips of a woman he's mad for! And I deserve it - that's the worst of it. She told me before I married her, that she loved another man. She begged me not to marry her. And I, brute beast that I was, I wouldn't listen to her. I'd better have cut her throat. It would have been more merciful.' I interrupted him. ' For God's sake tell me,' I exclaimed, ' how could you force Helen into marrying you against her will ' 'I'd tell you, only I've sworn not to; and Helen has sworn, too. The Devil had the making of that oath, I reckon,' he answered with a short, fierce laugh. ' I wish she'd curse me. Her gentle, stony ways are harder to bear. I     76     IN EXTREMIS. see she tries not to hate me. She fights against it, but it's stronger than she is. And the more she hates me the more I love her. I'd give every drop of blood in my body to see her look at me once and smile. But there's only one thing I can do to make her smile, and that is to do away with my- self. Good night. There's nothing you can say. I've told you, for the sake of speaking out for once whlat's inside of me. If ever I do blow my brains out, there'll be one person now who'll know the reason why.' And he caught up his hat and left the room before I had the opportunity to answer a word, even had I known what to say to him. "He went to New York the next day, where he remained some weeks. He did not once in that time come to visit Helen, though he was but a few hours distant, neither did he write to her. But scarcely a   UNCLE MERTOUN.      " day passed without bringing to her some- thing from him,-- the rarest flowers, the newest books, the costhest engravings, every thing that could be thought of to please her. Mrs. Eyre would show them to me when I went there, but Helen never mentioned them nor their giver. The life seemed dead within her. I could not see that she felt grateful even for the absence which I knew cost her husband so dear. My prejudices against Mr. Alton began to lessen. Surely there was something better in the man than I had believed. Inex- cusable as had been his conduct to Helen, I began to hope that, since the bond that united them was inseparable, she might finally bring herself to endure it peacefully, to find in the wealth of affection lavished upon her by her husband some compensa- tion for the love she had lost, and in the elevating and purifying effect of her influ-     78     IN EXTREMIS. ence upon him, to see that she was still doing God's work in the world. "I had occasion at this time to go to New York. As I was walking up Broadway one rainy afternoon, a brougham drew up at my side and Mr. Alton sprang out, saying that it was no day for me to be walking, and that he would take me wherever I wanted to go. I explained that I had done my day's work and was on the way to my hotel. He said that he would carry me there, but asked if I would not first go with him to see his house which was nearly ready. I con- sented, and we drove up town. I had heard of the habitual luxury of Mr. Alton's sur- roundings, but I was not prepared for the taste that had regulated the magnificence of Helen's future home. I found that he had cross-questioned Mrs. Eyre as to all Helen's preferences, and every thing had been chosen in conformity with them. He had   UNCLE MERTOUN.      79 even sent abroad for the best copies of the pictures she had most admired there, and had filled the conservatory, which opened from her bed room, with her favorite flowers, and had lined its walls with the delicate ferns she used to love so well. A statue of Hope, looking at a butterfly that had lighted on her arm, stood in a niche. It struck me with its hidden significance. I gave a quick look at Mr. Alton. Had this shrewd, hard, worldly wise man found in his newly-aroused tenderness such refine- ment of fancy as this? He turned as he met my glance, and walking to the door of the conservatory stood looking out and away from me, and I saw that I was right. And again I hoped that Helen might learn to love him. "Some days after my return Mrs. Eyre sent to ask me to dine at the Pines that evening, saying that Mr. Eyre and Mr.     IN EXTRHEMS.           j Alton were coming up by the afternoon train.  I accepted, and when I went to take my usual walk towards the close of the day, I turned my steps in the direction of the railway, which runs through a beautiful ravine, not far from the parsonage. I sauntered on through the little wooded path that overhangs the railway track. The sun was near his setting, and the air was full of golden mist, through which the long level line of the railroad stretched narrow- ing away.  As I stood still to enjoy the better the peaceful beauty of the scene, I saw the upward train advancing, glittering like a giant serpent as it rushed forward. It was close at hand, when past the curve behind me the belated downward train swept swift and steady, bearing directly down upon it. There was no time for pre- caution or halt.  The next instant the engines had crashed together, and, rearing   twenty feet into the air, stood ploughing at each other for one dreadful minute; then, with the coals pouring from them in a fiery stream, and clouds of steam rushing from their sides, they rolled together down the embankment into the ravine, dragging after them their heaving, disjointed lines of cars. Such a scene I pray God I may be spared from ever seeing again. There is no need to speak of its details. Till after nightfall I labored there with all who could be found to help, among the shrieks and moans of the crushed, mutilated, and dying. For a long time I was in suspense as to whether Mr. Eyre and Mr. Alton had been in the train, but as the last bodies were drawn forth from the shattered wrecks below, I recognized them. They had been sitting side by side, and their deaths had been probably immediate. " As soon as I could be spared, I hastened      82     IN EXTREMIS. to the Pines. The servants had told Helen and her mother that the upward train had been delayed and would not be in till very late. They had waited for me to break the news. I found Helen. I told her very gently, very cautiously. She rose to her feet, stood one instant gasping, then fell on her knees and hid her face in her hands. I trembled for what she was feeling. I laid my hand on her shoulder. 'Helen,' I said,' he loved you. May God have mercy on him now.' 'Amen!' she whispered, but she did not stir nor look up. ' Do not think now,' I said. ' I have need of you, Helen. I want you to come to your mother with me.' She rose obediently to her feet, but staggered and sat down on the seat nearest her, saying below her breath, ' One moment, one moment!' I stood beside her, praying inwardly for the soul of the man who had wrought so much misery upon her, and who   UNCLE MERTOUN.      83 had now gone to his account. Presently she rose and walking like one in a dream, led me to her mother's room. It was with a feeling of relief that I saw Mrs. Eyre fall into a swoon on hearing what I had to say. It was better for Helen, this immediate and pressing call upon her energies, and it blunted to her mother the first keen suffer- ing. Helen was prompt and efficient as she had always been, but I missed the loving tones and caressing words with which she had formerly ministered to her mother. There was something frozen about her even now, in the midst of her careful attendance and gentle nursing. And as the days went on, I was more and more struck by the me- chanical action of her mind. All impulse seemed to have died out of her. What she did appeared the result of thought, not of feeling. "I hoped that with the passage of time,     84     IN EXTREMIS. as all the circumstances of her life were so changed, this strange alteration in her char- acter would disappear; and I waited for the moment when she would now explain to me the mystery of her marriage. But I hoped and waited in vain. Still Helen's soul seemed frost-bound, still she was silent on her past. I tried to rouse her to activity on behalf of the many sufferers, far and near, from the accident. She did every thing that I suggested, and she became by degrees more interested in the accounts of the relief she afforded, than I had dared to hope. But she repelled the praises of her generosity that were spread abroad. 'It costs me nothing,' she said. 'I have more money than I know what to do with.' Mr. Alton had made a will directly after his marriage, bequeathing to Helen every thing he possessed. -' It is true, it costs you noth- ing to give money,' I said to her; 'but it   UNCLE MERTOUN.      85 will cost you an effort, and be an accept- able service, if you will go to the houses of these poor bereaved creatures and try to comfort them.' She looked at me with a sort of sad wonder in her eyes, a mute en- quiry, ' Am I one to give comfort?' 'Listen to me,' I said to her,' and believe me, for what I say I have myself proved to be true. In giving, you shall receive consolation; in sharing the bread of God's compassion to others, some crumbs shall surely fall to your own share. Speak to these poor creatures the message of God's love and mercy, and little by little the sense of his pity shall steal around you, and his peace shall de- scend upon you, and so shall you find rest unto your soul. I too, Helen, have passed through the Valley of the Shadow of Death; and though all earthly joy for me lies buried there forever, yet I can thank and praise God while waiting for the day that shall     86     IN EXTREMIS. clear up the mystery of why I was so sorely tried.' "She put her hand in mine as I ended, with something of her old caressing move- ment, but she did not answer me; and though from that time she constantly visited the poor and afflicted, she never told me that she had found rest unto her soul. "As the months wore on, Helen's mood became more variable. She was very young, and it was impossible but that she should show some tendency to reaction against the depression that weighed her down.  At intervals I caught a flicker of her old self, and her hopelessness seemed at times to be lifting as a mist rises from the landscape below. But these changes were fitful and far between. "After the first shock of her husband's death was over, Mrs. Eyre had accepted her bereavement with the gentle submission   UNCLE MERTO UN.      87 which belonged to her sweet, yielding na- ture. It was, perhaps, fortunate for her that her thoughts were drawn from exclu- sive dwelling upon her own loss, by her constant anxiety about Helen. She was totally ignorant of Helen's feelings towards Robert, and had ascribed her misery in prospect of her marriage and after it, to aversion to Mr. Alton only, without any conception of the affection for young Hay, which gave its keenest edge to the girl's suffering. She had expected that Helen's spirits would rise after her first natural awe at the suddenness of her husband's death had passed away; and she saw her unabated depression with alarm. She used to tell me of her anxiety, and wonder and question as to what could be the cause of Helen's persistent dejection. She said to me one day,' I did hope at last when I saw how he doted on her, that she would, little by     88     IN EXTREMIS. little, grow to care for Mr. Alton; and cer- tainly he had very much improved and grown almost another man since his mar- riage, and if she had loved him, even a little, this would be accountable; but she. didn't. I have seen her shrink all over when she heard his step in the hall; and the day he went away, the last time she ever saw him, he went up to her to bid her good-by, and stooped over her to kiss her forehead, and she shivered, and he looked so, I can't tell you; and then he lifted her hand and kissed it and went away without looking back. I used to almost hate him, but I didn't hate him then. But since Helen felt so about him, why is it that she seems just as unhappy now as she did when he was alive? If she cared for any one else that would explain it, but she didn't.' And I could not tell the poor mother the truth. It was plain enough to me that   UNCLE MER TOUN.      89 Helen was convinced that her marriage had alienated young Hay's affection from her for- ever. And remembering his lofty, earnest, and truthful nature, tinctured with a stern- ness. that might here show itself inexorable, I could not but fear that her apprehensions were well founded. Mr. Alton's words,-- 'And Helen has sworn, too,' -constantly recurred to me as I thought of this matter, and, coupled with the silence she so stead- fastly maintained as to the motives which had led her to the marriage, made me be- lieve that she was still bound by some in- explicable obligation to secrecy, and that she would not be able to justify herself even to Robert. But I never doubted that, were the truth to come out, her justification would be complete. I judged the facts by Helen's character, not Helen's character by the facts; and I hoped against hope that Robert would do the same, and that some day would see them happy together.     90     IN EXTREMIS. "So the winter passed on. I tried to persuade Helen to resume her old occu- pations, but she shrank from all mention of music, and it was only with difficulty that I prevailed on her to promise again to draw, if only for once. But I found her, one winter day soon after, returning from a walk with her sketch-book in her hand. I joined her, and after a little asked her to let me see what she had been sketching. She looked at first as if she would refuse, but presently she opened the book and showed me. It was a view taken from the top of a hill near by, in summer one of the loveliest of landscapes, but, seen as then, indescribably lone and drear. The skeleton trees, the ice-bound river, the frosted meadows, and the cold, hard sky, were all reproduced with a vigor and fidelity that gave full effect to the far-reaching sadness and deso- lation of the scene.   UNCLE MERTOUN.      91 "' You should have drawn it in summer,' I said; and as I spoke I turned back the leaf, and on the page preceding it I saw the same scene drawn in the flush and glory of summer-time. It was full of rejoicing life; the trees were waving as with a gentle wind, the soft white clouds were floating overhead, the pines were softly bending, and the little river ran clear through its fringed and winding path below. I felt that there was more in these sketches than met the eye,-an association, an inner mean- ing at which I could but guess; and as I saw the look with which she closed the book, I resolved not to ask her to draw again. "The spring came.  One day I heard that Robert Hay was on his way to East- lake. He was about to sell Easthourne, and some formalities were to be gone through which made his presence on the     92      IN EXTREMIS. spot necessary. The news filled me with uneasiness. I went to the Pines the next day. As soon as I saw Helen I knew that 'she had heard. The impassive look that had so long sealed her face was gone. Quick, tremulous life was thrilling through her, her lips were softly parted, the love light was in her eyes. Mrs. Eyre showed much interest in young Hay's arrival, and told me privately she was very glad he was coming, that Helen had always liked him, and that she hoped seeing him would amuse her and rouse her up a little. "The day after Robert's arrival, as I returned home from some parish duty, my old servant met me with a card in her hand. It was his. 'They say down in the village,' she remarked, ' that the Injuns, as he spends his life a fightin, are wus this year than they ever was afore; and I ex- pect it's true, for he looks so grim like, not   UNCLE MERTOUN.     93 a bit as he looked the last time he was here.' "My heart misgave me.  I went that evening to find Robert, for I wished much to see him before he met Helen. I thought that the knowledge of the evident misery she had endured might temper his wrath against her. But I did not succeed in find- ing him, and I did not see him until I went into the pulpit on Sunday and saw him in the Easthourne pew. He looked much older than he had done the year before, and his face had grown cold and hard.  I looked for Helen, but she was hidden from me. "When the morning prayers were over, and I stood up and looked around upon my people before beginning my sermon, I saw that Robert's face was still sterner and harder than it was before, and Helen, who was on the other side of the broad aisle,     "     IN EXTREMIS. directly opposite him, sat like carven stone. A flood of pity rose within me for those two before me. The apostle's words of old came to my lips. I left my sermon un- opened, and spoke from the text, ' Little children, love one another.' What I said came from my heart, and I hoped it might take hold on Robert's; but there was no softening of his face, and when I ended I felt that I had failed. "Mrs. Eyre met me, the next time I saw her, with a look of pained perplexity on her face. 'Do you know,' she said, 'I really can't make Helen out at all. Young Hay came here Sunday afternoon and she met him --and you know how much she used to like him  she met him as if he were a perfect stranger. Any one would have thought she had never seen him before in her life. I really felt hurt with her. He was very kind and pleasant, and talked a great deal   UNCLE MERTOUN.      95 about old times when they were together in Rome, and especially about last summer. But she grew stiller and stiller, and colder and colder, all the time he stayed. She scarcely answered him at all; and once when he spoke of that hill with such a beau- tiful prospect-the beech-grove hill, you know-- and asked her if she remembered walking there with him, and what a lovely afternoon it was, she did not even open her lips. I am so disappointed, I can't tell you,' she went on. ' I had counted so much on this little visit of Robert's; and instead of amusing and brightening her, as I thought it would, she seems worse since she saw him. She looks as if something had crushed her. What can it be?' "I knew too well. Mrs. Eyre had not exaggerated. I was shocked when I saw Helen. I had not been aware how she had, perhaps unconsciously, clung to the hope     96     IN EXTREMIS. of a reconciliation, till now that Robert's coldness had destroyed that hope. I feared more than his coldness. From what Mrs. Eyre had said, coupled with the inferences I had drawn from the two sketches, I feared that Robert was wilfully seeking to pain her by allusions to the past. It was unworthy, it was cowardly and cruel. But I had not then to learn for the first time how much of the savage lurks among men. I determined to speak with him. "A day or two later, as I was passing the churchyard, I saw a group of men within. Among them I recognized young Hay's tall figure. He was superintending the placing of a stone sarcophagus over the tomb of the cousin who had left him East- bourne. I went in and joined him. He received me with frigid courtesy, and I saw that he held me in part responsible for what had taken place.  But I did not   UNCLE MERTOUN.      97 choose to allow myself to be repelled. I stood by him till the work was done, and then walked with him towards the gate. As we passed Mr. Eyre's grave, the head workman came hurrying after us and said to Robert, ' Here, Sir, you're just by the monu- ment I was speaking of, the last hand- some one I made;' and he pointed to the large, richly-sculptured cross beside us, and passed on. Robert stopped, looked at it a moment, then turned his eyes on the plain headstone beside it. It bore the name of Mr. Alton. 'Mrs. Alton has not devoted any considerable share of her husband's fortune to doing honor to his remains,' he said. ' If blame should rest anywhere, it is on me,' I replied. 'Helen had nothing to do with it.' He turned away and I kept pace with him, and we walked up the road together. 'Do you not find Helen much changed?' I asked. 'Of course,' he re- 5       G     98     IN EXT REMS. turned,' there is a great difference between Miss Irving and Mrs. Alton.  The very words tell it.' 'There is a deeper change than that,' I rejoined. 'That also is a mat- ter of course. Her experience of life is deeper,' he replied with a scarcely veiled sneer. ' Do you not think her looking very ill?' I persisted. ' Paleness is becoming to Mrs. Alton. I think she looks the hand- somer for it,' he answered with the same manner that he had used throughout. But there was a concentrated expression in his eye that belied his cold, half-scoffing tone. 'Did you receive my letter' I asked after a pause. 'Certainly, but I did not think it required a reply,' he returned. 'I hoped what I said of Helen's state of mind would induce you to look more leniently upon her marriage than you seem inclined to do,' I ventured to add. 'I do not see any call for leniency,' he replied. 'Mrs. Alton simply   UNCLE MER TOUN.     99 did what half the girls in New York would be ready to do; and she has made a better bargain than she expected: she has got Mr. Alton's fortune without the incumbrance of himself. Really, as the world goes, she is to be congratulated, not condoled with.' And he raised his hat and walked away, leaving me in a state of mingled com- passion and indignation. And yet I could not wonder at him. He had been most cruelly treated, and it was not strange that the milk of human kindness in him had been turned to gall. "I was not surprised at hearing soon after this that Helen was ill and confined to her room. Mrs. Eyre told me that she had all at once broken down, apparently without any cause. She had been going to ride in the morning, but had changed her mind just as Robert was about to put her on her horse, and had remained in her room all the     O0     IN EXTREMIS. rest of the day till the evening, when she had strolled a little in the grounds and Robert had joined her there. She did not stay long, went up to her own room im- mediately on coming in, and had been unable to leave it since. I saw her there. As soon as I looked at her I was impressed by a change. The crushed, despairing ex- pression her face had worn when I last saw it, was gone. A grave and solemn peace rested upon it. Her eyes, of late so veiled, were clear and steadfast, and on her lips, as she looked up at me, was a smile of noble cheer. Some inner victory had been won by her.  By some one of God's mysterious processes Helen's darkness had been turned into light. I did not try to search out the cause. I was content to thank God. But, side by side with this new mental vigor, I perceived a physical exhaustion which seemed to me utterly un-   UNCLE MER TO UX.     I I accountable. She lay absolutely without movement, and the shortest sentence was an obvious fatigue to her. I stayed with her but a little while, and left her with feel- ings of mingled relief and apprehension. I met the doctor on my way down the avenue, and he told me that he was not easy about Helen; her pulse was extremely low, and she had fever: he said that her chance would be a bad one should any disease set in, for she seemed to have no strength left. "A day or two afterwards Robert came to see me, to inquire about Helen. I could not help thinking that he felt himself to have been, at least in part, the cause of her illness. His conscience had smitten him, I judged, for his late hardness and bitterness were changed into anxious solicitude. I thought I could read self-reproach in every sentence he uttered, despite his habitual re- serve of expression. What had passed be-     102     IN EXTREMIS. tween himself and Helen I had no means of knowing, but that some explanation had taken place I felt persuaded; and that ex- planation had, to all appearance, completely changed their respective positions towards each other. "A few nights later I was wakened and called out in the midst of a storm, by a message from Mrs. Eyre, begging me to come at once to the Pines. The servant did not stop to see me, but called up to me that the house had been broken open, and Major Hay had been nearly killed. He was on his way for the doctor.  The burglars had got off. "When I reached the Pines I found the house in confusion. Mrs. Eyre, in great agitation, met me in the hall and told me that when the storm came up she had persuaded Robert, who was spending the evening with her, to pass the night there; At   UNCLE MER TO UN.    I03 that she had been wakened by the sound of the burglars forcing an entrance below, and had called Robert. The same noise had alarmed one of the maids, who had slipped out at the back of the house and run to the stables to rouse the men: they came up just as Robert had been struck down. She said he was insensible, his arm had been broken, and his head badly hurt. "I went to the library where they had carried him. The door was locked on the inside. Helen opened it, and then resumed her place beside the sofa where he lay. The room was dimly lighted, but I could see that he was ghastly pale; the blood was oozing from the bandage round his head, and his arm lay unnaturally bent. 1 felt his pulse and listened to his breathing, and then I said to Helen,' I think, by God's mercy, he will live.' She raised her eyes, steady and sorrowful, to mine and answered,     104     IN EXTREMIS. 'Is life then so much better than death .' I had no words to answer her. And again she sat silent, her eyes fixed on Robert's face. "Before long the doctor came. I sent Helen out of the room while Robert's arm was being set. As we had anticipated, the pain brought him to himself. The wound on the head was severe, but not dangerous. The force of the blow had come upon his upraised arm, the doctor thought. He was carried up stairs, and made as comfortable as was possible. "I saw young Hay several times during his convalescence. All my former liking for him came back. He was gentler even than the year before, but in lower spirits than his injuries accounted for. I asked Mrs. Eyre if Helen shared her care of him. She told me that Helen had not been in to see him once, although she was now nearly   UNCLE MERTOUN.      105 as well as usual. It was a tangled web. I could not attempt to unravel it. "When I had first seen the late change in Helen, I had sometimes feared that it might be only temporary; but I now always found her with the same look of lofty cheer upon her face. I noticed that when I spoke to her now, she seemed to call her thoughts back as from the distance, before she answered me. But still I could understand nothing. "As I went one morning, some two weeks later, towards the house on one of my frequent visits, I heard Helen's voice sing- ing. I stood on the piazza and listened. It was, ' I know that my Redeemer liveth.' As she sang forth the words, 'Yet in my flesh shall I see God,' there  was a tone in her voice that I had never heard before, often as she had sung to me that song. It rang with unearthly sweetness of 5*     106     IN EXTREMIS. triumph. When she had ended I went for- ward and entered the room. Mrs. Eyre sat with folded hands, a smile on her thin face, and Robert lay on the sofa, his head turned to the wall. Helen came to meet me. She was dressed in white. As she looked at me I felt a strange sensation run through me. It was like meeting the eye of a disem- bodied spirit. It was not my little Helen, it was not the happy girl rejoicing in her youthful love, it was not the sad young wife, it was not the crushed sufferer, it was not the victor in some hard won fight. All these had gazed out on me in turn from Helen's eyes; but now I saw other than aught of these. A glory, sweet and stead- fast, illumined those eyes' soft depths. I saw through them as it were into the world beyond. A sense of awe came over me. My child, my darling, had gone up higher. I saw that her feet stood already on the   UNCLE MERTO UN.     07 shining bridge. She was looking back on us but for a little time. I felt unnerved, and,--doubtless it was the selfishness that strive as we may we can never wholly shake off,-- after a little I went away under the pines and wept bitterly. From that morn- ing I never doubted as to what was com- ing. "It was touching to see Mrs. Eyre's un- alloyed delight in her daughter as she now was. Helen's manner had regained all its former gentle charm. Its vivacity was gone, but its grace and sweetness were all there. Mrs. Eyre watched her with eyes that seemed never tired of gazing, and yet which were totally blind to that which was so evident to me. She told me over and over again that she had got back her own Helen, and she hung upon each word that Helen spoke as if she had been separated from her by a long journey, and feared to     Io08    IN EXTREMsIS. miss'each sound of the voice so long un- heard. "Blind though Mrs. Eyre was, I thought that Robert had caught a glimpse of the truth. He, too, watched Helen constantly, but in other wise from her mother. A look of reverence mingled with the yearning in his eyes, and his voice, when he spoke to her, was low and hushed. There was no sign that the explanation which had so changed their position towards each other, had brought them any nearer, and I felt persuaded that Helen's secret, whatever it might be, was still unspoken; yet she was righted in Robert's eyes, - that I knew the first time I saw them together after he came down stairs. "It was not long before the day of Rob- ert's going arrived. I went to the Pines to drive down with him to the station and see him comfortably arranged in the cars   UNCLE MERTOUN.     109 for his journey, for he was still weak and ill from the effect of his injuries. Mrs. Eyre was busy in the last friendly offices, making all possible provision for all sorts of imaginary wants. She had become very fond of Robert since he had been thrown upon her care, and her affection was heightened by the reflection that he had come near losing his life on her account. She had once or twice of late said to me that she thought if Helen had not been so unhappy in her marriage with Mr. Alton, she might possibly, in the course of time, have taken an interest in Robert; but I said nothing to encourage the poor mother's castle building. "When the moment for leaving ap- proached, I drew Mrs. Eyre into the hall, and kept her attention engaged there, that Helen and Robert might say their last words to each other alone. Robert came     I I     I EXTREMIS. out looking like a man who had received some fatal hurt. He bade good-by to Mrs. Eyre, asked her to write to him, and got into the carriage with me. No word passed between us with regard to what we were each thinking of, and we parted without any reference to the past or the present. "The rally of Helen's strength had been but temporary. She began to fail again soon after Robert had gone. The doctor told me that hers was a case of that old malady, seldom heard of now-a-days, called a decline. Helen grew thinner and thin- ner, and paler and paler. The doctor said to me one day that he wished for a consultation. It was settled that my old friend, Dr. Mil- man, of New York, should come to East- lake, ostensibly to pay me a visit, for fear of alarming Mrs. Eyre; and that I should take him to call upon Helen. He came, and I took a time when Mrs. Eyre was not in the house, to carry him to the Pines.   UNCLE MERTOUN.     II "Helen had acquiesced in his being called, and was prepared to see him. She smiled and held out her hand as he entered. I left them together and paced the hall out- side. After some time my friend came out and we went away together. Although I knew in advance what his verdict would be, I could not question him. I shrank from hearing my darling condemned to death. He spoke first. "'A sweet creature, a very sweet young creature.' And he drew a long breath. I summoned up my courage. "' What do you think ' I asked. "'I wish I thought better of the case,' he answered; ' but Dr. Balch is right. It is a clear case of decline; recuperative power all gone, nervous power exhausted. Too great a strain of some sort or other has been put upon her, and she has broken down under it. She seems to have been     "2     IN EXTREMIS. literally tired to death. If it weren't for her expression and the tone of her voice, I should think---' He stopped and walked some way in silence. "' Cal nothing be done .' I asked. "'Nothing,' he said. 'I proposed change of air, but she is unwilling; and when she questioned me, I had to tell her I did not think it would do her any good.' "I asked him how long he thought she might live. He said there was no telling. If nothing to precipitate the end occurred, she would probably go on as she had been doing, growing gradually weaker, and sink away at the last without suffering. "And I had to resign myself to watch- ing my darling's slow, inevitable departure. She seemed all the closer to me since she had been judged, and her days, as it were, numbered. "I think Dr. Milman's visit was a relief   UNCLE MERTOUx.     I13 to Helen, as it enabled her to talk freely to me. She had before that avoided speaking to me of her death, for fear of paining me. Now we bad many solemn and peaceful hours together. The gate of the tomb was a gate of light to her. No fear, no dis- trust, harassed her. The benediction of the love of God rested upon her. His hand upheld her; and though she walked to meet the coming shadows of death, she feared no evil. She rarely spoke of the past, she never once mentioned Robert; her earthly life was over, and she did not seek to look back upon its memories. Yet I felt that her love for him was part of her existence, and would go with her into the world beyond. "Her one great preoccupation was her mother. She made provision for the com- ing to Mrs. Eyre of her twin cousins, to remain with her after all was over. She H     "4     IN EXTREMIS. told me that they were sweet and affectionate young girls, and that she thought no other plan so good as this. She dwelt much on the likeness between one of the twins and herself, as a possible future consolation to her mother. "Her fortune she disposed of by will, wisely, I think, and well. It was Frank's own daughter who devised that deed, with its noble, thoughtful, and tender charity. "All this time her mother saw nothing. She constantly referred to Helen's not being so strong as she wanted to see her, spoke of the debilitating effects of the summer heats upon her, and expressed an impatience for the cool autumn days to come and build up Helen's strength again. I was debating. within myself whether the time had not come when it was necessary to prepare her, when she met me one day with an ex- pression of bewildered despair on her face.   UNCLE MERTOU.      I I She put a paper, on which some lines were written, into my hand, and said, brokenly, ' Helen wrote that yesterday. I found it on the floor. She thinks she's going to die. It can't be true. She's only weak. She will get better, she will get better! Oh tell me she's going to get better, say she isn't going to die! She's all I have. God won't take her from me.' And she burst into an agony of grief. There was nothing to be said to her. She knew it all. "I wrote to Robert that night. I en- closed the lines Helen had written, and bade him come at once. I knew that if she were to die in his absence, the pang would be still more unendurable to him. But before he could arrive, all was over. Her last words were to her mother; her last thoughts to God. "The day after Helen was buried, I spent at the Pines, for Mrs. Eyre could not bear     Ii6     IN EXTREMIS. to have me go away from the house. At twilight, the September gale which had been raging through the day, fell. I stood at the window of the great drawing-room, and looked out across the lawn. The sky was still dark with trailing and torn mas- ses of clouds; but athwart their wild disor- der appeared glimpses of the clear blue sky beyond, and on that peaceful, distant field I saw the tender crescent of the dawning moon. The sharpness of my pain softened, as I gazed and felt the silent teaching sink into my soul. Below the young moon the tops of the pines were waving, those pines which Helen had so loved, under whose shade I had so often sat and walked with her. The sense of newness and strangeness smote me afresh. It seemed impossible that I should never sit or walk there with her again. I turned away from the window, and my eye fell on   UNCLE MERTOUN.    I17 the white flowers which filled the room, the flowers of Helen's funeral. As I stood and looked at them, a carriage drove rapidly up the avenue; some one sprang out, there was a hasty but cautious step in the entry, and Robert, pale even in the twilight, en- tered. He looked around. The flowers told him. 'Too late!' was all he said. 'Too late!' was all I could answer. "I took him home with me, and tried to console him by telling him of Helen, her peace and trust and gentle passing away; but my words seemed like burning oil fall- ing on wounds. He listened with irrepress- ible anguish to all with which I sought to comfort him. "At nightfall he went out to Helen's grave. It was very late before he returned. The next day Mrs. Eyre asked to see him. She gave him a locked journal which Helen, just before dying, had asked to have given     i 18    IN EXTREMIS. unopened to him. What passed between them I do not know, but I think that Rob- ert told her of his love for Helen, for from that time she evidently felt for him a new affection. The next day Robert returned to his post, and, before the week was over, Helen's twin cousins arrived. They were, as she had told me, amiable and affection- ate young girls. Their unaffected sympa- thy for their aunt, and unwearied efforts to cheer her, endeared them to me very soon. They had been much attached to Helen, who had made a very liberal provision for them, and they were never weary of listen- ing to her mother's loving memories of her. Their ambition was too fulfil their cousin's request, and replace her to her mother; and so soothing did she find their simple and heart-felt pity and affection, that I began to hope that Helen's loving provisions were about to be realized; when an unforeseen   UNCLE MERTOUN.     I9 and to me inexplicable thing, came to shat- ter the poor mother's last chance of earthly peace. "There had been a new outhreak on the part of the Apaches that winter, and the newspapers had given alarming accounts of their depredations. Robert was in com- mand of one of the most exposed of the forts, and I had been somewhat anxious about him. The Apaches at length at- tacked a train of emigrants. The few who escaped the massacre, made their way to the fort. Robert started with a detachment in search of this band. In the fight which followed he was killed. "I thought it very important to keep the news from Mrs. Eyre. She had received so many severe blows that I was anxious to save her from this, and I instructed the twins to keep silence on the subject. "But about a week after, one of them     120     IN EXTREMIS. came running down to the parsonage greatly distressed and terrified, and told me that her aunt had received a package, and it had almost killed her, and she had learned about Major Hay's death. I found Mrs. Eyre utterly broken down by some new shock. She denied that it was caused by hearing of Robert's death, but refused to answer any of my questions as to the cause of her distress; only replying, 'Some day you shall know, some day; but now, - oh no, I cannot, I cannot!' And she was in such a state that it was impossible to urge her, though my ignorance prevented any attempt on my part to relieve her suffering. As I was leaving the room she called me back, took me by the hand, looked me earn- estly in the face, and making a violent effort over herself she said, 'Only never blame Helen. If you did but know!' And here a renewed hysterical outhreak cut   UNCLE MERTOUN.     121 short her words, and she never referred to the subject again. "Mrs. Eyre's burden, whatever it might be, and I suspected it was the same that had weighed upon Helen, was too much for her to bear. She sank into a state of unalterable depression. Her lungs had al- ways been delicate, the winter proved severe, and before spring it was necessary to send her to a warmer climate. She had become utterly unnerved, and did not seem to care what was done with her. She sailed with her two young nieces for Havana, where she languished awhile; and thence she went to Europe, where, as you know, she died but a fortnight ago." And Uncle Mertoun stopped and was silent for awhile; then he said, "Now you see, dear, what I meant when I said, 'That closes the tragedy."' "Oh Uncle! what a sad, sad story," I 6     122     IN EXTREMIS. answered. (I had been crying part of the time, but I don't think he saw it.) "And Helen's secret, - will it never be known why she had to marry in such a dreadful way?" I asked. "Helen's justification is complete," Un- cle Mertoun answered solemnly. "Why God allowed my darling to be so sorely tried, I do not know, I shall never know on earth; but yet a little While, and all shall be made clear to me; and like the thunder- storm that showed forth to us, dear, only the glory of God, yet smote with fear and trembling those who stood near by, so shall the storm of desolation that swept over her innocent life, show forth to our immaterial vision only the Father's love." He stopped again a little while, then he said, "That package that came to me yesterday came like a voice, it was in truth a voice,   UNCLE MERTOUN.     123 from the dead. It was the package that Mrs. Eyre had received after Robert's death. I did not wonder any longer at her anguish, when I read what it contained.  There were in it the papers found in Robert's quarters after his death, and the journal which Helen had asked to have given to him. They had been sent to Mrs. Eyre by the officer who succeeded Robert in command, as he knew her to be his nearest living relative. Before sailing for Cuba, she had entrusted them to her man of business to be sent to me after she was dead. I will give them to you to read, dear, and then you will know why it is that I say my poor Helen's justification is complete. They tell the whole." And Uncle Mertoun went upstairs and brought me the papers and the journal, and I read them through after I had gone to my room that night. The papers were     124     IN EXTREMIS. written in a firm, bold hand. I saw as I looked at them that the pen had been held by a man of iron nerve. The journal was a large red book with a key. The entries were very irregular. Sometimes there would be several close together, and then there would come a number of blank pages. In some parts the writing was very hurried, and in one or two places it was almost illegible.   II. ROBERT.     / 6%r   II. IN EXTREMIS. "One gave into my hand a crystal cup, Deep graven over with devices strange; A golden essence filled its hollow up Whence rose rich fragrances with ceaseless change. 'Taste not,' a voice cried, and I shook with dread, 'Nor spill one drop of this most precious wine!' And as it spoke, low thunder rolled o'erhead, And distant lightnings showed the Sea of Time. Shuddering I stood and held the crystal vase, Thirsting I bent o'er the forbidden wine, Till froze the hand that clasped its carven grace, Till parched my heart for that which still seemed mine. Soon the cloud-hand that soft o'erfolds mine own Shall pour me wine to mortal lips unknown." T  is dated  the fifth  of September.    To- day  is the  twenty-sixth.    Only   three weeks ago her living hand rested upon this paper;   and  now   Cain  only  killed  his brother. I have killed the woman I loved and who loved me. Since  Mr. Mertoun    sent me these lines with his letter bidding me to return before     128     IN EXTREMIS. it was too late, I have been living in a horrible dream. I look at my hands, they do not seem mine. The tones of my voice have an unnatural sound to my ear. I am stupefied. My ambition, my pride, my will, all are dead, buried with Helen whom they slew. Since my return to the fort I find its monotony insupportable. The mountains that rise grim and scarred, encircling us, suffocate me. The heavy, unceasing tread of the sentry re-echoes through my brain. I must shake this off, no matter how violent the remedy. Better a thousand times, the sharpest pain, than this dull deadness. I will write all that happened last June. That will be a medicine sharp enough to bring my death to life. It shall be another whip to scourge me with. If it might be atonement! But there is no atonement. As I write, the white-washed walls of   ROBERT.       129 this narrow room disappear. I see again that little country church, so still, so hushed, so full of memories. I sit again as I sat in my cousin's square pew, and wait for Helen: Helen, who twelve months before was my promised wife, and who now is another man's widow. I see her enter in her long black garments, supporting her mother on her arm, and I fasten my eyes upon her shrinking figure as she takes her place in the pew opposite, and, kneeling, buries her face in her hands. How she was changed! I wondered as I looked at her, whether she repented the bargain by which she had bartered love and self-respect for wealth. Yet she was more beautiful than ever. The flush and glow were gone, she was pale now, but her features had never looked so perfect. Their mobile play had vanished; once it was like sunbeans seen through rippling water, but now they were strangely 6*      X     130     IN EXTREMIS. still. She felt the look with which I held her as in a vice. As I gazed, I saw her shiver; then slowly, and as if against her will, she turned her face towards me where I sat, and lifted her eyes to mine with a look of anguish and supplication. As she met my gaze, her look changed. The ex- pression died out of her face. Paler it could not be, but it stiffened into stone. Helen! "Little children, love one another." I felt my moustache curl, and passed my hand across my face to hide its expression, the outlook of the bitter irony within. "Little children, love one another," sounded yet more solemnly from above, and looking up I saw Mr. Mertoun's face full of weighty earnestness. His sermon lay un- opened before him. He was speaking with- out his notes. "My children! listen while I speak to   ROBERT.      131 you. I have been young and am now old, and I have seen the world and the fashion thereof, and there is but one thing whereof it is both fruit and promise, and that thing is love. God framed the universe for the dwelling place of Love. He created us and all the infinite, unnamed multitudes of creatures who fill its shining worlds, that we might love. In loving we partake of his nature, we draw the breath of his divinity, for God himself is Love. "But it is not of love to God that I speak to you now. Could I but speak worthily on that supernal theme, the light of Heaven itself would illume this little church with a glory no eye could endure; and the chant which rises from every hand's breadth of the illimitable space through which we are ever circling, would pour upon our ears in a soft yet mighty chorus which would untune our sense forever for the fainter melodies of     132     IN EXTREMIS. earth. I speak not to you to-day of love towards God, but I say unto you these words, Oh, my children, love one another! Through love of each other only can ye rise unto the love of Him who in love created you all. For if a man love not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?  It is our privilege to hope, in that great future which lies solemn and silent before us, we shall, through countless ages, rise nearer and nearer to the Source of Love; per- chance, as Eastern sages in rapt reveries have dreamed, to be reabsorbed into that Great Spirit whence we came. But to this we can with pain and difficulty raise our thoughts; they are dull and dim, they sink back abashed from the contemplation of such a glorious destiny. It is our privilege to aspire to the love of God. But, little children, it is your duty to love one another.   ROBERT.      I33 Ye are all alike weak, sinful and sorrowing. Oh, pity one another, my children! Pity, I implore you, each other's weakness, pity each other's sorrow; but, most of all, pity each other's sin. For, could you but see aright, the sin, the sorrow, and the weak- ness are but one. Hold no bitterness in your hearts, one against another; let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Have ye been sinned against, has the hand that should have given bread to your hunger offered but a stone, has the voice that should have spoken blessing uttered but a curse, has the cup that should have held life's sweetest wine mocked your thirst with a draught of poison? - forgive, oh forgive! Ye know not all. Ye see but as in a glass darkly. Judge not that ye be not judged. Commit your wrongs unto God. He with- out whom not a sparrow falleth, he will not uncaring see your misery. In his good     IN EX TREMS.            l time will he bring good out of evil. This has he promised; but side by side with the promise stands the charge, ' Little children, love one another.'" I heard no more. The past rose before me, and its thronging memories shut out the preacher's voice. How I had loved her, this woman who sat almost within reach of my hand! I had felt her heart beat against mine, I had drawn the breath from her lips, - and now she was more distant from me than any creature in God's universe. My love had been no child's play. In the three years I had passed on the frontier, whilst Helen had grown into a woman, I had hardened into a man. It was with all a man's fervor and passion that I loved her, the beautiful, buoyant girl. How tender she seemed, how true! I would have staked my eternity upon her truth, her purity. Sometimes I     could have wept for very tenderness, seeing how pure she was. She was holy to me as a little child. And this girl who had my heart's core in her keeping, who was to me my every wish, my every hope, my heaven; this girl, with my kisses fresh upon her lips, her tears at parting scarcely dry upon my cheeks, had given herself, sold herself as in a market to a man whose very touch were pollution! And this was Helen, this was what I had loved! God forgive me, how I loathed her! It was well that my habitual self-com- mand was as of iron. No one save us two knew what had been.    In those days of hope and happiness we had agreed to keep our affection secret until I was able to claim her for my wife. It suited my pride to have it so, and she had consented. And now in a few moments I was to meet this guilty woman with friendly greeting, was to     36     IN EXTREMIS. take her by the hand, and listen to her words; and no one was to know the black gulf that lay between her soul and mine. I could do it, nor would it be hard to do. It was she who was to shrink, not I. And so, when the moment came, I turned tow- ards Helen and her mother.  I stood by her side, but I could not take her hand; and I said in the prescribed tone the prescribed words of condolence, ghastly mockery as they seemed. Helen had drawn her heavy veil over her face, nor did she raise her eyes nor answer me. Her mother, in her soft whispering voice, replied. Then the customary invitation to the Pines was given and accepted. I aided Mrs. Eyre into the carriage, and then Helen; and all things were as if they had not been. The sunlight lay dark before my eyes as I drove that afternoon towards Helen's home. The house looked sombre and sinister as I   ROBERT.       137 approached it. The blinds were all closed. Every thing visible was in exact and formal order. No more green plants wreathed the anteroom, it looked cold and forbidding. The drawing-room, once so bright and cheerful, was still more changed; it seemed uninhabited. The piano, formerly always open and strewn with music, was closed; the music had disappeared.  The vases, which used to be filled with flowers, were empty.  Helen's drawing table was no longer in its place. The room had an in- describably chill and solemn appearance; it seemed set in order for a funeral. Yet, changed as it was, it was filled with mem- ories that almost suffocated me. Helen's girlish face looked out on me from every shadow, her limpid laugh vibrated on the scentless air, the silent piano trembled again to her penetrating touch; and, keenest re- membrance of all, again her sweet voice     38     IN EXTREMIS. sank into my soul, as with eyes upraised to mine, she sang to me. The moments I waited alone were crowded with pain, al- most beyond endurance. The storm with- in me was swelling higher and higher when Mrs. Eyre entered. She looked sadder and wearier than of old, and there was, if possible, a still greater look of appealing helplessness about her, with a something tremulous, like the presence of an un- spoken fear. She had always loved me, partly I think for my own sake, and partly for Helen's. Her eyes filled with tears as she welcomed me in her old fashion, and told me how glad she was to see me again within her doors. She referred briefly to Helen's marriage, and to the accident which had rendered both Helen and herself widows at the same moment. I was sur- prised at the deep feeling with which she spoke. It became evident to me that the   ROBERT.      139 bond between herself and her husband had been more truly than I had thought it, that of affection. Moved by a bitter curiosity, I asked how Helen had borne the event. A frightened look came over her wan face, and she answered hurriedly:- "Robert, I don't know what to say about Helen. I don't know any thing about her. Her engagement to Mr. Alton, so much older than herself, and such a man, too, as he looked, was a terrible shock to me. I begged and prayed her not to marry him. It seemed impossible that Helen could want to marry that man. But she did, and she would say nothing. From the day she was engaged she was a different person, so cold and still and haughty-looking, that I was almost afraid to speak to her. But I did speak to her. I knelt down before her, before my own child, Robert, and begged     "O     IN EXTREMIS. her not to marry him. And she only stooped and kissed my forehead--her lips were like ice --and went away. And when the accident happened, and I was in such a state, she never spoke, but did every thing for me as if she were a statue walking about. Sometimes I think it cannot be Helen. She is as kind and thoughtful for me as ever, and she takes the best' care of me; but from the time she was first engaged the heart seems to have died out of her, and I feel that she does not love me as she used to do. But I hear her step on the stairs." And Mrs. Eyre hastily composed her expression. Then the door opened, and Helen, shrouded in widow's weeds, came towards me with a slow, mechanical movement. There was not a trace of emotion in her bearing. I almost doubted my memory as I recalled the look I had that morning for   ROBERT.       141 one instant seen. A stranger's eyes looked out on me from that still face, a stranger's voice spoke to me in calm, impassive modu- lations. A breath as of the tomb enveloped her. It was as if she had taken refuge from me in death. Had God smitten me with blindness that I could not see? Had the Furies seized on me as a fit instrument to torture their inno- cent prey? Helen! wherever you may be, listen, listen, and forgive. A mood bitter, vengeful, inhuman, came over me. I was maddened by her composure. A fierce desire to break down that calm- ness, to pierce that stony stillness, took possession of me. I sought to torture her as an Indian seeks to torture his enemy. I used my knowledge of her former self to stab her the more surely. Taunt, sneer, sarcasm, pitiless allusion, remorseless refer- ence,--I used them  all; and all were so     "2     IN EXTREMIS. veiled under the show of unembarrassed converse, that her mother sat by, uncon- scious of the malignant cruelty, for such it was, with which I was turning the knife in Helen's heart. And Helen endured it all. Not a nerve quivered outwardly, not a muscle of her marble face stirred. Once only she closed her eyelids heavily, and I saw her breath stop. And even then I had no pity: I brought my victim to life with a fresh stab. If in this wild border warfare I am taken by the Indians, I shall not, in dying, suffer what Helen suffered at my hands that day. God knows I am not cruel nor vindictive by nature; had I been so, she would never have loved me; but my whole being had been changed by the blow I had received. There was no tenderness left in me, no faith, no hope, no love. And on that day,   ROBERT.       I43 and on the following days, the only desire I was conscious of, was to repay in part to Helen the agony she had inflicted upon me. Those weeks taxed my powers of suffer- ing well nigh to the utmost. It was torture to be near her, it was misery to be away. A blind desire for her presence, though but to give and receive pain, filled my every moment; and when I yielded to the force which drew me to the Pines, it was but to repent my folly and to curse my weakness. I had ceased to reason, I did but feel. Helen avoided me as far as it was possi- ble to do. With a mixture of rage, grief, and triumph, I perceived that she dreaded me. Her every nerve seemed in a state of tension, from the time I entered the room where she was until I left it. Her com- mand of herself began to falter.  Her color would change, her lips faintly quiver, and her eyelids would droop before me.     "4     IN EXTREMIS. Her first stony impassibility was giving way before the constantly renewed strain put upon it. These signs I could mark, but further I saw not; nor could I decipher what, beyond fear, they might indicate. Helen's soul, once so transparent, was hid- den from me now. Her emotions had passed beyond my ken. She was as a stranger to me.  Her love was dead, mine was changed to hatred, so I thought. But the day came. I had one morning an engagement with her mother on business, some law papers which she wished me to examine. I rode up a little before the appointed time. Helen's horse was standing, saddled, at the door. She was evidently going out to avoid me. I dismounted and waited. Pres- ently she came out, but stopped short on seeing me, as if she had seen a lion in the way. Her mother followed her, and look-   ROBERT.       I45 ing round asked me to help Helen mount, since the groom was not there. At that moment she was called away.  Without speaking, I took my place by the horse's side. Helen came reluctantly forward. The hand she laid upon the pommel slipped as I raised her. Her knee gave way. She fell. I caught her in my arms.  After those long months I held her once again close to me. A shock went through me from head to foot. A  wave of flame rushed over me.  I strained her to me. The heavy beating of my heart alone broke the silence. For a moment she stood passive, then she released herself, and mov- ing with uncertain steps went back into the house. I threw myself on my horse, hurried down the avenue, and galloped up the road that leads into the hills. Moved by I know not what instinct of memory, I took the path to a little waterfall that flings 7       J     1 46    IN EXTREMIS. itself from the hillside into a narrow basin over-shadowed with trees. It was there I had first told Helen that I loved her, there I had pressed my first kiss upon her lips. I dismounted and went forward, but as I entered the leafy precinct I drew back and groaned aloud. My past love, pure, ele- vated, and noble, rose before me like a dis- embodied spirit, rebuking that which now ran riot in my veins. I turned away, and, plunging into the woods where they were thickest, threw myself prone upon the ground, striving to master the impulses and emotions which were surging through me, deafening my reason with their clamor. I strove in vain. The fierce hunger that had seized on me overbore all else. Helen was no longer to me what she had been, a creature almost too pure and exquisite for human love, a being to be worshipped rev- erently with all that was best and noblest   ROBERT.       147 within me; but she was the woman whom, in spite of her treachery, her cold-blooded' cruelty, all degraded as she was by her mercenary marriage, I loved to desperation. She had shut the gates of heaven upon herself and me: I would love her even as she was and as I was. I would compel her to love me in return. She had loved me once, she should love me again. These were my only thoughts: they circled and circled through my brain till the air I breathed seemed filled with fire. That evening I returned to the Pines. The fever that had seized on me would not let me stay away. Mrs. Eyre alone re- ceived me. I excused my hurried depart- ure of the morning, and examined her papers. Then I asked for Helen. She had gone out into the grounds. I found her under the pines, her favourite haunt of old. I advanced so cautiously that she did not hear     "8     IN EXTREMIS.     . me.  She was sitting on a rustic bench, looking upward. Her features, no longer impassive, were quivering in the moonlight, her hands were clasped tightly together. As I came forward she uttered a cry, and sprang to her feet as if she would flee from me.  I advanced and stood before her. She sank, or rather crouched down, and looked up at me with terrified eyes. For a while there was silence. Then I said, "Helen, I think you know all I have to say. I am not what I was. I am what you have made me. With all that is left of me I love you." She cowered lower, and covered her face with her hands. "Helen, will you marry me?" She did not answer, but pressed her slender fingers closer over her face. In the bright summer moonlight I could see her very forehead dyed crimson. I tried to   ROBERT.       I49 draw her hands down.  She shuddered away from me, saying, "Don't touch me, Robert! -for the love of God, don't touch me!" "Then speak to me, Helen," I said. "You loved me once, before this horror came between us. I love you now. I will not cheat you. The past can never be un- done. I thought I hated you, but-I love you, Helen." And I knelt before her, and forcibly re- moving her hands I pressed my lips upon them. She tried to speak, but the words died in her throat. At length, with a convulsive effort, she commanded her voice. Her head drooped still lower as she said, "You do not, you cannot, respect me." "No, Helen," I answered, "you say truly, I cannot respect you; but I love you. Were you the guiltiest wretch on the face     150     N EXTREMIS. of God's earth, it would be one. With every atom of my frame I love you." And, shivering, I laid my head upon her knees. I heard her gasp for breath. Looking up, I saw all the colour die out of her face. An agony passed over it; then she looked at me with that strange distance in her eyes, and drawing her hands from mine she said slowly and distinctly, "Robert, I will never marry you." And rising she went away out of my sight. That night I did not sleep. My imagina- tion held me helpless and bound. I saw Helen in ever-varying phases. All the past unrolled itself before me, till, with gazing on its scenes, I was half mad. Again I sat by the little waterfall, with my arm around Helen's waist; her soft breath came with its delicate pulsations on my cheek, her sweet lips were pressed to mine, and again she whispered such words as   ROBERT.       I5I would send a man through fire if so he might hear them once more. And then, when my whole frame was quivering with the remembrance, she would be sitting on the rustic bench, her face white and changed, no longer the loving, trusting girl, but a marble statue; and her clear, calm voice repeated, "Robert, I will never marry you." Yet she had not said she no longer loved me. Why had she stood so still when I had pressed her to me in the morning? There was no shrinking, no terror, in her attitude then. She had yielded unresisting- ly to my clasp for that moment. It was as if a second thought had drawn her away from me. What mystery lay behind? If she had not loved me, she would have in- stantly torn herself from me. If she loved me, why her rejection? And that rejection, had it not cost her dear? The spasm that     152     IN EXTREMIS. vibrated over her face before she spoke, what did it imply? Had I so ruthlessly again and again driven the iron into her soul, that she must henceforth ever fear and shrink from me? Had the cruelty I had shown her ever since I had met her first appealing, imploring glance, borne its bitter but rightful fruit? True, I had but dealt retribution; yet was I, who had loved her, the one to inflict it? Should I not have left her punishment to memory and to con- science? She was not hardened. She was very young; and, great as had been her sin, it was evident that her suffering, whatever it was, had been great also. And, with a sudden revulsion, a passion of pity swept through me for Helen, so changed, so fallen from her first estate of maiden nobleness. The devouring flame within me was quenched in the tears of compassion that sprang to my eyes. My better self re-   ROBERT.,       53 turned to me. For the first time since the intelligence of her marriage, I felt the presence of my soul within me,-scarred, seared, the joy and beauty gone for ever, but again strong to bear and able to endure. During the rest of that long night I sat and meditated. Even supposing I could again win my lost love to confidence and trust in me, could a harmonious whole be raised again, I asked myself, from the frag- ments of two such shattered lives as hers and mine?  Could any marriage, not founded on esteem, be a true and fitting union? And I, alas! I could not esteem, I could never more respect Helen; but, even as she was, I loved her.  I could not imagine the possibility of loving any other woman. She had been my life, she was now the grave of my life; but still, despite all, I felt her infinitely dear to me. And with the softening of my soul came the 7*     154    xI EXTREMIS. divine blessedness of forgiveness. Freely and from my heart I then forgave her. That one consolation, all poor and insuffi- cient as it is, is the only one that remains to me. Knowing only what I then knew, I forgave her. I longed to shield her, to pro- tect her, to guard her against the evil days to come that threaten all. I knew that the shadow of her sin against herself and me must lie ever between our hearts. No prayer, no penitence, could blot it out. But I longed to take her in my enfolding arms, to tell her of my enduring love, to ask her forgiveness and to give my own. The next morning I sought Helen, not in the mood of the evening before, but calm and grave; sad, for I could not be other- wise, yet beholding in the future the dawn of a possible content, the content that comes to him who devotes his life to another. Helen was ill. She had not left   ROBERT.       I55 her room. Each day of that long week I went to the Pines, each day to receive the same answer.  I inquired of the doctor. He said it was a case of low fever, accom- panied by unusual prostration: that was all I could learn from him. The time for the expiration of my fur- lough was drawing near.  The sale of Easthourne was completed. It seemed prob- able that I should leave without again seeing Helen. The last evening came. I spent it at the Pines. Helen was better, but still unable to leave her room. I dared not ask to see her there. A violent storm came up, and Mrs. Eyre begged me to spend thd night at the house. I consented. It was a sad satisfaction to pass those last hours under the same roof with Helen. During that week of her illness, memories of the past had pleaded tenderly with me; they no longer stung and lashed me. I could sometimes     156     IN EXTREMIS. lose myself from the present in contemplat- ing the future, tempered as now were all its possibilities, unlike as they were to those I had once been glad in. And so on that last evening I sat by her gentle, sweet- voiced mother, and dreamed of the days when a new life should begin for all three of us, and laid my plans as securely as if I had already heard Helen's consenting words. I never doubted of my ultimate power to win her, though I knew that there might first come a time of conflict with those unknown conditions of her present existence, which were so mysterious, so inexplicable to me. I was waked from my sleep that night by a cautious but hurried knocking at my door. It was Mrs. Eyre. I listened, and heard the rasping sound from below which had alarmed her. She told me that the bell of communication with the stables, where the men-servants slept, did not sound, and she   ROBERT.       I57 thought the cord had been cut. I dressed in haste, took the pistol she brought me, and went down. As I entered the dining- room, whence the sounds proceeded, I saw, by the light that came from a half-opened lantern, a dark figure behind the door. At the same instant there was a crash, a blind- ing sheet of lightning, then blackness. My consciousness returned slowly. I became aware of the sound of the rushing of water, and intermittent, heavy shocks, like those of a mill-wheel. Gradually I distinguished a human voice mingling with the rush of the water and the churning of the wheel. I perceived by degrees that it was a woman's voice lamenting. I tried to open my eyes, to move, but I could not. The voice came nearer.  It was Helen's voice lamenting. I heard it but dully, and the words it spoke conveyed but a partial meaning to my ears. Then I felt her cheek     IN EXTREMIS. on mine, and again blackness enveloped me; and I knew no more till a sharp sense of pain roused me, and I saw the doctor stand- ing by the bedside and perceived that he was setting my arm. It had been broken when I had raised it to defend my head, else I had been a dead man, he told me. During the succeeding days of confine- ment to my chamber, my one" thought was of Helen.  The caress she had pressed upon my cheek when I lay half unconscious, never left it; the despairing tones of her voice mourning over me, were ever sound- ing in my ears. Each moment I looked to see her enter my room; but, though her mother was unwearied in attendance, Helen. never came. Yet I knew she had recovered. One morning Mrs. Eyre came into my room with the traces of tears upon her cheeks. I looked at her inquiringly. She said,     "It is only happiness, Robert. Helen, my own Helen, has come back to me. She has kissed me like her own self." I groaned inwardly. My Helen could never come back to me; she could never kiss me like her old self. That evening I was lying at nightfall, alone, when I heard the sound of a prelude softly rising from below, and then Helen's voice singing. She was singing an Agnmus Dei of Mozart's. The first rush of aching memories ceased as the chant rose, in tones less full and rich than of old, but clear, sweet, and solemn through the summer twi- light.  It was no cry for pardon from above; no memory of sin sent up its sup- plication; pure and serene it floated up- ward as though breathed froin the stainless lips of a child. As I listened, again the sense of the incomprehensible closed about me, and mingling with it, a dark and gather-    60     IN EXTREMIS. ing anxiety. I feared, I dreaded I knew not what. The next day I made my way down to the parlour. I stood at the open door and looked, unperceived, within. The room had resumed its former aspect. The furniture was no longer in the precise and formal order it had worn of late. Helen's work- table stood near her mother's lounge, the piano was open, and at a stand sat Helen arranging flowers. Her widow's mourning was laid aside; she wore a flowing white dress. For an instant my heart beat high, accepting these changes as a favorable omen for my hopes. But as Helen became aware of my presence, and raised her eyes to mine, that hope darkened and went out utterly. From the moment I met that sweet and solemn gaze, I knew that Helen would never be my earthly wife. A change, subtle but complete, had come over her. There was   ROBERT.      Ix6 no more shrinking, no more timidity, no more pain.  From  unseen heights she looked down upon me with pitying tender- ness, with divine compassion. And I sud- denly perceived that her outward and visible frame had altered also. The line of her cheek was straight, her eyes were deeper and larger, and there was a transparent look about her face that I had never seen before. She rose and came towards me, saying gently, "I fear you have done wrong in coming down, Robert. You look very pale." And she offered her arm to guide my steps to the sofa. As I laid my hand upon it, for I could hardly stand, I felt how slender it had become. I thought I had suffered before; but nothing I had yet endured was comparable to the anguish with which, during these last days of my stay, I watched Helen. All E1[     162    . IN EXTREAJIS. little household ministries she performed as of old, but with a sweet and solemn stead- fastness of look which never left her. Her manner to her mother, was affectionate and loving, its chilly reserve had vanished. To me it never varied from its tone of gentle and pitying tenderness. But she was more inaccessible than ever. Her thoughts were not as our thoughts, nor her ways as our ways. She breathed a different air from ours, she trod paths hidden from our eyes. For her the anguish, the strife, whatever it had been that had pressed so heavily upon her, was over. She had entered into peace. Was this the Helen I had dared to de- spise, on whom I had poured down con- tumely, whom I had used my every effort to pain? I underwent my punishment.  If ever a human being drank the cup of retri- bution, I drank it then. With pitiless iteration my memory would recall and re-   ROBERT.       I63 peat to me the stinging sarcasms, the bitter taunts, the cruel sneers with which I had covertly sought to torture her; then her lamentations of love and anguish, her caress when she thought me dying; and I would open my eyes to see her with that look of solemn and unearthly sweetness on her face, till my brain would reel in the vain attempt to reconcile the present with the past. And the days went on, and I dared not break the spell of repose which rested upon Helen; but when the last day, the last hour, came, I said to her one word,-- "Helen, forgive." She looked upon me with that calm, sweet pity in her eyes, and said,- "I forgive you, Robert. You knew not what you did." And like one accursed, not like one for- given, I passed from before her, and went my way back to this lonely fort.     I64     IN EXTREMIS. Three letters I received from Mrs. Eyre, each one saying that Helen was less strong than she had been. Then came the letter from Mr. Mertoun, enclosing these lines in Helen's handwriting, and bidding me re- turn. I reached the Pines the day after Helen was buried. I stood above her grave and thought the worst had come. But when I parted from her mother she put into my hands this book, which Helen had desired should be given to me. This is the worst. I do not think I can endure it long. My hope is that in some fight with the Indians who surround us, I shall be fortunate enough to be killed.   "I. HELEN.     I 9   "I. f lOW  still it is! The odour of flowers is heavy on the night air. The moonlight lies, a sheet of silver, across the lawn. The great pines beyond stand silent and motion- less. Every thing is hushed, expectant. The earth is waiting, gazing upon the star which lies so high, so far above her. Can the star think of the earth? In its great circle which rounds infinity, can it take heed of any thing so small, so distant? In the mighty song of its strength, its majesty, can it pause to listen to the low chant that rises from so far? In the eternity to come, when the earth shall have been resolved into its elements, when the sun shall perchance have drunk it up like a fiery drop, its voice may go     68     rIV EXTREMIS. wandering through space till it meet the glorious star; and then, safe in its invisi- bility, it may sing to it its chant, and the star may listen, not knowing whence the voice comes. Is this the same world, or have I passed into Paradise? The sky shines with a glory not of the sun. The wind whispers low music through the quivering pines. The grass glitters and waves rejoicingly. The flowers lift up their radiant faces and breathe forth in perfume their song of joy. The air trembles with gladness. It heard, it knows. Oh, Life, how beautiful you are! How good is God! I am too happy to sleep. What a day, a day with him! Mamma and Mr. Eyre went away early this morning, and Robert has been with me until just before they returned to-night.   HELEN.       169 We went toward sunset up into the hills. 'We climbed to the top of the highest one, and sat down on the moss under the beech- trees. The landscape lay lovely and peace- ful below us. The sun was just setting, and the clouds that floated on the sky were flushed with rose. The mountain beyond was fringed with gold, and the river gleamed bright in the distance. The evening star shone clear above us, and a little bird hidden in the beech-trees was singing in an undertone his good-night song. It was all so lovely that it made me sigh. Robert drew me close to him, and laid my head upon his breast, and I felt the beating of his heart under my cheek. We sat and watched the sun go down and the twilight come softly on; and the star grew brighter and brighter, and there was silence all around us, save the low song of the little bird; and Robert bent and kissed my fore- 8     I70      IN EXTREMIS. head, and whispered words of love, and I felt him sigh, though I heard no sound. It all wove itself into measure that came like pulses of music through my mind. Robert saw my lips move. He asked me, and I said the words:- Soft is this mossy bank, Sweet is the bird's low song, Tenderly lie the clouds The quivering sky along; Gently the sun's last beams Rest on yon far-off height, Whilst the calm river flows Gleaming with liquid light. Soft are thy kisses, love, Sweet is thy whispered tone, Tenderly lies my head, Thy throbbing heart upon; Gently, ah, let me rest, Rocked by thy deep-drawn sighs, And watch the evening star Gleam from yon deepening skies.   HELEN.       171 There was a dinner-party to-day. Mr. Eyre is so fond of gentlemen's dinner- parties. I sat and watched Robert. How noble he looked by the side of the other guests, with his grand stature, his steady eye, and his quiet, resolute bearing! One could see in his every look, in every line of his face, that hP was a man born to com- mand. And yet how gay he was! I love to hear a brave man laugh. He laughs often now when he is with others. He is always serious when with me. And so gentle! I wonder how, soldier as he is, living so long among men only, used to danger and hardship, he can be so gentle, so tender. Oh, Robert, do you know how I love you, how my heart bows down to do reverence to you, my love, my lord, my king!     I72     IN EXTIEMS. It is well that I can sing to him, else I think that my heart would burst with its fulness of unspoken love. When he leans over the piano and looks into my eyes as I sing, I feel my soul floating on the river of the song, and the song bears it on and lays it at his feet. But to-day the music stirred such strange and painful thoughts in him, that for a while I shall hardly dare to sing again. I was singing Schumann's "Lotus Flower;" and, as I sang, I was the flower and he was the moon on which I was gazing. As the song ended, his eyes were blazing like a god's, so that I could not bear them, but laid my cheek down on his hand, which rested by the music-rack, and sat so for a few minutes. When I looked up, his face was changed: it had become terrible. I asked him to tell me all he had been thinking. But he said   HELEN.       173 that he could not, that a man's thoughts were different from a girl's thoughts, that I could not understand them, and they would frighten me. But I still begged him, and he said he would tell me what he was think- ing of when I raised my cheek from his hand and looked at him. Then he said, "I was thinking, Helen, that if ever you were to sing that song to any other man as you sang it to me then, I would seek him, wherever he might be, and blow his brains out." It pained me so when he said that. I had never imagined loving any one else. How could I, when all that there is of me is his, when if he does but touch me it sends thrills of music through every fibre in me, if he presses his lips to mine I am conscious of nothing save the wish that that moment might bear me into eternity! He saw how he had grieved me, and begged me     174     IN EXTREMIS. to forgive him. He said he had thought he had himself under better control, but the idea that, if we were parted, I might marry some one else, was more than he could bear. And again the terrible look came over his face, and I was frightened; but I loved him all the better for it. I felt like a child standing on the brink of the ocean by night, and hearing the tossing of the mighty waves it cannot see. But the ocean is the ocean of his love, and no matter how high the waves roll they will never hurt me: they do but fill me with the consciousness of the immensity of that love, that love which is my life. He is gone.  A great pall of silence seems to have sunk down upon the world. He told me to meet him under the Pines, and said he must bid me good-by alone. It is strange that I feel so strong. It is   HELEN.       I75 the thought of his great love and mine which upholds me, so that I neither feel nor fear any faltering. It is a solemn thing to love. It lifts us up above this world and the things of this world. There is no more time, but eternity; no more space, but infinity; no more pain or grief, but love, which comprehends eternity and infinity in itself. What could have made Mr. Eyre's face change so when that gentleman's card was brought in? And when he ordered that he should be shown into the drawing-room, how thick and husky his voice was! Mr. Alton is a very disagreeable man, but I do not think Mr. Eyre is a person to care so much about that. I hope we are not to see much of him. I never was looked at in my life in such a way as he looked at me. How Robert would have disliked him!     176     IN EXTRErMS. Things seem to be proceeding singularly. I am sure my step-father does not like this Mr. Alton, although he is such a magnate in the city. He has seemed ill at ease ever since he came here, and I notice that he has quite lost his appetite, and looks really ill. Yet he is excessively polite to him, and yesterday that great dinner-party for him. I think Mr. Alton comes quite often enough without being invited. I am sure I don't see what brings him here so constant- ly. Mamma does not seem to like him any better than I do. I wish he would not look at me in that way, as if I were a picture hung up on the wall to be stared at. And it is worse when he shakes hands with me, as he always does. I can't bear to have him touch me. I wish he would go back to his banks and railroads. Every thing seems out of joint since he came, yet I am   HELEN.         !" sure I don't see what he has to do with us. One thing I am certain of, and that is that Mr. Eyre is afraid of him. Yesterday I had to sing after dinner, and as soon as I had got through, I slipped out of the room and went away to the Pines, where I could be alone a little while to think. It was so still, so calm, so fresh there in the star- light, after the lamp-lighted rooms and the sound of the voices and the laughter. As I sat there my thoughts came to me in verse. His absence fills the house, The rooms are all dismantled of his smile, Each nook resounds with silence of that voice So deep erewhile. Full many a form I see, Yet naught seems real save one vanished face; Gay are the gathered guests, yet dark stands forth One vacant place. The while the jest goes round A far-off laugh seems ringing in the air, 8*        L     178      IN EXTREMIS. And music does but lend its voice unto The shadow there. Forth from the flower-decked rooms I steal into the dark, the silent night. - Like those past days shines forth above my head The starry light. Oh, my love, my love! If my soul could but leave my body and go to you, and hover above you, silent and blessed in your pres- ence, even if you were all unconscious of my nearness! To be near him as a spirit, to watch over him by day and by night, to guard him, to pray for him, never to leave him, to be with him always, -I can imagine no happiness greater than this. It is too horrible. It cannot be true. I will not believe it. Robert, Robert, come to me and tell me it is a dream. Am I going crazy?  I wish I were. But   HELEN.       179 no, I must not wish even that. Oh, my mother! I will write it all calmly down. Perhaps that will help me to think, to see if there be any escape. Mr. Eyre called me to the library to-day when mamma was out, and told me he had something very important to say to me. He said my mother's life was in question, and asked me to swear that, as long as I lived, I would never, directly or indirectly, let any one know what he was going to say. I asked him if he would first swear to me that my mother's life was in danger. And he swore that, to the best of his belief, it was. Then I said the words he dictated; and he told me that he had taken money that did not belong to him to speculate with, and had lost it; that Mr. Alton had found it out, and had come up to tell him he was going to prosecute him if he did not repay it;     I80 8IN EXTREMIS. that he could not repay it, for he had lost all his own money, and mamma's was so tied up that it could not be touched; that if he were prosecuted he should be found guilty and put into prison, and that the shock and disgrace would kill mamma. But that Mr. Alton was in love with me, and said if I would marry him he would himself replace the money, and no one -should ever know. I would not promise. I would not believe. Then he went out of the room and came back with Mr. Alton; and he showed me the papers and books and made me understand them, and it is true. Mr. Alton said he was going back to the city, and I must decide then what I was going to do. I offered to give him every thing I possess when I come of age, but he would not listen to me, - and then I prom. ised. I promised to marry him. And Rob- ert- Robert will never know why.  He   HELEN.       18  will hate me, despise me, he will never love me any more. What have I done that God should be so cruel to me! I will not. I cannot. How can it be right to do such wicked wrong? It cannot be true. Surely he will have some pity on me. If he knew, he would release me. He is coming here this even- ing once more. I will see him. I will tell him all. I will implore him. He will, he must, pity me., He cannot want for a wife a girl whose whole soul loves another. Mr. Mertoun has been to see me, to beg me not to marry Mr. Alton. I think he knows. I believe I am turning into stone. I do not feel. I do not think. Every thing looks strange and unnatural, as if I had never seen it before. The sound of people's voices is forced and hollow, and when they     8 2     IN EXTREEUfIS. laugh it is in a harsh, strained tone. Even mamma's face looks hard and unreal, and when she kisses me I shrink. I am grow- ing wicked. I do not feel as if I loved mamma any more. In three hours I shall be married. If it were only the day of my burial! But I must live till the words are said. And then  then -O God! let me fall dead in the church. If ever Thou hadst com- passion, show pity now! Father, have mercy upon me, have mercy upon me  I have been married a month, and yet I am alive. (Several blank pages Tollow this last entry.) He is dead. I dare not think, I dare not pray, lest I should thank God.   HELEN.       I83 My soul is as if buried within a corpse. The life will not come back to me. Is it that my marriage crushed it out? or can there be no life where there is no hope? and I have no hope. Is this apathy or despair?  Nothing moves me. Even mamma's grief does not affect me. I listen with weariness to her lamentations. I think what I ought to say to her, and say it; but it is only words. Poor mamma! I wish I could be a better daugh- ter to her. The winter is over. The spring is come; but the quick rush of life, of joy, of hope, that fills the air, does but torture me. My life, my joy, my hope, are dead, and yet I am so young! Perhaps I have a long time still before me. How can I endure it, when each day seems more than I can bear!     84     IN EXTREMIS. A dreadful fear lest I have done wrong harasses me by day and by night. It will not let me go. Had I any right to destroy Rpbert's happiness? He had given it into my keeping, and I betrayed the trust. And I know that I have done more than that. I know I have destroyed his faith in all good. He believed in me so entirely. Can any thing excuse a wrong done to the soul of another? I have struck at his soul. Yet had I any choice? Can any com- mand be so imperative as, "Thou shalt not kill"? And since my step-father's death I see more and more how much mamma loved him, and I am convinced that shame and grief would have killed her, had he met with exposure and imprisonment. He was not a wicked man. In him weakness did the work of wickedness. Could I ever have had aninstant of any thing but utter misery,   HELEN.       185 had mamma died of the shock  It would have been I who killed her. That would have been worse than this. I rose early this morning and sat by the window that looks into the garden. The air was filled with a soft, almost impercepti- ble mist, through which the vine-leaves on the long arbour glittered as if edged with silver. The little brown birds hopped over the gravel walks, busily feeding themselves. The sun shone like a silver glory through the hazy air; and the song of the insects made a soft, low undertone, in harmony with the delicate tints of the scene. It was so beautiful, so peaceful, so serene. Surely God, who cares for all these, will care for me also. At times there takes hold of me a long- ing so fierce, so keen, to see Robert, even if it were but to be trampled under his feet,     186     ZN EXTREMIS. that I can hardly resist it. What separates me from him? Nothing but space.  He lives, he breathes, he exists, now, at this moment. And a few days would bring me to him. I should see him. I should hear him speak. Only to hear his voice once more, though it were but to curse me! But would he curse me? Is there not that di- vine power in truth that it must of its own necessity make itself felt and kn'own? Must not this love which fills me force itself through all opposing facts, all deeds, and pour upon him the conviction of my truth to him? Ah! but would he care for that love now  Am I fit to love Robert, being what I am? There is the thought whose sting surpasses all others. Oh, I am old in misery! Father, have I not lived enough? He is coming. In a week he will be here. But it is to sell Easthourne. Mr.   HELEN.       I87 Fisher told mamma.  He seemed to think that of course she knew it. He said that Robert's presence was necessary, else he would not have come. I do not know what to think. I can only repeat to myself that in one week, in seven days, I shall see him again. I am in terror. What if Robert should look sternly upon me! I could not endure it. I should die at his feet. And yet how can he do otherwise? How can he look upon me save as the guiltiest of criminals? Robert, if you but knew! Granted I had been the worst of wretches, have I not expiated all? Good God! there are times when I wake from sleep with the feeling that I am still that wife, with the heart-sink- ing, the loathing, the terror, full upon me. One such moment might expiate years of sin. And, Robert, Robert, it was no volun-     188     IN EXTREMIS. tary sin. Surely he cannot think that I could have chosen of my own will such a horrible life. Surely he must know that I have loved him each instant, that every thing has but deepened and quickened my love, till now I could die for loving him. In this great world, so full of happiness, I cannot be condemned to misery for ever. Surely God will turn Robert's heart towards me, and I shall be happy once more.       i It is over. I have seen him. That look! I feel my heart dropping blood. I think it was my death stroke. He is coming this afternoon. How can I meet him? How endure that scorn?- He is gone. If I could but drag myself like a wounded wild creature into some dark hiding-place, there to lie down and die! Was it Robert who tortured me so .   HELEN.       I89 My strength is giving way. I feel my flesh shrink and quiver when he speaks to me. Since he so hates me, why does he come to look upon me with those terrible eyes, to scorch me with those fearful words? I have ruined his soul. I but suffer my reward. Through my falsehood he is so changed.  How noble, how gentle, how tender, he was! and now how hard, how pitiless, how cruel! I deserve it all. If any pain of mine could but purchase back to him his former noble self. This is the hardest of all, to see what we have wor- shipped fallen from  its first nobleness. Yet it is not his fault: it is mine. Once again, O my God! once again in his arms.   Hie has held me -me --close to him,--he has pressed me against his     Igo90    IN EXTREMIS.  heart. One instant of heaven I have had.   ? I will think of nothing else.         i This is the trial by fire. Now, soul, stand 1 strong. . I am resolved. I feel God near me. There is a, bitter joy in self-sacrifice, a stern delight in suffering for the beloved's sake. Believe me, Robert, it is best, it is kindest so. No happiness would be possible to us, did I stand, an unhonored wife, by your side. And I cannot right myself, O my beloved! I cannot justify the past. My promise binds me whilst I live.. It would be a sin against you were I to marry you now. God help you, and console you, and lift you up and strengthen you, and give you patience and hope. One day, if not on   HELEN.        9  earth, yet in that safer, surer life beyond, you will know all, you will see why I denied you, and that it was best: that aught else would have been evil in God's sight. I am weary, weary. I sink under the burden laid upon me.  I begin -to have a faint hope that ere long God will grant me rest. He lives, and I thought him dead. He lay white and still before me. In my an- guish I felt one aching joy. He was all my own then. No fear of stern look or harsh word. I could weep over him unchecked, I could lay my cheek to his unterrified. He was restored to me in his unconsciousness. But he lives,--thanks to the all-gracious Father, he lives! A strange thought has taken possession of my mind, that Death mistook his errand,     192     IN EXTREMIS. but, before it was too late, drew back, his hand from Robert, to lay it upon me. Since that time I feel the tide of life has sunk so low within me. He does not suffer. He is gentle and patient. Mamma is with him almost all the time. I do not go into the room. If he were now, strong in his physical weakness, to pray me again, I doubt my force to refuse. Yet nothing is changed. I must not. I must turn from what was once to have been my heaven, and go on my way alone. No, not alone. God is with me. And I think the way will not be long. Do divine intimations come to us now, as in the days of old? Do voices from the unseen land echo through this earthly veil? When we are fainting by the way, is com- fort spoken audibly to our mortal senses from above?   HELEN.       193 As I woke this morning a voice sounded clear and distinct above me, saying, "Thou shalt die, and not live." I raised myself and listened, and again, but as receding, it re- peated the words; and as I still strained my ear to hear, a third time, but coming from a distance as among the stars, the voice re- peated, "Thou shalt die, and not live." I turned and gazed around upon my room to assure myself that I was not dreaming. The sunlight lay sparkling brightly upon the wall, the trees were waving beside the window, the clouds were flitting fast across the sky. I was awake. I thanked God. How can I thank him enough for this loving kindness, beyond hope, well- nigh beyond credence! I needed comfort, and he has given it fully, abundantly. I feel his love around me, his hand upholds me, and though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I fear no evil. 9       M     "     IN EXTREMIS. Death is sweeter than life, and the day of our burial is better than the day of our birth. How majestic grows futurity as we ap- proach it! how far off seems the earth when we are about to leave it! Its troubles, its perplexities, its pains, appear but as cloud- shadows of a day: they are lost in the con- templation of the infinity beyond. Love is the essence of the divine, there- fore it is eternal. Love cannot die, for the eternal holds no nothingness. In the here- after we shall love with a love unshadowed, perfect, ineffable; as far surpassing the love of this earth, as the light of heaven out- shines our sun and moon and stars.  A glory supernal, it floats above my thought. I know it is there: I believe, I aspire.   HELEN.         I95 O Love of God, Thou love so far transcending Each trembling hope, All poor desert of mine; And the sweet light Of thy fair presence lending, Softly transfiguring Things the least divine. As some dark pool, Deep fringed with bending rushes, Lies black and sullen 'Neath the starless night, When from the east The radiant morn up-gushes, Shines with a glory Of reflected light; So my dark soul Deep locked within the prison Of its own sorrow, Black and cheerless lay, Till on its night, - God's radiant morn uprisen, Golden and glorious,- Shines thy perfect Day.     196     IN EXTREMIS. I have seen him again. He is so pale, so changed.  He lies on the sofa and watches me with sorrowful, wistful eyes. He scarcely speaks. I can see that he per- ceives as it were a crystal wall between us, but he does not know that it is the shining shadow of death. My poor Robert! An infinite pity, an immeasurable tenderness, swell within me as I think of what lies before him. When I am dead he must know the truth. It would be a cruelty, no kindness, to withhold it from him. No matter through what pain, his faith in truth, in loyalty, in love, must be restored to him. And it will be less hard to know me true, though dead, than to believe me unfaithful, living. My poor Robert! How I wish that I could wipe out from his memory these last few weeks! It is there that thlebitterness will lie. If he   HELEN.       I97 could but know how truly, how lovingly, I forgive him all! He has gone away from us, back to his post in the wilderness. I shall never see him on earth again. Before he went he asked and received forgiveness. May it bring peace to his soul. But the shadow of a life-long sorrow lay dark upon his face as he turned away. Only God can give peace to him, and that he will grant it I pray continually. Mine was the hand that smote him. Perhaps, in the infinite wisdom and goodness of God, it may be allotted me, when I have passed beyond, to watch over him, to guard his soul, to breathe God's peace and comfort into his lonely heart. I lay awake all last night, thinking what will be best for poor mamma; and to-day I have written to Aunt and Uncle Lloyd,     98     IN EXTREMIS. proposing to settle a part of my property upon Agnes and Helen if they will let them live with mamma in case of my death. I am sure the girls will be glad to come, for theirs is a cold and cheerless home; and there are so many other children that I think their parents will not be sorry to give up the twins to mamma. I know mamma will do every thing to make them happy. I have written to Mr. Fisher, saying that I want to buy Easthourne from its new owner. If this can be done, I shall leave Easthourne to Agnes, and leave the Pines to Helen after mamma's death. She looks like me, and I think mamma will like it best so, because of that. My own dear mammal It is hard only when I think of her. But if it were not for her best also, God would not take me home so soon. And it will be very soon. I feel weaker day by day. Yet mercifully mamma sees nothing. She is so   HELEN.       I99 happy. She seems filled with gratitude, and is never weary of petting and caressing me. My own pain rendered me hard and cold even to her. It was wrong,--oh, so wrong! But in that past time I was very wretched. How long ago it seems now! Only one more thing, and then my house will be set in order for my going. I have written to Mr. Fisher, giving him instruc- tions for the disposal of the rest of my property. It is a heavy responsibility, but I have thought much and earnestly, and I trust I have decided rightly. I wish it to form a perpetual fund, whose interest shall be applied to the education and mainten- ance of the destitute children of criminals. Those poor little waifs of humanity, stamped with the impress of crimes not their own, tossed about without harbor or anchorage for their souls, no one to care     200     IN EXTREMIS. for them, no one to cherish them, cast out into utter darkness in a Christian land, fore- doomed, as it were, to sin through neglect and ignorance, - my heart aches for them. I will do what I can for them, unhappy little things. May God prosper my efforts, so that I may feel that I have not left the world without doing a little towards my share in lessening its misery. All is ready. No earthly cares remain. Bright and beautiful shine the Eternal Hills before me. I feel the motion of angelic wings around me, and from the distance I hear harmonies, though faint as yet, still sweeter than all tones of earth. All is calm. Peaceful is the road. Gentle the hand that leads me. We do not go down, we go up to Death. A-   HELEN.        201 I feel the ripples of the ocean of eternity touch my feet. I look back, and my past seems like that of another. It has ceased to belong to me. Only its love remains, and that is changed even in its essence. Its corruptible has put on incorruption, its mortal immortality. I think mamma must have burnt up by mistake some lines I wrote yesterday. I will try to remember them. They are the last I shall ever write, my last look on the past. IN EXTREMIS. One gave into my hand a crystal cup Deep graven over with devices strange, A golden essence filled its hollow up, Whence rose rich fragrances in ceaseless change. "Taste not," a voice cried, - I am tired - I cannot recollect any more. 9*     202     IN EXTREMIS. A great hush of stillness grows and gathers about me. Within it I am but a point of thought, yet of thought whose scope is the contemplation of the infinite. I have never lived before. Cambridge: Press of John Wilson & Son.   MESSRS. ROBERTS BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS. ARABESQUES. BY MRS. RICHARD S. GREENOUGH. Comprising the stories of "Monar6," "Domitia," "Appol- lyona," and "Ombra." A beautiful red-line edition. Square 12mo. Cloth. Price $2.00. From the N. Y. Tribune. "Arabesques," a series of romantic, imaginative sketches, by Mrs. R. S. Greenough. This comprises-four stories of the supernatural, each illustrated with a medallion head by a son of the authoress. The first relates how Monare, an Egyptian dwarf, and slave to the Turkish sultan, steals the signet of Solomon out of the treasury, and sends it through the air, over sea and land, until it drops at the feet of the young Knight of Ilzuly, and summons him to the deliverance of her fellow-captive, abeautiful Christian maiden. The second is of "Appollyona," the terrible sorceress, an embodiment of the deathful powers of evil. Woven into this story are the two legends of "Sardanapalus " and "The Veil of the Temple," which we commend to lovers of the weird and fantastic. "Domitia," the third Arabesque, is of a Roman princess, into whose fair body, while dying, the spirit of a malignant fiend enters, intent on the finding of some hidden treasure. And the last," Ombra," shadows forth the principle of beauty, clinging with its pos- sible redemptions to lost and ruined souls. Nothing more delicate and subtle than this conception has appeared since the days of Undine and Sintram. We wish it were possible to cite a passage or two in support of this opinion; but, as in the case of all works of the highest fancy, it is the atmosphere of the whole which creates the impression, and quoting disconnected examples is as fruitless as unfair. From the N. Y. Independent. Mrs. R. S. Greenough's ' Arabesques " are four short stories of knights, gob- lins, necromancers, and genii. They show a remarkable imaginative power, being, as we judge, woven from the author's own brain, and in bat small part taken from Oriental sources. They are nearer, in form and in spirit, to Washington Irving's exquisite " Tales of the Alhambra" than to any thing else in American literature. They deal with similar characters and similar supernatural machinery; they describe similar regions, terrestrial and infernal. They are fuller, however, of enchantment and of the supernatural than Irving's romances; they are more completely removed from the world of prose; and they have -partly in conse- quence of this fact, and partly in consequence of the graver genius of rs. Greenough--a more profound and varied range of imaginative effects. Sold everywhere.   Mailed 5ostaid by the Publishers, ROBERTS BROTHERS, BOSTON.     ROBERTS BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS. THE ROSE-GARDEN. By the author of 'Un- awares."  "Tout comprendre c'est tout pardonner."    i6mo, neat cloth. Price $1.50. Extractsfrom some of the many favorable notices of "The Rose-Garden." " I have been reading "The Rose-Garden" with real delight. It is a perfect gem of a summer story." - Extract from the letter of a talented lady. "It is very long since we have met with a story more thoroughly deserving of praise, from whatever point of view it may be regarded, than the work before us. The wliter's skill in delineation of character is very far beyond that of most novel- ists of the day: and this skill is shown, not in elaborate and pre-Raphaelite at- tempts at description, but in the few but telling touches that show the true artist. It is, indeed, a rare gift to have the power of writing a domestic story which, while it could not possibly have any influence except for good on the most pure-minded and unsophisticated English girl into whose hands it might fall, shows great knowl- edge of the world, and is healthily exciting. "We could not reasonably expect to be taken to a rose garden without falling in with a thorn or two; and the most that we can say, and at the same time the least that we ought to say, of this delightful story, is that it is in every way worthy of its well-chosen title." - The London Illustrated Review. "She has some rare and charming qualities which ought to place her among our favorite writers. There is no reason why, with careful self-culture and dili- gence, she shall not be one of the popular novelists of her time."- Saturday Review. "One of the recent issues from the press of Roberts Brothers bears the pretty title of "The Rose-Garden;" and in one sense it is not inappropriate, for it is read with a quiet enjoyment that leaves a pleasant fragrance in the memory. The plot is simple and natural, and each character has such marked individuality that its life moves in a real way. The book is an illustration of the keen unhappiness, the nervous uneasiness, that come out of falsehood, or are the ten-tongued offspring of its mute brother, -silent deception. Mrs. Opie has dealt with white lies and black: this author, with a fine and subtle skill, develops the mischievous power of a gray lie." - Courier. "It is not often that we have the pleasure of reading such a pleasant story as "The Rose-Garden."  The title-page informs us that it is by the author ot "Unawares," a book that we do not remember, yet one that must be delightful reading, if it is as good as this. The story is simple and pure, and marked by delicate characterization. It describes French country life charmingly; but the thought that runs through the whole book, and lifts it up to something higher than a mere story, is given in the sentence, "To understand all is to pardon all." The author shows how a weak and timid nature may be led into faults that cause most grievous consequences, and yet how powerful an agent of good is a deep affection." - Louisville Courier-yournal. Sold everywhere.   Mailed, pbostpaid, by the publishers, ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston.   MESSRS. ROBERTS BROTHERS HAVE JUST PUBLISHED: THE VICAR'S DAUGHTER. BY GEORGE MACDONALD. WITH TWELVE FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS. One handsome x6mo vol. Price $I.5o. This autobiographical novel is a sequel to two of the most popular works by this now famous story-teller, viz., "Annals of a Quiet Neighborhood," and "The Seaboard Parish," and this alone will give it a wide celebrity; but, as an independ- ent story, it not being necessarily connected, it is believed it will prove to be his most attractive book. Messrs. Roberts Brothers have the jpleasure of announcing, for early fiublication, the first novel by the jo5ular author of "Songs of Seven." OFF THE SKELLIGS. a  NobeIl BY JEAN  INGELOW. Ia one volume, I6mo. ROBERTS BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, Boston.     MESSRS. ROBERTS BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS. "Next to a friend's discourse, no morsel is more delicious than a ripe ' book,' -a book whose flavor is as refreshing at the thousandth tasting as at the first. Books, when friends weary, conversation flags, or nature fails to inspire,-the best books,- appeal to the deepest in us and answer the demand." -From A. Bronson Alcoft's "Concord Days," in press by Roberts Brothers. It is a love story cornj5act of the richness and sweetness and sunshine of Provence." MREIO.    A  ProvenSal Poem.    By  FREDERIC   MSTRAL. Translated by Miss H. W. PRESTON. One elegant red-line volume. Price $2.00. W. D. Howells, Esq., an author to be envied, and a very cautious critic, dis- courses lovingly of "Mireio " in the July "Atlantic." He says:-- "If any reader of ours is at a loss what to read on the loveliest day in summer, let us counsel him to read 'MirBio.' He will be a little sad at the tragical end but his heart will have been moved by the finest art, and his senses filled with the freshest pictures and with delicious music. . . . His poem is full of little delights, -birds chirping in covert, sun shining, flowers sweetly blowing, - while the greater song flows on, which the quotation of no single passage can rcveal. It is, in a word, charming." HAPPY-THOUGHT HALL. By F. C. BURNAND, author of "Happy Thoughts," "More Happy Thoughts," "Out of Town." With one hundred Illustrationsby the author. One handsome volume. Price $2.00oo. "Mr. Burnand is a capital companion for a showery day in the rural districts, or for long jaunts by rail, to be enjoyed in snatches between the stations, or in the intervals when the rain drives you within doors." - N. Y. Evening Post. A Novel by Six Distinguished Authors. MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE, MRS. A. D. T. WHTNEY, MSS LUCRETIA HALE, F. W. LORING, F. B. PERKINS, E. E. HALE'S JOINT AUTHORSHP, EVERY-DAY NOVEL. SIX OF ONE BY HALF-A-DOZEN OF THE OTHER. One volume. x6mo. 'Price $I.50. THE  HALF-DOZEN'S NOVEL. "Of course it was Mr. Hale. It is he who has such ideas. And with his idea, and dear, dead Loring's vimn to push it through, and six such people to write at it, Six of One by Half a Dozen of the Other,' with its six prefaces, came to be. "The plot was very simple. Three girls and three boys are brought up as neighbors in the New-England village of Greyford, and the gossips of the place and they themselves suppose they are mated so and so. But, by simultaneous happenings, they fly to all the ends of the earth, two to New York, two to Hart- ford, two to Boston. The propinquity' causes a new deal in the game of love; but, by a second series of happenings, they all find themselves in Chicago together, and the permutations are exhausted in three new matches, in which at last they come to their own." A Delightful Book of Travel.    "A  Second 'Eothen.'" SAILING    ON THE     NILE. By LAURENT LAPORTE. Translated from the French by Miss VIRGINIA VhUG^AN. One neat i6mo volume. Price $i.50. "One of the most compact and charming books of travel recently published," srys the Globe. "The book is an admirable r rttion for a summer day, and will be read with equal profit and pleasure," says the Golden Age. "Te charm of the book is due as much to mle vivid style of .niss Vaughan as to the glow and animation of the French authoi " says the N. I Evening Post. Sold everywhere.     ailed, 5po- lpaid, on  receipt of the advertised price by the Publishers, ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston   ROBERTS BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS. THE THEF IN THE NIGHT. By HARRIET   PRESCOTT   SPOFFORD, Author of "The Amber Gods," "New England Legends," &c. 1 vol. 16mo. Price $1.25. From the Literary World. It is a long time since Mrs. Spofford has let loose a novel upon the world, but it is plain that her right hand has not lost its cunning. She manipulates the thunderbolts of rhetoric with the same easy vehemence that amazed the readers of "The Amber Gods" a dozen years ago. Yet there is more method in her thought, and in her style. The former is deeper and more intense, and the latter shows the chastening influence of time. ... In reading her writings one's intellect and sensibilities are at variance; the former protesting and resisting, and the latter helpless, but happy under the fascinations of her marvellous words. Blest is he who can give himself up to the delights of her entertainment, and feast on its dainties without a doubt of their wholesomeness, and without fear of possible mental bewil- derment or moral headache. "The Thief in the Night" is a very peculiar story, not less in its con- ception than in the manner of its execution. It opens with a murder, - a mysterious tragedy, - the victim of which lies pale on his bloody bed, with weeping friends about him. His widow, and the man who loves her, and whom she has loved, stand together looking at the dead man; and then the author drops the curtain, to be raised again in due season. The conviction of every reader at the end of this scene is that the husband has been slain by the wife, for love of him who was dearer to her .... This book will have many readers; its fascinations are undeniable; the author has no superior in our literature in the deft manipulation of words, and this felicity is attended, somewhat incongruously, it seems, by a power of intense dramatic expression that gives substantial strength to her stories. From a Regular Correspondent of the New York Tribune. BOSTON, Feb. 29.- The variety of thieves is infinite. Some plunder custom-houses, and some steal hearts, and between these offences are various gradations. The arch thief of souls is not the only one who comes to us in the guise of an angel of light. A very captivating thief, indeed. was the one who last night robbed me alike of sleep and ennui, -' A Thief in the Night; " for that is the quaint title of a book by Mrs. Harriet Prescott Spofford, a new and really wonderful romance, which Roberts Brothers are about to publish. The reader does not willingly lay it down between commencement and tinis . . . There is no break in the breathless interest; no tiace of weariness or flagging anywhere; no place where it seems to you that the wonderful story which holds you like the eye of the Ancient Marinter could have known a pause. . . . The whole interest is concentrated in three strong human souls, brought out with lights and shades as vivid as Rembrandt used in his pictures, -souls which terribly suffered and sinued, but with the likeness of the Divine in them still. It is not un- common, in books at least, to marry the wrong man, thinking hin to be the right one. Catherine made the less common mistake of marrying the right man, believing him to be the wrong one; and out of this miscon- ception grows the tragedy of the tale. Sold everywhere. Mailed postpaid by the Publishers, ROBERTS BROTHERS, BOSTON.     iBy the Author of "Happy Thoughts." MORE KHAPPY THOUGHTS. By F. C. BURNAND.   One volume.  Uniform with "Happy Thoughts." Price $1.00. "We want to read Mr. Burnand's book when we are en rapport with the author. If we are bothered in mind, or uncomfortable in feeling, we can hardly appreciate justly the wit and humor of these happy thoughts; but, if the mood is pleasant, we shall find them diverting and laugh-pro- voking beyond measure. Their wit is a peculiar wit, breaking out here and there in little jets, and manifesting itself in unexpected spasms; and their humor is something suggested rather than expressed: yet we cannot help sympathizing with the genial spirit of the volume. In every page to which we open, we find some fancy or thought to entertain and delight us, and something to touch our best nature; and we like the book, if it is not as solid as a history or a treatise on science."- Providence Journal. OUT OF TOWN. By F. C. BURNAND.   One volume.  16mo. Uniform  with "Happy Thoughts."  Price $1.25. This is a very humorous story of a continental tour, and includes also a burlesque description of "Bradshaw's Guide." HAPPY THOUGHT HALL. By F. C. BURNAND. With One Hundred Illustrations by the Author. One volume. Square octavo. Cloth, neat. Price $2.00. The author continues in this book his "Happy Thought " vein, with illustrated descriptions of his characters and of his new country-house, "Happy Thought Hall." Mailed, postpaid, by the publishers, ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston.   I     
         
      
   
