
    ----CITATION----
        Hazard, Ann.. Emma Stanley, or, The Orphans .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6673
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Emma Stanley, or, The orphans 
            
               EMMA

STANLEY,

OR

THE ORPHANS.
MISS ANN HAZARD.
NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY CLARK, AUSTIN &amp; SMITH,
3 PARK ROW AND 3 ANN-STREET.
1852.

"

r
t,.
.v}S I
3h
i
v-K
L
^F'
1
E'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   s tE
at
at
3 5 .e A
J     3
v


L:nt red according to Act of Conigre-', in the year 183, by
tLARK, AliT'iIN &amp; SM11TH,
In ti Irk 1 )11  orf the District Court of the Initted State, for the Southern District
of New iVtrk.

I
w
-z
3

PREFACE.
SCENE.
A front room in a house in Wahalak, Mississippi. The window open; through the
casement a white rose throws its branches laden with bloom. Miss Hazard sitting in a
rocking-chair near, reading, with no companion but a dog at her feet, and three kittens
playing about the room.
ENTER MR. ELMENDORF.
Ah ! good afternoon, Miss Hazard ; glad to find you alone this after-
noon !
Aiss Hazard.-Alone$ do you call me alone?
Mr. Elnendorf.-Certainly! cats and dogs are no company.
Miss Hazard-I beg to differ with you, for they often amuse and in-
terest me; I must certainly plead guilty of the enormity of loving such
creatures ; but were I to agree with you there, and pronounce them ut-
terly uninteresting and uncompanionable, what say you to Shakspeare,
Irving, Scott, Tupper, and Hemans, who are on yonder shelf, and Bryant,
who has been conversing with me since dinner, in some of his sweetest
strains? Call you me alone with such companions?
Mr. Elmendorf.-I will never again charge you with solitude ; but I
am glad to find you without living companions.
Aiss Fiazard (smiling and pointing to her dogs). See! Procyon seems
to understand you, for he looks up in my face appealingly, as if to ask if
he is so very insignificant, or, as we say in Mississippi, so no account.
Mr. Elmendorf.-But Procyon is dumb, and therefore can neither in-
terrupt our conversation nor detail it to others. I hear you have prepared
Emma Stanley for the press, and that you have no preface to it. Is it so? I
Miss Hazard.-And who made you so wise as to tell you any thing
about it?
Air. Elmendor f.-Yankee-like, you answer one question by asking an-
other. Why not tell me if my information is correct?
Miss Hazard-What right have you to ask?
Mr. Elmendorf.-There, the Yankee again ! I have the right of a
friend, and you are well aware that were it not from the most friendly
considerations I should not interfere, and therefore I repeat the question,
is my information correct?
Miss Hazard.-It is !
Mr. Elmendorf.-You are wrong to do so ! So lay aside your book
and write one now.
Miss Hazard.-A preface ! But why should I write a preface?
Mr. Elmendorf.-I will follow your example, and answer your question
by asking another. Would you send a young lady alone into the world,
without a guide or protector of any kind, and not even give her a letter
of introduction?
Miss Hazard.-But what could I say in a preface, and how would it
appear for the preface of a book to be dated from Wahalak ? The thing
itself would be as unheard of as the place is unknown.

'I


4                   PREFACE.

Jfr. EI7endrZf.---You slander the place ! It is not so unknown as you
inan- it ;Iitfame railiate through a circle of considerable magnitude,
Ili  //t r-Lt-I far it i- soh h-tire, s little known, as to make Em-
1.1 +) 1=1 t d upnii as too much of a rustic to be received into fashion-
S i i, t 5
JfI. I l'Lnr 'I -I think otherwise ; if your ideas of the obscurity of
Wahalilak hei' correct, she will be viewed a- afreigner from unknown parts,
a inecuriosity will prompt the leaders of ton to receive into their houses ;
4  that the very name of her birth-place will serve to introduce her the
hure readily into the world.
I//aari.-tan Waaldak pr=perly be called her birth-place I
t/rI/ 't +.r.--Dr  1)idlyV iit write the  oilt in Wahalak I
i/, s Iizrl-    !ut it was written very soon after I came to re-
idln amn you, and the book ui but a record of scenes that occurred in
ethi r 1laoe-.
Mr. I ', wc-rr-Tiait ike no ilit-rence. Wabalak is none the less
Ii r  i ta par', ind ifrin \ dbalak she mut hail, and from Wahalak you
mu-t - i lot an itriluet ion to the world.
ii ;  /ac:r I.--A pre face from Wahalak, impossible it can't be done !
3r. 1 eisolrf.-liut it mu-t be done, I will take no denial.
11/,II:r     - u1.- t 'what mu-t I say  If you so pertinaciously insist
u1.n a preLfice; if you  it my inclination and judgment at defiance, and
ini -e tie ta-k ulEii ni mewwther I will or not, tell me what I must say.
J r.lm   I     Iirf--ll++W ridiculous ! for me, who never wielded a pen
t t iwrit' oni an acen.t, or to write a letter, to pretend to tell you
what to .i.
3/. //- 1r-i -ii f-N t at all ! had my own will prompted me, I should
have requird Iino a s-i-tance ; but as a wilful woman will have her way,
it y    p   -    t  wruin  f a pr+ t upin I, you must give me a sub-
_i1r. bii. l1f.-Tell, tt.  -Eur object in writing the book.
S i-IIf 'f 1---Mt et ji 'a tL iartly to preserve the record of events
aii it laractiers 'altiel tii n  were'highly interesting, but which now
ac -p i- -+I tri -n i the earth ,mand partly to give occupation and amuse-
n.ttI. a +r partial ill health and low spirits, when, had Inlot been
itt, ret in lv imloedinci 1, I Should have been brooding over m  own woes.
Mr. 1  .      Th-ef----'lien ti such feelings we owe Emma Stanley !
Ji s Il -trL.'-Such were moy inducements to write, and with that
a at nl- a- a letti r of iitroluction, could I send her forth into the
dI, ia I tiht would be worse than none.
r. ui a-I .-Nit a whit! A t ill events the preface must be
written. ai I unle   ou comply with my request, I shall think that you
til  t it  i iw m  a' a true fribti, or you have no reliance upon my judg-
ni( it.
Miu  1/-:urI. -I can aure you that either supposition would be er-
rineou      ,
Mr. a .   rr --Vll, I have it tune now to argue the case, as I
hasve ti e  t time cidd Fellow-' Ldie this afternoon, and our hour for
Imetinalitsi alresdy pa-I. So gid-by! You must anrl you will write
a preface to Enna'Stanley.
\\w'ILA ,  iir-i'-Iti ,  . -, 1i .

EMMA STANLEY, ETC.
CHAPTER       I.
Joy for the freed one ! she might not stay,
When the crown had fallen from her life away
She might not linger a weary thing,
A dove with no home for its broken wing.
From the long heart-withering early gone,
She hath lived-she hath loved-her task is done'!-HEMANs.
THERE was sadness im the house of Capt. Stanley, though the
face of nature wore her brightest smile, and the summer breeze
just waved the white curtains of the bed, and the drapery of the
windows floating in the wind, like the herald's flag of office,
seemed to offer peace to all within. Yet, even the soothing in-
fluences of nature were unheeded by its afflicted inmates ; for in
one room sat Miss Stanley watching by the bedside of the infant
daughter of her brother, and in another, in separate coffins, lay
the bodies of Capt. Stanley and his wife. He had been attacked
by the fever about a week previously, and on the second day be-
fore that of which we speak, had died. His wife had watched
by his side until the angel of death had stopped his utterance
with his icy fingers, and then, when she spoke to him and re-
ceived no answer, the dreadful knowledge that all hope was
gone fell like an icebolt upon her heart. She fainted, and was
carried to another room. After some time she showed signs of
recovery: she opened her eyes, and placed her hand to her fore-
head, as if trying to remember why she was there, then she
looked upwards-" Take me too, O Father !" said she; "do n'ot
divide us."  And her prayer was heard. She spoke no more,
and those who came from her husband's room to say that his
spirit had fled, were just in time to witness the last long sigh of
her who had loved so well. And now there they lay, both
beautiful in death; for both had been touched with a smile by
the hand of that ministering spirit who paints for eternity the
faces of the dead.
Soon the heavy bell boomed forth its note of sorrow, to sum-
mon those who were to pay the last tribute of respect to the

c-
E

3 t
4


6           FMMA iTANL.EY1 R THE ORPH1ANS.
dep1artctl. A t tit first -troke, the family came in to take their
solrmn farewell. I'irst catne his sister-she was about thirty-
ti; sh''  lire in her arms the infant Emma, whose feeble wail,
asit h fr an in-tant hid her ovet the coffin, told in the same
not that the orphan recognized the inmate of that narrow house,
and also how much disease had enfeebled its own fragile form.
Mi- Stinlv hid by the hand a little boy about nine years old,
who wept so violently that it was impossible for him to beheld
hi  parent,.  A  little behindd him came his elder btrothe:, a
na 1K-liiokin  iut ' ofl taout their teen,  IIe was pale, and his
Sy. w'rt' dry ;lint as lie approached the coffins, those who
ltkid at hin intently tiuld st'e by his un teady step and the
I 'mulous mtion of his lip, that his grief, though unexpressed,
was only the more agonizing. He went and gazed a moment
on his father, then, as if unable to endure the sight, he turned
away, dashed a tiar from  his eve, atnd walked to where his
mother lay. For an instant he loitkd upon her face, then threw
lit arms around the coin, as if he would once more embrace
htr, and, h tndin d own, ie itmprinted upon her cold lips a kiss,
ln, a  it his mul w«eire there, but tender as if he feared to dis-
turb her re-t. At length he lifted his head, drew one deep
sigh, rtteled frward1, andl\i would have fallen had not sonic one
m atttndan caughtt him -re le reached the fioor. They assisted
him into anotlr riid: he threw himself upon a bed and gave
way tit hi, lan pit-up gritf. It was almost fearful to watch
In +it'-'a young  i' It'itl any i his lhfeelings.  At length
Mi sStanley c .   ito him and 1blid her hand upon his arm-
" Mv Si its i h - it w him would that mother whom you
m n m rn l h ta 'thrnt l vyiufir comfottrt ?"
"  ru are r:ht. i aunt N any, 'ht replied  but alas ! iii iy
nt w I hail trgittten my Gtti (d-battilt, who could bear it ?
i i ith  Ltoinle,  I  it mi in  dt y "(i
pply.' s'id she, ' to the otnly Comforter of affliction-IIe
will li a tubhr  ixiiu.'
But tilt, who wil lie my mother ?''
'I will,''
i ri se and went into his own room, and for a few moments
ni sounds proceeded forth but his convulsive sobs. They ceased,
and then one might hear his voice in low but earnest prayer.
In thte curse of half an hour, just as the procession was forming
at the door, he came out apparently as calm as any of those
around him, and took his place with his aunt and brother as
chief mourner. ie stood uncovered at the grave, and saw the
coffins both committed to the earth; and it was not until the

F
4
x
ii   f
3
5
i
E
S

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.               7
solemn sound of dust to dust met his ear that he again wept ;
but then his tears fell naturally, and, like dew upon the earth,
they softened his heart without disturbing the young virtues
sown there by love and grief.
CHAPTER II.
Where were flown
Our hope, if man were left to man's decree alone ?-HEMiANS.
ABOUT a month after the events recorded in our last chapter,
in the director's room of the Mercantile Bank'of Newport, Rhode
Island, the board met for the transaction of business, and the
first that was proposed was two notes, with the name of Charles
Stanley as first endorser, drawn in favor of a man who the week
before had pleaded the act of insolvency to escape a prison.
Both notes were due, and both for a large amount.
"What shall be done with those ?" said the president of the
board, speaking generally, but looking at the brother-in-law of
Capt. Stanley, who was usually one of the chief speakers, a
proud, handsome man, but one who looked as if his soul could
not know pity, and who, for that reason, was generally appealed
to if there was any business to transact at which milder natures
would shrink; but ere he could reply, the president was hastily
answered by a man seated at the opposite side of the table,
who appeared to be in every respect the reverse of Mr. Wither-
ington.
"Certainly, we had better lose the debt entirely than now to
add one to the trials which the family have so lately suffered ;
for my own part, my fortune is small, but I would cheerfully
bear my share of the loss rather than to distress them now."
"Distress them now !" hastily interposed Mr. Witherington;
"if their afflictions are already as heavy as you would make us
believe, what will be the loss of a little of their extra wealth?
Have they not all their lives been rolling in luxury? It is my
opinion that we should not lose the debt, but that sufficient of
the property should be taken to pay it."
"If only sufficient could be taken at a fair valuation," resumed
Mr. Chapman, "I should say so too, or at least I would not op-
pose you perhaps; but you know at such a time how things are
sacrificed at an auction, and to pay both these notes in that
manner will sweep' every thing from the family. At least give
them six months' warning, so as to have a chance to sell at


i
,#
£=
w
s.
.
m
s

8            .MMA STANLEY, OR TIHE ORPhlANS.
private sale, or else, only save one note, and let us lose the
other."
"Mr. Chapman will perhaps pay one note out of his private
purso rather than to distress one old maid, two stout boys, and
a sickly girl, whom  it would be a mercy to let follow its
parent."
Yes, indeed, it would. Oh, how that poor babe's melan-
holy wail went to my heart, as it stretched out its little hands
over its mother's cofin !"
Order, order !" exclaimed the president; "you forget, gen-
tlemen, that corporate bodies have no souls, and that every thing
but busines must be excluded here."
"Why," said a man upon his right hand, whose portly figure
and extreme attention to dress, told that the good things of this
world were not unknown to him, but at the same time who had
an air of low breeding about him, which told just as plainly that
he had not always mingled with the magnates of the land, "it is
certainly a pity to distress the family, but as Mr. Witherington
approves it, and as I suppose he will be present to see that no
needle sacrif&amp;ee i made, I don't consider it at all incumbent
upon us to Iose the amount.  Stanley knew what sort of a man
Billings w as before h went his security, for it is only about two
years sin  he had to par a debt of the same kind to this very
bank for the samne man for five thousand dollars; and if, after
such a warnin, he chose to risk it again, surely he should suffer
and not surl
" But shiubl hi. family again suffer ?'' interposed Mr. Chap-
man.   ln t hi,    th le guilty has gone to another tribunal
than ours : I onlv plead fir the innocent."
Had h chosen to reflect, hle must have known that death is
common to us all : and suppoe that he had lived six months
longer. would ni t hii family have had to suffer from it just the
same as i3w ?  I move that tih property be sold.''
"VcIll," sd the president. who saw that the argument would
gin beor    an iitlaning one, "so there seems to be a diver-
sity of opinion.  I will at one try the cause, by calling t
qu'stion-these who are in favor if an inmediate action u pon
these not*, according to our custom, will signify the same by
saying 'ave.''"b
Four ayes answered to his summons.
Those who are against such a proceeding, will signify the
same by savin  - no.
There was a silence unbroken for a few moments, then Mr.
Chapman, who for that interval had gazed alternated upon all

EMMA STANLE Y, OR THE ORPHANS.               9
those around him, arose : "Gentlemen," said he, "alone I op-
pose this resolution. I sincerely grieve that, though all around
me have families, I find none to second my exertions in favor
of the fatherless ; but I oppose it, and will no longer serve in
a board where it can be carried into effect. Mr. President, I
resign my place ; I am no longer a director." Again he looked
sternly into the face of each individual, every one of whom
shrank as they met the lofty glance of his calm eye. He then
turned, and, amidst the unbroken silence of those momentarily
humbled men, he left the apartment.
It was not until the sound of his last step had died away,
that the silence was broken, then the tone of business was re-
sumed, and no further allusion was made to the affair of Capt.
Stanley.
CHAPTER       III.
Swift-footed is the approach of woe;
But with a lingering step and slow,
Its form departs.-COPLAS DE MENLAS.
ANOTHER month had passed, and even the lacerated hearts
of the sister and orphans were sinking into peace, when one after-
noon, just as Miss Stanley had soothed her little niece into a
quiet repose, Mr. Witherington was announced. She rose to re-
ceive him, but for some time after he was seated he did not
speak, the chastened expression of his sister-in-law, whose suffer-
ing had added pallor to a countenance in which was singularly
blended meekness and heroism, patient, trusting confidence, and
lofty self-reliance, took from him for an instant the power to in-
flict pain. Even the proud, the selfish, the hard-hearted Wither-
ington was constrained at her presence. He knew her character
--he knew that, mingled with the credulous trust of woman,
was an energy of purpose, and .a quick-sightedness to wrong,
that he feared to awaken. At length he broke the silence by
asking her what plans she intended to pursue with regard to the
children, how she intended to dispose of them?
"Keep them here with me, to be sure. Carry out the plans
which Charles had begun. Our noble Jared in little more than
a year will be fit for college, and with the aid of his father's am-
ple fortune I hope yet to see him the boast of his country."
"His father's fortune is all dissipated. Billings, for whom he
went security, has taken the oath of insolvency, and next week
1*

$4

[


1

4

I

('harle's fortune must pay the debt. It will sweep all. Monday
n'xt (the day after to-morrow) it will be levied upon, and-"
" Oh stop, stop !" she exclaimed, " who are you that thus
rnt' to tell me such tidings ?"
A friend who toyk it upon himself to he the messenger,
thinking it better for me to tell yo  han for a stranger, and at
the same time wishing, if I could d  'ou any good, to offer my
poor se'rvices."
" Put off tlie execution then for one month longer, one little
i ;ith, till I can prpare mysIlf in some degree for the change."
Impsihle !you (I not consider that the debt is due to the
bank, and not to one individual, whose mercy you might move
in aor behalff."
I conider that yu are one of the directors of that institu-
t=n.
Yes, but I am only' ne. Do you think that I can wield an
itluence eovr the whole board, and bend the wills of twelve un-
=.,rted mn to mine alone "
"Well, delay the l'v only one week longer then, I will ask
only fr that ; and if the directors are men, if they deserve the
nmen, ur'-lv there will not refuse this small request.'
S(aim vur tIf, Nancy," said he, for he saw that she was Cx-
ceedingly agitated, " I will try what can be lone for the sake of
these dear orphans.  I proiiive you that I will use all my influ-
ence in your favor, andi my exertions shall not be wanting to in-
sure success. I will call this afternoon to let you know the result
of my mission.  And now good morning
S f tyu art' succesSful {'tome, ftotr I would like to arrange some
nautr  with you, for in this wrblbusiness must be attended to
even wth"  a "hin' iirt: but if you are unsuccessful, a note
will It me know it all.''
li-. slit' said because slit f 'Iepersuided that no body of men
could deny   moderate a request, if warmly urged, and she
thought t hat if he succeeded she would confide in him as in a
friend, which she much needed, and she would adopt the coun-
sel which he might give her, supposing that he would be as
much in her favor as the law and his unfeeling disposition would
permit him; but at the same time determining if he were not suc-
cessful never to seek him to direct her, or rely upon his' support.
He saw why she spoke thus, and felt that if he wished ever to
pursue his own schemes with regard to the family, he must make
her strongly believe him her friend, and he therefore determined
to defer the levy for two weeks, and immediately proceeded to
put his resolve into operation.

He had scarcely left the house when Mr. Chapman came in:
soon after he took his seat he began to inquire after the health
of -the children ; but it was in terms so earnest and so kind, that
it seemed as if hope waited only his bidding to spring up in the
heart of the disconsolate, and ere he had been there long, Miss
Stanley felt that the cheerfulness which Mr. Witherington had so
effectually banished, was again resuming its accustomed place
in her heart. She asked him if he knew of the change in the
prospects of the orphans. He told her that it was to speak of
that .change that he had left home; but as he had met Mr.
Witherington at the door he supposed that she was already ap-
prised of it, and that of course it was useless for him to say any
thing upon the subject, unless she wished for some friend to
advise with, in which case he was ever ready to serve her-that
she knew that his circumstances forbade his giving her pecuniary
aid ; but in any thing in which he could serve her he would feel
gratified by so doing.
He sat with her for some time, and continued to cheer her
with hopes drawn from every available source, but particularly
from that one whence she had always derived them; and so much
did his converse lead her towards heaven, that ere he took his
leave she felt that she could sincerely say, these .troubles must
be best for me-" because they are 7iy will."
CHAPTER IV.
Over thine orphan head
The storm hath swept as o'er a willow's bough.-HEANs.
THE two weeks ran rapidly by in which Mr. Witherington
often called with specious offers of service; and Miss Stanley
often asked him if nothing could be saved for the children, to
which he always replied-Nothing consistently with honor !
that it would be absolutely necessary for her to give up every
thing ; and except the wearing apparel of the deceased, she suf-
fered every thing to be carried to the auction-room, and in one
day she saw herself, as the representative of her brother, reduced
from wealth to poverty, and compelled to leave a house which
in size and decorations might do for the seat of a nobleman, and
with her young charges occupy a small house; and that almost
£ empty. Fortunately she possessed a small jointure which had
been bequeathed her by her parents, and that kept her from im-

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

11

I)O

: i i  S r ANI.EY  OR 7 IIE ORPHANS.

e

-
,
.
T
}"  #
E


12         EMMA STANLEY, OR iTHE ORPHANS.'
mediate want ; but she knew that that would be in a short time
expended, and then she would be obliged to apply herself to
s mtth bi lv which 1t support herself and those to whom she
had undoi taken the ofihee of a parent.
Witb mtliudts thus occupied, the day after the auction she
was surprised to see almost all the plainest of the furniture
a eve-arv f+r housekeeping brought to the house she occupied.
She to ld the man who brought it that there must be some mis-
tak , that L  aould not have been directed to bring it there. He
only repit bIy handing her a note addressed to herself, contain-
mge the"  wor lds :
" Mi oS inley  will receive  for the  children  the  accompanying
furniture, wh ic et in but a trifle, and for which I have been
inuh oIvrydid by the many favors  have received from their
fate,

" \ery respectfully,

L. CurmIAN."'

4
IF
'I
e-

6
{L'r;
t'
t
4

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             13
her from undertaking. Richard had lately declared himself al-
most a man, and Jared was near the conclusion of his last term
of tuition preparatory to his leaving for college. However, on
the anniversary of that day which had deprived him of both his
parents he craved permission to remain at home ; his aunt shared
his melancholy feelings too deeply to deny his request, and he
remained alone nearly all day. In the afternoon he came into the
room where his aunt was sitting, and took his place by her side ;
he remained silent for some time. At length he raised his eyes
to his aunt's face, and spoke in a voice so filled with sadness that
the tones at once awakened her attention. "I have been think-
ing," said he, "my dear aunt, that your little patrimony will be
melted away in a very short time if you continue to support us
all; nay, I have already observed that you no longer indulge
yourself in little luxuries that you formerly considered neces-
saries, and now I am a large boy,.quite large enough to gain my.
own living. You know how I pine after the sea. Capt. West
got in to-day from Liverpool. He will sail again in about a
month. Let me join his crew, and thus free your hands of one
incumbrance, and in a few years," he added, and his brow
brightened as he spoke, for hope was whispering at his heart,
"in a few years I shall be able to assist you; perhaps I may have
a ship of my own, and-"
His aunt clasped him to her heart. "My noble boy," said
she, "you have not yet felt the struggles against poverty ; born
to wealth, you have yet only had a glimpse of the reverse.
Hope holds before your eyes the picture which she presents only
to youth, and you think that you have but to wish and your
wishes will be accomplished; that you have only to exert your
energies, and they will bring to pass all you desire ; but, my son,
though I do not wish to damp the ardent aspirations of your na-
ture, yet, believe me, that you will see the good, the generous,
the honorable, the virtuous fail, where the artful, the designing,
and the unprincipled will succeed; that the candid and the
frank-hearted will be borne down by the corrupt and the hypo-
critical ; that noble poverty will often have to bow her head, and
leave the place to wealthy vice."
"But yet I shall have to try these scenes ! I must go out
and struggle with the world, and when shall I be more fitted for
it than now
"When you are older-when your principles are more indeli-
bly fixed-when you feel as well as know that God will reward
your piety, good faith, high principles, and worthy conduct,
though-men should fail to do it-that love of truth and unflinch-

B t a             ne  -ril u =- assumed an air of comfort
inins I f4re -he had scarcely hoped.  When the
two hies returned from school, Jared only blessed the name of
him who snt thmn; but little Richard almost shouted when lie
sw the hurenau of the nursery, his own bureau as lie called it,
and ls mt ii   rocking-chair, and dear sister's cradle, and sev-
eral other tlin  w hihIi lie had sen carried away, and which
his aunt had told him they  would oWn no longer.
t s s  u-ual. ivery tling sold at a sacrifice, and when the ten
thousai d+ll ir-, the iii ait If security debts were paid, and
some I elr triilin dlbt- cancelled, the property which if fairly
sold would IiXh brnlit at least double the amount, left to Miss
Stanl X, as th'  children's property, the sum of two hundred and
t ty dlIars.  lii her heart, however, was a large share of hope
an  wlerfuala , aid she had the faculty of infusing contented-
ins intl al I: aru: I her, and the children soon appeared as much
lustn Imd tI iheir altered lite as if they had never known any
ot her.Thus a year passed rapidly away. Emma still lived,
and though yet in that state of health which rarely suffered a
week to elapse without at least one day's confinement to her
cradle, v-et hier friends could see that there was an improvement
in her constitution : for she was not now so continually hovering
bet  en lifP and death as she had been for the first three months
after hr p rent' decease. She was now nearly three years old,
and by her prattle she had often cheered her aunt. She had
now too gained sufficient strength to begin to learn to walk, an
attainment which her great weakness had until lately prevented

I


14          1.'tMA  'AN:LY ,I OR THE ORPHANS.
mg integrity will win you respect and confidence, though riches
should not fullow in their train ;-when you are old enough to
consider all this, and to feel that even in this world you will
meet your reward, and that hereafter you will meet your parents
nevir more to be separated from them.''
Adti think you that I shall ever be better able to consider
them than now, when tlt sound of my father's lost blessing yet
n .in my ear    when my head yet feels the pressure of his
hand . Oh no . my dear aunt ; now is the time ! now let
me gor .
.Wait but one week, you will then have left school ; and if
I can by any econ ly see any way for you to meet your expen-
ses at college, we will not part."
But if I enter college it ill he some time after 1 leave
1-for I can get into any business, and I cannot bear the thought
of ng S) long a burden to You."
\ tu must let me think awhile upon the subject; it is now
too 11w to me to consent to the scheme, for I have never
iinught of your Leing only a sailor ; so drop the subject for one
week, and let me look closely into my affairs, and at the end of
that time I will answer you ~dr ively.''

i f

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             15
fish man ; I should have added an envious one too ; and he had
determined that his sons should not only inherit his wealth, but
if possible should in every way eclipse all around them. With
these feelings he had watched the development of the mind of
the young Jared, and had seen him, whether at school or in any
other situation in which they had been together placed, bear off
the palm of praise from his own sons, though they were the
eldest ; and for this superiority he had hated him with all the
bitterness which envy could prompt, and it was this which had
made him act with such cold-heartedness towards Miss Stan-
ley ; for he had determined if his sons were eclipsed in intellect,
that they should not be in wealth. And to gratify these feelings
he now wanted to get the young Jared into his employ to make
him feel his inferiority, and if possible to bend his aspiring
spirit, and to make him stoop to him. But he knew that force
was no way to overcome the wishes of-his nephew, and there-
fore to Miss Stanley he professed the most anxious regard for
his welfare, and succeeded in making her so far enter into his
views as to feel grateful for his offer, and desirous that her
nephew should accept it ; and when he returned from  a visit
which he had been paying to one of his young friends, she men-
tioned to him his uncle's offer.
Do you wish me to accept it ?" he asked.
I do not wish you to do violence to your inclinations ; but I
dread for you the hardships of a sailor's life. If you accept it
you will be near me-I shall see you every day ; if you go to
sea,your visits to me will be indeed like angels'."
I know and have thought of that much in these last few
days ; but you are deceived in uncle Witherington. I should
find him despotic and severe, and I know that with him I should
-'      unhappyp"
bDo as you wish, my son ; but I should like for you to see
your uncle before you decide, or before you make an irrevocable
agreement with Captain West; and if he fails to shake your
resolution I will give you my consent and my blessing."
The next day he went to Mr. Witherington's store ; but in-
stead of his uncle he found one of his cousins. After they had
talked a while upon general topics, George Witherington ab-
ruptly said that he heard that a change had taken place in his
views as in his circumstances, and that he was going to barter
his liberty a while for some of his uncle's cash.
The blood rushed to young Stanley's brow at the tone'of the
speech, and also at the taunt conveyed. For a few moments he
did not trust himself to reply. "I think not," said he, at last ;

C   AIIAITER    V.
Many a rhaft at random sent
F inkmark the archer never meant;
A nin no  a word at random spoken
May sothe or wound a heart that's broken.--SCOTT.
A r the examination Jared took the highest honors of his
sat~ ohantid Mr. Witherington called the day after to ask if Miss
tanle still intended for him to go through college, and offering
if shedlid not to take him into his counting-room; for he knew
of his proficiency in writig and accounts, and thought that in
him he might have a valuable clerk without paying much salary
for him.
Miss St tnlev urged his desire for the sea.
Mr. Witherington represented all the dangers of the sea, as
well as its hardships, with so much force that she determined to
use her influence with her nephew to prevail upon him to
act-pt his'uncle's offer ; but had she known the motives of
Mr. Witherington, far different would have been her resolve.
lie was himself a father, and, as I have before said, a proud, sel-

I.


I fl       EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
' I came now for the purpose of speaking upon the subject to
uncle Witherington, and of saying that though obliged to him for
his tTr, that I could not accept it."
" You don't mean to say that you refuse ?"
" I think I mu t.''
"And pray what are you going to do with yourself? Do you
intend to enter college and see if the professors there will be as
partial as your schoolmaster here has been, and give you all the
prizes ?"
" Were I to enter college I should certainly try to gain the
prizes, not from the partiality of my teachers, but by endeavor-
ing industriously to improve the talents which God has given
rme.'
Come, come, it is in vain for you to deny that old White
was partial; but tell me, do you intend to enter college ?"
No; the ruin of our property denies that. I suspect the
college which I shall shortly enter will be a Liverpool packet, of
which sailors will be the professors."
" What ! You don't really think of going to sea ! You don't
truly prefer the salt sea and the hard berth of a sailor to a place
here ! We will try and change that resolution."
You will try in vain."
Oh no, my dear coz," said George, softening ; for though
he had imbibed some of his father's envy of Jared by seeing him-
self always thrown in the shade by him, yet he had a respect
for his virtues and an appreciation of his extremely brilliant
talents, which made him unwilling that he should sink them in
an ordinary sailor. " Oh no ! if you stay here you will in a few
years make enough to set out in life with, and at the same time
have an opportunity of reading enough to improve yourself so
as to make all of us proud of you."
a But if I go to sea 1 shall at once see the countries of which
you would have me read. I shall step out into the world at
once, and if I never make you proud of me, I at least shall never
make myself a burden to you. So say no more ; to sea
I go
After waiting a short time to see his uncle, he left and went
down to the wharf, where he found Captain West, and after a
short conversation he agreed to take his place on board the ship
and commence his duty there in two weeks, though he was not
to sail in four.
When he left home he had intended to have conversed with
his uncle before he made this agreement, in accordance with his
aunt's desire ; but the taunting tone which his cousin had at first

X      4
.
'e
ie+N-
3Yi
a
Y
u
i+
_ tiLF' j^
s , Iks
t,  ;

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             17
assumed in speaking on the subject, had at once decided him at
all events to go to sea; for, with the quickness of perception
natural to him, he saw by the feelings of George what must be
those of his uncle ; and he felt that he could be under the do-
minion of any one with a better grace than under that of his
domineering, sneering relatives.
- -
CHAPTER       VI.
Oh bitter to the youthful heart,
That scarce a pang, a care has known,
The hour when first from scenes we part,
Where life's bright spring has flown;
Forsaking, o'er the world to roam,
That little shrine of peace--our home.-HEMANS.
THE next day he went to take leave of his old schoolmaster
and his former schoolmates. The old man appeared shocked
when he told him of his plans for the future. He made him sit
down by his side, and for nearly an hour advised him how to
guide himself in life. Then he opened the book in which he
always inscribed the names of his scholars. "More than two
thousands pupils have I taught," said he, "but round none of
their names have I ever more fondly hoped to see the wreath
of immortality given by fame entwined than round yours ; and
none of my pupils have ever given a brighter promise than your-
self. But roses grow not upon rocks, and you have chosen a
rough and stony path; but you have the prayers of an old man
that God will smooth it before you. Farewell !"  As he spoke
he laid his hand upon his head and raised his eyes to heaven.
The youth turned, drew his hand across his eyes to brush away
the tears. He then went among the scholars and shook hands
with each one of them, though not a word was spoken; for each
felt that silence was necessary to his self-command. The old
man watched the countenances that surrounded him, and felt
that the chord of melancholy which he had touched was vibrating
too strongly and too long, and that as he had first put it in mo-
tion he must cause it to react. As young Stanley shook hands
with the last one, Mr. White himself broke silence: "Let us
give him as a farewell three times three, my boys," saidhe ; and
the roof of the academy rang with his own huzza. In the first
shout there were but few of the boys joined, but the third was a
full chorus of forty human voices at their loudest' pitch ; then all
sank into silence. Young Stanley in the mean time had walked


I

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

19

I           I.MMA STANLEY, OR TIlE ORPHANs.
on in the direction of a grove which skirted the town on that
s:de ; and plungig ito) the thickest part of it, he tried to calm
his overurdenedI feelings by communing with nature. Tt was
some time before he succeeded. lie had on that and the pre-
eding lay set the seal to his destiny ; he had relinquished hopes
which for three or hur years had been his daily thought-the
ida of g ing honorably through college, and of afterwards be-
coming something of which the whole country would be proud.
A Marshall or a  Webster had mingled with every lesson which
. had recited, and now so suddenly and so entirely to give it up,
and to live the hard life of a sailor ; and then, that solemn and
sint parting with his revered teacher and with all those who
had     l4ng shared his study and his play, altogether had for a
w hile entirely overcome him.
That week and the following Miss Stanley busied herself in
pw parations for the departure of Jared, and though to him she
talked of it calmly and encouragingly, yet many a tear did she
dry p upon her work, as she plied the busy needle to fit him for
th Iw li he had  iusen.  She regretted his choice ; for the sister
of a sailor, she was but too well acquainted with the toils and
tiuas ti w  1hich  e would be exposed, many of which lie had not
yet dreamed : but yet, she felt that the evils of a lot which he
dountarily followed, would be more easily borne than those of
one to which The might direct him, and, therefore, she now only
endeav Ired to fortify his mind to hear up against those which he
might have to encounter.
At length the day of parting came, and with many prayers
Miss Stanley endeavored to strengthen her heart for the bitter
pang. She had given her nephew many directions for his future
conduct.  She had warned him of the many evils he would have
to shun, in order to steer his course according to the law of that
(od which, amidst all the vicissitudes of a sailor's life, his father
ha de lighted to follow. And now the hour was arrived in
which he was to go from her, with no stay but his own good
pinneilples, ani dependent alone upon the Father of the fatherless.
At dinner he appeared in his sailor's dress : it was the first
time that he had worn it. He took his seat with a smile, but sad-
nes was gnawing at his heart, and he could not eat.  He rose
foni table and approached his aunt.  "It is -ime to go," said
e, She rose also, and opened her arms: for a moment he hid
his head upon her shoulder, but by an effort he mastered his
emotion ; he kissed her with filial affection, and moved to go.
God bless and keep you, my son !" said Miss Stanley.
He,ared not trust himself again to speak, but hastily kissing

his brother, and stooping a moment over the cradle of his sleep-
ing sister he hastened~ from the house, and then whistling to
keep down the tears, he almost ran to the wharf, and in an hour
after the vessel was gallantly sailing out of the harbor, with a
fine fair breeze, as if no aching heart was under the shelter of its
snowy sails.
CHAPTER       VII.
Friendship's sweet and fairy strain
Shall ever in her heart remain,
Nor memory lose, nor time impair,
The sympathies which tremble there.--Mooal.
TuouG HMiss Stanley saw many who, in her prosperity, had
professed themselves her friends, leave her in her adverse cir-
cumstances, yet her many virtues had endeared her to a numer-
ous circle of acquaintances, and she found that she had small
cause to complain of desertion. Among those who seemed to
think more of her than formerly, was an old woman who had
once been housekeeper for her mother. She was now advanced
in age, perhaps sixty-five years old : a woman of many eccen-
tricities of character, but of some peculiar virtues. Honest to a
fault herself, she was yet suspicious of others to as great a de-
gree; never trusting where she could possibly avoid it, but yet,
when trusted, acting with the same degree of exactness for an-
other that she would do for herself. The day after Captain
Stanley was taken sick, Miss Hoxie took up her abode there as
nurse, and now when Miss Stanley (who had been her pet when
she was an infant) was in poverty and desolate, she remained
with her, taking from her the drudgery of housekeeping, and
mingling the character of servant and friend. They had spoken
upon the subject of her staying there once, for Miss Stanley knew
that she was unable to give her such remuneration for her ser-
vices as they merited ; but Miss Hoxie, like a spoiled child, had
apparently become angry, because she was contradicted. And
r        thus, for that time, ended the colloquy, for she knew that her
_ F      services were needed, and she only wanted to give them without
.-       a reward; but suspecting that they would not be so received, she
-       took refuge from the subject in seeming anger, knowing that by
that means she could silence opposition, and thus continue with
her favorite until better times should dawn, or until she should
lay herself down to sleep with her fathers. But though these
were her feelings, Miss Stanley's were far different. She could


MM1A STANEY, OR TIE ORPHANS.
nmt bear to impose upon her faithful devotion, or to accept from
hr series in her old age which she could not reward, and
which she knew were of such a nature as would command from
ethers ready pay. She determined to make one more effort to
shake her generous resolves, and if not successful, to leave all to
time. With this thought she went into the kitchen, where the
old lady was sitting, busily employed reeling some linen thread
from a little wheel by her side. She was dressed in an old-
fashioned calico gown, made with a boddice-waist, and open in
front, with short sleeves made tight to the arm. Around her
neck was a plain muslin three-cornered handkerchief, neatly
starched, which might have rivalled the snow in whiteness ; her
long gray hair was put up in what I suppose was the fashion
when she first assumed caps, that is, she wore upon the top of
her head a pad which she called a cushion; it was about as broad
as one's hand, and about twice as thick: this was surmounted by
a plain mob cap, of the same material as her handkerchief, and
seemed the only thing that in point of neatness could have ap-
proached it. As Miss Stanley took her seat by her, she began
to chew furiously upon a piece of tobacco which she had in her
mouth, and with which she was always well provided ; then she
put her hand into first one pocket and then the other, as if look-
ing for something which she could not find, for she suspected the
object of the visit; but it all would not do. At length she
turned round, and looking her in the face--" What have you
come here for, Nancy ?" said she.
"I have come, Miss Iloxie, to speak once more to you upon
the terms of our living together."
" Well, you may go again !" said she, with peculiar emphasis
upon the word go, "for I want to hear nothing ye've got to
say upon the subject."
But I consider it my duty that we should understand each
other."
"1 understand ye well enough. Have not I carried ye in
my arms before ye could walk, and sung ye to sleep every night
of your life till ye were ten years old ! and now ye talk about
understanding each other. If ye can't understand me by this
time ye never will. So now hold your tongue !"
She had a peculiar manner of speaking every word with
marked distinctness, and almost screaming out those which she
wished to emphasize; but it was a rare thing to speak so
much at one time as she had just spoken, and she never did it
unless excited by strong feeling, though she would talk by short
sentences for hours together.

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.               21
Miss Stanley was aware of this, and though almost startled by
her authoritative manner of crying out, "Hold your tongue !"
yet thought she would try a little more, and she continued, "But,
my dear Miss Hoxie, you know-"
"I don't know any thing, and I don't want to know any thing
ye have got to say, and if ye choose to stay here and talk, why
talk, but I won't hear ye," and she got up and went out.
Miss Stanley thought she would soon return, and sat for
some time awaiting her, but she was disappointed. At length
the little Emma's voice called her away, and as soon as she left
the kitchen, Miss Hoxie, who had been all the time standing by
the door waiting for her exit, re-entered and resumed her place
by her wheel.
cf      -CHAPTER VIII.
Ibless thee, native shore,
Thy woodlands gay and waters sparkling clear:
Full oft my heart hath yearned
For thy sweet shades and vales of sunny rest.
Even as the swan returned
Stoops to repose upon thy water's breast,
I greet each welcome spot
Forsaken long, butne'er,ah!ne'er forgot.-ELLaT.
JAIRED had made his fourth voyage to Liverpool without once
revisiting Newport, because he could not do so without losing
his berth on board, and consequently in that time a letter about
every six weeks had been the only tidings his aunt had received
from him. Over some of them she had sighed, for he had uncon-
sciously betrayed by them that he had awakened from some of
the illusions of youth, but she, was glad to see by them that he
improved his time in the cultivation of his mind. His last letter,
however, was written in excellent spirits: he had been promoted
to the office of second mate, and he was coming home to see her.
Capt. West would give him high recommendations, and as he
had become rather wearied of the Liverpool trip, he intended,
y        after staying a while at Newport, to get a berth in some vessel
going to some other port. And he was really coming home !
that was the part of the letter which made Miss Stanley's heart
beat quicker, and upon comparing the date of it and the time
since, with what he said must elapse, she might begin to expect
him that very day. This thought took from her all capability
of doing any thing with her accustomed method, and after trying
to compose herself to several things, and finding herself unsue-

U


3
i

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

23

-MMA sTANLEY, OR THE ORPUANS.
-al in all, she took little Emma and determined to go and
carry the glad news to her sister, Mrs. Witherington ; for
though she began to have an almost undefinable dislike for Mr.
Witherington, vet she was upon terms of intimacy with the family,
for she believed her sister felt affectionately towards her; and
even had she thought otherwise, she was not one who would
willinglv snap asunder bonds which had been formed by nature.
Sh, would prefer to bear much from one who could claim her
fP rbearance by the sacred name of relative.
While she is walking onwards I will give a short description of
the family of Mr. W. Ilis wife was one of that kind of women
who take for granted that her husband is always right, and that
whoever differs from him must be wrong. Always willing to
yield her own opinions to his, she was but a softened mirror of
his feelings. She pitied her sister and the orphans, but her sym-
pathv was not of that active kind which would ever be of any
t-cential service to them ; she was kind to them when they were
near her, but she left them to go on as they could.
The eldest son, George, has been already introduced ; he
had now attained the age of manhood. The eldest daughter,
Lucy, was a beauty and a belle. She had been educated with
all the care that fortune could bestow, and being naturally
talented, and inheriting from her father a disposition to outvie all
around her, she had improved the advantages that had been
given her, and had the faculty of showing them in the most al-
luring manner. She acquired the habit of saying agreeable
things to those whom she wished to please, in such a manner as
to be almost irresistible ; but if any one incurred her dislike, few
would willingly encounter a second time the unbounded hauteur
and withering scorn by which she would manifest her displeasure.
She had a violent temper, with absolute command over it when-
ever she chose ; and to prosecute any object, even while loathing
a person, she would approach them in a manner so winning, and,
at tih- same time, with so much apparent artlessness, that one
must have known her intimately, indeed, to have accused her of
insincerity. With such a (isposition she was feared by her own
family-by her inferiors she was hated-by her own sex gener-
ally, at once flattered and shunned--and by the gentlemen al-
most adored. Her sister Harriet was of a very different disposition.
Placid even to weakness, she was alternately the' tool and the
dupe of the imperious Lucy. Their brother Robert was now at
meolee. lie was warm-hearted and convivial, but partaking too
largely of the yielding character of his mother and. younger sis-
ter, he was too easily led into every temptation. Called the

handsomest youth at college, and flattered by the many who
basely bow to wealth or power, he thought it was unnecessary
to improve his time, and was rapidly running headlong into dis-
sipation, and sowing the seeds of future misery.
Mrs. Witherington received her with her accustomed cor-
diality, and as Lucy happened to be in one of her blandest hu-
mors, she was almost overwhelmed with kindness. All of them
seemed to partake of her joy in the anticipation of Jared's speedy
return ; and seeing that Miss Stanley was completely unhinged
by the idea of the time of his return being so near, they tried
every way to cheer her, or rather to divert her mind from its
overburdening joy ; and they succeeded. She became calm, and
seating herself by a window which had a fine view of the bay,
she had begun to talk cheerfully of other things, when a vessel
hove in sight : that circumstance again renewed her agitation, a
telescope was brought, and, as the ship rounded to, she read upon
its stern the name of "The Watchman," the very packet in
which he had left when he had gone down to New York with
his captain, to take their places on board the ship in which they
=     had since sailed, and she immediately decided that he must be
on board. Her relatives found it impossible to detain her a mo-
ment-she must meet him at home, and she hastily departed ;
f-   and she was not mistaken, for but a few moments after she got
home, the door opened, and there entered one whom, at first, she
could not think was the same fair youth whom she expected.
When he left her, the rose and the lily had contended for empire
upon his cheeks ; now, exposure had bronzed them to manhood's
hue, but there was the same buoyant step as he leaped forward,
exclaiming, "My dear aunt Nancy !" Nothing more was needed
than that well-remembered tone ; for, .
"Oh the voice is known
First from all else."
- -s-
Once more she embraced him. Again he was with her, atid
she was happy. She had hardly welcomed him when in rtn
Richard, closely followed by Miss Hoxie with Emma in h r
arms ; the child calling out," How-do-ye-do, my own brother, my
dear brother ?"  Emma was crying with astonishment and frig at
at the turbulence of the scene around her ; and Miss Hoxie was
screaming, "Get out of the way-let me come-let me s e
him !" She walked, or rather waddled up to him, and hastily
putting Emma from her, she caught him in her arms, then she
held him at arm's length, and, after gazing at him intently a mo-
ment or two, she turned to Miss Stanley, "Well," said she, lie


24          EMMA sTANLEY, OR TIlE ORPHANS.
will mike a man after all !'' rThln turning to him, " Well, I am
glad to see you ! Now sit down !"  Stooping to take up Emma,
lie obeyed her, not without a smile at the strangeness of her
gring.   She observed the smile : " And what are ye laugh-
mg for ?" said she ; " that's the way with all of ye : ye go to
foreign parts, and, instead of learning manners, ye come back to
laugh at old folks."
Oh no, Miss Hoxie, you are mistaken. I hope you don't
think I would laugh at you !"
"Well! now hold your tongue, and don't go to telling a lie
to make it better, for it will only make it worse."
lie knew her too well to say any more, and, taking a seat by
his aunt, with Emma on one knee and Richard by his side, he
was soon absorbed in asking questions and listening to rephies
concerning every thing immediately relating to all that had hap-
pened during his absence.
C H APT E R    IX.
My choir ha- been the moonlight waves,
Whoen mrmring homeward to their caves;
ir v, hen the  tillnes of the sea,
1in ore than inusic breathed of Thee.-MOORE.
\WnIE thus enjoying his society, hoping to be that evening
olin- with him, the door opened, and Mr. Witherington and
family entered ; and scarcely had the conversation resumed its
social turn, when it was interrupted again and again by the en-
trance of the former acquaintances of Jared, until the room was
filled to overflowing. For he was a general favorite ; and the
news of his coming had quickly spread through his circle of
friends, most of whom were impatient to greet him on his ar-
rival.  Though  Miss Stanley was disappointed in not being
able to have him alone with her on the first evening of his arri-
val, vet she was astonished at the improvement of his conversa-
tional talents. Before lie left her, except to those with whom
he was on terms of intimacy, he was reserved and shy ; now he
was free and animated in conversation. Though he had been
literally the hero of the evening, he bore his-part through it with
modest, but with perfect freedom from embarrassment. Ap-
parently at home, at whatever turn the conversation took, he
had an answer for all. lie gave a lively description of the dan-
grs and delights of the sea. He spoke of the glories of the
rising and the setting sun-the beauties of the moonlight ocean

., EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPIIANS. o
-and then of the tedium of the sailor's life in a calm. Then,
y     ere his audience began to weary, he made them thrill with hor-
ror as he related the terrible struggles of the ship in a storm,
t'    and a severe conflict which they had with a pirate vessel on the
t      way. To one, he would relate an anecdote which would con-
$      vulse all in the room with laughter ; to another, he would turn
and tell some incident of his voyages which would make the
eyes of the more tender suffuse with tears, and sadden the coun-
tenances of the more stern. But all was natural and uncon-
strained. And though he never presumptuously took the lead in
conversation, yet, when he spoke, all hung upon his words.
Miss Stanley gazed upon him in wonder ; her heart was too full
to question him. She looked her delight, and was mute.
At length the company dispersed. But it was long after
'.     midnight had sunk upon the earth, when those two separated.
And she was gratified by his telling her that it was her precepts
before he left home, and her letters afterwards, which had inci-
ted him to improve every spare moment in the cultivation of
his mind, and enriching it with so varied a store both by read-
ing and observation.
The next morning he went to see Mr. and Mrs. Chapman.
He found her seated by the fire reading. But Richard and
Emma were there before him ; for Richard had made a very
earnest and successful application to lis aunt to go and apprise
her-whom he considered one of his best friends-of the arrival
of a brother, of whom he had already learned to be proud;
and as he had insisted that it would do Emma good to take a
little walk, Miss Stanley had entrusted her to his care.
How shall I describe Mrs. Chapman? For she was then in
her sixtieth year, and to say she was beautiful might excite a
smile in some of my youthful readers ; but I might make use of
the expression, without fear of ridicule, to all those who rank
expression as one of the principal requisites of beauty, for her
countenance was what you might imagine a saint's to be. And
even those who sought for beauty only in regularity of feature,
might trace the remains of it in her bright blue eye, her Grecian
nose, her high forehead, and her yet sound and regular teeth.
A     She greeted the youth with that mild and maternal expression
which so universally finds the way to the heart; inquired into
the details of his voyage, and then, laying her hand on his arm,
and looking anxiously into his face, as if fearing what his answer
~   might be-" And how," said she, "has the soul prospered?
Have you, upon the pathless ocean, held sweet communion with
your God?   Did you, during the storms which you encountered,


EMMA 5'IA 1LET, OR THE ORPJIAiS.

EMMA STANLEsY, OR THE ORPHANS.

remembeV that he held the winds in the hollow of his hand ?
Did you feel yourself peculiarly the object of his care, while only
a pltik divided you from a watery grave ?  Did you remember
his Sabbaths upon the sounding sea?   Or did you forget his
presence while so peculiarly under the guidance of his protecting
am '
I had my Bible and my prayer-hook," he replied, " and I
remembered the lesson that I was early taught, that God dwells
net in temples made with hands, but that he peoples all space,
and will always listen to the prayers of his worshippers."
"I greatly rejoice that, though for so long deprived of gospel
ordinances, your heart does not forget to acknowledge the un-
en Hand that conducts your wanderings and guides your steps.
Ma you have grace given you to hold fast your confidence, the
rejoicing of the hope, firm unto the end. Great and precious
are the promises given to the fatherless, and to them that have
no helper ; and to those who seek the Lord early he has said
he would be found. And even in secular concerns, though of
far less importance than spiritual ones, if they are pursued with
uprightness of conduct and from pure motives, we have a greater
rigbt to believe that the Ruler of all events will grant success."
But riches are not invariably cast into the lap of the
faithful."
True ; they are not, But can you prove that they are ever
withheld from honest industry, where they would not prove in-
jurious ?  We are very short-sighted. We are, with the strict-
est searching, but imperfectly acquainted with the secret work-
ings of our own hearts ; even yours, my dear young friend, may
vet be detected in many obscure windings, that you would be
unwilling to confess to your most confidential friends."
" You would almost discourage me from looking into it at all,
for fear that I should be startled at the magnitude of the evils
that I should dicover."
.'heay will only show you the more need of the great Physi-
cian ; and in proportion to the pain von suffer will be the
earnetness of application for the healing balm which God in his
mercy has provided for all. But perhaps I have gone a greater
length upon this subject than is warrantable in the warmth of a
tirst meeting, after so long an absence. But I hope I have said
nothing which you will not readily excuse, in consideration of my
age, habits, and regard for your best welfare."
"Instead of my having any thing to excuse, my warmest
feelings of gratitude are yours; and I am rejoiced to find that I
have awakened so warm an interest in your heart."

I
I

"Let us, then, take a walk in the garden to see my children,
as you used to call my flowers."
"Gladly ; and I can prove to you that I did not forget you in
my absence ; for while in Liverpool, I made a collection of seeds
for you of a considerable number of plants, which you had not,
and which I admired ; and I have a beautiful specimen of stone-
crop at aunt Nancy's, which I brought from thence expressly
for you."
"I thank you. Such are indeed sweet remembrances, and
such as I need not assure you I shall cherish, both on account of
the giver and the gift ; but how shall I repay you for the trouble
they must have cost you ?"
"Think of me sometimes while admiring them; for I would
take much more trouble for such a reward."
"Surely you have learned to flatter since you left us."
"I never flatter those whom I esteem; and to prove to you
that what I have said is no flattery, I will ask a yet bolder boon:
sometimes in your prayers remember me."
She held out her hand ; he took it and pressed it respectfully
to his lips, but said no more upon the subject. They spent more
than an hour admiring the flowers ; after which, remembering
that he had other friends to visit, he took his leave.
CHAPTER X.
Despair is never quite despair,
Nor life nor death the future closes;
And round the shadowy brow of care
Will hope and fancy twine their roses.-HEMANS.
JARED's next visit was to Mr. Witherington's. He found the
young ladies amusing themselves with a letter which Lucy had
that morning received from an admirer of hers. They were so
absorbed in laughter, that for some time all he could learn of the
cause of it was, that Lucy had received a billet-doux from Dr.
Blustermeath. But who Dr. Blustermeath was, he was at a loss to
conjecture. He supposed that he must be a new resident, as it
was a name with which he was wholly unacquainted.
"Oh !" said Lucy, at length, "just wait an hour or two and
you will probably see him ; for he promises to be here this morn-
ing to hear his sentence ; and it must be near the time of his call,
for it is already twelve o'clock."
" But," said Jared, "we must leave you alone to see your
swain."

t

'G f

27


EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

29

i:MMA sTAINLEY   OR fTIlE ORPhIANS.
Not at all. I can reject him just as well in your presence ;
and as the lesson may be a useful one to you, I beg you would
stay and relieve me from the irksomeness of a private interview ;
and I can give you another reason, he is quite anxious to see
you.''
" To see me
" Yes, you ; and why not ?  Indeed, I suspect that your arri--
val had something to do with this precious epistle."
" Why so
Ye terday he was here, and I told him of your arrival, and
lie asked me many questions concerning you, which I took pleas-
ure in anwering. And I must confess that I praised you rather
extrava antly. When he asked me if you had gained the cit-
addl of my hiart, instead of answering the question, I. merely
blushed, and hung down my head, with the mischievous design
f wishing to see what effect it would have ; and I presume this
ltt 'r is the effect, for he begins by referring to you."
Do It me see this famous epistle.''
Sh handed him the letter, and he read the following:
My Al) l I) MI -s Ia e'v
N N t bin_ alel1nger to bear the torturing thought that
that iresuiiin  roung man, your cousin Stanley, may bear off
the pri,  f  o'r inimitable heart, and determining that at least
he should not gain it without a struggle. I propose myself as a
tndidate in opposition to him. I declare you to be the queen
of my afietion , and the only one of your sex in the great arena
upon which the luminary of day casts his beams to whom I
could surrender my libertyv-; but to you I am anxious to be a
slhve, and, if vou will accept my heart and hand, and join your
fate to mine, I pledge myself to you that you shall not only con-
trol all my actions, but even all my thoughts. You are suffi-
ciently acluaiitsd with me not to render it necessary for me here
to enlarge upon my character. I have never scrupled to unfold
it to vou. I will call this morning and receive from your beau-
tiful m uth the fiat of my fate, and until I see you, live upon
the hope that it may be most propitious to my dearest hopes.
.A dieu for a few moments, which suspense and anxiety will
l n-then to indescribable bounds, as is always the case when I
am absent from you.
"Your ardent admirer,
"AUGUSTUS BLUSTERMEATIL"
ie handed back the letter.  "A  singular being he must

V

surely be; and now I suspect I am as anxious to be acquainted
with him as he can be with me."
"And how do you intend to act towards him ?"
"If that letter is at all characteristic, I shall endeavor to flat-
ter him into a better opinion of me. But here is some one com-
ing, and I suspect it is him."
"What does he look like ?-an eel-skin drawn over a broom-
stick ?"
"Yes, somewhat. He has on a narrow-brimmed hat, from
which peeps dark-brown hair."
"Oh, his wig !-but I beg pardon ; go on."
"A blue coat with light buttons, a white vest, blue pants,
and unbrushed brogan shoes ; no gloves, but in his hand a gold-
headed cane, which he flourishes back and forth, as if keeping
time to his own anxieties. In short, he is altogether a singular
mixture of a dandy and a sloven."
"You have hit his character. Good morning, doctor," she
continued, as he entered the room; "permit me to introduce
you to my~much-esteemed cousin, Mr. Stanley, of whom you
have so often heard me speak."
The old man looked upon Jared as if he would gaze him into
stone, and, instead of stepping forward to meet the advances of
the youth, he sat, or rather dropped down upon the chair near-
est him without speaking.
But Jared, true to his determination of flattering him, began
thus: "I feel myself peculiarly fortunate, Doctor Blustermeath,
in meeting you so soon after my arrival, as, from what I had
heard of you, I was quite desirous to see you."
"Heard of me !" said the old man, his countenance brighten-
ing with pleasure ; "and pray tell me from what quarter you
heard me spoken of ?"
"And do you think that you are so little known, or have so-
few friends, that no one speaks of you ?"
"No, I hope that I am not entirely unknown or un-
thought of."
"By no means ; and even were you personally unknown,
were you to be once seen, pardon me if I say that your appear-
ance is such that you would not be soon forgotten. I presume
that you are of English descent ?"
"Yes, I believe my grandfather was from Liverpool."
"I thought so. I was acquainted with a Mr. Blustermeath,
of Liverpool, one of the most wealthy merchants of the city.
Lords and ladies contended for the honor of his acquaintance.
He is about your size, and resembles you so much, that it


'
.
a

startled Ie when I first saw you. You must certainly be re-
Ia tedt
I have no doubt of the relationship," interposed Lucy.
" Dstor Ilustermeath, I would advise you to take a trip over
to se your relative.
Culd I have a companion," he replied, "as agreeable as
ty v dviscr, I should not hesitate."
" Bfr, vu decide upon going or staying, I will give you a
letter which may have some effect upon your resolution," and so
saving, she placed in his hands his own letter, upon which she
had written.  " Miss Witherington regrets that she has made so
favorable an impression upon the author of this, as she can nev-
er, under any circumstances, reciprocate such sentiments in the
slightest degree."
lie read what she had written, and sat for some moments in
mute wonder that he could be thus refused: then rising, neither
the po)liten~ss of Lucy, nor the good-natured pity of Harriet,
could induce him to stay. lie was evidently angry, as well as
astonished at being discarded ; but though he bowed coldly to
the ladies, there was more cordiality in his how to Stanley ; and
now, as he left the room, he appeared to be the only individual
in it with whom he was not angry.
CIIAI'TER    XI.
Strange fondness of the human heart,
Vcnimmore~t of its harm ;
Strange that the words we know are art,
Shout!dstill have power to charm !-CowPkR.
A rrw days after, George Witherington accosted Stanley upon
meeting him with-" Did you know that you had made a con-
quest of old Dr. Blustermeath? He told me yesterday that he
had met you at my- father's, and, to use a sailor's phrase, he was
struck all aback at seeing you ; that you were a much handsomer
young man than he expected to see ; and that he found you one
of the most agreeable young men that he ever saw."
Vive la flatterie !" exclaimed Jared; "'tis the same all the
world over. The old and the young-the sensible and the fool-
ish-the miserable and the happy-the rich and the poor-no
matter w hat may be the rank, or situation, or sex,-all are
moved by flattery !"
" Such are not your real sentiments, surely ?"

}    STANLEY, On TIE ORPHANS.

I

I

00

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             31
-Crail thyae      gat that it must be administered in
different qualities andquantities to different persons. Some you
must only pelt with roses, others you may daub  th hon
but I hold .it a truth that no one can gainsay, that there is not
the mortal living who cannot be moved by flattery, and that any
one by using it judiciously might always move others to their
wil- s                    designs never fail of their accom-
plishment; for, as you succeeded so well in the case of the old
doctor, I presume you are an adept in the art."
"Unfortunately I have not learned to use it when I need it.
I can flatter for my own amusement, as I did in the case you
cite. The doctor had taken a prejudice against me that I thought
c might easily remove b the means I used, as I knew that it was
perfectly unfounded. But when it is necessary to use flattery,
in order to be of service to myself, or to make any one act justly
towards me, it is too revolting to every principle of independence
with whirh I am blessed, or cursed, for me to make use of it;
but I believe, that had I that smoothness of tongue and servility
o   inde which would permit me to make every one think that I
of mi     with true ffection, and would make me flatter the
qualities which they knew they possessed, extol all their virtues,
excuse all their faults, and such vices as were too glaring to ex-
cuse entirely, gloss them over with such palliating circumstances
as  take from them what was offensive-then I think that I
might turn man or woman to my will."
You give rather a contemptible view of human nature."
"It is, alas!1 as I have found it. I am young in years, but in
experience I am at least middle-aged; and the more I see of
mankind, the more frail I feel our nature is."willyet
"I regret to hear you say so ; but I hope that you  ye
think mankind more upright than to be so easily oeominten-
"As to the uprightness of many individuals, at least inine
tion, I do not doubt, for there are hundreds who must first be
oled to believe that the cause is not wrong before they will engage
in it; but a true flatterer can convince them of that-they can
interest the feelings, and thus blind the reason; and in such
cases, unless the grace of God be showered down upon him or
her thus tempted to guard them from the snare, I think no one
cn withstand the insinuating poison, if cautiously and artfully
can wtsadteusu
directed."
"Tell me how it should be pointed to succeed."
"Always to that quality in which the victim wished to excel
all others  and if it happens to be one in which the person


k
f
fF
F
F
't
'r

33

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

J MMA TIANLLOvOt TILE ORI'LNS.
tt r1 - entir-ly dit'ent, they will the more readily fall into
"    9l  s  n h
anrdrt d  tatc, how should one flatter my father in
ord r ti su-c- 2't?
"   rlaik integrtynd
i w    t     andl steadiess of principle."
11 aHer  hat w idvon flatter aunt Nancy ?"
l ujr humility would make 1(r one of the most difficult of
211 -hrbaater    1h uides, if she has any weak point
it ut, fir I will n ..al  av it to y-our own discernment to find
fr        ilvir wny admit that she has one. But
--a    rafthIr   it 20 heoinr too personal, and I am be-
stthj It.        v ; so, for the present, we will waive this
A~ bred:(We will take a
i -   in-rrw nicrht    a  yer one.  Do you go to the assem-
.,V .,I  think t   i sh  if -i -
n     in m  niati -halli is (lix to see how such things at-c
r 'T~i +t  in2  2 T fl  It  +tI t~0i(it.  1)1)  ) 0115  a
" Murd le.     n-     you (go ?"
( A fotrel Ich;  I  n (II itt suppose any onte could Persuade Lucy
mih hosach a pehi-ue, or gire up all the conquests that she
atilt hope to W ikupon such an occasion ?  Will you call and
ac(-lirn Prhaip I  mWe go at about ten o'clock." l
"-tm.T Inv ,nbt as I aui rather governed by the whim-
(If timl lilf-lt, I caittot 1(Iotiis y'ou., Do not wait a moment
fir tilt, fr if I call,  w   ill do 50 before it is time to set foth"n
(CIA PT''I-I tXII
ii;,,  - l( 1 111  n -  nor O n- io cii!
1212  "of  tib -tt tr t  l  i ' tl ev-)'l5  train?
XI- tiI( r at211hfi(intiny }I21rInI ru -r(s,
l?t 11ii r  +O lrlili-t 111 silt11thou10lin e ttlt
}~br1 thtl ront  t 1111hoe sctee11a1' i fed,
i ritiihh e
1linhtar  1t tto'lon e' am1 fildstthe10 s~ouns ohfmirth-
ack to thy I'letear~itih l--I txs
TmIr: n^'t ni hr~t  uns
buonu     ,ttal'prepared himself for the ball
111nt to the tan--1 r rI and  i i his uncl's, as his cousins expected, he
winghht anwr  inth   inted if Captain Linton were there.
ro-m. Tnwh witheon atiirmtir, he asked to 'be shown to his
b   . k The  anit conducted hin to a room, at the door of which
abskcnt, as that was pmiti 111 answer, observed that he must be
open, thaadoort fn litiulnf it s room. Stanley upon trying to
open till-door afouo't it ita neht, and entered. The room was
i.'1.tpio(            inth 0w mowas  sitting   ait is
L-\a iil~~r  ,  ,     ,, ba table, with his

'1

I

I

head leaning on his hand, and so profoundly engaged with his
own thoughts, that he had not heeded the entrance of his visitor.
s        He was in the undress uniform of the United States army-his
face would betoken him to be about twenty-seven or eight ; but
-      perhaps it was grief which had bowed his form with that pecu-
liar stoop, which is seldom given by other cause, and which
seems rather unexpected in a soldier. He started as Stanley
pronounced his name.
" Ah, Stanley !" said he, "I am heartily glad to see you, and
you are one of the very, very few, to-whom I could now say so
with any sincerity."
"I should not suppose," said Jared, "that you were one to
speak insincerely ; but you must not abate the joy that I feel in
seeing you interested in any one, when I tell you the purport of
my visit ; for I have come to ask a favor of you; but before I
propose it, I want you to guarantee to me your consent."
"I can scarcely suppose that you could possibly ask a favor of
me, which I could refuse. You have too often relieved me of
myself, and lightened my thoughts, for me to behave as churlish
-i      towards you as I do towards others."
:Y        " Why, then, have you permitted  e to welcome you to my
=       home, and to introduce you to the members of my family, which
render that home so dear to me
"I can only plead to you the same excuse which I have so
often made use of-my disincliniation for society, and my unfit-
ness for it."
"You are not unfit for it. On the contrary, you must be sen-
sible that if you chose to exert the talents which God has given
you, you would always be hailed with pleasure by any society
into which you might be introduced ; and, to use the freedom of
a friend, this morbid sensibility to deficiencies which only exist
in your imagination, and this cankering melancholy in which you
indulge, will lead you to an early grave. You must shake it off,
and if you trust where you ought, and lift your heart above, in-
stead of bowing it to the earth, believe one who somewhat early
in life has proved it true, that 'Earth has no sorrow that God
will not heal;' but I came not here to moralize, but-
"Oh, stop not ! I love to hear you speak thus. It was hear-
ing such sentiments from your lips, and seeing you act up to
them, which first led me to seek your society-to take an inter-
est in you, and to feel that there was yet one of my species with
whom I might have some kindred feelings. Go on! Speaking
thus you soothe a saddened soul, and minister-to a broken heart.
" But I came to-night with a far different object in view.
F0                                   0


EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANs,

I

F
p$_
3p
f
afi

1I

34

I told you that I had come to ask a favor, and if I mistake not
you have promised to grant it, There is an assembly in town
to-nit: I am going, and I came to beg you to accompany me.
("1i, ask some other boon ! do not ask such a one as that!
You know not the pain that I should suffer were I to grant it.
I know your motive, you think that I can enter into the gayety
of the scene; but you are mistaken. Do not urge your request."
" Then you refuse to grant the only favor that I ever asked,
after you had promised to grant it? I thought that what you
oace promised you always performed. I regret that I am mis-
taken inyou, even in the slightest point."t
"If you insist upon the fulfilment of my promise I will accom-
pa nvvyou. I must stipulate, however, that I may abstain from
"Asy ou please; but I  sopegthat you will remain in the dan-
cing-roront, and let us depart together."
lie then inquired at what time it was fashionable to attend,
and learning that the time had nearly arrived, he immediately
began his toilet, and at about a quarter past ten o'clock the
two friends proceeded to the assembly-room. It was a beauti-
ful room, and brilliantly lighted. As they stood together and
gazed upon the young and the gay before them, Captain Linton
turned to Jare and observed that he had never seen such a col-
lection of beauties, and that, though Newport had long been
famous for its handsome ladies, yet he had never supposed that
so many could meet at a public ball whom one might pronounce
beautiful.
A gleam of joy shot athwart the countenance of Stanley at the
compliment paid his town's-women; but it instantly vanished as
uis eve met that of his friend ; for instead of his face being lighted
up with pleasure, more than his usual melancholy pervaded every
feature. As Jared was about to reply, his arm was touched by
asyo    a   o       - id schoolmates, who told him that he
was commissioned by Miss Witherington to lead him captive to
her feet. "Tell her," said he, that I will go a willing captive
without being led," and turning to Captain Linton, he asked him
if he wished to be introduced to one of the belles of the city?
"011, excuse me !" said lie, "it is sufficient for me tougaze
upon stars at a distance, without being near enough to be im-
mersed in their rays."
Jared went alone ; but before he reached the spot where his
cousin sat she had left to dance, and not feeling disposed to join
them in the amusement, he took a'vao nt seat and awaited her
return ; and as he gazed upon the fair creatures before him, he

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
could not help assenting to his friend's remark ; but among all
that he saw, there was none there whom he thought more wor-
thy of admiration, on account of mere personal appearance, than
his cousin Lucy. Her beauty was of that kind which seemed
peculiarly fitted to the place, and=gas heightened by every
circumstance of the scene. He was still admiring her when she
returned to her seat. She playfully reproached him for absent-
ing himself so long, and then asked him why he did not bring
with him that melancholy-looking man who was standing by
him ; "for," said she, "I think he must be an oddity, and you
must know that it is my passion to attach such animals to my-
self."
"You must not make sport of my friend," he replied; "and I
think you would find it rather more difficult to attach him than
you suppose."
"The more difficult it would be, the greater the honor ! I'
insist upon an introduction. What is his name ?
"Captain Linton, of the United States army, at present upon
furlough."
"Captain Linton, that sounds well! You must introduce
him now."
"I fear that I cannot, as he prefers distance where ladies are
concerned. I have already endeavored to persuade him to per-
mit me to introduce him, ancl he declines."
"You make me more and more anxious to become acquainted
with one so different from the rest of the world; make one effort
more. Tell him that I wish to be acquainted with him."
He accordingly returned to Captain Linton; but even this ar-
gument was of no avail. "Tell her," said he, "that I would
not willingly sadden a moment of the existence of one so fair and
beautiful, and for her sake I decline the invitation. But you
must excuse my staying here any longer. Will you call to see
me to-morrow morning, about ten o'clock, and suffer me now to
depart ; it only saddens me to remain." So saying, he turned
and left the room.
CHAPTER       XIII.
For me, a mother's love is o'er,
A mother's love is mine no more;
Unless, indeed, that love I wed
Among the cold and silent dead.-C. W. THOMSON.
SUCH had been universally the tone of the conversation of
Capt. Linton, ever since Jared Stanley had first seen him; but


a
j$  6
1
Z
t
x }
i
x
y-T.
{
.
a
R
3
t
.

OEMMA STANLEY, on 'Tr             ORPIIANS.
thouhli le had now been acquainted with him for more than
iii hit Ia 1i Ihi Ii  never asked or received his confidence"; he
h    rpelt hat  s itaitiotn to meet him on the morrow, and by
tis            mnt alityi aning the hour, that he intended disclosino-
ti   in ii  u taoi  f the secret grief which was preying upon his
become acquainted with him on the passage from
Li rJ"'; ihe had first been interested in him from the deep-
s.ite( inclanecholy which seemed never for an instant to leave
I  and lie bean their acquaintance, by once or twice, during
hisdilty41n deck, when all the passengers except Capt. Linton
1111 tired, venturing some few remarks, in order to divert him
Iim the atl ti bughts w hich he seemed to cherish. These re-
IIi a   tiialwvays of an order too refined to permit them to be
pa'.tl in silence, and thtus they had gradually become friends
tlheyhad mutually learned to appreciate and to love echl
It lii itleautiful minds. Upon arriving at New York, Captain
t ai  d undeterrntnctl which way to go, but when he
h' ad from Stianlyy that he intended leaving the ship at that
It l pl ltrtteedtrr to Newport, he concluded to go there also-
it htugh apparently' so fend of his society, he had steadily re'
t l to beintroducd l hint ti his relations. And now, though
lxiI4 to hi sti-itations and entered with him into the
tieni'of  it v it had apparently but added to his sadness and
he b l ilniti I it.'. asit lmsii unable longer to witness the scene.
Ojta rt 4  it h)perplexing thoughts concerning his friend, which
t old rtt either slet or banish, lie returned to his cousin and
havedr   (       a   , ese, "' and look," he added, ''you
said ie, ltugling, " he is fairly beaten, for he has left
n  mi-ti s of th "fill. I have accomplished quite a victory -
S a r  mit  t have cast his mantle upon your shoul-
I-  u 1t 1;lt.Iati lit" departed, for your face has assumed
fir r       iiH, and it is it as becoming to you as to him
Shat} m/r.Iiie    uch more at home upon your face than all
S     ht hts happened to you? Is this Capt. Linton
a   I  n    I d halts he touched you itli his wand, and said,
nn r so. ItJ ttuch you with min,'' and as she spoke she
I           y    inI  a itigayly and lightly wihil a rose which sheik held in
n I immnand y uto be ay ! Look hbout You, and
pifor  ,prkling eyes, and laughing faces
t . t1   ' the iulad that has  ithered i ovr ytour brow.
ft t present moment as it flies, and never be sad
in surrounded by the means for pleasure."
me yur h~and tin. fir ehl-tt i-for the (lance just

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
forming, and try the effect of the potent spell which you have
cast around; and I wish you would give me some talisman by
which I may preserve the charm even when you are not by to
insure its power."
So saying, they joined the dancers; and as Jared had early
learned the power of making successful efforts to repress all ex-
pressions of his feelings, when he was aware that they were per-
ceptible to others, he commanded from him all appearance of
sadness, and at once became the gayest of the gay. Miss Wither-
Sington flattered herself that it was solely her influence which had
so transformed him, for she was not aware that he had long tried
to hide his feelings from the general eye, and that he would have
made the same effort, and with equal success, as soon as he be-
came aware that they were mirrored upon his face, even if she
had been far distant; but it is generally the case that those ac-
customed to homage, expect it from all who come within their
influence, and attribute all the actions of those around them as
so many acknowledgments of their sway.
But he made no demonstrations of the remembrance of his
friend to her again that evening, though he left before the party
had generally began to disperse; but after he left, he gave free
scope to his natural thoughts, and it was long ere they permitted
him to sleep ; and when he slept, the visions of the evening were
repeated and exaggerated, so that his slumber was uneasy and
unrefreshing. He awoke the next morning with the exclamation
upon his lips, What can Linton want with me? I shall be glad
when the time arrives to visit him ; and just at that time he en-
tered the room.
" Ahl! Stanley," said Capt. Linton, "like yourself, always
punctual! How did you spend the evening after I left you ?
"Had you seen me, you would have thought me the lightest-
hearted creature in the room.
"And why were you not ?"
x=            " For several reasons ; but I believe the most weighty one
among them was your noble self."
"I owe you an apology for leaving so abruptly, but I dreaded
an introduction to any one there, for I knew that then I could
not even feign mirth ; for only gazing upon it led-me into reflec-
tions but little fitted for the place. But perhaps it was my par-
ticularity in naming the time for our meeting this morning, which
clouded your joy."
"Yes I"
"Well, my friend, I spoke to you last evening with the inten-
tion of telling you my whole history this morning ; but I sat up

I!


_

_

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

late last night with the design of putting it into some form and
only the dwelling upon sornecircumstances in thought, so much
ngitated me, that you must excuse me for deferring it some time
longer. I was unwilliancr to suffer you to introduce me toyour
relatives, while you could give no other account of me than now
you can  but vet I find myself unequal to the task of opening
wounds (if which time has but blunted the severity. Are you
willing to take me a little longer upon trust? You spoke truly
when you said, that this morbid melancholy which I cherished
would lead me to an early grave ; but before I die, or when I
am dead, you shall know all the cause which so depresses me,
whose only hin~,ringr of early pride is in being able to call Jared
Stanley his friend. I can tell you now," he continued, waving
his hand as he saw Stanley about to reply, " that nothing dis-
honorable has ever cast a shade upon my character. Of that
perhaps, my being continued in the army, and the peculiar in-
d(ulagnce that I meet with from my superior officers, in being
allowed long and frequent furloughs, is sufficient proof. I am
th  only child of Robert Linton, formerly a lawyer of Philadel-
phia, and though he is now numbered with the dead, yet there
are many there who knew him, and those who were most intimate
with him are the loudest in his praise. And my sainted mother-
the poor, the sik, and the destitute are those who could tell you
best where were her daily walks. Look upon her lovely face !"
and he took a miniature from his bosom and held it towards his
fiend as le spoke. " Does it not speak truly of one who would
minister to the distressed and relieve the wretched?  Perhaps
were she alive, she might pour balm into the lacerated bosom of
her son .  He leaned back in his chair and covered his face with
his hands, but Jared could see the veins of his forehead swell,
and hear his breath come fast and thick. " Alas !'" said he, I
wrong thee by the seltish thought, my mother !" In a few mo-
ments he subdued his feelings.  " tanley," said he, with a sad
smilef are you wilhingwit b so imperfect a knowledge of me, to
intr 'leo le t', your rirwnds "'
Not oaly wih"irg but anxious  I, too, am an orphan, and
feel an orphan's  ings for parental love ; but come with me,
and let me introduce you to her who, had I never known a
mother, would have entirely supplied the loss; but' I was too
old when my mother (lied, to transfer all the love which my
heart had garnered up for her, to my devoted aunt ; but let us
now cease this sorrowful conversation, and repair with more
cheerful heart to the home which contains all whom I yet hold
dear.'

jil

I

rMMA STANTLEY, OR THE ORPIiANs.

CHAPTER       XIV.
But art thou thus indeed alone,
Quite unberriended-alunknown 1
And hast thou then His love forgot,
Who formed thy frame, and fixed thy lot ?-CosnDER.
TuouGH the interview related in the last chapter had been dif-
ferent from what Jared had hoped, it had not been a disagreeable,
though it was a sad one. He ha'd long wished to know some-
thing particular concerning his friend, for though he had inferred
from his conversation that he was, like himself, a parentless wan-
derer upon earth, yet this was the first time that he had ever
given him any direct information of himself. He was glad too,
hat he had at last consented to visit him at his own home; and,
at the same time, to account for his reluctance to have done so
before and he thought that if any one could have any effecttin
infusing cheerfulness into his heart, that Miss Stanley was the
person to do it; and Mrs. Chapman, to whom he intended intro-
ducing him, might give him another example of patience in bear-
ing the ills of life.
.The two friends were met at the door by Emma, who claimed
her accustomed place in Jared's arms. He took her up, and pro-
ceeding to the parlor he introduced his friend to his aunt, an
also to Mrs. Chapman, whom he had the pleasure to find sitting by
the fire knitting, which employment gave assurance to his prac-
tised eye, that she was there for the day. They both kindly wel-
comed Capt. Linton.-
c"Did    ou know," said Miss Stanley, "that I am almost dis
posed to arraign you before this present tribunal, for your long an
inexcusable refusal to wait upon us fair ladies, at our own homes?"
"Iwould beg not to be arraigned," said he, "did I think that
my acquittal would depend upon the defence that I might be able
to make, but I read mercy so plainly written upon your counte-
nances, that if I am ever to be tried for this offence, this is the
time and place I should choose."
"You don't know how inexorable we might prove: perhaps, as
a punishment, we might condemn you to sojourn amongst us ir
a longer period than your patience could endure; but if you or-
offend no more in the same way, we will put off your trial for-
ever : but your not coming sooner has made us believe you very
hard-hearted."
"And why ?"
"Did you not know that all whom Jared holds dear have an

3S

39


4 f

I.

if     f r us; and that, tilere-fore, it was cruel in you to deny
u    b ut' l1ur-rwlfl v{ur tti(lolok  tance fr so)lon"- a time 2'
I                    ah t  l" ltli-il totI -iLupon myself as a lonely man, and not
ti so t hot Iton lcase anxiety to others"
l~ieavet'to learn the truth of what thepoet says, that
' Ii  ( b   k-i is -I a heart but 1eats s some one to griee?'"
Had te    n   T    e I learned to know your nephew, I
hink that the pIt might have been proved a false prophet."
have v{ t tnf"riends among your brother officers ?"
S Vs, esuch- th  world calls friends; but there is no tie that
hte, u- It ti-tit h re w e xave few sympathies: though they
bttiit, andi I lihlit i { wll, sigh over my grave, yet it would be
lot a Ii;htumtner c t tifloating over the tranquillity of their ex-
n Al soil not that sigh hxtoken grief, even though it might
ii: a  l-tin :reand a- for svmpathy, scorn not the friendship that
r v i - rent(fredm Iv itutt-ieyour senttintents on minor points
iir lir atati, t uh  who ofars it. it may be none the less sin-
'ii'tfir again, to ijuote a poet-
It  aa  iitIt l{' t   art  tiici-eols- k2 ii s !
r at   itiv stilt couittooa  po t  -
i .  Itit  .1 zo ik-i h :  sittzi  i  tef' of ours
I -o r f rti Its  o t "t
iuld yiu,'' sid Mis. (hapman, " willingly darken the ex-
an 0   it oinle-  i hiltids yin dear with unavailing regret ?"
., I I lh  h' -replied," " that the regrets of our best friends
please us' i-n, lw u hv empathy for us or with us."
" A od i n t that pleaslurl seltish or unkind ?"
". I niv. r theiutiht -sa; but the manner in which you put the
quJ     ltt:n pait at  u dl " tvxa-nt
". Petrhapt  . we{r{ y  uto   onisidetr  the ;subject attentivel ,-,  ou
ri.:ht c c  e t t mneconclusion." ''I
dislikanalyzingmly own character when I think that by
d n     I I sillf tind out its defects.  I prefer ignorance of self
to a Lu  i" d-  ot  evil. ''
h' :  I - a x lltLtilect the tost profitable of all branches of
study x  1d tI tind out your defects, if you have an', is the most
n  i  p-'n it-itnti ar'i perfe'cting your character. Onr- faults are
ur { n n--  :,rise growth i' cur fallen nature. The great
l   nt - if._ r - tf i   , radii-at- tht'a,  tand  to  plant virtues in their
Se soil of theini or hart must not remain fallow."
uaY that our faults itie oItt  own! Are not our virtues

EMMA STANLEY, OR TIE ORPHANS.

41

"No! for them we are debtors to the Giver of all good. They
are talents intrusted to our care, and we are accountable to the
great Proprietor for our diligent use of them. The command is,
as you know, 'Occupy till I come.'"
"You give me rather new ideas of my duties; but though
they militate against my general practice, yet I believe you
right."
"Look here !" said Emma, thrusting a kitten which she held
in her hand almost into his face, in order to attract his attention,
which she had been in vain attempting to do for some time by
antics of all kinds. "Is not my kitten a beauty ?"
He was unprepared for such an interruption, and a repulsive
answer rose to his lips ; but when he looked upon the child, it
was quickly changed to one of sympathy; she was so frail that
she looked as if a summer's breath, if suffered to blow harshly
upon her, might waft her to another sphere, and she looked so
lovingly upon the kitten which she still held in her hand, as she
repeated the question, that it at once awakened his kindly feel-
ings, and in a short time she was clambering upon his knee, and
entertaining him with the whole history of her cat.
Thus passed the day, in rational converse with the ladies and
Jared,-in fondling Emma, who did her best to amuse the
"sorry man," as she called him, or in watching Richard, who
was truly a lover of mischief, and who appeared to be at once
the life and the favorite of the household. While he was in the
house, scarcely a moment passed in which the frolicsomeness of
his disposition was not apparent. At one time he would be
teasing Emma, then archly doing something to gain a smile from
the ladies, then some prank against Jared, to get into a romp if
Jared took any notice of it; and he eyed Captaia Linton askance,
as if he only waited for a better acquaintance to make him take
his share ; but yet, when he was led into conversation, he dis-
played a depth of thought and a shrewdness, which bade fair to
render him superior to his fellows, should he live to manhood,
and Captain Linton could not help feeling interested in him, and
he took pleasure in engaging him in conversation, in order to
fathom his young mind ; and there were few who knew and did
not take an interest in him. He was rather small of his age, his
fair complexion was perfectly colorless, and to see him standing
still, looking downwards, one might have taken him for marble,
such an entire air of repose breathed over him ; but if he raised
his eyes, and unveiled them from their long lashes, the resem-
blance vanished-there was too much life in those bright blue
eyes to belong to aught inanimate !

1MM 'X ST XNLEY, OR T'fiE ORPHANS.

i
I


42

1'MM STANLEY OR TiE ORPHANS.

I

II

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

43

r
4
r
t
s
a  r

F

CHAPTER       XV.
In vain through beauty, fortune, wit,
For happiuness we trace ;
It dwells not in the faithless smile,
That brightens Lucy's face."
" IHAIRIET, just fasten that bandeau," said Lucy Witherino-
ton to her sister, as she sat before her glass, arranging her hai-.
"Pshaw ! don't you see that you have put it too low upon my
forehead-and now it is as much too high. Oh, let it alone ! and
call Susan here, and let me see if she can find out where I want it."
" Let me try once more," said Ilarriet.  "There! I am sure
you can find no fault with that, it lies so beautifully between
those curls and flowers ; but tell me, Lucy, why are you so very
particular in your dress to-day? here have you been before your
class for two whole hours, and have just finished your head-
(lre-c ; but really it now pays you for your trouble ; for I have
rarely seen it arranged so becomingly; but it is a mystery to
me why you are so anxious to look well to-day."
- Dii not cousin Jared promise me that, if possible, he would
bring Captain Linton to dine here to-day ; but, at all events, he
would bring him round in the afternoon?"
"And what of that
"Simply because he is different from men generally, and in-
stead of fluttering round me the other night at the assembly, as
ther did, he even refused Imty invitation to come. I admire his
independence, and it would delight me to make it bow to mine."
" Al   believe me, sister dear, you will never chain that man
to  our triumphal ear; ho has some corroding grief that will
forbid him to lve.'
' Arnd I tell you that I will chain him, and should he continue
here six weeks, I will have the offer of his hand."
" And if you do, will you accept it ?"
Why will you ask me such foolish questions-what has that
to do wat hi5 making me the offer ? I wish you would let the
fut ure take care of itself
- But, seriously, Lucy!
" )o stand out of my light! I can never betray pne of my
thoughts to you, but you begin with your seriouslys ; what dif-
fir"nce can it make to you whether I discard or accept him ?"
" Are you not already engaged ?"
"And what if I am?     You know that is merely an engage-
ment of convenience, which I intend to break if I should chance
to have an offer that I like better."

"I did not know that you intended to break it. I should con-
sider such a contract too sacred to be so lightly broken."
"I suppose so, Miss Prude ! but you need not suppose that I
need your lectures, or directions, to make me regulate my con-
duct."
"I beg your pardon, Lucy, I did not intend to make you an-
gry. I thought I might as well know if I was to prepare my-
self for a martial brother-in-law."
"You won't know, now, at least. I tell you again that I wish
you would call Susan here ; there you stand and see me endeav-
oring in vain to suit myself with this dress, and you will neither
help me yourself, nor call her to do it."
"You did not ask me to assist you !"
"Could not you see that I needed assistance without my ask-
ing you? No, you shall not do it now," continued she, as her
sister advanced towards her. "Call Susan, I say !"  Harriet
turned and left the room, and in a few moments the maid ap-
peared. "Your father has come, Miss Lucy," said she, "and if
you don't hurry, you won't be ready for dinner.
"And what if I am not !" said Lucy. "Is it in your place
to tell me what I must do? I sent for you to dress me, not to
instruct me in my duty ;" but notwithstanding her stern reproof,
the announcement of her father's arrival, hastened her prepara-
tions ; for Mr. Witherington's children stood in fear of commit-
ting the slightest act that could incur his displeasure; for, as in
their childhood, nothing could prevent the punishment which
was the certain follower of his anger, so in their more mature
years, nothing could shield them from his reproof.
At the summons to dinner Lucy descended to the dining-
room; but neither of her hoped-for guests were there, and it by
no means dispelled the frown upon her brow to find them absent.
"Lucy," said Mr. Witherington, "Judge Ormond and his
wife and sister are in the city, and you must call upon the ladies
this afternoon ; I told him you would do so."
"Not to-day, father, if you please ; it is too cold."
"You will hardly freeze, if you shut up the carriage well, with
your cloak and pelisse both on, and the foot-stove inside to keep
your feet warm."
"Let Harriet go without me, father. I do not wish to go
out this afternoon."
"I am not aware that I asked if you wished to go; I am not
in the habit of asking favors of my children."
"But, father, I do not feel well enough to go out so cold an
afternoon as this."


W
s.
i
k
I

LMMA S'IiNIEV, OuTILE OILPIANS.

l nt talk aiiut filing well, when you are decked out in
t   W : f r I tell you that, sick or well, vou shall go. So
ust order the carriage after dinner, and drive to the Townshend's
ht]l, and call upon the company that I desire you, and invite
t h m to sup here to-morrow.''
My dear." said Mrs. Witherington, " will it not do for Lucy
iIr iyv t  ask them to call, without inviting them here particu-
r         iy Vu know that I have not ieen well for some time, and
I         ( truth I do n t feel ai, to entertain company to whom I
-  all xh -lzto b particularly courteous.''
Andi -dan you not stay in your room and let the girls apolo-
year non-app-arance ?  he replied.
luit as vu plea-' my dear."
GTorge,"s ai h, anddrting his son, "you must accompany
ur sitFr .: and if Judge Oriind is there, you must offer to
im Ini tIn- lions of the place, con duct him to the museum,
Ii rarx, iv.'
tr r; fr ownId, hut simply replied," Yes, sir.''
$n after th carriage was ordered, and George and his sis-
- rN proced toil 0the no st fa-hionable hotel to call upon Judge
rnanl andil hs tamly.  It Was indeed a day unfavorable for
aiIig :  t nti,-t iuii, wichll had been blowing for several
dI    s   1 d ix inr i-s - ry thing befre it in vilent gusts; the
lud b.ly piled i  nesses all around the horizon, and not a ray
of -uiline illumined the scene. It was one of those bitter cold
days which are so often felt during the winter of a New England
eliiate, while a damp northeaster seems to penetrate every fibre
f ih-- b dy .
I wih, said Lucy, petulantly, " that the great folk would
stay oaut of the citx until the weather is a little warmer, or
that father would lt me choose IiV own time to call upon them.
I fHr- we are the twenty-fifth of January, 18-, cold enough to
freeuze one, driving away to call upon strangers, as if it were a
eu-c of lite and death."
" I) you intend going with us to see ' the lions' this after-
noon .' said George.
" N  I intend making the shortest possible call, and return-
ing. Are the feet of a judge too good to touch the frozen
ground ? If they are not, I see no objection to your walking."
" it is only more pleasant to ride a mile than to walk, with
such a wind as this in your teeth. I think Old Boreas must
have a new hand at his bellows."
'l There i some hopes of his becoming quickly tired then."
" It ou want to ride," said Harriet, " you can wait with the

4 4-

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.              M
judge until we can return and send the carriage back for you to
take him about."
"Thank you, Harriet, for the thought ; that is just the thing.
You can always think on both sides of the question."
Thus they proceeded ; Lucy and George contending on almost
every subject that was mentioned, and Harriet continually inter-
posing as mediator. But they were very agreeably surprised
wk-n they arrived at the hotel, to find none of those whom they
came to visit at home. But the cold rendered Miss Lucy far too
uncomfortable to permit her to regain her equanimity before
they arrived at her father's door.
CHAPTER       XVI.
This life is but a mermaid's song,
A crazy bark on stormy waves;
And every gale that sweeps along
Conveys us nearer to our graves.-RAY.
WhEN they arrived at home, Lucy was gratified to find her
cousin and Captain Linton there. He was more talkative than
usual, for Lucy, bent upon conquest, addressed her conversation
principally to him; and as his politeness compelled him to do
something towards supporting the conversation, it had the ef-
fect of drawing him out of himself, until, by degrees, he became
agreeably cheerful. As what he said was characterized by good
sense, and showed a depth of intellect more than is usually dis-
played by gentlemen in their conversation with ladies, the im-
pression which he had already made upon the capricious beauty
was deepened. Seeing a piano in the room, he requested Lucy
to sing, adding, that a love for music was one of his passions.
She was herself a brilliant performer, and readily complied with
his request. Her voice was a very powerful one, and well
trained, but rather deficient in softness. But as her sister's was
low and soft, and as their voices harmonized well from their
constant practice of singing together, she was now too anxious
to excel to neglect so important a coadjutor. Together they
sang song after song ; but Lucy had the mortification to see
Captain Linton often watching her sister's face, though he
scarcely glanced at her. She was not conscious that her anxiety
to please made itself conspicuous to him, and that he was conse-
quently much more charmed with Harriet's perfectly natural
manner. For it is always the nature of a man to feel contempt
for a woman whom he sees make any advances to gain admira-


L  MM. aI'ANLEY , o1QRTlE OII'IIANS.

tin. even though his own is the esteem she covets. He will
hsvays at the same time feel flattered by the preference, and
ent-mn the flattered'
At l      ;nth .ared asked for the beautiful and simple song,
SIdier, rest," &amp;. ; and he was surprised to see Captain Linton
ave the piano, and after walking very rapidly once or twice
airos the room, leave it, and go out upon the balcony. He
waited till the tune was tinihed, and then, begging to be excused
a moment, he sought his friend,  lie found him standing at one
nd of the balcony, supported by one of the columns, with his
lips compressed, his eves fixed, but looking as if they would
start from their sockets, and pale and livid as a corpse. Jared
went up to him and took his hand ; he heeded it not. ie spoke
t' hin, anil received no answer.  But not wishing to have a
sent, ie went to the sideboard, and seizing a tumbler of water,
i dashed about half its contents in his face. It had the de-
sird effect-it awoke him to consciousness. lie gasped, and a
moment after he took Stanley's hand.  " I thank you for your
care of me 'sd he, " but I am ashamed thus to betray my
want of self-command, even to you.  But that tune-the last
time I heard it was from lips as fair, that are now cold in death;
and now I am in the world alone, and she is-where?     But
leay me, Stanley, leave me; I will return to you in a few mo-
ments." And Stanley, thinking that it was best for him to be
alone, returned to the ladies.
What is the matter ." said Lucy, as he re-entered.
Captain Lint'n was merely a little faint," he replied, " and
I had to throw some water in his face. ie will return as soon
as that on his clothes is dry."
His -b ohes will not dry ; they will freeze on that cold bal-
cony," said Harriet ; "go, Jared, and bring him in.  I sus-
p)act the room  was too warm ; let us leave the door open a
while.''
Jared went again to the balcony, and telling his friend that
the ladies supposed he had fainted from the warmth of the room,
they returned together.
He took a seat on the sofa, and Lucy soon seated herself near
him. At her feet was a beautiful geranium ; she asked him if
he understood the language of flowers.
He replied that he did not, that there were not many flowers
in a soldier's life ; and that, consequently, he had not studied
what must ever prove to him a dead language.
"I am studying it," said Jared, "and if I ever fall in love I
intend by their means to express my passion."

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             47
"And can you truly say," said Harriet, "that you have never
felt the arrows of the wily god ?"
"Most truly ; but I have seen so many beauties that, like the
humming-bird, if I may compare myself to any thing so beauti-
ful, I flutter around them too indiscriminately to fix upon any."
"I hope," said Lucy, addressing Captain Linton, "that you.
are not so ungallant as my cousin ?"
"1 think," said Jared, "that you should rather complain of
my excess of gallantry ; for do I not tell you that all the ladies
are so lovely that I am unable to choose one as my Dulcinia?
Beauty has given me an armor invulnerable to all the arrows of
love."
"Boast not, rash mortal !" said Lucy, with her finger lifted
towards him in a threatening manner; "defy not the power of
the wily god ! He will yet come upon you at a time when you
expect him not ; he will pierce your heart, and lay you prostrate
at the feet of beauty."
"You should not risk your fame as a prophet with so little
prudence, for I have already had my future destiny predicted
by one of those strange beings called gipsies, which haunt merry
England."
Oh, tell us what he said," exclaimed Harriet.
He smiled, but said nothing.
"Do you believe in his prediction ?" said Lucy.  .
"It was a woman that told my fortune," said he, evasively.
"Do not evade our curiosity so cunningly," said Harriet.
"You awakened it rather gratuitously, now it would be cruel in
you not to gratify it. Did she make you believe that all she
said was true ?"
"I cannot tell," said he, "but I certainly do not entirely dis-
believe her, for she predicted some things which have since hap-
pened, as well as telling some that then were past."
"What were they ?" persisted Harriet. "Tell us what she
said."
"She described my native town," said he, "with as much ac-
curacy as if she had visited it; told me that I was an orphan-
that I had one brother and one sister ; said that I had that day
received a letter, and told me most of its contents ; said that it
was the last time that I should ever see England-that my des-
tiny was in a southern land-that at the south I should love,
and in the south I should die-but that I should die young and
unmarried."
"And   do tell me," said Lucy, "how looked the weird
sister."


I

I
I

{
Is

u i    1 :1 al  .  tti," i  replied.   Sue wita
a,   :lik:  l l the  aipsi,, site had  black  hair,
c   a:-k   ...I shobnil suppose she was
:bit  i iiit e  if life, or sonic sorow,
!   On hiii  r a tare-xiwrn Itok ;her voice ia low ad 1deep,
u    t v t ,h hal ni uinliinut h«i to attract a passer-by.''
And d tlti u Iiw yiaVou tame to lie attracted by her.''
h    - ai  1 In-- f i.  as.ul iv: xas going to the ship with
tih qu titn, ('- uld Ii - hr palm for the reading of mine ?'
(ura   r m A-- w   -- 1-y4  a rn-i- to her piopusal, and she told
ii   ui i  I li  i  rit  d.-
. d n{  ahat tel,. y
xtrtli Inti-nin g. I think that I have told enough
a  t ' e  t   i netlid  llin iinemanls  t trtu w."
I to met one, said hariiet, ''I should be afraid to
'   n. -p-k to me n: ian I dlont kni xlnw what I should do were
a 1it u Ii mi "
-- Ftint,I I up  "'' 'id Lu-y ;h" but I think that I could
I   l  uhln 0-ne  f tw itfrstv-. children to say whatever
hnv~plea-(l, fr my f:thi in thin is so weak that if my fortune
nre a d(I:greaii( on-, it wuldi make no impression upon
Vu think so now,'' said Stanletv, " but I doubt if you could
Sme within the magic intlut-ee of their presence ind remain
( IAPTER   XVII.
t ne t  e sit  ,it4'ittat,'iii' iurl  ewit-
It -huit  wituieripool of diitair;
n- i t  an t iha r upward ihere'-liAt.
Jm n had upon lii- rst return yielded to his aunt's desire,
-,1 ,-   ii waxis lv his own inclinations, and determined to
r,  itn at N N ptit xvith hr until the return of spring ; and
:tl nontht  of his own household, and with Capt. Linton as
his c«n-nt companittn,  tnd courted as his society had been by
mny of the -afreeablt and the gay, winter had passed quickly  t
iy.j~ . april had come, and with it had expired his term of ab.
. : for he f«lt that to bIttelonger an idler was making himself
a burden to her whon he totight rather to aid. Ile therefore
busied himself in preparations for another voyage, perhaps for
another three years' absence, for such had been nearly the

I \1t  1 N -1  1  I .  , ti1: '1II:  ( ::I~i.AN'-.

length of his first, and while thinking upon it he could not help
contrasting his present with his former feelings : then he was
full of hope ; unacquainted with human life and human char-
acter, he saw only bright visions before him ; now, reality had
cast its dampening shadow upon many a brilliant prospect, had
sunk into nothingness many a fond imagining, and given him a
sad experience of many evils of which before he had not even
dreamed. his brother Richard was now anxiously looking for-
ward to independence, without foreseeing how many troubles
were concealed under the folds of its alluring garb; and it made
him sad to think that even the joyousness of Richard might be
changed to sadness, and the bright smiles that now so often il-
lumines his countenance be blotted out by the frowns of care.
There was another reason too why he should, go less joyously.
When he went before he had a destined port: now he was going
he knew not whither. All these thoughts were causes of anx-
iety to him ; but yet, with the delicacy which always character-
ized him, he endeavored to appear to his aunt cheerful and as
full of hope as before.  He spoke with confidence of imme-
diately procuring a situation on board some ship, and nothing
indicated to a careless observer the unhappiness of his bosom;
but the day before his departure he was surprised at his aunt's
accosting him with-" Jared, why are you so sad? If you have
any particular cause for being so, why not make me a sharer?
Am I not worthy of your confidence ?"
"Most worthy, my dear aunt ; but why do you think that I
have any thing to confide? Is it not enough to make me sad
to know that I am so shortly to leave you?  I thought before
I ever left you, that I loved you as much as I could 'love any
one now upon this weary world, but this winter's sojourn with
you has endeared you to me in a still greater degree, and I find
you so superior to those with whom I am shortly to mix, that I
somewhat dread the contact."
"Think not, my dear Jared, thus to blind the eyes of affection.
I have watched you closely, and I have observed a restlessness
that proceeds not from a mind at ease. What is it that thus
distresses you?  Is it the uncertainty of your getting into imme-
diate employ ?"
"Such have been somewhat my thoughts, but I thought that
I had hidden my anxieties from you."
~ "I would not, my dear boy (you must suffer me to call you
so, though you are now verging upon manhood), I would not
counsel you to turn back after you have put your hand to the
.     plough, or to leave any thing unaccomplished for the want of
3

4

.,I'

3i
}
'-    .  i
'
,'
'      .
f'
5
.
'

I i

EMMA. '1'ANLEY OCIL THEu OIILAUiS.

49

'


WE

EMMA STANLEY OIL THE ORPHANS.

51

ILiMA 1ANaLLY, ott 'TilE OPtl1IAL5.
}  +  t utt ld  youir  effori  lprove  unsucuee fui,
I' it   a 1y4ho11e4 i 1-ahvays yours."
a 1  }1  Iil thI"   ;Ii l + tmi- t  Vy U  unl e  metit' of being
11il, 1 'i     t a {  -I  ' t l '    4 1 tat  1  h41  I  'IS ro  i, l
r4 ttil hil art m're trnly than I enn express
d  1-aut1l I p     1 that my applicatioii for employment will
fih l 1ut,  , Ihav t't' 11  o1 n 110 subject of  my  anlx-
m       '1    il y41   441+It"+ 1an 44 1h r. ayou1)44Y   iitend  to  gratify
1d414    ,h-   4f 4_in  t'4 1th' S ith "
Y  .  1i lnk-o.  II' ha(  truly  theilt'.1abamra  mania.  ''IT
n    Ii  nIIItha'  t' e ha  ad of it have made it ia complete 1t4
o hi - lg lowin 1114 1:ollti Alaination, and, a  Mr. Williams and
r  i ..:.:;-  n1 , 1I1think1thiey  wold  he  as  good  protectors
uttn!ld b a c : ;and M r. W\illi ung has made himt quite an ad
, '-r 1h  tould(1   o wh him as clerk : I think it
"   14 t  1d to lis di ies. T {hey will not go until fall, and he
tl   1++  ti  n11 , nn111 4 11  1 14hou1l, at all events, take  him
11 r'14 "''114+ +++l i -',111 1,1st d  Ine w1  41  f  111t 14in'  hettier  that  1  can
u'  ar'  4 hlt,"  ti 1.hu  d  muaigly: "I hut  vet it
,  t  mI+'t  i  IVw tht a  whd n Ii  re'turn Iagain, I  shallnmis  his
.,,. L -ai  h."
1twh11a'u-t feel, 11 son, deprived of both of you.
t in mly p1, 1r '1' to plp tl h1m, nothing should separate
u} . i 1 -ali t- in1l d  14111011n(4' when our feeble Emm alone is
n4 u14 441 un4',.4 1''t,"  nid 1h4,' 44bs1-'vini  the+ mournful  tone  of
"I (d;elI}n l:iltk lihat war(  thll'  n port (of  my  words ;
S   111'  1411  1i   n  nd1114y4u1 44f1 ' lings.
T. 11 n4't   i it1 . Lin1 tnlet+   !" i' said  she, is a knock  was heard
'I+' 444t ank y  u   J11rd. f441 li lt dI'4(lein t ha -tyoung
1a'''  1      hk   st t-aiaha  daily  1iNitswill, in  somen
i a' 41'r 44111 mnt4'11414'41' me for your alence. Like you, I at first
41 in" I i , mi- "f'rtun',1, but now  that I ams o well 41-
'l'i i t h14111 i,  di pe tilln and  his  principles, I feel for him
S - I  4441'4411111'1d11or 1n than I do  y10 platli, and when he dies- for
rrowi'' '  tha It '41'i - 1 14i4 l upon  his  spirits  is  taking  the
nt+ "+-umptiona. and 1u11 l401 hlaisten him to the grave-
1: i Iurv it 1 ihim. deep pad hitter would he, my sorrow for
1..  k  .  tl  411
444rniiin+1gri .., f,14ant Nan1'," Said l h1 of 1wh1om they spoke,
'4i1.   th+ 'd+o'. for i1nce their first acquaintance  he  had  called
1. I by that ±il a 'f1'u'nate app+llatioi. '' tan 'ou pardon me, my
d c:Inm1 Olm, f+ r stealing lawaivy your nephlwrfor an hour or two

on the day before his departure? I feel the cruelty contained
in such a request, but yet I hope you will grant it."
"Upon one condition, that by your remaining until after din-
ner with us, you in part make amends for the theft."
"I thank you. Even had you imposed more severe conditions
I should have endeavored to fulfil them for such a reward. I
am so selfish, however, that I want some of his society alone,
now that we are about to lose it altogether, though I can truly
say, that even a knowledge of its approaching loss enhances it
but little."
CHAPTER       XVIII.
"Thou'lt think ofrme
When far from home-remembered spot !
And should I die ere thee,
And by all others be forgot,
Thou'lt think of mel"
STANLEY went with Capt. Linton to his room, where the first
question he asked him after they were seated was, What was his
present object and where his destination?
"I have only the object to get my own living in the lot which
I have chosen ; and any place where I can attain that object is
my place of destination."
"How should you like to try a steamboat instead of a ship?
I have an uncle residing at' Pittsburg who is, I believe, largely
concerned in that kind of property, and if you should wish to
try freshwater with land in sight and on both -sides of you, in-
stead of the boundless ocean, I shall use my influence in your
favor. I have written a letter to him which, should your applica-
tions elsewhere fail, you can make use of, as I flatter myself that
it would not be unavailing. Don't return me any thanks," he
continued, "as it pains me for you to do so; you would not,
could you be sensible under how many obligations I feel myself
to you and our beloved aunt, for to call her thus, and to think
of you as the brother of my soul, is a privilege which I cannot
deny myself; for, in truth, my soul is knit to yours as David's
was to Jonathan's. Never having a brother, I knew not what
fraternal affection was until I knew you, but now the remem-
brance of it will sweeten the remainder of my life. Before I
knew you, life was a load which I longed to cast away-now I
would fain prolong it, because I know my death would give you
pain."

'-I

.
:'
-
. ,


I

t

53

5:l Init \rANLEY, OR TILE ORPIIANS.
Ye-s, not attonizint ; and though, from my childhood, I have
I. h  I r  thir' tletita, vet tmy sentiments towards you are Os
ft    iat towards my brther, and there is much more sympa-
I   a ur ilas and sentiments, and it ia a subject of regret to
wt i a   lii a ha nw vo  earlier.
SWi yoltu grant me a favor, my dear Stanley, as a proof of
ur r     -.' I wtuld Int tthat y should refuse, and therefore
  a that I nh yu tihu,: :  f l that my life is ebbing away, and
p t'.ba n e mayX iur m\ ot anaii.-.
H1 ;w In mvud dubt my granting almost any thing in these
n. in  -1-puan
mn  m lim, t f paltine  .  .
It is a :n lit Ine-  wil you to exchange your pocket-book
n          nnun :a ain'V  r" -m- tiltIts tilled by me since we were
uat     m   I i yuIi i+uill tien   your ow  name, though
a   n trmnw litli ild h eIa e you.  I have left them there,
ut till rv t  rll n to you when I atm no more."
l iv n-il the -\elhng; and Stanley, opening the pocket-
hih  f  ba i til, w issurliiat- to set about three hundred dol -
tII ,--k a ti andI tired to return it.
k1      1 Liintn, a you w ill obligt me by doing so. 3ou
d nt kiow i lg von may he out of employ ; I should not
a     v,    I a   b all.- th   um:hbtii did! not wish to make
u i   unidr any rbi  tas that vould pain you. Say not a
wtit viu n     1 it, up it yourself ;and iftyou do not, give it
t 5:alt;, iat nntt tIt- I atun et  ptiblt  to  hr.''
.. fau m10o uat ety, and I--'
I nt nrrua' I int+ikaowldir a mtnts that lie knew were
mm         b it bL  Itt do with myelf when you are gone .'
\\ t d , -ar  imtI+u-ht  \i '.).
u     m otoni0th  buit. until then, unless I find this place too
u  I -    ai  nmin iiiwh itrie  I aii...
-a d  .s I  tilat- fIr a -ottinuantt of your daily visits to
tunt  N  t, and o ur i-pfwtunt tiis to Mrs. (hapmni ?"
It n,15 nit a rqu-tt of yours to make Inc do that; I love
i n: to W  dil I it rtant Mrs. Chapman too much, to
I"  i  t I     w ii itill stmetims-t it) g  to tunile W itherington's ?''
()i t t,    - \\i ith-riiigtton t ten cheers ImC by her sallies,
and I '  rt often  I)  litr  lt ti  -tt opla ."
- I hi it ftei tlou ht that I would ask your opinion of my
i    tntun Lui  and itow I think of it, dtt tttll me what it is !"
I tliik h I'-r a barming- ct uette ;but she is too artiihcial,
thrn -,tt tmuct -tl rt in all lsh' dts: she would not make as
-tinan imtjrt "ion upit me as the more natural manners of

her sister; I cannot admire one who so evidently puts forth all
heyr charms-
'Thefruit that fails without shaking,
Is rather too mellow for me.'"
"I am glad you feel so, for I did not know if you remained
here what effect the efforts which I saw she was making to cap-
tivate you might have, and I would not like to see you united."
"You need not fear it ; I have once loved too deeply ever to
love again, but that is a theme too painful for me to touch upon
now.   Let me tell you this before we part-the precepts of
yourself, of your aunt, and of Mrs. Chapman, have sunk deeply
into my heart, and I hope they will bring forth their blessed fruit
hereafter."
"I have with joy for some weeks perceived that you spoke not
so despondingly as heretofore, but I attributed it to the soothing
effects of time and new subjects of thought."
"The latter it certainly is ; for the excellent friends whom I
have mentioned have taught me the sin of repining at my griefs,
as I have done. They have taught me to rest my cares on Him
who careth for all the children of men, and pointed to the only
source from whence I could draw comfort."
"Then while you remain here I commend those friends to
your care, and you to theirs ; I can assure you that you have
awakened a deep interest in the heart of each of them: aunt
Nancy this morning thanked me for introducing you to her, and
expressed much anticipated consolation at your visits after I shall
have left. Even Miss Hoxie says that it is worth while for one
to be like you, and she frequently advises Richard and myself to
take you as a pattern: you completely won the old lady's heart
the night you waited upon her home from uncle Witherington's,
and she will never forget it."
CHAPTER        XIX.
"Thou'lt think of me,
When fervent thoughts to heaven ascend;
And when vn headed knee
Thou breath'st in prayer the name of friend,
Thou'It think of me."
As he proceeded homeward, Mr. Chapman's being on the way,
he concluded to call, and say adieu to those excellent friends.
"What, going so soon !" said Mr. Chapman: "really, Jared, I

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

ji
j.
g.
i'


51

EMM A ST ANLE  OR TilE ORPHIANS.

h:at « -t n  little if you since you have been at home, that I
ainrt r=lize that the time of vnr departure is so near at hand,
vu have ne ve r vet tId us how you like the sea. I fear
tait yvu have iund it a tougher life than you expected : have
vou not . Be honest in your answer now, and tell me if the
ldutyi. a not mere - vere than you thought, and the service more
weairis  me .
S  tu ask questions to which I generally give evasive answers;
hut I will acknowledge to yoi that had I known all the trials of
a sailor-s life, I should not have chosen it for mine ; but now, as
the soldiers say, I have 'listed, and I shall try to go on, living in
L p«   tf looming attached to it ; for it is a macim of aunt
N in Vs, that whatever duty we willingly perform soon becomes
a pleasure : and I think I shall ive it a faithful tril, as I am
It accust id to reed' from any path I have chosen, for you
knw ix'that perseveranceis one of my characteristics.'
I 'er-vtrance, said Mrs. ('hapman, " is a most commendable
xrtu', Ibut I wtuld hardly pr lounce it good as a principle char-
a't'rist of   'any one - for as the pith and marrow of sin lie in cx-
ce-, great car is nec''ssarv in the choice of pursuits, that they
Iht wrthv tf such distinguished effort.'
- Eut   a u certainix think In' right to persevere in the path
, hil I have chien .' ftor as a riotIling stone gathers no moss, un-
I-. I bend my enertics to one object. I fear that I can never
I lierai ifxpre d myselff thus, because I thought that, like
Si     ang inin, yiu may ha ;iut tfi great a value upon the
a ;t 4 tf  i - w ';i a;nd it i xwii-ely said, that the virtues and
Is b    hr st t  -'l  0l1 upoi each other, as sometimes to be mis-
tik'n, and sontnimes to mislead the possessor. A firm adherence
to wh at is knmen to he good, is, without doubt, a mark of integ-
ritwy ;y'r'a  obstiuncy, wearing often its form, discovers a p0roud,
impertus c'nt. mpt of others' opinions, and an overbearing mmn-
t"Inance+' t  o tnt' s  Own"
" ,\ind do you think myp wrseverance thus degenerated ? I
twn that it is a quality which I have usually cherished, but if it
hil bcome thus hateful, I shall take care to repress it."
No. I have too high an opinion of your good sense to think
viu cartles it forming our opinions, or too tellaclous of your
own judgment to be deaf to the just arguments of others ; conse-
it ntly, I tlink V{u ai r film when conimced you are right,
yiling when convicted of wrong-"
I am convinced I am right in continuing to follow the sea.
' I ou are no such thng,"smd Mr. Chapman gavly ; " or if you

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

55

F 14;
c g+s

I

p
.&amp;

I

I

are, I am not. Suppose Mrs. Chapman and myself set about
convincing you that you are wrong ?"
"If your arguments are good, I will at least listen with defer-
ence ; but you are not serious, you do not think me wrong."
"Yes, I do: you do not like the sea ! Don't smile so mean-
ingly-I know you do not. You are yet young, andby leaving
it now, you might yet choose your mode of life."
"I know of none, my dear sir, which would not abound in
trials-I know of none which would not require self-command
and self-denial."
"You are right, Jared," said Mrs. Chapman, "and as rational
beings, as heirs of immortality, as living for eternity, we must
learn to distinguish the shadow from the substance; learn volun-
tarily and resolutely to deny ourselves all those alluring and dan-
gerous indulgences which militate against our real good, and
with ,firm step and steady eye pursue unswervingly the path
which duty points out to us; and unless you could enter at once
upon some other walk of life which you would greatly prefer, I
think you are decidedly right to continue in the one you have
chosen. It may be that your choice was a hasty and unfortunate
one, let it then teach you not again to take an important step
without being first well aware where it will lead; but as you
,A        observed, you would find self-command and self-denial equally
necessary in every other station. Always remember, however,
that 'no cloud can overshadow a true Christian, but his faith
will discern a rainbow in it;' and I hope that you will ever keep
in view the great end of life, and remember that the righteous
Dispenser of good and evil sends every trial of the faith and pa-
tience of his dependent creatures for their benefit, and if wisely
improved, they ultimately tend to their spiritual and eternal
welfare."
"I fear that I have not wisdom thus beneficially to improve
them."
"When we lack, we arc directed by St. James to ask of Him
who giveth liberally, and upbraideth not."
"My dear Elizabeth," said Mr. Chapman, "I expected you
for my coadjutor against this foolish boy, and you have turned
all your powers in his favor, and I suppose that, deserted as I
am, I must yield; but yet I must say to you, Jared, that if you
ever intend to leave a sailor's life, do it now ; for believe me, you
will find it more and more difficult ever year you live : I am
selfish in wishing you to do it; for I want you'here, I am not
willing to see you so seldom ; but I will say no more to you now
upon the subject, for when Elizabeth turns against me, I always


I1M .11 \'- I .ANII V. I )I  'ITilE   nilPitANS.

Ii

E
F
°_
s

xI

57

Cry   i 1tii it   ,      iH \''niv yxle  Voyur otnx Way ; but
Ii °rxu L, you shall carr' xith you an old man's best
nx iiih 1 fr'vtur wwfaire, and in tiwse I know Elizabeth will not
 my dear young friend ; 11(1 when I put up my petitions
tx lim\ wh'o prumiis limuseif the Father of the fatherless, your
na ne will ever have a plae.
" And I trust, ' lhe replied. '' that lie will keep and guard me.
And IIow my friends, adieu !May 1 comlmend aunt Nancy to
Vur fti dh V{li  wx hil  I mii ti iit ? 'the broad ocean will
r  I t xex'nw  o but while God's eve is on me, and your prayers
w 0 ith in, I shill fuel myself protected by a double armor."
('Ii A P T I It X X.
L l h t i tm       r mre ir
x.'sat r riii  is x  'al' r+ thotrns,
'a i r  it wr t- re
i an t m r1i   a t iIrkfiat, Richard, upon tasting his coffee,
fan 1 it nx  n    o: qua     miosetenugi. and as Miss Stanley was
b ui   a mpliva in the 1  t preparations for the departure of Ja-
r, I      ++ ,  I  i  x  1ipidin  at the  table  in  her plac'.  ''  will
t    xa   uit ia lul iititi a ur, Miss lloxie, said Richard.
x- Y  x wat mi sur d. vlye,'' she replied ;'' that's alhavs
th , n :tithye : if I don't put iii enough for it to sweeten going
+a n.x  tik x    muo-  im e more.  Ye never can stir yer'e
c rt:D    ilhl,lnd   i'up. and take it !" and as she spoke she
Iput a l  pinf spot)nii tul into his Cup.
It it is n t tirultin you t o much,'' said Jared, ''I will take
a  t   ii:  t
I Iere, take' the sugar-dish, and empty it ! and if that don't
gui-t xv,  io t tl he barrel '" said she, pushing the sugar-dish
tuwd lii in     thiureattniig a manner, and speaking in so loud
a t one, thait Ie unacquainted with her might have supposed
that she intended throwing it in his face.
Now. Mi Itie. if you will put a little more milk in my
ea. you will mak }'it lhitt r," said llichard. This he said merely
to annoxv her: foxr hie kne wi it vexed her exceedingly for any one
to find tu!: w'it:hi ii tliii she did, let it he ever'soslightly, and
for a cl ili t ftind teult, roused Ie' indignation to the highest
pitch i ut his lvy of frolic would sometimes display itself in
ttsinig tii' old lady ; though  henl his aunt was present, he"

always forbore, for when that was the case, unless she interfered,
Miss Hoxie's wrath became so violent at the slightest provoca-
tion, that she would be so agitated as to take an hour or two to
regain composure. Richard's last demand, however, irritated her.
"Take it-take all that is on the table. Here, now take the
coffee-pot and wait upon yourself, and I hope that will please
ye. Come, Emma dear !" said she, snatching up the child with
one hand, and her plate with the other. "I hope ye'll never be
like them;" and so saying, she was waddling out of the room,
when Jared thinking it was time to appease her, jumped quickly
between her and the door-
"Now, Miss Hoxie," said he, "you know that I don't love to
pour out my own coffee: please to go back and pour me out one
more cup.
"And if I do, I can't suit ye !"
"Oh, yes, I guess you can, and it is the last time that you
will have to try for a long, long time. Come, make friends with
Richard and I. Don't let me think when I am on the watch at
sea, with my heart full of home, that the last time I saw you,
you were angry with me."
"Well, go to yere seat; I can try to pour it out. Now sit
down and see if I can suit ye this time."
She began to pour it out ; but she was still enough excited to
make her talkative, and as she performed the operation, she con-
tinued talking, as if her troubled thoughts escaped her without
her will: "Yes," said she, "I must put in a whole spoonful of
sugar, and that won't do, 'and if I were to put in the whole I
believe ye'd still ask for more ; for it's always more, more, with
all of ye. And now comes the cream, and I s'pose I must put in
half that's in the cream-pot (suiting each action to her words), or
there won't be enough of that either ; and now there is hardly any
room for the coffee, and I s'pose now it won't be strong enough:
well, there must be some fault. Here, take it," said she, scream-
ing out to Jared, "and see if that suits ye."
"Exactly right," he replied; but fearing, unless the subject
was changed, that something might be said by Richard or him-
self again to irritate her, he asked her what he should bring her
when he returned again.
"Bring yourself," said she. "I'm sure that's enough !"
"I intend to do that; but what shall I bring you ?"
Nothing !"
"Miss Hoxie, suppose I should bring a wife !"
"Ye look like getting a wife, now dont ye?  Ye talk about a
wife, and ye're hardly out of petticoats yet."
3*

t

EMM4 STANLEY? OR THE ORPHANS.

a fi

Iix
Sft
i
a I -  ttt
';4f
; 'x


r
,p

r, n

.MMEm  SANLEY, OR TIE ORPHANS.
.-    i l, Mila Hxe, it i a ing time since I wOrC a frock, I
e tno+t   1 nt'irithr the tin'; but whbat should you say if I
w . to1rind hme a  hwife
n a3   t a'nt it ;but your w ifs n ill never have a bus-
1at would she have :''
w'v =uld never have a husband, that's clear. Te get a wife !"
i ,Iaid be tJfortunate, would not I be her bus-
Y i       hd I r r1 i'  ihe repliede, in aimuttering tone.
hAiii a  uld  I hit- ,
11I1 1utrat a u andl i It me eat. X1( get a wife I''
ilut i it11a', Mi-s- 1 xie, what should I be, if not my
. 11 id your tongue, and let me alone !"
i   tia hi ltri'd,I v rejaeating the question, to have his curi-
dn = -I withb r'i rard to what relation he would be to his
u t   It  at 1it  t it ii' t' k  r'fui'-f in absolute  silence, and  not
itn r w ord could he peruade eher to say ; and even when he
"+Ih vt'. and again repeated the question, the only
it'"him u aL   i bl vre tongue !Didn't I tell
t 1  i
Al at tet+'tt+t '1k in tiht' tamirin'g, again he left his much-loved
1:' i .  W  aillln  tat t'ng at t  de-atribe  is  parting.  lie  did
n. it  r t r  ktenly in partil from his aunt now, as he did at
first fOr ih' hoped that, return when he would, he should always
fiti her thire, and Emiait'si existence was apparently more cer-
tallm titan wh iI 'fir-t hadl I farewell; but his parting from
1 :   d wx a- Sttb -m an 1(tender on both sides. Long they wept
a , thr hfr,- thmey ctuld lid adieu: they both felt that by
aL trd's onteiplated situatiton in Alabama, the period of their
raitiotn wtultd he lt-ngtienied, and Jared seemed impressed
uii the idea that it was the last time they would ever meet.
H'IIAPT ER    XXI.
la  itatrph an natera lmwn,
.A iiihaut t tat' mm  dl bra or in raglane  ,
ilLIt' fI rt tlher t rk ':  I  r-nrtpres-t ti.-II E MANS.
A- spring had set in very mildly, and as Emma had now at-
tined her sixth year, Miss Stanley determined to put her to

F 11

,  "y;l.
t    1
i,  t
ir;+
., }  1;
i r. -
,ii   i
t,
=
3 %' I
t
;
r
;
s  1c
r _.
c
F   _"
ii }f
.f
r Ft   3
r
r    _
.,  Y
i
ry       .
N  i
:i

f
I

EMASALY, OR THE ORPHANS.               5
school to a lady who taught not far from her house, and from
the mildness of whose character she thought that she might in-
trust her with her frail pet. Emma was not at all pleased with
the idea, but Miss Stanley had early taught her that though will-
ing to yield in all minor points, yet when she absolutely said any
thing, it must be ; there was no appeal from her decision, and
unless she submitted without force, that even that would never
be wanting to enforce obedience. She consequently rarely dis-
obeyed her aunt; but the fear she had of her was so joined with
love, that a wish expressed by Miss Stanley was frequently
enough to make her readily comply with any requisition, even
after others had tried force in vain to accomplish the same ends.
Feeling thus, she got ready to go to school upon the appointed
morning, where her aunt conducted her. When they entered
the room, they found a number of boys and girls differently em-
ployed. Miss Waitstill Trott, for such was the teacher's name,
called her to take a seat by her, upon a small low bench which
was made only for the accommodation of two. It was then
vacant, and Emma appeared quite pleased with the idea of hav-
ing that seat ; for she had whispered to her aunt, as soon as they
entered, to know if she might sit there. Soon after her aunt
left, a little girl cane in and took her seat upon the same bench.
Emma whispered her to get up; but as the child feared her
teacher more than she did any new-comer, she paid no attention
to the command. After repeating it several times in a low voice,
she at length spoke it so loudly as to attract the attention of the
teacher, who turned round and asked what she wanted.
You gave me this bench," she replied, "and this girl won't
get off."
"Is there not room enough for both of you ?" said Miss Trott.
"I don't like the looks of this girl, and I want her to get offE"
"But that was her seat before you came, and she must sit
there still."
"Let me get off then, and go sit yonder," said Emma,
pointing to a long bench, at one end of which sat several girls,
though the other end was unoccupied.
"No," replied Miss Trott, "I choose for you two to sit where
you are."
Emma knew that there was no appeal from the authoritative
tone of the teacher, but she was resolved not to be thus deprived
of what she considered her own right, the sole possession of the
bench, and she thought she would see what could be done by
4         her taking the matter into her own hands, and she began imme-
di~ately to pinch the little girl upon the arm ; and when she

'L 'ti/ \ T R  Coil A iTY' TYT      !'1Tl   tnrrr     .  r ^r  v    ar v

I


0t           m 1    raM m ST.NLIX, onA 'rm  onrlOrPIIANS.
ar- I Swn i to 't rid If it, sihl lit an the same infliction upon
1:L .  lt - H. Te hild  hi r  it  for son- ti meut'without complaint ;
I           I'.nah  e  foru'ttud(1'  eV+'  u:Y, 1and(1shlt'lbegan  to  ocry.
THi" ti   b'er a' iinqil  uirin+t  l t he cl'  auio'of the (disturibance, Xand(
i -  tl r ' i' -i  t flIt 1iln'd thitt  of  the  chihl, and  found  it
, mtir  H' {1 tr'miheii pincheits. Shet' called Emma to her, and
'i-kd1 hr 't truly what she should( do to her  ?
" M  it'  it  thiild," 11 id ''h ,  pointing  to  lhert'whlom ishte  ('(n.
1l t'lt1h1+ r'dal n'r  r, " sit some'whetrt' else!"
-' N  "  l '1- Tr +t t, " I 'dhall shut yout up in a room by
V..tur'lt, untilVe you ar willinto  sit upon a bench by the side of
n1 ' n wih m I '-liltlit  .i'"  So saying she took her by the
1b  1 !, "i':+1 , tnin g a ( r0  i   hl  d t1into  a  kind  of  garret, used
honiMili r-rll n. 'h- antt+mpted(Itotl1ad01her in.,
SI ,,ant w  to  iner' tiir !" slid Emma, drawing back.
W ' ill youl   iand ,it ++n that bench by vMar'y Smith '?"'
N t I it 1uld  'itw ort in her'," said she, and she ste'pped
r , t. i' y  rn Nitt1Inibitlibot itisVitL  iyi  thing  mole.
11. - 'Ir'tt t 'hut t do't lt tr, litopinig to hear her plead for mercy,
but -ht' little' lin thit ildi~pcsition whi('h was now placed under
h r  tnat+t ; ftr Emnn would have abided by her choice, even
hal hlit' t't tutntered pain or terror, sooner than to have implored
N  it ''r hit  Iti te iti'n ' r'ejt''ted  it ; but in  this instan('e  she was
qu lkv Itcitled to l'er 1iit'', ftor, on turning round, what
-it' li' -''e, admtt-t undi' hr feet, but a large eat with two
v u'  kit'in.  Nw   th ilt ot' if crats was with heri abtitost a
S    in, :md tith  tihl'''  hailed the appearance of one with
deli lit. sht pke to it kindly, took up first one kitten and
thn tie tttht'r, anti 'ar'-d it. The cat returned her advances
to fi indship, ani sli' was, for a time, forgetful of her punish.
ti,mitn iii' it p'ur' whi'lt her companions gave her.  But her
ii let b t'trt(1 tdthat she would ask to cone out, and deter-
edii ti, a-,slit' ditd ntt, that she should remain there until time for
:.Tiii  ill', as tie' (li )t'gan to wear towards noon, and
it iv   the first itim' in hor life in which she had ever been
oiuii' it i tlutith, slit' ,'gain tt be hungry, and to wonder if site
t b e k'pt tlir'' all lay, and to almost repent iot having
li ii(to 'it ao  ie hentli hv the side of hteI schoolate ; but
'h' woubi hivi'e stavt  a ll day, sooner tithan have intimated by
a -in  that she ri''gr'tti'd  lii' chi e.
ttr the sthol iIis diliss'd, sht was permitted to come
out ;out hr tn''eu'r in vain endeavored by exhortations or
tlirats to inIdtut eli'r to say tithat she was sorry.  She ei hr re-
mained silent, or answt'redii'hy repeating ier fil-st defenc: " You

It
t
E   $
3'
g

EMMA STANLEY OR THE ORPHANS.

._
=         _
t
t:
,.
$ ' y'
,    '_ .;
_
-    -   ;
" _   ;  .
', °*;
.
:
k ,
f  ,
3
t-  P  ,
r'"  ,

told me to take that bench, and sit upon it, and Mary Smith had
no right to it."  Finding that she could not prevail upon her to
yield, Miss Trott sent her home. So soon as she got into the
house she went immediately to Miss Stanley, and told her every
circumstance of her day's experience, not forgetting the cat and
kittens, and as she would not have condemned her own beha-
vior in another, she did not attempt to excuse it in herself.
Miss Stanley, however, soon made her think and feel differently,
and after representing to her how culpable she had been, she in-
sisted upon her telling both her teacher and the little girl on the
morrow that she was sorry.
It was a difficult task for one so obstinate voluntarily to confess
herself wrong ; but Miss Stanley knew that if she could induce
her to say that she would do so, that she would quell every re-
bellious feeling rather than break her promise.  At last she
yielded to the persuasion of her aunt, and agreed to say so, if
her aunt did really think that she was wrong.
The next morning was a bright and sunny one, and Emma
tripped off gayly to school, and as soon as she entered the room
she walked up to the teacher, and said to her, "Aunt Nancy
says that I acted very naughty yesterday, and I suppose I did,
as she says so ; and if I was naughty I am sorry, and will not act
so again." She then went up to Mary Smith, who was already
seated upon the contested bench: "I will not pinch you any
more," said she, "and if you will sit by me I will sit down, and
we will see which can be the best girl." She then quietly took
her seat, and in a few days she and Mary were firm friends ; and
though she often forgot her proposal of seeing which would be
the best girl, yet it was the last time that she ever assaulted one
of her schoolmates. She continued at this school for four years,
and it was one of those institutions where children are taught to
use their fingers in all sorts of needlework, at the same time that
they are storing their minds : but while she was there, her teacher
complained much of her loving her book too well, and a stolen
book had often to answer for a deficiency in the accomplishment
of a task ; and afterwards, in speaking of her, she said that she
was the only child that she ever taught to whom certain pun-
ishment offered no hindrance to the prosecution of a design; but
that upon her it had no effect whatever, and if she ever wished
to deter her from doing any thing, her only certain means was
by representing its being wrong, and thus gaining her promise
that she would not do it; but when that was once gained she
felt perfectly easy, as she knew that no temptation could induce
her to falsify her word. Her feebleness gave her physical cow-

61

irk
r -t
til
.r
k I
SI
t
ii-
r"


1

;
°
k
v f
i
{
4
E
i
3
}
S
j}
is
1
gy
6

2            n I    rMM  A I \NI., o fnI n': ORPH'IANS.
aruli', bu th was ahn t wholly devoid of i:, morally ; for she
W..ul la ffarl lyc  0 latp rnII that t hey vwere wrong if she
ft  u   1ht Ih.m a 's'r er  w  ld -av they 'were right ; and it was this
word t    trutII, and blintii' in vindicating it, that made it
ditinult Iranyv 'e to tnan e i'her who would not thrst take the
trm uai  ap:n iint thiemtoelves a itlh her disposition.
CIIAPTEIt        XII.
N  :  1th in n Iit a  wiii' ,iaend turn
It  hu  m in  I ;  + i  'n liv \  li   I \TIarn.
+  0 t're  i  -~I+)   ii  r o r  tn'porwera  lio n P1
i nnI)uin~ inc'r ui  rnoi nmay ai,-
thoui  'i  t'i Jr ierat with lirne  uiy blend. -EMosn.
'lit: manner, t Euana Stanley were blunt even to brusquerie.
Sh' never yii jiid a fault to the person who conunitted it,
though in their absence she would often try to excuse them ; and
to any one who asked her opinion of their own actions, their man-
ners, or their sentiments, she would express herself with the
stnofe freedom and the sante regard to truth as if she had been
only thinking about them in the solitude of her own chamber,
without any of the softening which speaking face to face generally
giveh to faults or follies. Consequently, she had but few friends,
she generally offended most of those who asked her opinion
concerning themselves; for there are few of us who can bear
to have ourselves held up to our own view exactly as we appear
to those who view us truly, without suffering friendship to inter-
pose its thick veil of partiality between us and our errors.  But
through tuns severe to the faults of others, yet sl rwas a true
ft iend wherever she professed the name ; and there were few .
difficulties she would not encounter, few hardships she would not
attempt to perform, for one to whom she was attached; but her
love was too entire, too devoted, ever to be a source of happiness
to herself : and even in childhood she felt the want of a return
of such live as she gave. She would sometimes ask her aunt
why her little playmates did not love her as well 'as she did
them; and when her aunt would ask her why she thought they
did not, she would reply, "Because they sometimes neglect me;
they prefer others to me; and some whom I have dearly loved
have accused me of unjust and unkind acts; and I could not do
so to one of them."  When not more than seven years old she
would seek an unoccupied room, and weep as if she would break

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             63
her young heart at the idea, which some trivial word or act of a
playfellow had forced upon her, that she was not loved with the
love which she would herself feel for some object of her youthful
affection. It was the one dark spot in her existence, but like
most of those exacting natures, she would resent the most trifling
slight, and meet the person who gave it with cold disdain; and
perhaps, as soon as they were out of sight, she would shed bitter
and agonizing tears over the decay of that friendship which a
word of explanation from herself might have renewed, but which
she was too proud to give. "No, I will not seek her love," she
would say to herself ; "she shall never know that I care for it.
If she does not love me enough to seek an explanation it shall
never come from me ; I do not want her love, if I have to stoop
to gain it." Thus forgetting that she was asking of her friend
an act which she would not herself commit ; and at the very
same time that she was making these resolves, and acting up to
them, the canker of grief was eating into her soul, for the loss of a
possession which she prized above all others, and that was human
love. And it was most unfortunate for her that such a blot on
her mental organization could not be effaced ; for this under-cur-
rent of her heart was laid bare to no one, and no one suspected
its existence. Miss Stanley thought that she often acted re-
vengefully, and she tried to eradicate that evil, but she struck
not at its root-pride; and that was suffered to grow and spread,
and harden a heart which was overflowing with love to every
thing about her. Indeed, her whole character, as far as it was
developed, was a strange mixture of tenderness and sternness.
By those who did not know her, and by some who thought they
knew her well, she was often accused of want of feeling, because
she showed no mercy unless she thought that mercy merited,
because she never professed friendship when she had it not, and
seldom showed it by words at all, and because she never feigned
a tear ; for whenever they gushed from her eyes, they came from
the deep well-spring of her heart; and they never flowed upon
any occasion in the presence of a fellow-being, when her self-
command could restrain them. But though thus never affecting
the softer feelings, she would administer to the wants of a dog
whom she had never seen before ; beg for a horse if she saw him
beaten ; stand for hours to pull up weeds and give them to a
neighbor's pig, because he seemed so much to enjoy the pleas-
ure of eating; and be kept awake by the lowing of a cow, and
even shed tears of sympathy if she thought it was mourning for
its calf.
Miss Stanley she loved, as such natures as hers are capable
I

:i
r"
+t
F
j;
t
' :
!
_
{
I
7
t
" CF
'3"
Y3

,'_,
y
.iY
. p'1
r °
y4'_
4  :
S
4
}
" /:
x'   t
¢rx
+      _a 4' '3i
- ,
t ;' ;
t
,,
$  4:
f +i
j +
.fie
x
S
a
.

I


64

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

of loving; but even to her she did not show the extent of her
affection. When she was sick, Emma would bid her good
night without appearing to feel any thing more than common ;
but when she was alone in her own bed, she would wet her pil-
low with her tears at the thought that her aunt might die. Em-
ma was irritable ; for what child, who has ill health from her
cradle, is not? Her temper was like a whirlwind, it took every
thing in its wrath ; but when it had passed, it left her calm as if
wrath had never entered her bosom ; but Miss Stanley was the
only one who had a love for her sufficiently indulgent to excuse
the fault. She was wild as the fawn of the forest, and when not
depressed by bodily suffering, her spirits were buoyant as the
air she breathed. 1er natural propensities had but little curb
from her aunt, and she would not submit to the rule of any other
person.
"You will make that child a complete pest, Nancy," said
Mrs. Witherington to her one day ; "indeed, she is that al-
ready."
"1 hope not," replied Miss Stanley.   "But poor, sickly
child, she seems to have no one to love her but me, and she
suffers so much bodily pain that I cannot help indulging her
sometimes."
"Sometimes! you never restrain her that I see."
"Well, let her be as happy as she can while I am able to in-
dulge her; I may not live long, and I fear after my death she
would not meet with much allowance for her faults."
"Why not cure her of them ?" continued Mrs. Witherington.
"Just look at her !" she exclaimed, as at that moment she ran
past the window with a kitten in her arms, and a dog at her
heels ; "she is the greatest romp I ever saw ; I would advise
you to put pantaloons on her, and make a boy of her at once, or
else confine her a little more to the house."
"And have her fade and die," said Miss Stanley, mournfully.
" Pshaw ! there is no reasoning with you, Nancy ; you always
bring up the child's ill health as an answer to all argument."
"Did you ever see a more delicate flower ?"
"That's no reason that you should permit her to be such a
romp. Mr. Witherington says that she is perfectly ungovernable
now.
"Not to me. But it is useless arguing about it, Martha, for
I do not intend that she shall ever have it in her power to re-
proach me with undue severity, and as far as possible I intend
to heighten all her pleasures. I hope I shall not be excessively
indulgent, and that I shall not injure her by over-kindness."

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

65

"But you are injuring her every day."
"Let us say no more about it, Martha, for I don't think that
I can alter my mode of education."
IIJAPTER     XXIII.
"Were every one's internal care
Imprinted on their brow,
How many would our pity share
Who claim our envy uow !"
A SHORT time after the departure of Jared, there was a party
given at Mr. Witherington's, in honor of Judge Ormond and
family, who were to take their departure in a few days. Cap-
tain Linton had not only received a note of invitation, but Lucy
herself had honored him with a personal one, to which she would
take no excuse ; but notwithstanding his feeling somewhat flat-
tered at her earnestness, he did not attend. Such parties had
for a long time lost all attractions for him. But now his health
was visibly declining, and he felt that the exposure which he
must suffer, and the pain consequent upon it, would not be com-
pensated for by attending one of Mr. Witherington's brilliant.
parties ; and of all those who were there, none felt his loss ex-
cept the star of the night-the belle of the room-the fair Lucy
herself ; for one of whose smiles many there would have felt hon-
ored. Though she was as usual radiant in beauty, and carrying
life and gayety, by turns, into every part of those crowded rooms,
yet, as every successive guest was announced, her heart beat
quick, hoping to hear that one loved name; and her cheek
would grow momentarily pale at each disappointment. It was
that evening that carried the truth to her heart that she loved,
and was not loved in return. Twice she left the guests and re-
tired to her own room, to subdue the sadness which she felt was
overpowering her, and to commune with herself ; and by the aid
of all her pride, and every auxiliary which woman can call to her
aid in such moments, to regain her gayety. And she nobly
succeeded. Few could have supposed that her smiles were
forced.
A young lady, who was notorious for her envy of Lucy, by the
name of Miss Dodric, came up to her, and began to compliment
her upon her exuberant spirits that evening ; but at the same
time she thought she might as well test the reality of them, or
the truth of the rumor that the cold and indifferent Captain Lin-
ton had won the heart of the gay coquette. "Where is Captain

I,


It

fib         FMAtMA. STANLEY  OR TilE ORPHANS.
Linton ?" said she ; " I thought of course I should see him here
to-night ; and after all I have heard of him, I have quite a great
curiosity to see him."
"If you feel very desirous," said Lucy, "you can go to the
Episcopal church and see him in Miss Stanley's pew, and as he
is quite a regular attendant there, you can have that pleasure
every week."
"Oh, I don't mean merely to look at him! I mean to converse
with him. Do tell me where he is to-night."
"At his room, I presume," said Lucy, in her coldest manner.
"And why is he not here ?" persisted Miss Dodric.
"Mr. Coleman," said Lucy, turning to a young man who
stood not far from her, "I will thank you to step here a moment,
if you are wholly unengaged." In a moment he was by her
side.
Are you entirely at liberty ?" said she.
I am always at liberty to attend to any of Miss Withering-
ton's commands," he replied, bowing as he spoke.
"Then I will trouble you to attend to Miss Dodric to answer
all her questions, for really I have not the time to spare from
my other guests ; and should she wish to call upon Capt. Linton
immediately, I will thank you to be her escort."  So saying, she
moved off, leaving Mr. Coleman completely motionless with
astonishment, and Miss Dodric as much overcome with mortifi-
cation.
But if Lucy on that night was rendered unhappy by the ab-
sence of one, Harriet was proportionably blessed by the presence
of another. Mr. Thorn was there ; he was a young lawyer from
New Haven, and had of late paid more frequent visits to New-
port than one might suppose his law business warranted ; and it
was observed by the many who find watching their neighbors a
more pleasant employment than watching themselves, that he
never visited Newport without spending more time at Mr. Wither-
ington's than at any law-office in town. lie was an attendant
at the party, and Miss Dodrie said that when he came in he had
a beautiful monthly rosebud in his button-hole which was soon
transferred to Miss Harriet's sash, and placed near her heart as
possible.
It was true that he had brought that bud from New Haven
to present to her whom he loved, and that he had guarded it
with so much care upon the way, that it was yet fresh and
lovely. When lie entered he found her sitting in a rather ab-
stracted manner by a window. He had not seen her for a week,
and she did not expect him, for her brother George had invited

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

67

him without her knowledge. He spoke to her gayly, and the
blushes which mantled her cheek led him to hope that he did
not love in vain. He took his seat by her side, and, after con-
versing with her for a few moments, he handed her the rose-
bud. "Here," said he, "is what I would wish to be a true
emblem of yourself-a rose just blooming into beauty, already
so lovely that one would hardly dare to say that it could be
more beautiful. So far the comparison is perfect; but this one
is protected by a thorn from every thing but the rude winds of
heaven ; for see, the thorn will wound all who too roughly touch
its loved rose. Thus would I wish you to be guarded for life,
by the Thorn at your side, from every thing but those afflictions
which Heaven sends ; and even through them I would support
and cherish you. If you will accept him by your side, then
take the bud ; I shall need no other answer." With trembling
hand she placed the bud in her girdle. A short time after he
asked her to permit him to lead her to the piano.
"Oh, no !" said she, "I could not possibly sing now."
"But you could play, and I see some gentlemen are endeav-
oring to persuade your sister to favor them with a song, and you,
if they succeed, will be called upon as an auxiliary. By the
way, what is the matter with Lucy to-night? I never before
saw the least cloud of uneasiness upon her brow upon an occa-
sion like this, when,.she could display herself to so much advan-
tage ; but as I came in I met her, and she positively looked
gloomy, and then when I saw you sitting here alone in the midst
of the crowd as abstracted as if your best friend were absent, I
did not know but I had mistaken the occasion of this assem-
blage, and that the meeting was one of sorrow instead of fes-
tivity."
"I am not aware of any cause for Lucy's unhappiness. I
think you must have imagined more than was real."
"But yourself-there was nothing imaginary about you-
what was the gloomy subject of your thoughts ?"
"My thoughts were Thorny ; so ask me no more questions."
"I thank you much for that admission, and in proof of my
gratitude for it I will obey your injunction, though I am sorely
tempted to ask you many-but hark ! there, Lucy has just com-
missioned young Coleman to call you to her assistance."
"Of course he would be her messenger ; I wonder how any
man can bear to stoop as he does to my sister. She at times
treats him with the utmost contempt, and always when he is
near her, she employs him as a lackey to do her errands ; and
what makes me despise him is, he appears to consider it an honor

I

*


68          EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
to bear her commands. See, how anxiously he is looking for
me ! What would he do if he could not find me ?-ah ! he ap-
proaches; he must have seen me. Now, watch his bows as he
speaks."
"Good evening, Miss Harriet (bow), I hope you are well
(bow) ; indeed, you look charmingly (bow); I am commissioned
by your sister to ask your assistance in a song (bow). May I
have the pleasure to lead you to the piano (bow) ?"
She gave him her hand, and suffered him to lead her forward.
Her lover did not follow, wisely judging that his presence there
would serve to confuse rather than to gratify her ; but his heart
beat quicker as he distinguished the soft and tremulous notes
which she warbled forth, from the louder but far less sweet
tones of her sister. She sang, however, but two or three songs,
when one of the gentlemen came up and asked for an overture,
and after that for another, and thus she was enabled to escape,
and she returned to the instrument no more that evening.
CIIAPTEIt XXIV,
While Pve thee before me
With heart so warm and eyes so bright,
No clouds can linger o'er mie-
That smile turn, them all to light !-MooRE.
WE will not dwell upon the scene of loneliness which the
house exhibited after all the guests had departed ; but before
the last one had departed, Lucy retired to her room, and left to
Harriet the task of bidding the few late lingerers good night.
When that was over, she also retired ; but what was her sur-
prise to find Lucy sitting by the fire in tears. "Lucy, my dear
Lucy," said she, "what is the matter ?"
"Nothing."
"Why, then, do you weep ?-are you sick ?"
" What has happened, then?   Do tell me ; I can't bear to
see you so distressed and not know the cause. Has any one
hurt your feelings ?"
"Hurt my feelings !" said she scornfully; "and do you think
that Lucy Witherington would weep, because any one had hurt
her feelings?  No ; she would revenge herself !"
"What, then, makes you weep?    I beseech you to tell me."
"Go to bed, Harriet, and let me weep."

V

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.            69
But Harriet was too happy herself that night to be willing to
see her sister apparently so miserable. Failing by direct in-
quiries to find out the cause of her distress, she determined to
mention every thing that she supposed might have a bearing
upon it.  "I would like to know," said she, carelessly, "why
Capt. Linton was not here to-night."
"Oh, I beseech you," said Lucy, "not to mention his hated
name. I invited him myself ; I urged him to come, and sent
him a note of invitation myself ; and he has refused the whole."
"Lucy," said Harriet, "has he any thing to do with your
tears ?"
But she answered not, she only continued to weep.
"I am glad," continued Harriet, after a brief pause, "that he
is going away so soon; George says that he told him that he
should return to his regiment in about a week, and I. hope we
shall see him no more: but let us leave that subject, Lucy, for I
see it is most painful to you, and I will tell you some news about
myself. Mr. Thorn proposed to-night: I have referred him to our
father, and to-morrow he is to ask his consent."
"Yes," said Lucy, "and you never took any pains to gain his
love ; unless loving him, and trying to conceal it, be pains ;
while I have spared no charm, no kindness, no flattery of which
I was mistress, to captivate that obdurate Linton, and he has
remained cold and unmoved, while I have lost my own heart in
trying to gain his. I never believed before I knew him that I
could love ; for though I have gained many a heart, and flirted,
and flattered, and exulted at the conquests that I made, I never
before felt a particle of the love that I feigned: but let us talk
no more of it, Harriet; let us go to bed and sleep, if we can."
While such were the circumstances in which the two young
ladies found themselves on the night of the party, they had be-
come somewhat the subjects of gossip to their guests; for Miss
Dodric was too much mortified by Lucy's behavior towards her
on that eventful night, to feel very agreeably towards any of the
household. "Did you observe," said she, to one of her ac-
quaintances whom she called upon the following morning, "how
pleased Harriet Witherington looked after that young Thorn
came in ?"
"I did," replied Miss Beekam, "and I really believe that will
be a match after all."
"I don't believe any such thing, for, depend upon it, Thorn
will never fancy that milk-and-water looking creature enough to
propose for her."
"Why, then, is he at her father's house so often? I think he


70          EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
is all devotion, and she appears to be sufficiently pleased with
his attention."
"Pleased I supposed she would be, with the attentions of
one so fine looking and so rich ; but take my word for it, he will
never propose."
"I see no reason why he should not. To be sure, Harriet is
rather a languid beauty when placed in close contrast with her
sister, and I have seldom seen any one who would not be, for
she is certainly brilliantly beautiful."
"I must say, that I could never see any thing so very fascinat-
ing about Lucy. Were you to say that she is haughty, I could
readily agree with you."
"I grant that at times she is very haughty and scornful, but
we must excuse a little spoiling in the case of one who is so
universally admired ; for I think it would have some effect upon
any of us. Even you, condescending as you now are, might be
made a little imperious by such excessive, general, and long-con-
tinued flattery."
"Oh ! I beg your pardon ! I was not aware that I was ad-
dressing one of Miss Witherington's friends ; for they are so very
few of her own sex, that I did not know that you enlisted your-
self upon their scanty roll."
"The fewness of their numbers would be no objection to my
placing my name among them, but you are rather mistaken if
you suppose me one of her intimate friends; for though we have
each other's names upon our visiting lists, yet there are few of
my acquaintances whom I visit less often than Miss Withering-
ton, but I merely say of her what I think she deserves, and that
I endeavor to do of any one."
"Well, I must bid you good morning, for there is Mrs. Chap-
man coming into the gate, and I have no desire to meet her."
"Are you acquainted with her, Miss Dodric ?"
"No, and I don't wish to be ; I have heard she was a saint,
and I don't affect any of those saint-like characters, they are al-
ways too gloomy for me."
"Mrs. Chapman, I think, really deserves the name of saint ;
but she is one of the most cheerful companions I ever saw. She
fixes her thoughts too much above to let any thing depress her,
and I would advise you to seek her society,'for I think it would
be improving to any one, and to know her would dispossess you
of any prejudice against the pious and the saint-like. So sit down
and hear her converse for once ; you need not pursue the ac-
quaintance if you are not pleased."
"No, I thank you, 1 leave you two together: good morning."

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.      71

CHAPTER XXV.
That glorious valley with its streams,
And mounts on mount in clusters swelling,
Mighty, and pure, and fit to make
The ramparts of a godhead's dwelling.-MooRE.
BUT perhaps my readers will inquire what has become of Jared
all this time ; but we will let him speak for himself in the follow-
ing letter, which he wrote to Capt. Linton about a month after
his departure.
From fared Stanley to Capt. Linton.
"PITTsBURG, May 18, 18.-.
"My DEAR FRIEND.-
" When I arrived in New York I tried seversi ship-masters for
a berth, and got half a promise that I should receive a berth
from three of them ; but was at last disappointed in all, and
finally resolved to take advantage of your kind offer, and proceed
to this place, and present your- missive. I accordingly left New
York on the third inst., arrived in Philadelphia on the fourth, left
there the fifth, and arrived here the eleventh. I stayed but one
day and a night in Philadelphia, and of course could not see
much of it in so short a time ; this I regretted the more, for its
being your birth-place gave it a superior charm; but even the
partiality which this circumstance engendered could not make
it, in my humble opinion, comparable to New York. The ex-
treme regularity and sameness tires the eyes, and is not half so
pleasing to me as the variety to be met with in New York.
"As for the journey here it was very tedious and fatiguing:
the roads are called good for this country, especially for the
season ; but they would be extremely rough for New England.
The stages are bad, and what they call the springs have not much
more elasticity than a bar of iron.
"Crossing the mountains I found worse than I expected, for
instead of accomplishing it by crossing one ridge, as I supposed
I should, I found it nearly a hundred miles from the foot of the
Cove Mountain, which is the first hill we cleared, to the Laurel
Hill, which is called the last of the mountains ; though there are
many others on this side which are high enough to deserve the
name, but they are detached from the main chain.
The views from some of the peaks are very grand and ex-
tensive, though not so rich as a more cultivated landscape. On
every side you see mountains piled up in heaps, like the waves

h

r
l


72          EMMA STANLEY, OR TIE ORPHANS.
of the Atlantic, and in many places the valleys resemble the
trough of the sea. The hills being covered with woods, and the
glades few and small, so as hardly to be distinguished from the
tps of them, give an idea of wildness to the whole scene, which
is not without its beauties, though it has not the advantage of
contrast to heighten its effect.sIopassed through several towns,
and a great many villages, some quite neat, and others verythe
shabby. The farm-houses in Pennsylvania, however, through
whole State, are much the best that I ever saw; and te b-n
are substantial even to a proverb, as some satirical writer ob-
serves -' the y seem intended for the same purpose that the old
woman planted the trees: for the good of posterity and the im-
mortal gods.' I passed through a village in the valley called
Bloody-run, from an Indian massacre, in which a creek was made
to run red with the blood of the whites. The mountains which
I crossed, you know, are called collectively the Alleghany ; but
besides the ridge which bears that appellation, par excellence,
there are the Love Mountain, Scrub Ridge, and many others
with like names, which have been given to them by the wagon-
ers. These hills and ridges, of which there are a great number,
are not connected in straight lines, but thrown together without
apparent regularity.
Pittsburg is a pretty large place. The streets are well
paved, and it bids fair, at some future day, to become the Bir-
mingham of America. There are iron mines not far off, and all
the hills in the vicinity abound in coal. There are already, sev
eral iron-foundries, an excellent glass-factory a paper-mill, saw-
mills, &amp;c. &amp;C. &amp;c. The city proper covers a triangular plain,
surrounded by hills, abruptly rising at the back of the town, and
on the opposite banks of the rivers, giving it the form of a vast
amphitheatre.  Standing on Giant's Hill, just on the edge of the
town you have the Alleghany river at your right; the Monon-
gahela, over which is thrown a fine bridge of seven arches, at
your left, both rivers emerging from the mountains, and visible
but a short distance. The Ohio before you, soon hides itself
among the hills; and the city of Pittsburg lies at your feet.
The whole is a fine view : and the long dark shadows thrown
by the hills in the evening--the vapory clouds often seen hang-
in  on their sides-and the lights here and'there seen breaking
through them, give a romantic and pleasing effect to the scenery.
"The magazine of what was once Fort Du Quesne, at the junc-
tion of the rivers, is still standing. It is a small arched stone
building with walls about four feet thick, and the earth around
still retains traces of the ramparts.

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.              73
"I think I have faithfully fulfilled the promise which I made
you, of giving you a minute description of my journey hither,
and of Pittsburg as I found it, and it somewhat astonishes me
thateyou have never travelled westward through your native
State.                                          orntv
"I found your uncle very agreeable and obliging. He received
your letter with much pleasure, and professed himself particular-
ly happy in being able to oblige you, or any of your friends.
He has a steamboat which was launched yesterday, called the
Fire-fly, of which I am to be clerk during the remainder of the
season. I shall not leave here in a fortnight, and in that time I
hope to receive a letter from you. Answer this as soon-as re-
ceived, and I may get it before I leave; but if I do not it will
be forwarded. Tell me when you leave Newport, and where
you go, and give me the most minute details of yourself; for
nothing you can write can possibly be uninteresting to your
attached friend,                       JARED STANLEY.
CHAPTER XXVI.
And is he gone? on sudden solitude
How oft that fearful question will intrude;
'Twas but a moment past-and here he stood,
And now !  *    0*   0**
It is no dream, and I am desolate.-nYoN.
ADOUT the middle of September following, Richard departed
to seek his fortune in the sunny clime of Alabama, with the idea&amp;
that by the time he had attained manhood, he would have ac-
quired a fortune. Thus is youth ever beguiled by sweet visions
of the future, and it is only as it is led on step by step to prove
their falsity, that it can be convinced that they are only illusions.
After he had gone, Miss Stanley wandered from room to room,
as if all light had left the house with her favorite; for having
him always near her, his open disposition and his cheerfulness
had twined themselves round her heart, and he had by insensi-
ble degrees become her favorite of the three. Jared had been
so long from her, and had acquired so much of the character of
the man, that she had no longer those tender anxieties for him
with which she saw him first set out from home. It is true that
Emma was her pet; but she was too feeble to look upon in any
other light but the one in which Miss Stailey often spoke of.
her, as a delicate flower, which every blast threatened to destroy,
and her aunt could not look forward to her companionship even
4

1


i
4

is
tg
,
is
f
;
f
t
, ;
.
a
at
.
s
r
s
a
d
{
{  #

74         EMiMA STANLEY, OR TIHE ORPHANS.
for  single year ; but Richard had now attained his fifteenth
ye r, and his character was sufficiently unfolded to display many
virtues, and he had a manliness about him which had encouraged
Miss Stanley to cherish the expectation, that he would be the
prop and stay of her declining years. She had never thought
of the possibility of his leaving her, until his suddenly-formed
project in the spring preceding his departure ; and so fondly had
she clung to the idea of having him always near her, that though
she gave her consent for him to go, she still expected and hoped
that he would at last relinquish his design, and she could not
realize the thought that he was indeed going, until the dreaded
morning of his departure arrived, and then, as she expressed it,
had some one come and taken a limb from her body, the sep-
aration could not have been more painful.
There are some hopes to which the heart will fondly cling,
until disappointment tears them rudely from our grasp, and Miss
Stanley's belief that Richard would not leave her was one of
these ; but when he had said farewell, when he had given her
his parting kiss, and she had showered her farewell blessings and
tears upon his head, when she missed his merry laugh, his buoy-
ant step and cheering voice, then indeed she felt that her house
had become most desolate. For a time she appeared to sink
under the blow, and when her friends came around her to cheer
her, her only replies to their soothing words were such as the
following: "I shall never see him more. I have looked upon
his fair face for the last time. I have folded him in my last em-
brace, and for the last time laid my hand in blessings upon his
head. He will never return ; or if he does, it will not be until
long after I am laid in the grave. No! I cannot hope, I know
that I shall never see him more.'
And how was he affected-that joyous-spirited boy, who
thought that the earth contained no place which he could not
inhabit contented and happy ; for he had never yet felt a disap-
pointment at which he could not laugh in a few moments after-
wards: but when he saw the shores of his native land receding
from his view, and felt that each breath of the favorable wind
which filled the sails was wafting him still more and more dis-
tant, a seriousness to which he had hitherto been a stranger
seized upon his heart, and he for the first time felt a possibility
of regretting the step which he ha"I taken. But we will not
dwell upon the details of the voyage: it is sufficient to say that
it was a smooth and safe one. No storms assailed them, and
they arrived in Mobile in little less than a month from the time
that they sailed from Newport. After remaining in Mobile about

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.             75
a week, Mr. Williams determined to go up the Tombigbee river
to St. Stephens, a village upon its banks, which then contained
inceabt tw hundred inhabitants, and was still flourishing and
increasing, and where le was told there was a much better open-
ing for merchants than in Mobile. He gave Richard his choice
of going with him to St. Stephens, or of remaining in Mobile, as
the latter place was theirhport of destination when they left New-
cotan ofesidently Rihe thought it only fair to give him a
choice of residence. Richard, however, chose to go with him;
for his sea-voyage had attached him to both Mr. Williams and
his wife, and he had also learned the value of a friend, or even
an acquaintance in a strange land, and he appreciated one too
highly, voluntarily and without good cause to separate himself
from those to whose kind offices he had been solemnlyintrusted
by his aunt.                                         se
CHAPTER       XXVII.
Or the winged bark oive  boundingsteed,
Or te wiged ark o yoth, that his free course
May be o'er hills and seas; and weep thou not
in thy forsaken home, for the bright world
Lies all before him.-jlssAxs.
LoNG and dreary did the time seem to Miss Stanley after
Richard took his leave, and anxiously did she count the weeks
and days until she could hear tidings of her nephew; but at
length the long-expected letter came, and it did much to calm
her feelings, and to make her think that the separation was
rightly ordered by a higher power ; but we will give the greater
part of it tohour readers, as it will show the character of the wri-
ter better than any version of it which we could give.
"ST. STEPHENS, Nov. 18, 18-.
s"I never knew how well you merited the epithet dear, until
since I left you; I never felt how necessary you were to my
happiness, until after I had bid you good-bye. And even now
I never hear of any thing new or strange (and such things are
continually meeting mybears),rI never see a lovely prospect, or
think of any thing of which I wish to speak to a friend, but it is
to you that my thoughts always turn.
"You will see by the date of my letter that I am not in Mo-
bile, as you doubtless expected I would be; we stopped there
and remained a week, when Mr. Williams, hearing that there


4

EMMA STALEY, OR TE ORPHANS.                       OR THE ORPHANS.

was a much better opening here, put his goods of board a
barge, and arrived here the night before last ; and I should have
written to you last night but I was seeing to the unloading, and
otherwise taking care of the goods, until past ten o'clock, and I
was then too tired to write. I, however, wrote to you a long let-
ler from Mobile, and gave you a description of the voyage. We
came from that place up the river in a barge, which jaunt took
us three long dreary weeks, a distance that is travelled on horse-
back in two days, with the greatest ease.
**                          *                 *
"St. Stephens is one of the most beautiful natural sites for a
town that can be imagined. It is literally a city upon seven
hills, and all around it is girdled by the most splendid forest that
the eye of man ever rested on. In our New England climate
we have no idea of the rich, gorgeous, and ever-various tints
that adorn the woodland scenery of a southern autumn, or that
beautify the sunset sky. Here the cedar, the pine, the chestnut,
the maple, the beech, the gum, the oak, and many other trees,
all different in their hues, and mingling a deep red, a sombre
brown, a light green, and a light yellow, with here and there
one deeper than the rest, are frequently all presented in the
same view, and together form a prospect more lovely than I
ever supposed could be presented by a mere piece of forest ; but
the sunset I will not attempt to describe ; my very pen would
tire in the effort, and words are too poor to tell its glories.
"The village, or to speak more correctly, the city, for it is in-
corporated, is built quite scatteringly ; but upon every hill is a
house, and from every house is a prospect that the eyes of a
painter might rest upon without satiety forever. But much as
I love this scenery, I would, were it possible to annihilate time
and space, frequently exchange it, at least for a few hours, for a
seat by your fire, with you on one side of me, and Emma and
her cat on the other. Give my love and a kiss to my dear sis-
ter ; remember me to Mr. and Mrs. Chapman, and Miss Hoxie,
and believe, my dear aunt, that you have the most affectionate
and grateful love of
Your nephew                RICHARD."
There was but one source of disappointment in the letter, and
that was, he mentioned having written her from Mobile, and that
letter had not arrived. But it was not long before she received
that also, and by it she learned of all the kindness which had
been shown him by Mr. Williams and his wife ; and she shed
tears of gratitude that such kind and good friends had been be-

77

stowed upon her orphan boy; but still her heart yearned towards
him with an attraction too great for her to be yet happy without
him. And an evening had not passed without her shedding
tears as she thought of him while sitting by the fire, and missing
his place among them.
"I would advise ye, Nancy," said Miss Hoxie, "to go to the
veal country after that boy, sooner than for ye to sit here moping
yere life away ;" (for hearing the word Mobile, she mistook the
sound, and would always call it the veal country.)
Alas! Miss Hoxie, it is a long way to go, and I cannot
leave this place ; I am wedded to it too firmly."
"Ye might go and come back in the time that ye've been
crying about him. He is doing well enough."
CHAPTER       XXVIII.
Phenomenon in all the universe,
Of moral being most anomalous,
Inexplicable most and wonderful-
A human heart.-PoLOC.
ON one of the Christmas holidays, a few days after Christmas
day, Miss Stanley invited several of her friends to dine with her ;
for she was one of those who loved those family and friendly
reunions, for which our New England States, after the example
of their transatlantic mother, are so famous at certain periods of
the year, and consequently she never permitted any of those old
festivals to pass unobserved. But this year she had been visiting
at the houses of her relatives for several days, and in corres-
pondent hospitality she now invited them to hers. She was of
course expecting considerable company ; and among the meats
for their reception was a huge turkey, which presided as king of
the feast. Just before she invited her guests into the dining-
room, she went in to look at the table, and found Miss Hoxie in
the act of cutting the wing from the turkey. "What are you
doing, Miss Hoxie ?" she exclaimed in astonishment.
"I am getting the wing for Emma," she replied, without at
all discontinuing the operation which she was performing.
" Stop ! Miss Hoxie," said Miss Stanley, "'stop ! I entreat you.
Surely you do not intend to spoil the turkey for that child !"
"She wants the wing-she asked me for it, and I mean to
get it for her."
"But indeed you must not get it for her; you certainly

EMMA STANLEY OR THE ORPHANS.

76


'78         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
would not spoil the looks of my table because she has taken a
notion for the wing?  If she does want it, she must not have it
now-she must wait."
" Yes ! and then she won't be able to get it ; for somebody
else will ask for it, and ye'll give it to them, and Emma will have
to go without."
"But, indeed, Miss Hoxie, she cannot have it now !"
"Well, then ! I say she shan't have any of it : poor child, ye'd
all be willing to starve her."
"Starved or not, I cannot have the turkey cut now for her."
"Well, ye've said enough about it, so now hold your tongue ;
I don't care, I'll see that the poor child gets something to eat,"
and so saying she waddled out of the room; and a moment after
Miss Stanley heard her going up stairs, talking soothingly to
Emma, who was evidently objecting to going with her. After din-
ner, as they did not return, Miss Stanley went up to Miss Hoxie's
room; but neither her entreaties nor remonstrances could induce
Miss Hoxie to come out herself, or to permit Emma to come.
"Poor child," she said, "she had had some dinner, and was then
asleep, after all their bad treatment, and she was not going to
wake her."
"Miss Hoxie," said Miss Stanley, "you are ruining that child
by your over-kindness, and I really cannot have her so much in-
dulged."
"Now Nancy, hold your tongue ! for I tell ye I will indulge
the poor sick child, and not treat her as ye do."
"Do I not treat her kindly ?"
"No ! If she was always healthy ye might act to her as ye
do now ; ye send her to school as long as she is able to go, and
then when she can't go to school, ye give her a task in knitting
or sewing every day.
"She will thank me for it one of these days, more than she
will you for your indulgence."
"I don't expect her to thank me ! Who ever did thank me
for any thing ! Can ye tell that ?"
"Yes, Miss Hoxie, easily ; for I have all my life, for many
things, and do yet, every day."
" Well ! hold yere tongue, Nancy ! Hold yere tongue, and
go down, and let us alone !"
Miss Stanley knew by her voice that her anger was subsiding,
notwithstanding it was pitched in her loudest key, as was always
usual with her when she wished to conclude an argument. She
therefore thought it best to leave her as she desired, feeling con-
fident that before long she would descend from the stronghold of

1

her chamber: nor was she disappointed, for as soon as Emma
awaked from her nap, she was asked in a cheerful voice by her.
injudicious nurse, if she was willing to go down stairs, with
which request she gladly complied, as it had been much against
her inclination that she had gone up ; but though violent herself,
if opposed by any one else, she generally yielded to Miss Hoxie,
knowing that unless she did so, the wish that she expressed
would be instantly changed into a command so vehemently given,
that rather than meet it, she complied at once ; for, like most of
the violent and irascible, where they find a nature of their own
to contend with, the weakest will easily yield. And now she
was particularly anxious to go down ; for, besides being desirous
to show her best and newest frock to the ladies, she was not at
all willing to give up her share of the turkey, and she had reso-
lutely rejected all the sweets and dainties that Miss Hoxie had
offered her. "And may I have some of the turkey 2" she asked,
as Miss Hoxie was combing her hair after her nap.
"Hold yere tongue about the turkey, ye little plague ! yes,
yes ; ye shall have the whole that's left, and I hope that'll
satisfy ye."
CHAPTER XXIX.
"When sickness pales thy cheek,
And dims thy lustrous eye,
And pulses low and weak,
Tell of a time to die,
sweephope shall whisper then:
Though thou from earth be riven,
-         There's bliss beyond thy ken,
There's rest for thee in heaven!"
UPoN looking into her finances at the end of the year, Miss
Stanley saw that it was necessary for herto find some way by
which she might cheek their further waste ; and after consulting
with her friends, but particularly with Mr. and Mrs. Chapman,
and for some time hesitating between taking a school and taking
boarders, she at length determined upon the latter, and requested
all of her friends to send to her such persons as they might hear
inquiring for board, whom they would be willing to receive as
inmates of their own families ; and she accordingly prepared all
of her spare rooms for their reception. One day in the May fol-
lowing, she was sitting by the fire talking over her future plans
and prospects with Miss Hoxie, when a knock was heard at the
door.

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

79


80          EMMA STAiLEY, OR THE ORI'IANS.
"That's Linton's knock," said Miss Hoxie, "I should know it
if I was to hear it clear away in the veal country."
"Impossible 1" said Miss Stanley ; but hardly had she pro-
nounced the word when he entered the room. But she started
as she looked at the spectre which presented itself, he was so
much altered since he left her, was so thin, and he walked so
feebly towards her; but the unnatural brilliancy of his eyes, and
the bright red spot upon his cheek, at once announced consump-
tion. She welcomed him gladly and warmly ; but he had no-
ticed her surprise at first beholding him, and as he smiled and
extended his hand, "I am," said he, "to use the words of Wol-
sey, 'come to lay my bones among you,'" and, indeed, his ex-
treme feebleness and apparent exhaustion seemed to say that
the words were well applied. After resting sufficiently to be
able to converse for some length of time without much fatigue,
he told her that he would give some account of his sudden ap-
pearance there ; "for," continued he, "I know that it is a long
time since you have heard from me, as sickness has prevented
my writing to you."
He told her that he accompanied his regiment which was
stationed upon the northern frontier of Maine-that the summer
passed away without much injury to his health ; but that every
day of the winter had served more fully to unfold the fatal rose
of consumption which was blooming upon his cheek ; that much
of the time he had been confined to his room, and his bed, and
that in every such case the longing desire to be near her, that she
might sometimes smooth his pillow, and soothe his soul with
such words of comfort as she had often administered, had been
so intense, that he could never banish it from his mind, or sub-
stitute any other thought in its place ; that, in consequence, he
had resigned his commission, and as soon as he was able to
travel lie had started for Newport, and had arrived there the
night before ; that he had heard that she had one or two
boarders, and was willing to take a few more, and that now he
had come to ask for a room in her house, for the remainder of
the time that he inhabited this lower world. And gladly did
she undertake to comfort the few days which now only could be
his.
But though his frame was thus enfeebled, and though his
hours seemed to be numbered upon earth, she rejoiced to see
that his mind had in part awaked from the torpor, which seemed,
when she first became acquainted with him, to overspread it like
a thick cloud. He was now calm, and never overcome by that
despair which had so entirely characterized him on his previous

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.               81
sojourn at Newport. He inquired about all his Newport friends ;
for all who knew him-all with whom he had associated-
seemed to feel an interest in him sufficiently lively to merit that
appellation; and now he appeared more ready to acknowledge
their claims than he had ever been before. He was in truth one,
whom to know was to esteem, if not to love. His deep air of
dejection at first attracted pity, and his fine mind, his noble
heart, and upright principles, which were merely veiled, not
hidden by it, and whose light broke through all obstacles, won
for him the intense admiration of all with whom he mingled ;
and it was deepened by the sorrow elicited by the knowledge
that he was hastening to the tomb; for no one could gaze upon
his feeble step and attenuated form, or see the hectic upon his
cheek, or hear his hollow cough, without being fully aware that
consumption had marked him for its own. But the knowledge
which to others was a source of sorrow, was to him a well-spring
of peaceful joy; to know that he was going to rejoin those loved
ones who had gone before, and that he should never more be
separated from them, calmed his spirit, and relieved him from
that load of despair which, for a time, had so bowed him to the
earth.
"Hope still lifts her radiant finger,
Pointing to their eternal home-
Upon whose portals yet they linger,
Looking back for us to come In
It was because he felt himself dying, that he was now so calm,
and at times so cheerful; for religion had lent him her lamp, to
guide him onwards-in his journey through the dark regions of
the grave.
CHAPTER XXX.
Hard the lesson is to learn,
Good for us to be distrestrt
Hard for mortals to discern,
That mhatenearis est !
- not submission must be given
To the Lord of earth and Heaven !-RAY.
IT was not long before Miss Stanley penetrated the cause of
the calm which reigned in the bosom of Captain Linton, and sad
were her reflections, and fervent were her prayers, when she first
heard him express his feelings upon the subject. He saw her
grief, and strove to relieve it. "Why, my dear Christian friend,
do you wish 'me to linger longer upon this earth ?" 'said he.
"'Tis true, if my years are counted, I am young ; but I have
4*


82          EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
suffered much, and I have sinned much, in repining and mur-
muring. Now, however, I am resigned to the will of, Heaven,
and though I have no wish to live-though I welcome every
pain as a herald to eternity, yet should it please Him, whom now
with confidence I call 'my Father,' to prolong my life, even
should it be prolonged in pain, I think I could submit with pa-
tience, and bless his hand for the infliction."
And what," said she, "has wrought this happy change in
your feelings ?"
"Jared Stanley," he replied, "first told me that it was sinful
to murmur at those afflictions that Heaven sent. 'Tis true that
I had heard the same from the pulpit, and I had read it in books ;
but none had ever taught me to feel it-none had even applied
it to myself, until one lovely night on our way from Liverpool to-
gether. The time and scene are often before me when I dwell upon
that conversation. The ship was running steadily onwards, with
a fair breeze. All the passengers but myself were asleep, and, ex-
cept the watch on deck, and the rippling of the waves against the
vessel, every thing was still around us. I had, as usual, spent the
evening on a part of the deck, withdrawn from the companionship
of other passengers, who, in sooth, no more desired my company
than I did theirs ; for I suppose the gloom to which I was a vic-
tim oppressed them, and they strove to flee from it. The moon
was pursuing her glorious way among the stars ; but there was
something in the melancholy softness of her beams, which re-
minded me of the most harrowing event of my past life, and I
was gazing upon her calm full orb, and with the most torturing
feelings recalling every particular that could add agony to a
mind obscured by the darkest despair. Jared was that night on
the watch, and after I had been sitting, as I have said, for some
time, I know not how long, he stopped in the measured pace
with which he had been for some time walking the deck, and as
he stood not far from me, I felt that he was earnestly observing
me; but I felt that I held no communion with my kind, and
therefore what cared I for the looks of one of my fellow-men.
I had buried all I loved but one, and that one, the most in-
tensely dear, was sleeping beneath the waters of Lake Erie. I
felt that all I had to do was to endure a life that 'I hated and
scorned, and that I had vainly endeavored to cast away in battle ;
but which I dared not otherwise destroy. Feeling thus, what
was to me the gaze of one who would probably forget me as
soon as we separated?
"But after standing thus a while, he spoke, and while I have
life, neither his words or tone will ever fade from my memory.

EMMA STANLEY, OR TILE ORPHANS.                 83
The interest that I take in Emma has been principally excited
by her voice, it is so much like Jared's ; and when she speaks in
earnest sadness, she often reminds me of that night. 'Those who
have been afflicted,' said he, 'feel for the unhappy, and I have
often watched you thus, alone and apparently comfortless. For-
give a stranger for thus interrupting a revery which could not
have been pleasant, and if sympathy can alleviate your grief, do
not disdain to breathe it into a stranger's ear.' He paused, as if
expecting an answer. I had been looking full into his face from
the first syllable that he uttered ; for his full, low, sad tones de-
manded and fixed my attention; but when he ceased, I turned
from him with all the selfishness that is produced by apathetie
despair.  'No!' said I, 'No!' Still he stood there, and I was
annoyed by his calm eye, which I felt was yet upon me, and
thinking that perhaps he did not heap my answer to his kind ad-
vances, I spoke to him with that irritation to which an unhappy
man is so often a slave, unlee his feelings are softened by all-
hallowing grace.   Yes, my dear aunt Nancy! can you believe
it? I spoke roughly to him, as I repeated my former answer.
For a few moments he resumed his walk, but it was faster and
more irregular than before ; it by degrees became as slow and
measured as at first ; but he had succeeded in directing my at-
tention from any thing but himself, and after a short interval as
he passed me, he said, in his own sweet tones, and with marked
and peculiar emphasis-
'Should sorrow o'er thy brow
Its darkened shadow fling-
And hopes that.cheer thee now,
Die in their early spring:
Should pleasure at its birth,
Fade like the hues of even;
Turn thea away from Earth,
There's rest forthee in Ieaven!
If even life should seem
To thee a toilsome way-
And gladness cease to beam
Upon its clouded day:
If like the wearied dove,
O'er the seleoelss ocean driven ;
Raise thoa thine eyeabove,
There's rest for thee in HeavenP,
"Every word of those beautiful lines fell upon my heart, and
softened it towards him, and raised it towards heaven, and as he
passed me the next time, I rose and extended to him my hand.
Forgive the petulance of a lacerated heart,' said I. He grasped
my hand with the warmth of a brother, and the electric spark
of sympathy and love shot into each bosom at the touch, and
has there spread its beautiful and soul-reviving fire. We entered
into conversation, and night after night succeeding to that did he


84

EMMA STANLEY, OR TflE ORPHANS.

arrest my thoughts from the gloomy subjects which generally
occupied them, and in those nightly meetings, upon that silent
deck, did he pour into my soul the balm of the Christian's hope,
such as I had never before felt, and his words have indeed
proved like a grain of mustard-seed, which has at length become
a tree whose top reaches unto Heaven.
"Thus began my change of feeling, and it has been cherished
and strengthened by those many assurances of peace and com-
fort which have been administered to me by Mrs. Chapman and
yourself, and it was the remembrance of the instruction which I
gained here, and the hope of its continuance, joined to the
knowledge that this was ,Jared's birth-place, and the home to
which his thoughts ever fondly turned, and the place where I
should be more likely to meet him than any other, which to-
gether made me pray that here I might die and that here I might
he buried.''
('I APTER    XXXI.
"There is a tie in kindred souls
Which nothing~ can dissever,
And though as +etaint as the poles,
Attractions feel forever.
As the same sun iliurncs and warms,
So the same spirit lights and charms!"
THE summer following was quite a happy one to Miss Stanley.
She heard often from Richard, and his letters were generally full
of hope ; and in them he frequently repeated his day-dream of fu-
ture wealth, and his consequent reunion with herself. Jared,
after a few trips on board the steamboat, left it at New Orleans,
and went to Malaga, thus having fulfilled his hopes of going to
some other port than Liverpool. Emma made rapid advances
at school, and had quite good health. Miss Stanley had as many
boarders as she wished, and though all of them had their peculiar-
ities, yet they were easy enough to live peaceably with, and that
was as much as she expected. The health of Capt. Linton was
so much improved, that she began to entertain hopes of his re-
covery, though he endeavored to check them by telling her that,
though he might grow much better, and live a year or two, still
he felt that in the course of a very few years he should be re-
leased ; but she would hope in spite of all he could say against
it; for she saw him already so far recovered as to gallant her

'1

I.

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

85

Il

almost anywhere she wished, and to give her many little atten-
tions that Jared would have paid her had he been there ; and as
an evidence that it was his desire as much as possible to fill to
her her nephew's place, she afterwards had the satisfaction of
reading a letter that during that time he addressed to Jared. It
was as follows:
"NEwPORT,.August 14th, 18-.
"My DEAR STANLEY:
"I suppose you have heard through our aunt of the many
changes which have taken place here since you left ; but yet the
pleasure of writing to you is such that I cannot forego it when I
am able to carry my pen as fast as my thoughts will flow. You
know that my pleasures are not of that cast which the world
generally enjoy ; but I think there are few persons who more
highly appreciate the delights of true friendship than myself ;
and it is for this reason that I so often address you, this being
the third letter that I have addressed to you during as many
weeks ; for being so long unable to write, I have felt desirous to
make up for lost time, and while you live, though the Pacific
rolls between us, yet with such means of communication as the
blessed art of letter-writing affords, I can never feel alone. My
disposition is such that I have seldom known much of the feeling
termed lonesomeness, though I have proved that termed desola-
tion in its widest range of meaning. I have often longed for
sympathy ; but I have seldom felt the want of company. I
know that our tastes, our sentiments, our feelings, are in most
respects the same, and our influence over each other is attractive.
You, however, my dear Jared, are the pole, always steadfast and
sure : I am the needle, though constantly varying by the cir-
cumstances in which I am placed, yet ever truly pointing to
thee.
"So much for the preamble. Now for the discourse, which,
like its forerunner, will probably be filled with self; but that
you tell me will make it only more agreeable to you, and I, with
the fond vanity which characterizes me, as far as you are con-
cerned, believe you are sincere in saying so, and judging by my
own heart (and that the world says is righteous judgment), I
know you are so. I suppose you have heard from Rithard be-
fore this ; but if you have not, we have. He is safe in Alabama,
and has written home many letters full of life,:which I know by
the contents come warm from his heart. He continues pleased
with the country, pleased with his protectors, pleased with him-
self, and pleased with every thing. He was sea-sick going out,
but met with the kindest attentions from his compagnons du


86

ELMA STANLEY, OR TiE ORPIIANS.

troyage.  He has written several letters full of detail to aunt
Nancy; but though he keeps a stout heart and acts the man,
yet he cannot help breathing a desire for home: he is apparently
not sorry that he went; but yet there is running through all of
his letters a feeling that he is very far from those he loves, and
a longing for the power to annihilate both time and space to con-
verse with those so nearly and dearly connected to him by all
hia memories of happiness, and by the thousand retrospections
which arise to him in his far and strange home. Such feelings
I have experienced for a time. You speak sometimes as if they
were but seldom deserters of your breast, and I often ask myself
the question, How can they be, when he leaves such a home
as this to become a wanderer, and make his sojourn among
strangers?
In my last few letters I have told you what, from fear you
might not receive any of them, I will briefly repeat, namely-
that aunt Nancy wished to take a few boarders on account of
pecuniary considerations, and that now she has as many as she
wishes ; and that I was compelled, on account of ill health, to
resign my commission, but since I have been domiciliated at her
house that my health has improved in an astonishing manner.
I am now endeavoring, in some slight measure, to fill your
place, and I receive from the hands of your beloved aunt those
thousand nameless attentions to my wants which she would be-
stow upon you, and which it often seems to me that only she
could give, which I am certain no other could give as she does ;
and once in a while I go with her to sit an afternoon and even-
ing with Mr. and Mrs. Chapman, and by that means I enjoy the
double pleasure of her conversation, mingled with theirs. Some-
times, too, I walk over to Mr. Witherington's to see the fair
Lucy. Apropos of Lucy-'tis said that she has lost her heart ;
but I think for one to say that of her is a slander upon her, for I
hardly believe that she would suffer any one to steal from her
what she has hitherto guarded with so much care as to make it
doubtful whether she had one : this, however, is a lamentable
fact, that something has paled her cheek-that is, when one sees
her at home, for when she frequents public places she has re-
course to some artificial means to bring her former, color to its
place. She has lost much of her embonpoint, and two or three
times I have seen her with spirits so depressed, that any one
might have perceived how violent was the effort which-she made
to rally them; but in a short time she has always been success-
ful, and being witness to this self-command, makes me doubt
her loving unfortunately. You know that your cousin Harriet

t

EMMA STANLEY OR THE ORPHANS.

87

is soon to be married to Mr. Thorn ; I think they will, suit ad-
mirably, as they are contrasted in the very points requisite to
make a happy whole. He has all that decision of character in
which she is somewhat deficient. He appears to be the oak
which might defy the storm; she the violet that could enjoy the
most perfect security in his protection from the blast.
"My paper warns me that I must this time stop without say-
ing to you half that I intended, either in news about others, or
by expressing my own feelings to you; but I intend to make
my letters to you weekly chronicles of passing events, as long as
I can write without pain ; and we must both be satisfied with
this one's now ending, with once more assuring you that I am
and ever shall be
"Your devotedly attached friend,    LINTON."
Letter from Capt. Linton to fared Stanley.
"NEWPORT, Oct. 10, 18-.
"My DEAR STANLEY
"I wrote to you last week, and sent the letter to Mr. Bragg,
of New York, requesting him to send it to Malaga by the first
merchant-vessel going out; and the very day after I had de-
spatched my missive, here comes a letter from you to aunt
Nancy, telling us to direct to Havre de Grace,. and that you
were bound for that port instead of Malaga, and that you would
not probably see the letter during your present voyage. You
ask after me as if you had not heard from me in the last three
months, though during that time I have written to you many
letters ; but it is no wonder that they do not reach you, for by
the time they arrive at any place where you tell us to direct,
you are off to some other. But I shall not tell you much that
I. have already written, because I do not wish to weary you
with a twice-told tale ; and I hope, with your usualgood-for-
tune in at last getting old letters, that you will yet receive those
that I have written.
"When I wrote to you during the summer months, I gener-
ally spoke of the great and continued improvement in my health ;
but of late our autumnal winds have forcibly reminded me that
I am still a subject of pain's vast empire.
"Mrs. Chapman was here yesterday. The cold weather
makes her feel the infirmities of age, and confines Mr. Chapman
to the house with the gout. It confines.me within doors after
.nightfall, and also in the daytime, if at all-predisposed to storms ;
but still I visit Mr. Chapman in fair days, but never without his
bitterly deploring your absence. Why is it that you can, without

. 4


"

EMMA STANLEY, OR TIlE ORPHANS.
an effort, wind yourself about the hearts of all who know you,
who are themselves of any worth?
" Emma has discontinued school ; I suspect for the winter.
Per child ! she suffers much, though I hardly think that she is
conscious of the joy that is debarred her by her being shut out
from the play of other children in consequence of her ill health ;
or in other words, I think her joys, though of a different kind,
are as numerous and as great as other childrens'.  She amuses
me often and much by the delight which is afforded her by her
kittens and her dolls.  And sometimes, when I feel too feeble to
leave my room in the morning, I send for her up to see me; and
on such occasions I frequently attempt to teach her such ab-
struse sciences as I think she can comprehend, and I can take
the trouble to dictate to her young mind. She has learnt her
multiplication table ; but she says that she would much prefer to
nurse Toney (the name of her cat), or make a bonnet after the
latest fashion for her prettiest doll, to studying grammar, for
she does not like that at all.  I told her I was going to write to
you in a few days, and asked if she had a message for you.
' Yes,' she replied ; 'tell him that if he will write to me you
will read the letter, and help me to answer it;' and upon those
terms I insist upon your complying with her desire. She says
that if you will write to her that she will knit you a pair of
gloves before you return; for that she can now knit so fast as to
beat Mrs. Chapman, with whom she has frequent trials of indus-
try, and who always gives her half.
"Aunt Nancy is quite well, and she promises to write to you
next week.  I hope that I shall myself receive a letter from you
in a very short time; and though power to answer it should be
denied me, my heart will ever fondly beat at the thought of
you ; and until it is stilled by the icy fingers of death, a letter
from you would always give inexpressible joy to
"Your sincere friend,      LINToN."
CHAPTER      XX XII.
Happier, hapier tir than thou,
With the ros on thy brow,
She that makes the humblest hearth
Lovely but to one on earth !-HEMANS.
WhAT Linton had said in his letter to Jared with regard to
Lucy Witherington's losing her heart, was far from being exag--
gerated, and he himself was the unconscious possessor of the

I

f
I

EMMA. STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

89

important treasure. He was aware that she had flattered, and;
until she had found the effort of no avail, had persevered in
her endeavors to attach him to herself ; but.looking upon her
as a coquette, who would use the same endeavors to chain any
one to her triumphal car, merely for the glory of the conquest,
he had never once imagined that he had in reality made a
serious impression upon her heart. He had paid to her only
such civilities as he thought due to any lady, without any inten-
tion of gaining an interest in her feelings. Perfectly free from
the least symptom of love for her, he had rot dreamed of her
feeling any for him. He at first met her advances with courtesy;
because, as he himself said, she often' amused him and relieved
his gloomy thoughts; and afterwards he continued to frequent
her father's house, as much from habit as for any other reason.
But she had at first determined that he should be her captive,
not from any particular partiality for him, but because she felt
piqued at his indifference, and resolved to overcome it ; though
probably, had she succeeded, tha victory would have contented
her, and after she had gained his love, she would have repulsed
the heart he would have offered. But the novelty of suing un-
successfully made her more eager for conquest, and in endeavor-
ing to gain his heart she had lost her own, before aware of the
depth of the game she was playing. From the evening of the
party when he rejected her invitation, and she awoke to the con-
sciousness of the depth of her feelings for him, the color gradually
forsook her cheek, and she grew low-spirited and thin, and,
though her father was not very tender with his children, he could
not help observing the change. 'Tis true she sought company
more eagerly than ever, and that of the gayest was her choice;
for she had resolved to return the indifference of the only one
whom she had ever loved. She did not try to hate; for she
was too conscious of his worth to do so. Her health declined
under the continual struggle which she kept up between love
and pride. She at length gladly seized upon an offer made her
by her father of accompanying George to Providence, on a visit
to one of her uncles, where he would probably remain two or
three months'; and the new scenes and acquaintances to which
she was there introduced, relieved her from all sadness, and in
the endeavor to conquer other hearts she regained or forgot she
had lost her own. In the course of a few weeks she was sur-
rounded by admirers, and except when alone, and at times
when memory would exert its oft-disputed sway, Linton was
forgotten.
'Tis true that the meek, the passive, or the weak-minded may


sink under the effects of unsuccessful love, but there are few who
cannot successfully resist its power. As long as they think that
possibly they are loved in return, they may find it fruitless to
endeavor to become indifferent ; but when all hope is taken from
them, slight indeed must be their self-command, if utterly unable
to repress the rising sigh-if they cannot school their heart to
obey the dictates of pride and reason.
This was the first disappointment which Lucy had ever ex-
perienced.  She had hitherto moved the queen of hearts, and all
within her influence, over whom she had chosen to wield her
sceptre, had acknowledged and obeyed her power. Except her
father, she exercised undisputed authority over all at home, and
over him she had a greater influence than any other had ever ac-
quired, for he respected a nature so much like his own. Her
pride, in which she gloried, and which she cherished as a virtue,
instead of repressing as a source of unhappiness to herself and
others, had now received its first check ; but it was doomed ere
long to receive others more lasting and more severe, though, like
a tree which grows the more shady and luxuriant by being
topped, from every check it received it seemed to spread the
more.
After having been absent about six weeks, she received a
letter from her father, recalling her to Newport; and reminding
her that Robert would shortly return from college, and that as
he wished to show him off, he should be anxious for a party im-
mediately after his son's return, and of course her presence would
be necessary-and she immediately obeyed the summons.
CHAPTER        XXXIII.
It is but pride wherewith
To his fair son the father's eye doth turn,
Watching his growth. Ay, on the boy he looks,
The bright, glad creature springing in his path,
nut as the heir of his great name; the young
And stately tree, whose rising strength ere long
Shall bear his trophies well.-HANS.
THE time of Robert's collegiate course bad expired, and he
returned to his father a graduate, and Mr. Witherington was
satisfied ; for he knew not that his son had graduated more on
account of his own standing than in regard to the knowledge he
had acquired.  And alas ! Robert had while at college become a
victim to a vice, of all others the most degrading and the most

9 0

EMMA STA1LEY OR TIIF ORPHANS.

ti
%
.
.
8y
E
t.n
R(
,
i

91

EMMA STANLE Y, OR THE ORPH ANS.

ruinous--Intemperance had marked him for her own, and it was
not long before. Mr. Witherington had such a proof of his frailty
as would carry anguish to the heart of any parent ; but to one of
a temperament as priud as Mr. Witherington's, none could tell of
the anguish of the blow. It was at the party, to give which
Lucy had been summoned from Providence, and rather late in
the evening, Robert came reeling into the room, too much ine-
briated to keep his balance. His father, though at the most dis-
tant part of the room, saw him, and with two or three strides
was at the side of his son, with his hand on his collar. "What
is the matter, father !" said Robert.
"Hush !" said Mr. Witherington, in a voice so harsh with an-
ger that he could scarcely articulate-" Hush, and come with
me !" So saying, he rather roughly pulled him along with him.
His intention was to lock him in his room ; but, as he was pass-
ing through the side gallery, the carriage whip hanging there
caught his eye. In his fury he heeded not its size, nor that it
was heavily laden at the end : he took it down, and began to
beat him unmercifully with the staff of it. Robert was too much
intoxicated to resist, and he had yet remaining a sufficient sense
of shame to forbear such loud exclamations as would draw the
guests around him ; but a mother's eye had been upon him, and
a mother's love was with him. Mrs. Witherington had seen in
what state he 'had entered the room; she saw, too, how he had
left it, and as her husband did not return she went in quest of
them. As she passed the gallery in which they were, she caught
Robert's stifled groans and low exclamations of, "Father, you will
kill me ! O father, spare me ! I beg of you for the love of
heaven, spare me !"  But vain were all entreaties of mercy from
him to that infuriated father ; every word that he spoke but
added new weight to the blow. Just as Mrs. Witherington
reached the spot, he had, by a blow on the side of the head,
felled his son to the ground.  She sprang forward.  "Mr.
Witherington," she exclaimed, "what have you done?  You
have killed him !"
"I hope I have !" said he. "The drunken dog ! to come home
here and expose himself as he has done to-night. He might
better be dead !"
"But, oh ! not by your hand ! Robert, Robert," she cried,
"speak, move !"
Her voice aroused him, for he was only stunned by the blow.
He opened his eyes and attempted to rise; but as soon as Mir.
Witherington saw that he was not dead, he struck him with the
lash of the whip ; but fear of the consequences endued Mrs.


92          EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
Witherington with an energy which she had never before shown:
she rose like a tigress and seized the whip. "Are you mad ?"
said she. " Give me the whip !"
He suffered her to take it ; for her action had been so sudden,
so unexpected and energetic, that in mere surprise he unclasped
his hold.
" Now go and leave us, unless you want to kill him ! Leave
us," said she ; and her manner was so authoritative that, without
speaking, he withdrew. One, to have heard her command, and
to have witnessed his obedience, would have supposed their
natures to have been suddenly changed, and so for the time
being they were ; for maternal tenderness and horror at the deed
which her husband had so nearly committed, had gifted her with
a commanding energy equal to his own; while disappointment,
intense, deep, and unlooked-for, had bowed his stern heart to
the dust. The idea of Robert's becoming a drunkard had never
once crossed his imagination, and that the hateful knowledge
should come upon him before so many witnesses, and at the
time when they were assembled to do that son honor, had at
first enraged him beyond the limits of self-control, and then he
felt crushed to the earth. From his cradle Robert had been his
favorite son. Gifted in a pre-eminent degree with manly beauty,
and of a much higher order of intellect than his elder brother,
Mr. Witherington had always in thinking upon him given full
scope to the natural pride of his heart. Of a yielding disposition,
he had never given to his father those causes of disquietude
which George had often done. He had always been rather fond
of books, and that was another ground upon which his father
had built his proud hopes ; and now to see him fallen thus low--
to see all his own hopes blasted, and to find that the only being
for whom he had felt such tenderness, was to be an instrument of
his degradation, was more than he could tamely bear. It was an
arrow in his heart which was long to rankle there, and which was
the keenest that had ever afflicted him.         -
Mr. Witherington through life had been generally successful.
He had in boyhood been poor, and the first object of his youth-
ful ambition was riches, and he pursued that object to the total
disregard of principle, until he could count the value of his prop-
erty by hundreds of thousands. And when he found those
wishes so happily accomplished, a desire for other distinction,
besides that given him by his wealth, arose in his mind. lie de-
termined that his sons should be famous in the annals of their
country. He soon found, however, that George took no pleasure
in any thing of the kind, and he could not implant in his heart a

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.            93
single branch of the mighty tree of ambition which grew so
luxuriantly in his own, and his talents were not brilliant enough
to warrant his pushing him forward against his inclination. Thus
disappointed, his hopes all centered upon Robert. He often
pictured to himself the pleasure that he should one day feel in
listening to the praises that would yet be heaped upon his favorite
son, and in proportion to the length of time that he had thus
flattered himself, and the ardor of his hope, was his disappoint-
ment and his rage. As I said before, it was the first heavy
affliction that he had ever suffered. 'Tis true that he had not
escaped the common lot of humanity, for he had followed more
than one relative to the tomb ; but his parents had both sunk
into the grave at a good old age, and the brother and sisters to
whom he had said farewell, were not united to his heart by those
ties which bind in one natures of a more tender mould. Neither
was he one to sorrow long over the graves of the departed.
The voice of gain would at all times drown the tender and melan-
choly tones of grief. Degradation he had hitherto escaped ; for
though his meains in many instances had been cruel, and his
ways crooked, yet as he had never been openly exposed,-he had
assumed an equal place with the just and the upright ; but now
he felt that disgrace was to be reflected upon him through his
son, and he quailed beneath a blow which he could neither for-
get or drown by business or pride.
Mrs. Witherington was one who hoped all things ; and she
fondly believed her son would amend. So thought George and
Harriet; but Lucy partook in her father's feelings; and what
love she had before borne to her younger brother was, from the
moment that she saw him enter the room thattight in such a
condition, changed to bitter hate and scorn.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
From the experience of the past,
Wel guard the future from all blame;
That when we leave this world at last,
Ours may be an unsulltiedname.-Moox.
Letter from Jared Stanley to his brother Richard.
" My DEAR BROTHER '-
"As I have a little leisure and a good opportunity of forward-
ing my letter, you may expect a fine mess of nonsense from me.
I remember being in a great hurry when I wrote to you last, and
had not time to say half that I wished ; and I suspect that

E
t
}
a
I


94         EMMA sTANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
what I did write in the few moments that were allotted to me,
was incoherently expressed ; and in order to retaliate, you have
written so fast, and in such a runaway-hand, that it would take
a Philadelphia lawyer, or some one much better acquainted with
all sorts of scrawls than your brother Jared, to decipher a great
number of your words ; and besides that method of punishing
my faults, you have tried one yet worse ; you have disobeyed
my injunction with regard to writing about yourself. Do you
not know, my dear brother, that you are the most interesting
subject of which you can write to me?  When I say you, of
course I include all those in whom you are particularly inter-
ested. However, I by no means consider your remarks as im-
pertinent, but attribute them to the good motives by which I
know you to be actuated. You must show me the same indul-
gence that you crave, and thus we may criticise or condemn
each other's proceedings without the least fear of giving offence.
"I agree with you that the world in general respects most
what most it fears ; but it also respects virtue, and an open,
candid deportment, almost against its will. I differ from you
with respect to credulity and confidence. That I have been too
credulous, and thereby have been often deceived, I readily ac-
knowledge ; but I think the opposite extreme would have
been doubly disagreeable. A man who is continually fearing an
enemy in the disguise of a friend, must live like a ,thief sur-
rounded by constables ; and every instance of the depravity of
mankind will tend to strengthen his early imbibed prejudice,
and make him sensible only of the faults, without his being able
to perceive the beauties of the picture of human life, while he
permits every noble heart to pass unnoticed amid the general
throng, and attributes every generous act to an interested mo-
tive. Such sentiments will soon settle any man into a perfect
cynic, and make his life one continued scene of precaution, fear,
and distrust : while he who cherishes opposite ideas, though he
may be often deceived, is equally open to a conviction of his
folly ; and the experience he daily gains will serve to correct his
too tredulous habits, and teach him to be more careful where he
places his confidence. But to state every pro and con on this
subject, would exhaust my paper and your patience ; for the
view of it widens as I proceed. And having said thus much, I
will leave all further comment to yourself, hoping that you will
pursue the middle course, and not be led into either extreme,
though the knowledge that I have of your character leads me to
fear that you will follow my example, and fall into the extreme
which I have been advocating.

,.
;

U

I'

EMMA STANLEY     OR THE ORPHANS.           95
"I received your letter, to which this is an answer, about an
hour before I left New York for this port. I was glad to hear
that you continued so well pleased with your Alabama situation;
and it relieves me from much anxiety to hear that you have such
kind protectors. And as for the country, I think, from your de-
scription, it must rival Italy in point of climate and fine natural
scenery, though its views must be of rather a tamer cast. I
should rejoice much to be able to gaze with you upon some of
those fine prospects, which you so glowingly describe ; and
should I return home next spring, or next fall, I shall try hard
to see you once more before I revisit a European port ; that is,
provided my voyages till that time should prove prosperous.
"I heard from aunt Nancy and from Linton yesterday. As
you have opportunities of hearing from them so much more fa-
vorable than I have, I shall not recapitulate any thing that they
said, for I presume that you are already acquainted with all that
could interest you, in their letters.
"I cannot yet tell you to what port we are destined from
here, as it will depend upon the market; but you must write
me often, and direct to me in th same manner as I last wrote
to you; for when I leave here, the American consul will forward
all that comes addressed to me.
" Adieu! my dear brother. Should we never meet on earth
again, I hope that we shall be able to welcome each other in a
better country, where we may enjoy that fraternal union which
is so much denied us now, and which has ever been felt as one
of the greatest deprivations in the life of
"Your affectionate brother,     JARED STANLEY."
CHAPTER XXXV.
That which I havebeen I can be no more!
Never, oh ! never more ! W here'er 1 move,
The shadow of this broken-hearted love
Is on me and around !
An eye to he my star, a voice to bring
Hope o'er my path, like sounds that breathe of spring,
Thesa are denied me.-HEMANs.
DURING the sojourn of Stanley in Havre at this time, he wrote
two letters to Captain Linton, which portray feelings new to him,
and while they give us his character in a new light, we find that
it loses nothing of its beauty by being placed in circumstances
the most trying to every feeling and virtue which can animate
or adorn the nature of man.

'


36          EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
"HAVRE DE GRACE.
"DEAR LINTON :-
"We arrived here the week before last, in forty-five days from
New York, after the most tempestuous voyage that I ever ex-
perienced, notwithstanding that I now write myself an old sailor,
though yet a young man. It was almost a continual storm from
the time that we first lost sight of the American coast, and had
not our ship been much better than I thought her, she must
have proved our coffin.
"I received and answered a letter from aunt Nancy a few
days after I arrived here: as the ship by which it was sent had
a much quicker voyage than we had, it arrived here almost as
soon as I did. I was glad to hear by it that you were with her,
though I much regretted the cause which forced you to leave
your regiment. Before I received her letter, I had vainly en-
deavored to account for your silence to myself, as that was the
first intimation I had of your sojourn there, or of your extremely
bad health.
"You remember my telling you of the fortune which the gip-
sy of England foretold me. Well, my dear friend, I suspect
that I have indeed met with my destiny in the south. I have
lost my heart ! Would that I might say that I had exchanged
it; but on that score I fear far more than I hope. I am desir-
ous to tell you of all my wishes, as well as of all that befalls me;
but I am at a loss how to touch upon a theme which occupies
all my thoughts while awake, and blesses me with delightful
visions while I sleep. In short, Linton, I love !
"Last Sunday I was going to the Cathedral, and at a corner of
the street I met a young girl, apparently about seventeen years
old, and at the first glance I was enraptured with her wondrous
beauty. She was very simply and plainly dressed, but the want
of ornament only served to render more remarkable the majesty
of her exceeding loveliness. But that was only a momentary
glance ! The next day, however, I saw more of her. All my
ideas of the Venus de Medici were surpassed by her beautiful
face and form. I formerly thought my cousin Lucy beautiful.
I shall never think so again, until the memory of Isabelle fades
from before my mental vision. Imagine to yourself a complex-
ion brilliantly fair, which looks as if the sun of France had never
touched it, except to plant rich roses on her cheeks. A profu-
sion of hair,
'Whose glossy black to shame might bring
The plumage of the raven's wing,'
which curls in long ringlets upon her neck and shoulders-eye-

I

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE OPAgts.
brows so delicately pencilled, that, until you w
her, you would doubt if nature had not been  ere quite close to
black as coal, and sparkling as diamonds, every glance of which
speaks of the soul that animates themlon gblacelas hes,
which lie upon her cheek as if anxious to dim black eyelashes,
from the orbs they fringe-a Grecian nose, andthe rays that shoot
is but a faint description of the face of ad ruby ip. Shuch
poor, and unfortunate in many respects     She isan.onlyhd
ter. She had one brother,   ephoes. She is an only daughy
conscription, and killed in his firas enrolled in the army by
heard that there are in Europe itinerant mstle. Perhaps you have
who  aina lvelhoodburpe tmeantmusicians of both sexes,
who gain a livelihood by performing for any one, and taking
what their generosity may give. Such is Isabelle! Her brother
performed on theviolin, and as she had an excellent ear for
music, he taught her; though at the time she learned, she did it
family were then of a kinca talent, as the circumstances of her
famierhens   a id dto justify her indulging all her whims.
When she was a child, and until within the last few years, her
father was sick. During the revolution in fnew heawrsder
prived of every thing which he possessed  France he wa,s de-
that of his son, he contrived to give  but by his labor and
stage of education, so that she has not a vacant minded
is a jewel well fitted to the lovely casket which sde t Indeed,it
its beauties. Her brother, as I saidwa   serves to heighten
was taken sick, and they were almost staias killed :her father
mined to improve the talent which God having when she deter-
for the support of the fenmich Gd od had bestowed upon her
she maintains her  ed family, and now, by her voice and violin,
some, and so modest parents and herself; for she is so hand-
soerndso msicia 'that she is more generously rewarded than
any other musician in the place, particularly by the English, of
whom there are many in Havre.
"I have filled my paper, giving you an account of the un-
hear of her ; but  I   suspect it will not be the last you will
her of he; m but I oughtnow to be asleep instead of writing,
for it is midnight, or rather it is morning:ngtormrig
am, and ever shall be affectionately your fg ghtormorningI
'  on e yyourfriend,
"JARED STANLEY."
" DEAR LINTON :-
"Since writing to you last, I have received four of
all of them dated from Newport ; two of them by the Tamer
lane, and two by the Greyhound, and I rejoice much that yor
health improves so fast. I hope, my dear friend that ou
ever feel the peace which passeth understanding, and th at under
5

II

ni


SEMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORIHANS.
its blessed influence, you may yet regain your former health, and
live many years, and be a blessing to all who know you. I
think that the fine air of Newport, and the nursing of aunt Nan-
cy, will be as serviceable to you as any remedy you could pro-
ose. I hope that I shall yet have the happiness of seeing you
an inmate of her house. I should like to know what room in it
you occupy !
"Your account of Emma pleased me much. I will write to
her by the same ship which will take this ; but yet I charge you
with a brother's kiss to her. I feel grateful, too, that aunt
Nancy has been so successful in her designs, and that her health
continues good as usual. When I am absent from her, I always
hail one of her letters with peculiar joy, which assures me that
she is well; and whenever a longer time than usual elapses with-
out my hearing from her, I cannot describe to you the anxiety
which I suffer on her account.
"I wrote to you about a month since, and gave you some ac-
count of the lovely Isabelle Sian. The very next day after I
dispatched my letter, as she was going home, a Frenchman fol-
lowed her, and insisted upon gallanting her. She rejected all
his offers, and upon his seizing her arm, she broke her violin
across his face, in order to get rid of him; but this enraged him
so much that he determined to force her to accompany him, if
she would not permit him to go with her, and he attempted to
drag her onward. Upon his proving the stronger, she screamed,
and as I happened to be in the next street, and heard her, I ran
to her assistance ; though I little suspected to whose aid I was
hastening. I knocked the man down, and while I was engaged
with him, she ran off home. The next day I met her, and the
occurrence of the former led to an acquaintance, or, as you would
call it in America, to an intimacy. I at first tried hard to gain
her consent to visit her at home ; but she has never consented,
and has told me that she never would. At first she told me
that her father had gone to Dunkirk upon business, and that her
mother would not allow it, and upon my urging her somewhat,
she said that she could not consent to be seen walking the streets
with any man ; for that her profession was of that kind, which
in any case, and with all her prudence, would give employment
to wicked tongues, and that, consequently, she has to abstain
from all social intercourse at her own fireside, with all of our sex.
We have met, however, almost daily, at the house of a friend of
hers, who keeps a coffeehouse here, but who, like herself, has
seen better days. Our interviews, however, are very short ; but
think you that I could keep up this intercourse and not whisper

4t

I

EMMA STANLEY, OR TEE ORPHANS.

99

love?  Oh, no! I. dared to breathe that magic name, and she
replied with a frankness which made me love her more, even
while it blasted all my hopes. She told me that she had a lover
at Dunkirk, to whom she had given all her heart before she
knew me, and that, though she should always feel grateful to
me, I must not mistake that for love, except it were such love as
she might have for a brother. And now, though it makes me
tremble to write of her, yet believe me when I assure you that
I would rather be the means of uniting her to the man of her
heart than to possess her myself. A few days ago, however
my forbearance was sorely tried. I was in the coffeehouse that
I have mentioned, when a letter was handed to her: she read it,
and fell fainting into my arms. It contained the news of her
father's death. To have seen her thus fainting with grief-lean-
ing- her head on my bosom, and, after she had a little revived
weeping at the sad news, and me wiping off the tears which
flowed down her lovely cheeks, though I was tough enough to
prevent mine from mingling with them-you would have thought
me enchanted; and so I should have been, had I not known she
was another's; but I could not help saying to myself as she lay
almost lifeless in my arms-My God ! why can I not ass m
whole life with this lovely being? Thus you see is one more
part of my destiny fulfilled ; for from henceforth the name of
love to her, can never pass my lips, for I hope yet to hear of
her union to him to whom she has given her heart; but after
once knowing her, no other of her sex can ever take the lace in
my heart which she has once filled. But you see how she et
occupies my thoughts; for when I begin to write of her, I can
find room for no other subject. Again my paper is full-and
full of Isabelle ! but this is probably the last time that I shall
ever mention her name to you. It is now a fond dream from
which I have awakened, and I have only to bow in humble sub-
mission to Him, who has perhaps decreed that my lot upon earth
is to be that of a wanderer, never to be cheered by the fond
smiles of woman. My duty is now forgetfulness, and by His aid
(whom I have wronged b worshipping a morta   duyHshall
be fulfilled.by                    mortal) my duty shall
"Adieu, my friend : that God may guard you and restore you
to health, is the prayer of one who, in affliction or joy, always
feels himself your attached friend,
"ARED STANLEY."-

i


100

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

CHAPTER       XXXVI.
The Christiun would not have his lot
Be other ihan it is ;
For while his Father rules the world,
lIe knows that world is his-C. FaY.
Letter front Copt. Linton to Jared Stanley.
"NEwPORT.
" MY nEAR FiUENI):-
"You know not hogw much I rejoice that I am here. I have
the rcom you occupied wvhen last with your aunt. I sit by the
window and think of you. I place my books on the shelf which
you put up, and am even now writing out of the inkstand which
you have often used. You wish for the restoration of my health.
I would not deceive you : my improvement was but short-lived,
and I know that I am hastening to that bourne from which-no
traveller returns. But l-t it not grieve you that I am going to
an early grave ; rather rejoice that I have a Father above, to
whom yourself and excellent friends have pointed me-that I
have found his love above all that I expected, even when I had
seen it exhibited in the lives of so many ; rather feel thankful
that unless my life is lengthened out beyond the hopes of all
who know me, that my last days will be spent in the society of
those amiable beings among whom it is now cast ; that my pas-
sage to the tomb will be'smoothed by the consolations of re-
ligion, and that my dying pillow will probably be placed by the
hands of our beloved aunt. I feel that I gradually decline, that
the tenure of my life is growing more and more frail; but, ex-
cept in the harassing and distressing cough which always
accompanies consumption, I have but little pain.
I   have three attendants : aunt Nancy is my physician
and my nurse ; Mrs. Chapman is my comforter and my pastor ;
and Emma is my amusement. I believe the first question which
she asks every morning is the state of my health ; and if I am
not able to go down stairs, which is now often the case, as soon
as breakfast is over she comes to see me, and she has always
some tale to tell which she has read the dny before, or some
other way to lead me to forget myself; and she will find out more
means to make me smile-which is the only recompense she
wishes-than I should suppose possible in a child of her age.
She will not let me take a very active part in our conversation,
because she says it will injure me ; and she generally condemns
me to do just what she permits 'Tony' to do-that is, to sit close

ii

°

by her, and attend to what she says. She will, however, let me
say as much as I please about you without interrupting me.. I
talked to her some time the other day about you, and then I
asked her why she did not stop me. 'Because,' said she, 'when
you talk of Jared, I love him so well that I forget how the time
passes, and I do not wish to stop you; but if you think you
have hurt yourself this time talking about him, you must not
speak of him at all any more.' Thus you see she has already
the self-denying attribute of her whole sex, willing to cut them-
selves off from their dearest pleasures, rather than in a slight
degree to injure one whom they love.
"Our aunt has an old lady to board with her this winter whom
I think a curiosity in her way. She is the widow of an old Rev-
olutionary soldier, who was killed towards the end of that mem-
orable struggle : she petitions Congress every winter for a
pension, and says she always will until they grant her one.
There is no doubt but her claim is a good one ; but I cannot
help smiling when I think of the effect that one of her letters
must have upon that body of statesmen; for she always makes
her petition in the form of a letter, which she writes herself, and
always directs to the vice-president ; because, she says, that as
he presides in the Senate, he is of course the most proper person
to receive all communications made to that body. She gave me
one of her effusions to read and punctuate a few days ago, and
I tried my best to dissuade her from sending it, and offered, if
she would not, to write a petition for her. She wanted to see
my petition before she concluded, and I accordingly penned one
to the best of my ability ; but she liked her own best, and ac-
cordingly sent it. I will give you some idea of the whole tenor
of the epistle by one extract which I happen to remember.
Oh, tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askalon,
that a widow of one of them who gained for you the freedom
that you now enjoy, should write to you seven letters, and that
they should all be in vaia! You boast of your gratitude ! I
ought to be one of its objects. You boast of your good govern-
ment! I suppose this is the evidence,'&amp;c. Now what do you
suppose the vice-president would think should he ever so lightly
read such an effusion? Mrs. Colleris has another peculiarity
about her : she thinks that every year is to be her last; and she
has had her. shroud made for ten years, and carries it with her
wherever she goes, though she looks as if she would be likely to
live more than ten years to come. But is it not strange that,
with this constant fear of death, she is generally cheerful, and
always talkative?  Perhaps you will reply, 'Not more so than

1I1

tI

I

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.


102

that Linton, now that he feels himself walking rapidly downwards
to that same narrow house, should grow more cheerful, and
more resigned to the Omnipotent will every day that he lives.'
But such an inference would be wrong, for I do not fear death,
and she does-it seems to be the darkest spot in the horizon of
her existence ; but I hail as a friend what to her is a monster.
To me death is only a messenger sent by my Father to conduct
me to brighter realms, where I shall meet with those whom I
have loved to that excess which is sin ; but I hope that that sin
is forgiven; for if there is yet some regret for the fate of a loved
one clinging round my heart, I can in humble confidence say as
I look upwards,
Because it is T1hy will, '
"Adieu, brother of my soul' Esdras has said that a friend
is the medicine of life ; and truly 'ch have you been to me ; for
you first taught me to look above for a balm for all my grief ;
and you were the means, even against my will, of my meeting
with those two friends who have cheered, consoled, and elevated
me, until I feel, 'that whether I live or die, I am the Lord's.'
"It is at intervals only that I have been able to write this long
and crowded letter, and my strength has so failed that almost
every paragraph has been the work of a separate day. It is the
last that I shall ever write to you. I pray you to think that my
last thought will be of you, and my last prayer will be for your
safety, and with such sincerity will it be breathed, that
'If ever mortal's prayer,
For others weal availed on high,
Mine will not all be lost in air,
But waft thy name beyond the sky.'
"Adieu, my friend ! That you may be ever blessed as you
deserve to be, is the fervent prayer
"Of your affectionate     LINTON."
Jared did not return home as he expected to do when he had
last written ; but after arriving in Charleston he yielded to the
wish of his captain and made with him the next voyage also, as
the following letter written during that voyage to his brother
Richard will show.
Letter from Jared Stanley to Richard.Stanley.
"MALAGA, July.
"Mr DEAR BROTHER
"We arrived here in the ship Argos, nineteen days from
Havre, where we stayed only three days, because we feared be-
ing stopped by the French Government. We shall probably

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

103

stay here a month longer. Our orders are for New York ; and
if we do not get a freight, we shall load on the owner's account,
in time to get away by the 10th or 15th of next month. As
there is a vessel to sail for America in a few days, I hereby tell
you that I am alive and well, though I cannot say much more as
yet. We were four days in quarantine, and since that time I
have been on shore but twice, as we do not lie by a wharf, but
moored head and stern in the harbor, and I stayed but a short
time on shore when I was there; but once I went to the Cathe-
dral, which is the most magnificent church I ever saw. I wish
you could be here a little while to see the churches, old forts,
&amp;c., and to eat some of the delicious grapes and figs, and sev-
eral other kinds of fruit. The weather here is excessively warm.
The city stands on a low piece of ground surrounded by hills,
which prevent its having much wind, and as it has a southern
exposure, it feels all the force of a powerful sun.
"When I was last in Havre I intended going home on my re-
turn to the United States ; but Captain Wiseman was so anxious
for me to make this voyage with him, that I concluded to do so,
and return home in the fall, I wrote to you twice from Havre,
and told you that if you directed there the letter would be for-
warded to me ; but I have received only one letter from you in
thirteen months, and I don't know much more about you and
your affairs, than does the King of France. I hope you will
answer this as soon as possible, and direct your answer to
Charleston, U. S., or to New York ; and also write me another
letter directed to Newport, and calculate for it to get there
by the last of September, so that I may hear from you as soon
as I get home. Tell me all about your situation and prospects,
and remember that any thing that you can write respecting
yourself, which has happened during the last year, will be news
to me. I have almost determined just to go this voyage to pass
away the summer, and then, unless my prospects to continue on
the water should be extremely good, to leave an. employment
that I never have liked, and that I feel convinced I never can,
and move off to Alabama. When you write to me, tell me what
you think of my plans.
"We had a very rough passage out, and I never had such
serious thoughts of going to the bottom in my life. Our rudder
was out of order, and we could not steer the ship in rough
weather, consequently we were obliged to lay to in all the severe
gales which we encountered, and I assure you they were neither
few nor short. Added to this, the ship leaked. We were short
handed, and the crew we had were poor sailors.

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

i


104         EMMA STANLEY, OR TIIE ORPHANS.
"The partner of the American consul here is a Mr. Wright, of
Newport.   hearing I was from  that place, he came on board
yesterday to see me, and we had a long conversation respecting
our friends across the water. He gave me a polite invitation to
come and see him whenever I could, and made me promise to
call upon him every time I went on shore, saying that it was sel-
dom that he saw a native of Newport, and that when he dkl he
wished to have their society as much as possible.
"When I first went to Hlavre, in my voyage before this, I re-
ceived a letter from aunt Nancy, in which she complained some-
what of bad health, and I have been very anxious about {her
ever since; for you know she was never very robust, and 'I
thought when I left home last she was more delicate than she
used to be ; but as you had never been separated from her I
suppose that you hardly noticed it.  I have not heard from her
for more than five months; but I do not think it is her fault,
for I am like the Wandering Jew, so short a time in any one
place, that it is difficult for a letter to find me ; and I make the
same excuse for you too, and accordingly write to both of you as
frequently as if all my letters were punctually answered.
"But adieu, my dear brother : it is very late, and a berth is
now a more appropriate place than the writing-table, for your
affectionate brother,                            JARED."
CHAPTER        XXXVII.
"The mourner sad, who drowned in grief
Hath long in sorrow striven,
Shall find at last a sweet relief,
Tears wiped away in heaven!
"What though affliction he our lot,
Our heart with anlguish riven;
Still, never let it be forgot,
There are no tears in heaven !"
THE time had now arrived when the life of the amiable and
sorrow-stricken Linton was rapidly drawing to its close. Miss
Stanley sat by his bedside holding his hand in hers, and he was
gazing upon her with such a look of tenderness as a son might
bestow upon a much-loved and respected mother. Thus had
passed some time without either of them speaking. Miss.Stanley
was too much oppressed with grief at losing him to speak, and
his thoughts were coming too fast for him to give them utterance.
His countenance showed what was passing in his mind ; but one
who had formerly known him would have been surprised, while

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.            105
watching its changeful expression, to perceive that all traces of
sorrow had disappeared from his face, and that it was almost
radiant with peace and joy. The sun was just rising, and as he
caught its first beams, "It is the last time that I shall watch it
from here," said he, pointing as he spoke to the'glorious orb.
Miss Stanley no sooner heard his voice, and perceived by its
weak tones how rapidly his life was ebbing away, than she bowed
her face upon his hand that she held and wept bitterly  "Oh, do
not weep !" said he half reproachfully,."do not dampen the joy
that I feel in dying, by forcing me by those tears to regret that
I am about to leave you !"
She raised her head : "I know that I am wrong ; but I cannot
bear even the thought of losing you. How dreadful, then, will
be the reality !"
"And would you, then, keep me from that heaven to which
you have pointed the way ?" said he, while a peaceful smile
played upon his lips. "Oh! no, my dear aunt, rather rejoice
that I am about to rejoin that mother, who, even in yon holy
abode, will feel her bliss heightened when she there welcomes
you, by the gratitude she will owe you for your kindness to her
son ; and there, too, I shall meet with Eveline-my first and
only love-my early-lost and too-much deplored ! You love me
too well, I know, to wish to-detain me here ; for far beyond the
joy that will give me, shall I not be welcomed by the glad
saying, 'Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord,' pronounced by
Him who died to redeem me, and who has graciously assured
me of his love and forgiveness, by those inward rejoicings and
that peaceful resignation to his will which of late have filled
my soul?"
His speaking greatly exhausted him, and he fell into a quiet
slumber. When he awoke, he appeared refreshed and strength-
ened. He asked for Emma, and she was called into the room.
He laid his hand upon her head, and moved his lips a moment,
as if in prayer. "May God's blessing rest upon you through
life, my dear child !". said he ; "may you continue to grow more
and more like your brother Jared, whom you now so much re-
semble." His talking thus to her seemed to affect him, as Miss
Stanley thought, too much, and she led Emma weeping from the
room.
"Mrs. Chapman, my dear madam," he exclaimed, observing
her entrance, "rejoice with me ; I am going home ! I am hasten-
ing to my mansion above-' to a house not built with hands,
eternal in the heavens.'  It is, my friends," he continued, ob-
serving a tear trembling in her eye, "but a short separation--
5*

',k
{f{
4F
f
P }
s
t
}

f
s
}
#g


t!
I
V

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

merely a good-night ; for, though we shall sleep in separate
apartments, we shall soon rejoin each other, and breakfast with
the Lamb."
Mrs. Chapman suggested that his speaking might the sooner
exhaust his strength.
"Oh, no !" he replied; 1' God has given it to me for these
last moments, that I may bear a joyful testimony of his love ;
for, though I feel the chill of death's approaching footsteps, yet
I have more strength to speak than I have had for many days,
and much more than I had only a few hours ago: I have yet
some parting words to say. Tell Richard, my dear aunt," con-
tinued he, "that I remembered him on my bed of death. I was
first interested in him for his sunny disposition, but latterly I
have loved him for his love of you. Tell him to fulfil the prom-
ise of his youth, and his best friends can ask no more."
He paused, as if endeavoring to rally his strength. "Aunt
Nancy," said he, endeavoring to rise, "take this ribbon from my
neck ; it is fastened to my mother's miniature : give it to Jared.
He will prize it for my sake ; and give him that package that I
gave you for him ; and tell him that I bless him with my dying
breath. I need not ask him to remember me, for that I know
he will do ; but with the news of my death-alas ! I grieve to
think how sad such tidings will make him-give him the con-
soling assurance that he was the first who awaked me from
despair, and showed me a brighter hope beyond the grave." He
stopped, overcome by his feelings. "'Tis well he is not here,"
he resumed, "for if he were by my side, I fear that the agony
of parting with him would overbalance the joy that I feel at the
prospect of joining those loved ones who have gone before me.
But oh, no ! I wrong him by the thought ; for he would fortify
me for the last farewell which we should ever take, and he would
assist me to pass through that dark portal which opens upon
that glorious region beyond."
In spite of every effort to restrain them, Miss Stanley's tears
flowed fast and thick.
"Do not weep, my dear aunt," said he ; "the hand that
wounds can heal. Trust in Him, and he will support you."
There was silence for some moments in that calm room of
death,-unbroken, save by the heavy breathing of tje dying man,
or the suppressed sighs of those two affectionate friends who so
keenly felt the anguish of losing him who seemed already to be
tasting the glories of heaven. At length he moved his head, as
If its position had become uneasy. Miss Stanley rose and at-
tempted to adjust his pillow. "Mother, kiss your son," said he,

EMMA STANLEY, OR TIE ORPHANS.

107

106

It
I!

as she bent over him. She bowed her bead, and imprinted a
kiss upon those cold lips, which were powerless to return the
pressure. "To God I commend you," said he faintly and with
difficulty-closed his eyes, and lay for a moment perfectly quiet,
drew one broken sigh, and was at rest forever !
CHAPTER       XXXVIII.
Though griefs unnumbered throng thee round,
Still in thy God confide ;
Whose finger marks the seas their bound,
And curbs the headlong tide.-MaRIcsr.
Is it not strange, short-sighted as we are, is it not strange,
with daily, hourly proofs of man's mortality before our eyes,
we still set death at a distance from ourselves, and those most
fondly loved, most highly prized? When commissioned from
above, his fell shaft flies unseen in its approach-in a moment
severs firmest ties-breaks the chain of earthly affections: the
heart is now made to writhe under a separation which spreads
a thick cloud of darkness over future temporal prospects, and
fills the mourner's heart with indescribable anguish. Such were
now the feelings of Miss Stanley. She had continued to hope,
until the last day of Capt. Linton's life, that he would recover ;
nor could all that he said take from her that hope. She had so
often seen Emma's life at so low an ebb, and still regain her
usual health, that she could not be persuaded that he would die.
He had become to her affections the relative that he claimed to
be. He had been an inmate of her house for more than a year,
and during all that time both of her nephews had been absent.
He came, too, shortly after her house had been made desolate by
Richard's departure ; and though she did not transfer any of
her love from Richard, yet, by Linton's endeavors to fill his
place-by his encouraging her to expect of him, when his health
permitted, the little attentions which her nephew would have be-
stowed-and when he was in more feeble health, the habit
which she had acquired of asking his advice in the thousand
points upon which men are better qualified to judge than wo-
men-his patience, too, and resignation-his endeavors to take
from her all hope of his recovery, and to make her cherish one
better for him in its stead,-all these things had endeared him
to her by such ties as bind us to our kindred, and therefore she
mourned for him with bitter grief. But she had learned too


108

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

'V
I!

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

109

well to suffer, and to bow in-meek humility to the will of God,
long to repine.  She knew, indeed, that he was happy  and
when the first ebullition of her sorrow had subsided from its own
intensity, and she could turn a sober attention to the many mer-
ciful circumstances appended, that faith, which is the evidence
of things unseen, came on angel wings to raise her sinking soul
to heaven, and by it she heard the Saviour's voice, "I am the
resurrection and the life ;" by it she saw the benignant smile ;
accompanying the affectionate invitation and assurance, "Come
unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest." She felt the unfailing support of that powerful Arm
which imparts strength to the weak, and is a present help in
time of trouble. Her inmost thoughts were sensibly impressed
with a view of the infinite condescension of that gracious Being
who proclaims himself abundant in goodness and truth : she felt
how sweetly consoling was the invitation and command of the
great Giver of every good gift, to look to him for a supply for
all our needs, annexing the encouraging intimation, amounting to
an assurance, that none shall seek his face in vain : she felt that
nothing could separate her from his love, and that his eye was
ever upon her : she felt that his love was a covert hiding-place
from every storm and tempest, and that he would fit her to en-
dure every sorrow that he saw fit to inflict. And truly, at this
time she had need for all her fortitude ; for, from some reason
unaccountable to her, both of her nephews had been silent a
much longer time than usual. It was more than six months
since she had heard any thing from Jared : when he wrote his
last letter, which was dated from Antwerp, he was undecided
whether he should return home from thence or not, and he was
also in doubt, if he did return to America, whether he should
come to see her, or first make another voyage.  He had then,
however, promised to write to her soon, and inform her upon both
these points ; and now, from his lengthened silence, she could
not avoid fearing that the great deep had received him into its
bosom. From Richard she had not heard for about two months;
and her horror of all new countries, aided by some accounts
which he had given her, made her attribute his protracted si-
lence either to some dreadful accident or to death. At one time
she fancied him writhing beneath the knife of an assassin ; at an-
other, lying, unattended and alone, withering beneath the blast-
ing touch of an Alabama fever. Added to these causes of anx-
iety, Emma was violently attacked, and for several days she
hung over her bed in the agonizing fear that her hours were
numbered, and that the time had come when she must bid her

adieu until they should meet above. 'Tis true, in this season of
affliction, Miss Stanley was not alone, for she had made friends
of every inmate of her house, and in each of her boarders she
found one anxious to console her, and the excellent Mrs. Chap-
man devoted to her every moment which was not claimed by
paramount duties. No human aid, however, could much avail
in such a season of accumulated woe.  Happily, she leaned
trustingly upon His arm, upon whom she had never yet trusted
in vain, and who she knew would not afflict her beyond the
strength to bear, with which he would endow her.
CHAPTER       XXXIX.
Grace does not steel the faithful heart,
That tt should know no ill ;
We learn to kin the chastening rod,
And feel its sharpness still.--C. FRY.
Letter from Miss Stanley to Richard.
"NEwPORT, October 1, 18-.-
" MY DEAR RICHARD:-
"The day before yesterday the remains of the much esteemed
Linton were committed to the narrow mansion of the tomb. I
cannot describe to you how desolate the room that he occupied
appears. I have neither time nor means to permit me to indulge
in vain regrets; and I know if I had, that it would be wrong for
me to improve them for such a purpose. 'The Lord giveth, and
the Lord taketh away, and blessed be the name of the Lord;'
but though I can thus write, yet I fear that I regret his death
more than is quite right for me to do; for he had made his peace
with God, and went to meet him with the same joy that an ex-
iled son might feel to regain his parent and his country-
'By manya death-bed I have been,
And many a parting I have seen,
But never aught like his I'
"He was not glad to be taken from pain ; for he endured but
little-but he rejoiced to go'home. But though so anxious to
depart, he was willing to stay, should it be his Father's will to
purify him still more by the ordeal of suffering, ere he took him
to himself. His joyous release-for I can give it no more ap-
propriate name-though we know it his gain, makes his loss
more deeply felt.
"He sent you his blessing from his death-bed, and bade me

f
t
F
2
ikF
F
i
{
#$g
3
i
{
(t
g
i

t
is
Iz


110

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

4
d.
t
f
d
S
s'
f
e
i
r
i
s
It
{
f
sf
f
j
F           p
F 4         1
F
t
F

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

111

tell you to go on and fulfil the p1 mise of your youth, and your
dearest friends could ask no more ; and I feel that he spoke the
truth, my dear boy. You have remembered your Creator in the
days of your youth, and if you continue to trust in him he will
never leave you nor forsake you.
"I have been much troubled of late by not hearing from you.
This is the third time that I have written to you since I have re-
ceived a line from you. Two long months have passed since I
have heard from you. I cannot account for your silence. I am
sure that you do not willingly neglect me, and I fear that sick-
ness has palsied your hand ; for what else would defer your long-
expected letter?  It is more than six months since I have heard
from our too often absent one-our beloved Jared ; and the
silence of both of you, together with Linton's death and Emma's
sickness, have sorely tried me, and sometimes I fear that unless
I am shortly relieved from some of these causes of anxiety, I
shall sink under their weight.
"I have sat down by Emma's bedside to write to you; for,
unless compelled by other duties, I have not left her since yes-
terday morning, all which time she has been suffering extremely,
and last evening I feared God would also require of me this child
of my love, but now she is quietly sleeping, and I hope when she
awakes that she will be better ; but should I now be obliged to
yield her, dreadful indeed would be the blow. I should think I
could not survive her, did I not know that the Judge of all the
world does right, that he knows my infirmities, and that he will
temper the wind to the shorn lamb !
"I gave you all the news that I could hear of in my last let-
ter ; and had I not done so, I am certain that I have not the
spirits to write gossip now. My thoughts are all sad ones. I
hope very soon to be relieved of my anxiety on your account.
Even if you have written lately, I beg of you to answer this as
soon as you receive it, and tell me if you have heard any thing of
Jared. His profession is so full of danger and of death, that I
am continually anxious about him. It is much comfort to me
that I can put such entire faith in his stern, upright, and re-
ligious principles, and- that I know that he has a Friend whose
eye is ever upon him, and who will guide and guard him.
"Emma has waked and sends her love to you, and says that if
she gets well she will write to you by the first private oppor-
tunity; but that though you would think otherwise, yet she
knows that her letters would not be worth paying for. She is
impatient for me to conclude my letter, as she requires me to
bathe her feverish head ; but she won't consent for me to leave

off until I have finished: so adieu, my dear boy ! that God may
have you in his keeping, is the constant prayer of
"Your affectionate aunt,      NANCY.
CHAPTER       XL.
The Christian may be made to meet
Misfortune's saddest blow:
His bosom is alive to feel
The keenest pang of woe.-C. FRy.
ABOUT a week after the date of the foregoing letter, as Miss
Stanley was busily reading two letters from Richard, which, from
one of them being delayed upon the road, had both come in the
same mail to relieve her anxiety-and, at the same time, answering
Emma's many questions with regard to her brother Richard, and
listening to Miss Hoxie's lamentations that one of the letters was
not from Jared-she heard a step close behind her, and, turning
round, found herself clasped in the arms of her nephew Jared ;
but she felt that tears, which manhood was not ashamed to shed,
fell upon her cheek as he kissed her. Emma was boisterous in
her joy ; for her sickness, though violent, was short, and she was
now quite recovered. Jared wound his arm about her, and
drawing her to him he kissed her silently. He grasped the hand
of his old friend Miss Hoxie, and then answering to the anxious
look of his aunt-" Linton, my dear friend," said he, and covered
his face with his hand ; and it was some moments before he could
repress the emotion caused by his so suddenly hearing of the
demise of one whom he so truly loved. For he had not heard
of it until, as he was going from the vessel up to his aunt's
house, he had met his cousin Robert, who, being half intoxicated,
and having heard of the intimacy of the two friends, with utter
carelessness of what effect it might have upon Jared, called to
him as he passed, after they had shaken hands, " Hollo, Jared,"
said he, "I suppose you know that Linton is dead !"
So sudden an announcement for a moment stunned him. He
stopped as though he had received a violent blow, but quickly
recovered himself, and then walked rapidly forward uitiIche
reached the residence of his aunt ; but when he entered the
house and saw her, the contending emotions of Joy and grief for
a short time overcame his self-control, and the unbidden tears
told how sincerely he had loved the departed.
"I thought," said he, "to find him here ; I hoped to cheer his


I11

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

List moments, and, instead of that, to be so heartlessly told of
the fallacy of all those fond dreams, was almost more than I
could bear." He then inquired every particular of his death,
and was much soothed to hear of his happy end.
His aunt told him of every circumstance, delivered to him
Linton's last message, and also gave him the bequest that he
had left him.
" Ah ! well do I remember the evening that I first saw this
picture," said he; "and this package, I presume, contains the
recital of the cause of his melancholy."
"I don't know," replied Miss Stanley. "He said nothing to
me about reading it, and consequently I have left it to your dis-
cretion whether or not I am to be acquainted with its contents.
I am pretty well acquainted with them, if they are what you
suspect, as he gave me a sketch of his life, and dwelt much upon
the sad circumstances which undoubtedly shortened it. What-
ever that may contain, however, the only time during his stay in
my house, in which he showed all the despondency which for-
merly characterized him, was while he was writing that, which
it took him more than a week to do, for he commenced it after
he had become too weak to write more than an hour at a time
without complete exhaustion. I remonstrated with him one day
on account of the injurious effect it had upon him both mentally
and corporally. His reply was, that he had made you a prom-
isc, and he could not die with ease unless it were performed.
But do not read it now, Jared," she continued. "Defer it for a
while, for I fear that it will add too heavy a burden to the grief
that you already feel, and you must not unfit yourself for an in-
troduction to those who yet claim me as their hostess."
"Alas! I am not fit to-day for any society but yours ; can
you not indulge me, and put off my introduction till to-morrow ?"
"No, my son ! I will only exact your presence for a few
moments, and I will neither bid you to be gay or cheerful be-
yond your limits of self-control ; but I think it sinful to indulge
immoderate grief, even for one who so well deserved to be
mourned as your inestimable friend."
"You are right, aunt, as you always are, though the task is
a hard one."
"I have felt its difficulty, and I only ask of y.ou the same trial
through which I have passed."
He obeyed her wishes, and supped with the whole family, but
retired at an early hour to the room which his much-regretted
Linton had occupied ; and for some time he paced its narrow
hounds, and gave free vent to his grief. Then he recalled his

EMMA 8TANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

113

aunt's words, that he was committing sin thus to sorrow, and he
knelt by the bed where last had reposed the form of his friend,
and prayed long and earnestly for resignation to bear his loss.
He rose calm and refreshed, for when was prayer like that un-
answered? He trimmed his lamp, and sitting down, unsealed
the package and read as follows:
CHAPTER       XLI.
No cloud obscures the summer's sky,
The moon in brightness walks on high,
And set in azure, every star
Shines like a gem oftheaven afar I-HEMxANs.
"MY DEAR STANLEY :--
"I have at length sat down to give you a history of that part
of my life which cast a deep shadow over the remainder, and
has hastened me onward to my narrow bed-to my immortal
home!
"How enduring are first impressions ! even now the form of
Eveline Anthon, as I first saw it, is before me ; its freshness
never fades from my memory.
"There is no scene more beautiful than a wide expanse of
water-to which you see no bound except the point from which
you behold the scene-lighted by an unclouded moon, and all
nature at rest. The stars of night, as they cast a look upon our
planet, find their lovely faces faithfully mirrored in the waters
beneath. All parts of creation seem to be holding sweet com-
munion with each other, and in contemplating this scene of
quietness the angry passions which often rend the soul are
calmed, and nian is ready to exclaim to the Author of his being-
Even I am at peace.
"Just before hostilities last broke out between us and Great
Britain, I was stationed with my regiment at Fort Seneca, and
one day I joined a hunt with a party of brother officers, and the
place of our chase was to the north of the fort. I, by some mis-
chance, became separated from the rest of the company, and
night found me with my jaded horse in a lone spot on the
southern shore of Lake Erie ; I knew not where I was only by
the direction and distance, and the'speed with which I had rid-
den; I knew that it must be Lake Erie which was spread out
so gloriously before me, and while adrmiringly contemp ating
such a scene as I have but feebly described, my attentio was

I


f~i
4j

arrested by sounds so sweet, that it seemed as if some blessed
being had chosen this secluded and lovely spot to warble the
praises of its Creator. I dismounted, and turning round a little
bay made by the lake, I found that the sound proceeded from a
female, seated on a rock which overhung the waters. I unper-
ceived drew near enough to distinguish these words of her song.
'Shine on, shine on, thou gentle moon,
And give to the waters thy fairest light;
That the silver fishes which hide at noon,
By the light of thine orb the hook may bite.
'Shine on, shine on, thou evening star!
For hrightis thy light, though soon to fade:
Oh! borrow a ray from you world afar,
To leave in thy place when thy journey's made.
'Shine on, shine on, thou star ofnight!
The mariner's guide o'er the trackless sea,
To his bark on the water give steady light,
And guide it safe to home and me'
"I remained motionless until the song had ceased ; but when
its last lingering cadence died upon my ear I approached and
spoke.   Though apparently slightly alarmed at seeing me, Eve-
line Anthon received me with grace and ease. She told me that
her father had left her early in the day, and was yet on the lake
fishing; that he must have been more than usually unsuccessful,
as he did not return; and becoming anxious on his account, she
had been tempted by the beauty of the night to await him there.
She, however, offered to conduct me to her home, but I pre-
ferred waiting there with her till the object of her anxiety should
arrive. It was not long before her eager eye discovered a speck
at a distance, which gradually increased in size, and proved to
be the boat of the fisherman.
Are you here so late and alone, my daughter?' said he, as
he moored his bark in the little bay, at the end of which I was
when I first heard his daughter's song.
I am not alone, father,' she replied ; 'this gentleman has
lost his way, and claims our hospitality for the night.' I have
often read of silvery voices, but her voice, whether in singing or
speaking, fell upon the ear in tones so soft and musical, that it
might be compared to liquid pearls.
"'Our hospitality is never refused to those who need it,' he
answered ; 'and you, my friend,' turning to nme, 'shall be as
welcome as rough fare and warm hearts can make you.' He
fastened his boat as he spoke, and after he had gathered the
fruits of his toil, we proceeded to his dwelling. It was a cottage
standing almost on the margin of the lake.      We entered the

114

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

114  MMA TANEY, R TH ORHANS                                                                    11

N

I

small but neat parlor, and while Eveline was engaged in attentions
to her father, I was enabled to contemplate her while her features
were impressed with that spirit of love which had chosen her
bosom for its shrine. She was rather above the middle height.
Through her dark hair which hung upon her neck, appeared a
skin unstained by sun or storm. Her cheek was pale, but the
smile that rested upon it told that sorrow had not deprived it of
its color. The many little wants of the old inan were anticipated
and administered to by Eveline, and the smile that lighted up his
aged features as he looked upon her, showed me that these two
beings were bound together by a tie of no common affection. It
has ever seemed to me, that to smooth the path of age with the
attentions of youth, to give the expiring lamp of life the light
and joy of its morning brightness, requires a spirit that has al-
ready partaken much of the enduring meekness of the kingdom
above ; for the kind offices performed by the young to the aged,
are not to be recorded upon any other tablet than the heart of
the receiver, and they are the purest offerings that mortals can
bestow.
"In casting my eyes around the parlor of Henry Anthon, I
discovered many articles not common to the cottage of a fisher-
man. A few mahogany chairs with sofa seats-a piano well
furnished with music-most of the Fiench classics in their native
tongue, occupying the shelves with all the English classics, gave
evidence that the inmates of that humble dwelhng were worthy
to associate with the magnates of the land.
"Old Henry Anthon had retained in age and adversity the
graceful bearing which distinguishes the gentle born, and although
his store of this world's goods was evidently far less than it once
had been, yet it was poured forth to all who needed with the
same liberal hand.
"We spent the evening in social converse, and I found that
Eveline's beauty was heightened as her mind displayed its un-
measured store. She had of late years led, as far as the society
of the living was concerned, the life of a recluse ; but she had
passed that time in the perusal of books well calculated to im-
rove and entertain, and she was rich in intellectual lore. She
was also the finest performer on the piano that I ever heard, and
it was there, my dear Jared, on that memorable evening, that I
heard the song, 'Soldier, rest,' &amp;c., for the last time, before the
evening on which you witnessed its effects when sung by your
cousin. Methinks even now I can hear her sweet voice ringing
in my ears! I drew her out upon every subject, and I found her
equally at home upon all. Never have I found a female mind so

115

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.


116         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPIIANS.
richly stored with every thing worthy of being laid up as its
treasure ; and in her father, too, I found one well able to make
exchange with her of thought for thought. I lingered and en-
joyed their society until I had been twice reminded that it was
time to retire.
"The memory of that day is sweet to my heart, and here let
Inc pause to dwell upon the bliss crowded into those few hours.
CIIAPTEIR XLII.
Surely, lie who sits ahoyc
in his calm  glory, will forrve the love
creaiures bear each other for its end is dim
Ever with grief, which leads the wrung soul back to Him !-"KMANS.
" I  a"INED at henry Anthon's until the sun was high in
heaven, and then thinking that my comrades wouldundoubtedly
be anxious for my safety, I got directions by which I might find
the road leading to Fort Seneca, and set out to return I took
an affectionate farewell of those who were nowdear rIn took
whose existence but a few hours before I was nt ar friends, of
not reach the fort until night, as, by the road I haaware. I did
was about fifty miles distant ; and when I arrived I found that
some of my brother officers had become uneasy on my account
and that they had sent out several parties of soldiers  ithc-
tions to scour the country in every direction between the fort and
Lake Erie, until night should warn them to retwen Tey erend
much relieved by my appearance at the at     d   hey were
find that I had obtained good quarters for these, an pleased to
declared immediately afterwards ; but still I had several opaor-
tunities while my regiment was idle of continuing my aquaintanc
with Eveline, which I did not suffer to pass unimrved.A te
six weeks from the time when I first saw hermwewere. About
to proceed westward, and hold in check the Indians ordered
the eastern part of Indiana. We heard that theia occupying
prised of our approach, and had sought the aid of the English,
which had been granted them, and that then they were waiting
for us in considerable numbers on the southern shore waitmge
Ene. How my heart sunk at the news, from tln f  oerethoake
savages, or, worse than they, their British aids, might fn  ose
the abode of hers, might find out
'Who rose wherever I turned ry eye,
The morning star ofrmemorym'

EMMA STANLEY, OR TIE ORPHANS.

117

"We hastened our march as much as possible, and on the
second day after we received an accurate report of their position,
came up within sight of their first sentinels. With how much
agitation I trod that well-known ground, accompanied by all the
pomp and circumstance of war, which scarcely two months be-
fore I had first seen smiling in peace. By accurately noticing
our position, I found, to my dismay, that we were scarcely two
miles from Henry Anthon's cottage. ,As soon as we came up a
skirmish ensued, which soon became a general battle. There
were many Englishmen with the Indians, and they animated the
courage of the latter, and kept up the battle until not more
than a fourth of them remained; but still they retreated slowly,
until--oh, horror of horrors !-Henry Anthon's cottage became
their bulwark of defence. At that instant, by the death of my
two superior officers, I became the commander of the army : I
felt the fury of the tiger raging in my breast, as I saw several of
the India'ns enter the cottage. I exhorted the men of my own
regiment by one scream of agonizing wildness to save the in-
mates. I rushed into the house, followed by about twenty of
my men. At first I saw Indians only ; but I heard a groan issue
from the other room, followed by a shriek whose soul-piercing
tone can never pass from my memory. As I darted forward,
several of the Indians attempted to prevent me; but they might
as well have attempted to stop the waters of Niagara from
sweeping over their rocky barrier by pressing their fingers
against its sheet of foam. I killed the two foremost, rushed
passed the rest, and entered the room which I sought, just as
Henry Anthon expired from having the scalp torn from his head:
I saw at a glance that the wound was mortal-that he was at
rest, and that Eveline was struggling to free herself from the
rasp of an Englishman, whose hated arm was entwining her
form, and who had hoped to bear her with him in his retreat.
My musket had been wrested from me by the Indians, but I
sheathed my sword in his heart. Eveline looked up to see who
was her deliverer, and gave an exclamation of recognition, and
then, had I not caught her, would have sunk upon the lifeless
body of her father. The Indians, being entirely routed and their
chief slain, upon hearing that I had killed their British leader,
raised their cry of retreat, and took to precipitate flight.
"I remained for a few moments irresolute how to proceed. To
leave the still insensible Eveline was ,impossible, and still I
doubted if it were not my duty to pursue the enemy ; but as it
was now nearly sunset, I determined to sacrifice the small ad-
vantage that we might possibly gain in the pursuit, and to en-


E3MA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

camp where we were. I accordingly gave orders to that effect.
I carried Eveline into another room. I procured some water,
and chafed her temples until she gave signs of returning anima-
tion. She at length opened her eyes and gazed upon me ; but
oh, my God ! it was with the vacant stare of an idiot--the blow
which had deprived her father of life, had bereft her of reason.
She sat silent, as though not gifted with speech or motion, with
her hands crossed meekly on her breast and her eyes bent upon
the floor, until the moon rose bright and clear; then, as if that
scene had touched some chord of her mind to which memory
answered, she rose and walked from the cottage. I spoke to
her as she stepped from the door. She stopped a moment,
and then, as if fear had lent her wings, she flew rather than ran
from my sight. Thinking she would probably stop on the well-
known rock where I had first seen her, I bent my steps towards
it. I approached as noiselessly as possible ; but before I reached
it I heard her singing the words of the same song which had first
drawn my steps towards her. She ceased. I crept near her to
observe her face. It was deadly pale, but lighted up with hope
and joy. The vacant stare of idiocy was gone, and a smile again
played upon her features; but I knew as I gazed that it was
brought to her cheek by some fond illusion. She bent her head
a moment as if listening to catch some passing sound.  'I come,
my father!  She sprang forward-I saw her white dress flutter
in the breeze ; but before I could reach the spot, the placid
waters of the lake, as it lay sleeping in the calm moonshine, had
closed forever over that pure being, and I was on that rocky
shore-alone !
Oh, the agony of that moment-of that night of woe! It was
as if the wretchedness of a whole life had been compressed into
a few hours, which were to leave their record upon my heart in
burning characters of hopeless grief. I made the echoes round
me ring with the name of Eveline ; but her spirit had flown to a
happier sphere. At length I rose from the ground on which I
had thrown myself, and walked rapidly onward-I knew not, cared
not whither. I was soon, however, challenged by one of our own
sentinels. I pronounced my name and entered the cottage. I
roamed from room to room until the morning, when the active
duties of life came to call me to myself. I gave orders for the
main body of our forces to return towards Fort Seneca, and sent
out a party of men to gain what further intelligence they could
respecting the Indians ; but as we left the cottage I made some
of my men set it on fire, for I could not bear the thought of any
other touching what the presence of Eveline had hallowed. But

118

'I

EMMA STANLEY, OR TILHE ORPHANS.
ch what a burden did I bear away at my own heart! Can you
picture my madness to yourself? Yes, for you can imagine
what you would have felt had such been the fate of Isabelle; for
in our heart Love has touched the same master chord, which
never fails to give a responsive echo. Throughout the last of the
war I courted every dangerous post, I was ever found in the
thickest of the fight, and I tried in vain to throw away my life;
but death repulsed my advances. My comrades often fell around
me, but I was left standing; and more than once have I hewn
my way through a body of the enemy, who would give way be-
fore me as if I were a spirit that they feared. I was twice upon
the battle-field offered promotion for my bravery, but I refused
it ; for what had I to do with any of the rewards for which am-
bition thirsts?  I preferred a rank where. I was free to meet the
death that I sought.
"At the close of the war, finding no relief to my despair, for I
had not learned to look above for hope, I asked a furlough for a
year on the plea of ill health, which wasreadily granted me. I
went to London, and in that proud city I sought a while to forget
myself ; but I found it impossible, and I determined to return to
America. I, however, concluded to go to Liverpool and take
passage from thence. I thank God that he so ordered my go-
ings that I selected the ship of which you were mate. You know
the rest !
"Farewell, my dear Stanley ! for when you see this the heart
whose agony it portrays will have ceased to beat, and the hand
that has written it will be mouldering in the dust. Farewell!
by the blessing of God, to you I owe the hope of soon meeting
Eveline, never more to be separated from her; but while I linger
here, my fondest wishes,. my warmest hopes, my most fervent
prayers, will be for you. That the God whom you, worship-
the God of the fatherless-may be your protector and guide, is
the trust and prayer of
"Your ever grateful friend,        LINTON."
CHAPTER       XLIII.
Ambition, pride, revenge, depart,
And fly fro Piety's chastising ro;
She makes the humble, contrite heart
A temple of the living God.-MONTGOMERY.
"AD how do I find my dear Jared ?" said Mrs. Chapman,
as she called at Miss Stanley's the morning after Jared's return.


120

"I little thought that I should ever be forced to make you the
first call upon your arrival."
"Nor would you," he replied, "had I not got into a very in-
teresting discussion with aunt Nancy, which made me take my
seat just as I was otherwise ready to call upon you. But how
did you hear that I had arrived ?"
"As Emma was passing to school she called to inform me of
it, as she always makes me a participator in her joys. As I
was obliged to visit a sick neighbor this morning, I went imme-
diately; and finding my services not essential, I excused myself,
and came to honor you with a call."
"I really feel myself much honored by the visit, and during
the period of my stay here, will endeavor to make you many in
return."
"And I," said Miss Stanley, "am not only grateful for the
honor Mrs. Chapman has conferred upon you, but am relieved
by her presence of my part of the argument, as I will gladly re-
linquish it into her hands, knowing that she will espouse my side.
of the question."
"Perhaps not," said Mrs. Chapman, "for my well-known
partiality for Jared, and my joy at his return, will both conduce
to weaken my opposition to any thing that he might now ad-
vance."
"Ah no !" said Miss Stanley, "such feelings influence me,
but you are not weak enough to feel their power."
" Alas ! I have all the frailties of our nature with which to
contend, and I am often overcome by its weaknesses ; but tell me,
what is the mighty subject of debate between your nephew and
yourself?"
"We have been arguing about half an hour upon the subjects
of pride and ambition ; and as I find that I gain no advantage
over him, I will gladly turn him over to you ; and I hope you
will manage him more easily."
"And is it fair," said Jared, "after I have been arguing so
long, to turn me over to a new opponent ?"
"Yes," replied Miss Stanley, "perfectly so ; for I think your
opinions so heretical that any means are fair if, they will vanquish
you."
"I never do evil that good may come," said Mrs. Chapman,
smiling ; "but still," she continued, turning to Jared, "I would
like to hear you explain your own ideas of the difference be-
tween ambition and pride."
"I think," said he, "that pride is an overweening idea of our
own excellentee; ambition, I think, a wish to form our character

I

EMMA STANLEY, OR TILE ORPHANS.

according to some standard of superior excellence, which we
have set up in our own mind. Sometimes it is displayed in the
cultivation of native talent ; sometimes in acquiring knowledge.
Sometimes it directs its views to glory, and then I grant its views
are often erroneous; and in order to gratify its desires, means
are embraced which lead to the most direful results: but still its
aims are high and noble."
"We differ in our ideas of ambition. To me it appears nei-
ther more nor less than the ebullition of an ardent, aspiring tem-
per, aiming at high distinction in some favorite path, and heed-
lessly trampling on the rights of others for its own elevation."
And do you not think ambition a powerful ingredient in the
formation of superior excellence of character ?"
"Superior excellence of character, in my view, consists not in
a brilliant display of native talent, or acquired knowledge'; not in
arrogantly seeking to shine above the less-gifted portion of our
frail race, but in a deep consciousness of human weakness-an
humble sense of dependence on the Most High for all that we
have and are, and an acknowledgment of our sacred obligation
to employ all our talents for his service and to his glory."
"Do you not think that superior talents raise us above our
fellows ? and do you not think them placed in our hands for
improvement, for which we shall have to account? and do you
not think it natural for us to be proud of the distinction which
they give to us ?"
"I think they are certainly bestowed upon us for improve-
ment ; but ought we not rather to use them for the Redeemer's
cause, than for worldly aggrandizement? And when pride whis-
pers, I am wiser, or better, or greater than another, would it not
be prudent to ask, Who made us to differ? Not to urge the
arrogant boast, I have so much-but rather to ask, To what good
purpose have I improved my little? Were, the intellectual al-
ways free from blemish, they would have rather more cause for
pride ; but how often do we see splendid attainments in litera-
ture, station, and worldly honors, allied to blemishes of so dark
a shade, as jo eclipse, if not destroy, their fancied greatness !"
"I grant the justice of your last remark ; but in such persons
it has always seemed to me that the striving after the fame which
they attained, was the one bright spot in their character which
saved it from being all dark ; and I have rejoiced in the ambition
which urged them onward."
"Suffer me to remind you that the molt perfect character in
human form was meek and lowly."
"And yet I have heard both ambition and pride mentioned
6

121

t
r
4
g
4

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.


4
I .
I
t
i
ii
6

with approbation by some who had no mean opinion of their
own sageness, particularly when they led the possessor to noble
acts or great acquirements."
"And do you not think that motives of a higher order might
act with equal urgency upon an ingenuous and well-regulated
mind, for the fulfilment of all the duties required of us ?"
"Perhaps they might for the duties ; for I have ever consid-
ered duty as a word which required a nature rather cold, in or-
der never to swerve from its commands. Such a temperament
as leads to acts that dazzle, is too seldom sufficiently calm to fol-
low its lead."
" And to which do you give the preference ?"
"I must confess that I admire most the brilliant."
" What- when it leads to error?   You certainly are not
aware what unlimited power of reproof your last admission con-
fers. Are you not sensible of the aptitude of age to assume lib-
erties of advice, and even dictation, where affection prompts
and seniority of years (as they may imagine) necessarily sup-
poses larger experience, if not superior wisdom ?"
"Yes, and from you I am always willing to receive reproof,
confident that at the same time I shall also receive instruction."
"Ah, when you flatter, you disarm me ; and your implied de-
sire to receive my correction takes from me the power to be-
stow it."
"That is not the effect which I wished : I lay open my
thoughts without reserve, and I wish you to be as candid in
communicating your own sentiments ; for be assured I have no
mental reserve-in talking to you."
"You are willing, then, that I should assume the character
of your monitress ?"
"Entirely willing."
"Will you tell me if you have ever followed duty ?"
"I think I may say without vanity that it has been my
watchword through life ; that its name has been a magic sound
to lead me onward through trials and troubles of no ordinary
nature."
"Have you found it always an easy task to follow its lead ?"
"Sometimes it has been much the contrary ; but yet I
hate endeavored unswervingly to follow the path she pointed
out."
"And yet, if I mistake not, you ire of a nature warm, sensi-
tive, and highly imaginative, ardent, and aspiring ; but I would
neither call you ambitious nor proud, for I think the excellencies
at which you aim are of that order which belong to those cold,

122

a ;
ii

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORFHAN .

I23

*        EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

calm temperaments of which you spoke. Ah, Jared, Jared, I
think you are fairly vanquished by your own confessions."
"Well, my dear madam, I know of no one to whom I would
more readily accord the palm of victory ; but it does not follow
that I should not admire a nature like my own."
"It follows that one, who has duty for his watchword, must
necessarily follow that path which he thinks most excellent."
CHAPTER XLIV.
Her breast expands with generous warmth
A stranger's woes to feel ;
And bleeds in pity o'er the wound
She wants the power to heal.-BAAvrn.
EMMA's partiality for pets developed itself upon all occasions,
and to all quadrupeds. To have four feet was as strong a hold
upon her sympathies as to be infirm or aged, with only two.
Let an object of either kind present itself before her, and she
knew no rest until she had shown by some act of kindness the
friendship which they awakened. Being born on the eighth day
of the month, she always gave as an excuse for her sometimes
unwarranted partiality, that she could not help it ; for did it not
say in the Bible, that she was to "open her mouth for the
dumb ?" and she only did that ; for she thought that the verse
meant that she was not only to plead for those who could not
plead for themselves, but she ought to aid them as much as her
limited means and weak abilities gave her power. Such propen-
sities, however, brought her into frequent contests with Miss
Hoxie ; but Emma was usually victorious. Not only her cats
claimed her attention, but she also had a favorite dog, named
Acasto, which had been given her by her brother Richard, just
before his departure for the South. Acasto, however, was not
the only frequenter of the kitchen ; for Emma was as universal a
favorite of the dogs as they were of her. All the canine race of
the neighborhood had found out that if they went to Miss Stan-
ley's kitchen, they would certainly get something to eat; for if
Emma were there, she would feed them, and if she were absent,
Miss Hoxie would feed them for Emma's sake, and would scold
at them all the time they were eating.
Emma was one day dancing about the kitchen with the cat
upon her'shoulder, for that was Toney's favorite and privileged
seat: Miss Hoxie, who was watching her with looks of fond affec-
tion, at length drew a deep sigh, and so unusual a thing as a


I
'1

EMMA  TANLEY9 OE THlE ORPHIANS5.

sigh from Miss Hoxie, made Emma dance up to her and ask her
if she were sick.
"No, child," she replied.
"What then is the matter ?" asked Emma.
"Dance on, child. I was once as merry and light-hearted as
ye are when ye're well, and I was thinking over old times, when
I was a child like ye, and hoping that ye might never have any
sorrow to make ye as dull as ye see me now.'
Miss Hoxie, does every one have sorrow ?" asked the child,
mournfully; for the words of the old lady had at once changed
her gavety to seriousness.
"I never heard of any body without some ; but some folks
have more than others, and I sometimes think that I have had a
double share."
Emma stood thoughtfully silent for a few, moments--" Aunt
Nancy says, that if any one is good they will be happy! Why
then are you not happy?  Are you not good ?"
But Miss Hoxie was not willing to bear such catechising from
a child, even though that child was Emma. She was not will-
ing to own her faults, and she was too conscious of them to pro-
fess that she was free from them. She therefore took refuge in
her accustomed exclamation of, "Hold yere tongue, Emma !
Hold yere tongue ! and go to yere dancing !"
But the idea that Miss Hoxie was unhappy, an idea that had
never before crossed her mind, took from her any inclination to
continue her boisterous amusement. She sat down wondering
what could be the cause of Miss Hoxie being unhappy. She
was too young to know that wilfulness, waywardness, and un-
restrained temper, were sufficient causes to make any one un-
happy, particularly if accompanied by poverty. She knew,
however, that it would be in vain to say more to the old lady
now, after she had uttered what was to her the concluding
phrase, " Hold yere tongue !" for after that had once escaped
her lips, it was a rare thing for her to continue the subject.
Emma, therefore, sat down at a little distance from her and be-
gan to fondle her cat. She had sat so but a few moments, when
two or three dogs, with Acasto as leader, came chasing each
other into the room. Acasto quickly found- out his mistress,
and began to bound and gambol round her, and the others fol-
lowed his example. She was too much of a child long to in-
dulge in melancholy reflections, and she entered into their frolic
with hearty good will; but the sadness of the aged is not so
easily dissipated. Miss Hoxie's spirit was communing with by-
gone times, and the mirth of Emma and her favorites jarred

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANs.

125

upon a chord of memory sacred to the dead, and it vibrated
harshly to their noise. She awoke tothe present; but when
she spoke, her language was dictated by the querulousness of
age, which makes no allowance for the thoughtlessness of youth.
"Yes !" said she, "here they come-it's most supper time !
There's Carlo Sornston, and Mischief Hazard, and Fido Mercer,
and Pomp Starr (thus appending to the name of the dogs the
surname of their masters). All get their living out of this
kitchen ! Come along, wretches! and let me feed ye, and then
go home." As she spoke, she emptied at the door a plate of
bones, which she had evidently put away for "the wretches.
"There, eat them," she continued, "and now growl and fight
over 'em; for if I was to give ye every thing in the house, ye
could not eat in peace. What are ye quarreling about, ye Casto
Stanley? Come here, wretch, I'll feed ye by yourself, if ye'll
only have patience. Ye Pomp Starr, stop yere growling. Ain't
ye willing for any body to eat but yourself? Now Carlo Sorn-
ston, ye must begin, must ye? Mischief Hazard and Fido Mer-
cer are the only ones on ye that has got any sense or manners;
for they eat in peace, and get the best of it, while the rest of ye
are quarrelling and fighting. Well! if ye've eat up all that, and
ain't satisfied yet, here's some bread for ye, if that'll do ye any
good." So saying, she continued to feed and scold, until she
thought they had enough, when she called Acasto, and gave to
him the choicest bit, which she had reserved for him alone.
CHAPTER XLV.
Letter from Richard Stanley to Jared.
"ST. STEPHENS, August 22d, 18-.
"My DEAR JARED
"I have sat down to obey your injunction of writing to you, so
that you may receive it by the time you get home, and of writing
about myself. With regard to the first, this will probably reach
Newport by the middle of September, unless it stops to sleep
upon the road, which I believe many of my letters do, as aunt
Nancy often complains of not receiving one for some time, and
then having two at a time to repay her for waiting ; but in a
new country the mails are generally irregular, so we must put
up with such kind of inconveniences. But, in giving myself as
my subject for composition, you have selected what I never yet
could fill a sheet about. You tell me to write about my situa-

124


0

126

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

3

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

127

Lion and prospects. As for my prospects, they are to continue
just as I am, until something unforeseen happens, fo vary my
present life. As for my situation, you know how long I have
been here, and I have enjoyed during both summers better
health than I ever had in my life ; so I have, fortunately, no ter-
rible attacks of sickness and no hair-breadth escapes to relate,
and my employment admits of little variety. The clerk of a
drygoods store sees about the same things one day that he does
another, and nothing is worth writing of; but, fortunately, you
gave me permission to speak of all those in whom I was inter-
ested, and there is one person here, an old acquaintance, and one
particularly partial to yourself, who would be delighted to see
you-no other than Dr. Blustermeath. About two weeks ago,
I went down on board a barge which had just arrived, and who
should I find seated in the cabin but the old doctor. I was very
glad to see him, for I should claim as a friend a negro or a dog
that I had once seen in Newport. I accordingly went up with
joy to shake hands with him; but he drew back from my prof-
fered hand with the air of a prince. 'Young gentleman!' said
he, in his most pompous manner, 'you are mistaken in the per-
son to whom you are speaking ; for I certainly never saw you
before.' 'My name,' said I, 'is Stanley, from Newport, RhoJe
Island.' ' Stanley !' said he, with an affected air of astonishment,
'I never heard it.' 'Is not your name Dr. Blustermeath ?' said
I. 'No,' said he. ''Tis true I am a physician, and have per-
formed some wonderful cures ; but my name is Wayland.' I saw
"that he was determined not to know me ; but yet I was confident
that no two men could be so much alike as he and Dr. Bluster-
meath, and not be the same ; but I turned from him and was
going away, when he hallooed after me. 'Young man!' said
he, 'as we have by mistake become acquainted, I should be glad
to see you at the tavern this evening.' 'I will call,' I replied,
and left him. Just after supper I called, and inquired for him.
I was introduced into his room, and after he had locked the door,
he came up to me and shook me warmly by the hand. 'I am
glad to see you, Richard!' said he, 'very glad ; but the reason
I did not recognize you was, I now go by the name of Wayland,
and you called me Blustermeath. I have come out to this savage
country, to practice medicine among these barbarians, and while
I am here I am determined, as much as possible, to forget my
name, and every thing north of the Potomac.' He begged me
to keep his secret, and not to permit any one to know that I had
ever seen him before. He then asked me particularly about
you--spoke of you in the most exalted terms, and we continued

in conversation until it was time to separate for the night. He
did not tell me the reason of his leaving the north ; but I strongly
suspect, from his appearance, that it was poverty. l  d
"But to return to my own affairs. I continue as well pleased
with this country as I should with any that was not home; but
the very word home has a magic in its sound which stirs my
soul to its inmost depths. I sometimes think that I would give
worlds to revisit my native shores ; but as I have no definite
idea when I shall do so, I try to banish such discontenting
thoughts. You know that it has always been the leading article
of my philosophical creed to enjoy the present, and to have as
little as possible to do with the past and future.afo
"I wish with all my heart that you would give me a call, r
I seem to be too much of a fixture here for there to be any
probability of my seeing you unless you do ; but I would not
recommend you to leave the sea, unless you an engage with
some one who has a considerable capital; for t country is like
all others, it requires a beginning, and nothing can be done vith-
out it. It is true that more money is to be made here than in
Newport, but there is also more to be spent, and on the whole
there is not half the difference that one would imagine. As I
have made a beginning here under the capital of others, I hope
to go gradually on acquiring one for myself, until I have a house
of my own, to which I shall insist upon aunt Nancy and Emma
both coming to be occupants, and by that means I shall secure
your company sometimes as a visitor ; but I fear that time is at
least some years distant, so I should rejoice to see you before
that event with joy unspeakable, but I fear to urge your coming
as a resident, lest you should regret it. tCata*nLinton
"Adieu, my dear brother; remember me to Capain     o,
and give my love to aunt Nancy and Emma, and reserve   r
yourself a large share from
"Your affectionate brother,      RienAnn.
Before Jared received this, the reader is already aware that
Linton was no more ; but as Richard expressed it, it had slept
upon the road, for it was the middle of October before it came
to hand.

I


EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORI'HANS.

129

P
i
k
f
f
s
'
t
S
k
p
d
i
}
i
P
r

CHAPTER XLVI.
Can riches purchase health or peace,
Is life the gtft of gold,
That I should barter soul and ease ?-J. K. MITCHEL.
BUT while these varied events of joy and sorrow were passing
in the house of Miss Stanley, Mr. Witherington was as usual en-
gaged in the affairs of the world, in adding to that fortune
which was already sufficient ; and though disappointed in his
schemes of ambition, he had too much the habit of acquiring for
that to retard his efforts. But to his cost he found that specu-
lations are not always successful, and as the tide of fortune flows,
so, sooner or later, it will surely ebb. The whole business had
of late become to many a golden vision, and all who had capital
were eager to embark in a scheme which they thought promised
so abundant a harvest ; and' among all the merchants of New-
port, none entered more largely into it than Mr. Witherington.
He had hitherto been so successful that he began to think that
whatever he undertook must of course prosper, and that his
name was a charm which fortune followed. He feared no ad-
verse gales. He did not condescend to hope for aught, but ar-
rogantly determined that every thing must be as he wished.
With such feelings, and the prospect of overwhelming wealth
before his eyes, he risked the gross of his capital in the whaling
business. Three new ships destined to the Pacific were manned
by his orders, and for his gain were breasting the waves in
search of those monsters of the deep. After they had been gone
about two years, he received, by the return of a whale-ship that
had gone out before them, a letter which gave him  he unfortu-
nate tidings, that in the outward passage two of them had be-
come a wreck. They had encountered a violent storm off the
southern shore of Greenland. One of them had sprung a leak,
from some defect either in its building or its timbers, and had
foundered at sea. A portion of the crew were saved, and
divided between the other two ships. The other one that was
lost had encountered an iceberg, and had gone to the bottom,
and every soul on board had perished. Mr. Witherington read
the letter, and immediately went on board the vessel which had
brought it, and asked the captain if he knew any thing of the
other ships, besides the one from which he got the letter. The
captain told him that he had not come across any of the ships,
and that he knew nothing of them ; that the letter which he had
sent him had been found in a bottle which one of his crew picked

128

up as it was floating past them; that besides the letter was a
record of the latitude and longitude in which the vessel was
when they had thrown the bottle overboard, with an entry of
the health of the crew, and a request to whoever should pick up
the bottle that they would give or send the letter it contained
according to its direction ; that he had accordingly taken charge
of the letter, and as he was then homeward bound, that he had
kept it until that morning. Mr. Witherington thanked him and
returned home. He found Mr. Thorn at his house when he ar-
rived. After conversing a short time, Mr. Thorn told him that
he had some business with him, and said he would like to see
him in the library. When they were seated, Mr. Thorn said
that he had some news to communicate which would be dis-
agreeable if not distressing to him. That by the return-°of a
whale-ship which had got into New Haven two days before, he
had received a letter from one of Mr. Witherington's ships which
informed him of the loss of both the others.
"I have myself just heard of it," replied Mr. Witherington,
"but I hope that you have not mentioned it to any one of my
family, or to any one in the world."
"You are the first," he replied, "to whom I have mentioned
it at all."
"Then I beg of you to keep it a profound secret, not to men-
tion it to your dearest friend, for at least two weeks, and never
to let any one know of the period at which you have heard the
intelligence."
"I will probably comply with your request, upon condition
that you tell me why you are so urgent for me never to say
when I heard the news; for though I can imagine a reason why
you should not wish it immediately known, I can conceive of
none why you should wish the period of my hearing of it always
kept a secret."
Mr. Witherington looked upon the fine open browtof the
young man as if he feared to confess his motive, but the thought,
he is a lawyer, crossed his mind, and decided him; for, said he
to himself, he sees the dark side of human nature, and will not
wonder at my scheme. " Because," he replied, "Mr, Hobson
yesterday made me the offer of buying out one of those very
ships of which I have just heard the loss, and I intend to make
him confirm the bargain to-day, and I shall want you to draw
the deeds."
Mr. Thorn gazed upon him with astonishmentm: he could not
believe that he had, heard aright. "Am I not mistaken, Mr.
Witheregton," said he, "in what I have heard? Is it possible
6*

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.


s
c
E
r

130         EMMA 8TANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS..
that you can wish to sell Mr. Hobson a piece of property which
you know is at the bottom of the sea, and make him pay for it
the same value that it would be worth if its white sails were
floating to the breeze ?"
Mr. Witherington was offended at the reproving tone in which
young Thorn had spoken.  "It is possible !" he replied, "and
unless you will consent to my proposal, you must relinquish all
pretensions to the hand of my daughter."
"I love your daughter," he replied, "with an honorable love,
and I could not become an accessory to an act of the kind you
propose to obtain that daughter's hand !"
And you give her up rather than to keep my secret ?"
"Most assuredly, sir ! I should by it feel my soul stained by
dishonor, and I should never dare to lift my eyes to the face of
that pure being for whose sake I had encountered the disgrace,
for I should fear that she would see it in, every lineament of my
face, and she would reprobate the act, and despise the actor."
He had spoken boldly, and he had raised the wrath of Mr.
Witherington to its highest pitch. Twice while he was speaking
had he raised his hand to strike, but he had forborne from the
conviction that one who had spoken so fearlessly would be little
likely tamely to endure a blow ; but when he ceased, Mr. Wither-
ington walked to the door of the library-" Go out !" said he to
Thorn i a voice of thunder, "and the first time I find you in
my house again a horsewhipping shall repay your insolence, and
should you dare to run away with HarrietI will lay her a corpse
at your feet !"
Thorn had risen to go ; but he stopped and confronted him,
as he slowly and sternly said-" I would never condescend to in-
duce a daughter to leave her father's house without his consent,
even though that father be a villain !" He then slowly walked
from the house.
CHAPTER       XLVII.
And still as day by day we saw depart,
I was thelisingtidol of his heart;
StiITI hear
That voice so deeply soft, so strangely clear;
Oh ! shall those sounds no more my fancy bless,
Which fill my heart and on my memory press ?-Mas. NoaToN.
Ma. WITHERINGTON feared that the stern integrity of Mr.
Thorn would make him betray his villainy too much to dare to
attempt to make the projected trade with Mr. Hobson. He in-

LI

a
t
{
.

EMMA STANLEY OR THE ORPHANS.            131
wardly cursed the knowledge that Thorn had acquired; cursed
the confidence that he had reposed in him, and still more the
misfortune that had overtaken the vessels. He bestowed not a
thought upon those unfortunate men who had in them found a
grave. He only felt that a great part of his fortune had sunk
with th m, and unless some fortunate event occurred to repair his
loss, tha' he would be obliged to descend somewhat from that
eminence above his fellow-men to which only his fortune had
raised him. Such reflections passing through his mind, only
served to increase the feelings of revenge with which he was dis-
posed to regard Mr. Thorn. He looked upon him as, in a great
measure, the cause of his fall from a station which it had cost
him the labor of a life to attain; and he determined to revenge
himself upon him-as deeply as he could. He was engaged in
business all day, and when he went home at night he inquired
of Harriet if Mr. Thorn had returned to her, after accompanying
him into the library. She replied that he had not.
"Well! my daughter," said he, with more than usual tenderness
in his manner, "you will never see him again, and you have
made /a lucky escape from the hands of a mercenary villain.
Forget him, my daughter, forget that you have ever seen one who
only wished to marry you for the fortune that he thought to ac-
quire with your hand."
" Oh ! say not so, my father ! He is all that is good and
noble : he could not be so base !"
"Listen," said he, sternly, "and I will convince you of his
baseness. This morning I received news of the loss of two of
my whale-ships, and with them, Harriet, I have sunk a large
amount of capital; I showed him the letter while we were in the
library, and he appeared to be so very much astonished at its
contents, that I told him that perhaps it might make some differ-
ence in his matrimonial views, to know that that misfortune would
preclude the possibility of my giving my daughters any thing
worth mentioning when they were married. In a roundabout
manner, after a good deal of hesitancf, he stammered out that
surely he had never expected to take you portionless. I told
him that you should never be thrust upon any one ; that he
might, if it so pleased him, consider himself free from all engage-
ment to you; but that if he thus intended to give you up, not to
insult you by taking leave of you, and by the pretended grief
that he would then feign-that I could explain to you all that
it would he necessary for him to say."
.Harriet listened; but half that her father said passed unheeded
by her. She, however, comprehended enough to know that he

a
t
{


132         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
was deserted by one for whom she would have left father, mother,
home-and merely because she was a little less rich than he had
expected-when, for his sake, had it been necessary, she would
have encountered poverty in its extreme distress. She withdrew
to her own room, and wept long and hopelessly, and it was not
until after day had risen upon the earth, that sleep came to re-
fresh her exhausted frame.
It was long ere she recovered from the shock ; but the family
were too much taken up with their own troubles to pay much at-
tention to her faded cheek and hollow eye ; or, if they did, it was
but to wonder that she should so sorrow for one who had thus
heartlessly forsaken her, for Mr. Witherington had given to them
all the same reason for the absence of Thorn. She drooped like
a neglected flower ; but time spread his healing wing over her
heart, and she gradually recovered from the blow : her cheer-
ful spirit, and the freshness 'of her heart were gone, and she
looked upon life as a dreary desert, in which there was no oasis
for her to rest.
CHAPTER        XLVIII.
A heart whereon to lean,
With all these deep affections that o'erfiow
My aching soul, and find no shore below ;
An eye to be my star, a voice to bring
Hope o'er my path, like sounds that breathe of spring ;
These are denied me-dreamt of still in vain.-HMANSs.
JARED remained but a short time at home during his present
sojourn ; but while there he found his aunt's health visibly worse
than he had ever known it-he found that she was troubled with'
a short, hollow cough, with which she had never before been
afflicted, and he feared that the same insidious disease which
had carried off Linton had begun its ravages upon her. He
thought, too, that her ill health might be increased, if not pro-
duced, by the effort and anxiety which it cost her to preside
over her present household, and he therefore used all his endeav-
ors to persuade her to give up the charge of it, and to consent
to be supported by her nephews for the remainder of her life.
He knew that several of her boarders would, as usual, go in the
spring to take a summer tour, and of course it could be but a
slight inconvenience for her other boarders to change their resi-
dence to some one of the other numerous houses in the city ; and
she at last yielded to his entreaties, and determined to follow his
advice.

I

6'

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.           133
During his two last terms of absence from home, Jared had
learned to play upon the fltate, and, having a fine talent for mu-
sic, he had acquired a proficiency in it which delighted all who
heard him. Emma was fond of music, and still more fond of
Jared, and she would sit for hours and listen to his playing ; and
when thus employed, nothing could draw her from his side. The
day before he was to leave home, he had been absent nearly all
day arranging his business for his departure, and when he entered
the room upon his return to his aunt's house, he found.Emma
alone. She rose as he entered, and, walking joyfully up to him,
she took his hand and looked inquiringly into his face. "Will
you have your flute ?" said she.
"I don't care for it,"-he replied.
"But I want you to play for me."
"If you wish to hear it, bring it to me and I will play."
She brought it, and, taking a little chair, sat down at his feet.
"What do you want to hear me play ?"
"Will you play all that I tell you ?"
"Yes."
"Every thing ?"
"Yes."
"Suppose it should take you till ten o'clock at night ?"
"If it does, I will play as long as you will sit up to listen."
"Well, then, I want you to play every thing you know. I
don't want you to leave out one single tune, but play them all,
and all for me."
He smiled, and took his flute, and began to play. For more
than an hour she sat perfectly still, and looked in his face, as if
she would inhale into her very soul every sweet sound that is-
sued from the instrument. At length she laid her head upon
his knee, and burst into tears.
He stopped, surprised, for he happened at the moment to be
playing an air that was quite lively. "What is the matter
Emma ?" said he.
"Nothing."
"Then, why do you weep ?"
I don't-know."
"No ! but tell me, Emma ; I cannot play for you again, if it
makes you cry."
That does not make me cry."
"Then tell me why you do cry."
She remained silent a few moments ; but at length she ceased,
and, looking up in his face-"I sat and looked at you," said she,
"and wondered if you would always love me as you do now,


131         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPIIANS.
and I thought what would become of me if you did not, until the
feeling became so dreadful that I cried."
He clasped her in his arms, and leaned her head upon his
shoulder. For a few moments he was silent, but was evidently
struggling with emotions which her words had excited ; for he
had himself too often felt the want of sympathy and affection,
not to be moved by the appeal of the child ; but when he
spoke, his voice, though rather more sad, was calm and steady
as usual.  "Do you think," said he, "that I could ever cease to
love you ?"
I don't know," said she, "but no one loves me long ; and I
sometimes fear that you might cease to love me too."
"When we are not loved, my dear Emma, it is often our own
fault ; for if we act as we ought to do, we will generally find
friends enough."
"I don't mean friends, Jared-I have no enemies ; but I mean
to be loved as I love."
"And how is that ?"
"I don't know ; I cannot tell you-but will you play more
for me ?"
"Yes, if you will not cry."
"I will try not." She then rose from his embrace, kissed him,
and resumed her seat.
Thus, the idea of not being loved as she could love, as she did
love, haunted her existence. Warm in her feelings, and imagi-
native to excess, she felt truly when she thought that few would
love as she loved.  It was, indeed, a dark thread which ran
through the otherwise brilliant warp of her mental life.
CHAPTER       XLIX.
"tier cheek was fair
As the evening star
When it sets in the twilight gloaming;
And her spirit was free
As the breeze from the sea
When it steals from the tempest breathing."
JARED took his departure on the day that he expected ; and
while he is absent, we will conduct our readers to the fine cli-
mate and lovely spot of St. Stephens. As Richard wrote, it
was situated about a quarter of a mile from the Tombighee
river, on an elevated hill, which rose gradually and continuously
from the banks. The land upon which the town was situated,
and thatrimmediately around it, was extremely rich, and heavily

I

z

EMMA STANLEY7 OR THE ORPHANS.           135
wooded with forests of almost every variety of trees, from the
lofty beech and pine to the graceful flowery ash, which waved
its slender branches and feathery bloom to the summer wind.
Spring was busily engaged in clothing those lovely woods in their
varied garment of green; for she had already spread its velvet
carpet on the earth, and the air was so balmy and redolent with
the sweets which the trees sent forth from their bursting buds,
that one might have thought, as he inhaled its perfume, that
death could never be borne upon its breath. There was unusual
bustle in the streets. The ladies were out making calls-some-
times on each other, sometimes on the different stores which
lined the principal street; and some were out merely to enjoy the
beauty of the day. Four barges, laden with new goods, had
that day arrived from Mobile ; for at the time of which we
speak, a steamboat, with its hoarse puffs, had never awakened
the alligators, as they reposed in their muddy beds along the
banks of the Tombigbee. In consequence of the arrival of the
boats, every dray and cart in town was put in requisition to
bring up the goods. The bustle was further increased, by sev-
eral strings of Western wagons entering the town ; some with
immigrants and their families, who were anxious to put their
sickle to the golden harvest which was said-to stand ready for
their reaping in all parts of Alabama, but particularly in that
favored spot, St. Stephens. Some were laden with Western
produce from the rich lands of 'Tennessee, whose owners had
come with the double purpose of selling a little of their flour,
apples, &amp;c., and at the same time looking at the country, which,
if they found superior to their own, they would return to pack
up their " plunder," and migrate to Alabama. With one set of
these first-named wagons was a carriage, drawn by two fine
large horses ; a gig, containing two girls, just verging upon
womanhood, and driven by one of them; and a little spirited boy,
upon a pony that looked rather demurely round him, as if dis-
daining the whip which his rider unsparingly inflicted, brought
up the rear. As. they passed through the street, Richard and
one of his acquaintances were standing before the door of Mr.
Williams's store; for as he had received his spring goods the
week before, Richard was now exempt from the crowding and
running which occupied the time of so many of his fellow-
clerks.
"Look Out, Stanley," said young Randolph ; "I suspect that
is Col. Dampier and family, who has beon expected for the last
week. They say he is rich, and has got a host of girls ; so there
is a fine chance for both of us."

II


1 h        EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
"How many daughters are there ?" said Richard.
"Ah ! I don't know ; either four, or five, or six, or seven."
"Stop, stop : I'll have no such guess-work. Do you know
the old gentleman ?"
"Yes, slightly."
"Will you introduce me to-morrow ?"
"If I go there. But I think you had better wait until they
get a little settled before you call upon them," said Randolph,
coldly.
Richard saw by the manner of Randolph that he was unwilling
to introduce him, and therefore he was resolved to say no more
upon the subject, but to become acquainted with them by some
other means; for he was not one to push himself upon the good
offices of any one, or to accept them unless willingly granted.
But just as he opened his lips to change the subject, a young
man, by whom Randolph had been introduced to Col. Dampier,
and who he knew was well acquainted with the family, came
in sight. "Hollo, Comstock," said Randolph, "we want you
here to decide a question of great importance between Richard
Stanley and myself."
"And what is it ?" said Comstock.
"We want to know how many daughters Col. Dampier has."
"Seven," said Comstock.
"how many that are grown ?"
"Two that are decidedly young ladies, and one whom I sup-
pose writes herself upon that list."
"\Well," said Richard, "the third one is just the right age for
me, and I select her without having seen either of them. What
i her name.,.
"Her name," said Comstock, "is Mary, or Polly, as the fam-
ily ll her ; but I demur to your choosing her, as I have picked
her out for myself."
"Never mind that. how old is she ?"
"About the witching age of fifteen. But look here, Stanley,
remember I warn you beforehand to choose some other ; for I
flatter myself that I have already make a sufficient impression in
that quarter for you to stand no chance."
"Well," said Richard, "I will just take a note' of her name
in my pocket-book, and whoever wins may wear I" Thus say-
ing, he took out his pocket book, and wrote in it  Mary Dam-
pier, aged fifteen."  "Now," said he, "as I have made the en-
try of her name and age, and as I never do things by halves,
you must assist me to finish the description. What is her
height ?"

EMMA STANLEY, Or THE ORPHANS.            137
"Rather above medium."
"And the color of her hair ?"
"Quite a light brown."
"Her eyes ?"
"Gray."
"Her mouth?   Now give me a good description of that, for
it is my favorite feature. By it I judge of character, particularly
of disposition and temper; and to me the eyes express not half
as much as the mouth."
"You have forgotten the nose; it is not fair for you to skip that."
"Oh, fie upon her nose ! tell me of her mouth."
"But her nose is a very fine one, almost a Grecian."
" Pshaw ! tell me of her mouth."
"She has the finest teeth that I ever saw."
"Comstock," said Richard, laughing, "do you want to have
a fight upon your hands? If you do not, you had better give
an answer to my oft-repeated question."
"Yes, Stanley, I believe I had rather fight than answer your
questions, because, as I have told you, I have picked out Polly
Dampier for myself."
"Come on, then," said Richard ; and they immediately began
to wrestle. Richard soon threw his antagonist.
"Well," said Comstock, "as you have conquered, I will now
answer your question. It will be impossible for you to see her
mouth encircled by a smile without wishing intensely to kiss it.
The graces lend it expression, and I never saw one more charac-
teristic of all that is mild and amiable."
"Admirable !" said Richard; "such a description is worth
fighting for ; but, Comstock, if you ever call her Polly again in
my presence, it shall cost you another wrestling-match ; for the
idea of changing the sweet name of Mary into the hateful one of
Polly is most barbarous."
"Well," said Comstock good-humoredly, "I will reward you,
Stanley, for your conquest of me ; for as I am esteemed the best
wrestler in St. Stephens, I think you deserve it ; and if you will
hold yourself in readiness to-morrow evening, I will call for you
and introduce you to the family of Colonel Dampier, and you
may have a chance of becoming acquainted with Miss Polly-
oh, I beg your pardon ! with Miss Mary Dampier, yourself ; and
if you are determined to enter the lists against me for her hand,
be it so; though I hope our wrestling-match is not prophetic of
the issue."
"Youemay be sure it is ; but I thank you much for the offer,
and shall gladly accept it."


I38         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
"Be ready, then ; and now   good-morning-good-morning,
Randolph !"
"I will go with you," said Randolph, "if your road lies to-
wards the river. Good-morning, Stanley !"
"Good-morning !" said Richard; "but I think, Randolph,
you had better change your mind, and go with us to-morrow
evening."
"I believe not ! Good-morning !"
CHAPTER       L.
The echoing wheel you've marked
In its receding flight,
Like victor, v'aunting, as it took
Your idol from your sight.-L. H. sIGoURNY.
Tna morrow evening came, and about an hour after the tavern
bells had announced the time of supper, our two friends, Richard
and Comstock, were seen wending their way slowly up a hill,
which was crowned by a group of oaks, and in the centre of them
stood a small white house ; we need hardly say that this house
was now occupied by Colonel Dampier and family. The two
young men were arm in arm, and earnestly engaged in conversa-
tion, which was interrupted by Comstock saying, "Here we are !
but I must pay you the compliment of saying, that your conver-
sation has been so interesting, that it has made the distance
about half as long as I thought it a few days ago, when I trav-
ersed it to take a view of the premises." He had knocked while
he was speaking, and the last word was scarcely said, "the list-
ener had not turned his head," when the door was opened, and
Richard found himself rather suddenly in the presence of Colonel
Dampier, his lady, and several of the daughters. He was intro-
duced to them in succession, and as his glance fell upon Miss
Mary Dampier, he mentally confirmed the preference he had be-
fore made. The eldest daughter had nothing very interesting or
prepossessing in her appearance. The second was a handsome
and showy girl, one who looked as if likely to win hearts, and to
be proud of the homage offered to her ; but Mary looked as if
wholly unconscious that worship, such as heart renders to heart,
would ever be hers. She was modest in her demeanor, and
when she took part in the general conversation of the evening,
she ventured her remarks, rather than thrust them forward as if
sure of indulgence; but when particularly addressed, she answered

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.            139
without hesitation or diffidence, and in well-selected and ready
language. Richard was pleased with the whole family. The
colonel was a good representation of an old Virginian gentleman;
for he was originally from that State. He was easy and courte-
ous in his manners, and behaved to the youth of both sexes more
in the character of a father, than of one uninterested in their oc-
cupations and pursuits. Mrs. Dampier was a fine-looking woman,
and remarkably talkative, and her conversation was dictated by
good sense ; and both herself and husband received the young
men with so much cordiality, and invited them to repeat their
visit with so much politeness, that Richard determined to be-
come a frequent visitor at their house. Not that he was in love,
for he was not one of those impulsive beings who fall in love at
first sight, but he was much pleased with his reception ; for the
society of St. Stephens was, like all new places, of no very select
nature, and it afforded but few families sufficiently refined in their
tastes and habits for him to hail their society with pleasure ; and
as he had but few associates, he was glad to extend their number,
when in so doing he could meet with that kind of society which
was improving as well as agreeable.
Many were the pleasure-parties which were that summer set
on foot by the young gentlemen of the city of St. Stephens,
and whenever Richard could leave the store, and could persuade
Miss Mary Dampier to make one of the number of the pleasure-
seekers, he was certain to be with her ; but unless she was one,
he always found himself so particularly engaged that he could
not go ; and it was not long before he found that there was in
her presence an attraction which no one else had ever possessed-
that he preferred her society to all others, and ere the summer
wore away, she had gained the influence of a first love over his
hitherto untouched heart, and he hoped that he had awaked a
corresponding interest in hers.. He saw that her eyes would
brighten and her cheeks would flush at his approach, and those
hopes were heightened by the knowledge that Comstock had
been rejected. It was true that he often met Randolph at her
father's house, but even the jealous eyes of love could detect no
partiality in her behavior to him. He had, however, never spoken
to her of love ; for he felt that they were both quite young, and
he was yet too poor. But he was with her as much as possible.
He exposed to her his own character without reserve, and he
endeavored to fathom and to form hers, and' then when his cir-
cumstances would justify the act, he determined to ask for the
exchange of heart for heart, that by their sympathy they might
double each other's joys, and lighten each other's sorrows.

I

t


140         EMMA STANLEY. OR TIHE ORPHANS.
But time passed unheeded by them, and September came and
brought upon its wings disease, and death, and sorrow. The
small town of St. Stephens proved an extended grave-yard. It
was nearly decimated by the ruthless hand of Death, and more
than half of the survivors were sick. Among the latter was
Richard, and also several of Colonel Dampier's family. Mary,
however, escaped ; but the general sickness, and the very great
number of deaths, made Colonel Dampier resolve to leave the
place the ensuing spring and to go higher up the country.
As soon as Richard was sufficiently convalescent, he visited
Mary, and that resolve was the first intelligence that he received.
It came from Mary's lips, and before he left her that evening he
had told her all his hopes and fears, and had received from her
an acknowledgment of returned affection; and when he urged
her to unite her fate to his, she referred him to her father.
The next day he was for some time alone with Colonel Dam-
pier in his law-office. When their conference was at an end
he came out dispirited and disappointed ; for his youth and his
poverty formed too formidable obstacles in the eyes of the old
man, to permit him to hold out any hope to Stanley that he
would ever succeed. While he acknowledged the prudence
of the objections, hope buoyed up his spirit ; for he knew that
time would remove the one, and he trusted to his own exertions
to overcome the other.
That day, however, he sought not an interview with Mary,
but shortly after he told her all that passed ; but while he men-
tioned his trust of one day presenting himself without any ob-
jection attaching to him 'before her father, he did not attempt
to fetter her future movements by asking her to pledge herself
to him. He left her free to the whispers of her own heart, and
while Colonel Dampier's family remained, though he still con-
tinued his attentions to her as devotedly as before, yet he did not
again resume the subject ; and when the time of their departure
came, though he rode several miles with them on the way, he
hade her adieu without one hint of the future.
CHAPTER       LI.
Father is heaven! thou, only thou canat sound
The heart's great deep, with floods of anguish filled,
For human line too fearfully profound.-Hama. '
THE fears of Jared with regard to the disease which afflicted
Miss Stanley were but too well founded. She had from her

ii
n
ft

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.           141
youth been of an extremely delicate constitution, and under the
exposure consequent to the exertions that she had of late years
necessarily made, her health had gradually given way, and she
was fast hurrying to the tomb. Jared arrived home in June,
and when he got there he found her already too weak to sit up
more than half of the day ; and before the month of July had
passed, she was obliged to recline altogether. She was con-
scious of her situation, but yet was persuaded that she would
linger till September. "I shall not die till the fall of the leaf,"
was her frequent exclamation; and perhaps her prophecy proved
its own fulfilment ; for it was the third day of September that
her friends were called upon to witness the close of a life that,
from her early youth, when she first administered to the infirmi-
ties of an aged mother, had always been passed in doing good
t others, in total disregard to her own ease or enjoyment.
A most violent storm was raging without. The rain was
pouring down as if it would wash every thing away from its
foundation, and what withstood the rain, the wind seemed en-
deavoring to scatter before its mighty blasts ; and many of the
large trees which were unharmed by the rain or wind, were
riven by the lightning. It was a storm unparalleled in its inten-
sity in that mild clime. But while nature was thus at strife
without, all was peaceful and calm round the dying bed of Miss
Stanley. She had passed her life in preparation for eternity-then
how could she fear it?  She did not. She only wished to live
on account of those to whom she had so long performed the part
of a fond mother; but when she thought of them, and particu-
larly of Emma, a few fond regrets, a few longings for life, a few
lingering desires a little longer to remain with them, still re-
tained their hold upon her heart. She expressed herself blessed,
however, that Jared was present, and appeared much relieved
that she could commit Emma to his peculiar care. Towards the
time of retiring for the night, she requested that Emma might
be kept out of the room, as she was too young to see her die,
and she would not willingly have the remembrance of her ever
mingled with the horrors that a dying bed always presented to
the imagination of a child. Emma was accordingly sent up stairs ;
but she could not sleep. She lay down, because it was her
aunt's desire, but being unable to sleep she rose, went to the
window, and sat calmly down and watched the lightning. Being
naturally excessively afraid of thunder, this was the first storm
that she could be said ever to have witnessed ; for it was the
first one in which she had not hidden her face on the bosom of
that dear being who was now about leaving her forever.


142         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
After having been up stairs some time, Jared went up to see
if she were asleep, and found her thus engaged. "Emma," said
he, "why are you not in bed ?"
"Is it not beautiful ?" said she, pointing to the lightning, and
paying no attention to his question.
"Are you not afraid ?" said he.
"Why should I be?  If it kills me, is she not dying ?"
"Emma, you are wrong to say so."
She made him no reply, but continued to gaze on the storm
as before. There was no tear in her eye, and one to have seen
her would have thought that she felt not the loss she was about
to suffer ; but it was the intensity of her feeling which gave her
courage thus to sit and gaze upon that fearful scene. Jared
stood a moment and looked upon her, and then thinking it best
to leave her, turned to go down. His movement startled her.
She sprang towards him, and looked beseechingly in his face.
"D)o let me go down! Oh! please let me go down !" said
she.
"Would you wish to disturb the last moments of aunt Nancy?
She has twice to-night asked if you were here, and is anxious
for you to stay. Are you afraid ?"
"Afraid ! to-night--oh, no ! not afraid."
"Then you will stay ?"
"Yes
The storm continued to rage until about midnight, when it
began to subside, and it gradually grew calmer until it was per-
fectly still, and at two o'clock there was scarcely breath enough
to wave a leaf. At about half-past three o'clock Miss Stanley
sank to rest ; and her last word was a blessing upon her nephew,
as he smoothed her pillow. As soon as she had breathed her
last, he went up stairs to communicate the tidings to his sister.
lie found her sitting where he had left her, as though she had
not moved. He sat down by her side, threw his arms around
her, kissed her forehead, and leaned her head upon his shoulder,
and thus the two orphans sat and wept in each other's arms.
Neither of them spoke, for both felt the vanity of words--both
felt that they had lost their best friend-both felt as if they were
all that the'world contained for each other, and'yet, alas ! how
soon must they be separated.
The next day, after Miss Stanley was dressed in the habili-
ments of the grave, she was left alone in a closed room. Emma
being unnoticed stole into the room, and sat down by the bed on
which lay the cold remains that were to her so dear. She there
recalled all the maternal counsels of the deceased, and grieved

34
ggi3
S;
{
d
k;
x
t
l
1
t'
i
{gx
i
g
1}i
r
t
f         #
9

EMMA STANLET, OR THE ORPHANS.            143
that she had not obeyed them more. Thus was she employed
when the tolling bell announced to the inhabitants of the city
that one of their number had been called home by death : its
booming sound was like an ice-bolt to the heart of Emma, for it
seemed to repeat the desolating truth that she was indeed an or-
phan, with no guide but Him who has promised to be a Father to
the fatherless. At its first sound she sank upon her knees, and
burying her face in her hands, she listened with an intensity of
fearful agony at every stroke which proclaimed her desolation.
She trembled at the thought that when that solemn sound again
should smite upon her ear, it would be the signal for those dear
remains to be borne away. Thus she remained until her brother,
missing her, sought her there. "Emma," said he, kindly, "you
must not stay here ;" and taking her by the hand he led her
from the room. She spoke not, but permitted him to lead her
away, for her grief made her passive, and took from her all will
of her own; but though she thus suffered, she generally pre-
served her self-composure before strangers, and one to have seen
her would have thought that she felt but slightly the depth of
her whose motherly care had been over her from infancy. Thus
little do we know of each other's sufferings.
Letter from fared Stanley to Richard.
" NEwPoRT, Sept. 4, 18-.
"MY DEAR BROTHER.-
" I hope the intelligence conveyed in my letter of a late date,
may have prepared you for the heart-rending tidings which it is
now my duty to communicate to you, which will need the exer-
tion of all your fortitude to bear. Our dear aunt Nancy-our
more than mother, is no more ! She breathed her, last this
morning, at half-past three o'clock. For several days she had
been failing very sensibly, and suffering much; for twenty hours
previous to her death she was conscious of the near approach of
dissolution, and almost the last attempt she made to speak, was
to express her willingness to yield herself up to that God whom
she had worshipped so faithfully, and whose commands she had
so constantly obeyed. As the awful moment approached, her
sufferings, with her strength, became less, and she at length sunk
without a groan into the arms of her blessed Redeemer, passing
away as softly and as gradually as the dew before the sun. She
retained her consciousness to the last, and it is a great consola-
tion that she died so easily, and that during all her illness she
was so patient and resigned.
"The extraordinary reciprocal affection subsisting between you


144

EMMA STANLEY, ORt TIHE ORPHANS.

a
_ #
.
,  ,
$_

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

145

and our dear aunt, must make the news of her death a great
shock to you; but you should collect all your fortitude, and con-
sole yourself with the reflection that our loss is her gain, and that
she has left this world of woe, this scene of toil and suffering,
for that blessed region 'where the wicked cease from troubling,
and where the weary are at rest.' Do not, my dear brother,
give way to the violence of your grief ; for her situation is now
made infinitely better, and we should not selfishly regret it.
"Adieu, my dear brother !      That God may bless you, and
console you, is the fervent prayer of
"Your affectionate brother,           JARED."
CHAPTER         LII.
"Though the billows of life around thee should roll,
Anid the vwater, of darkness break over thy soul ;
Though thhabrow should be clouded with sorrow or care,
Yet there is a promise-then 'never despair!
For that promise is life, in bright heaven above,
Wherejustice is throned with sweet mercy and love;
Where blessings immortal and glories divine,
For the chosen of God everlastingly shine.
Then cling not to earth with its struggle and strife,
Let it crush not thy spirit, though it darken thy life?'
are some who seem to have been born as marks for the
arrows of adversity, which are poured upon them unceasingly
and unrelentingly, and yet who appear to be gifted with a high
hope, which, however frequent or acute their sufferings, never
permits them to despair. Such was the case with Jared Stan
lev.   lie seemed to have been placed here to show how much
could be unsinkingly borne by one who cheerfully submitted to
his Maker's will; to show how far a trusting reliance upon God,
and a true heart of hope, could lift its possessor above every ill
to which flesh is heir ; and truly he was sorely tired ! Upon the
death of his aunt, he felt himself the immediate protector of
Emma, and the source from whence her wants would be supplied.
and therefore lie went to sea with a double object for his exer-
tions. He was bound for Antwerp, and was wrecked on his out-
ward passage, escaping only with his life. . He returned to
America, but the state of his purse forbade his going to see his
sister as he desired ; and as he sailed from Charleston, South
Carolina, two letters from thence was all that she had to assure
her that she was still loved by him with undiminished affection.
As one of those letters is characteristic of his hopeful disposition,
we will give it entire.

Letter fromu Jared Stanley to Emma.
"CHARLESTON, Jan. 2, 18-.
"My DEAR EMMA
"We hauled into the stream this morning, and should have
sailed, but the wind being variable, and rainy weather, the pilot
did not think it a good time to go. So while we are laying here
at anchor, I will once more scribble you a line or two, if it be
only to tell you that I have nothing to say.
"As this may be the first letter you receive this year, and
being the first that I have written, it may not be amiss to wish
you a happy new year, which I am sure I do with all my heart.
We are now bound to Malaga, and from thence to Cuba, and per-
haps we may go from Cuba to Cadiz before we return to the
United States : thus my wandering profession drives me like a
vagrant all over this wide world, and my last voyage, owing to
my losing every thing by the wreck, was to me a truly disastrous
one ; but hope was early instilled into my heart, and I never
give it up under the most adverse circumstances. I often think
of the proverb, that 'the finest days do in the morning lower;'
and perhaps the distresses we now endure may be designed to
teach us pity for the woes of others, and to make us grateful for
the benefits that we are yet to receive. When smarting under
the stroke of misfortune, I console myself by considering that I
may have pleasure in reversion ; and while I look forward with
hope myself, I would point the bright vision out to you, though
the vista through which we behold the glorious sight may be
most gloomy.
"I am glad to hear from you, that you are still pleased with
your situation, and to see by Mrs. Campbell's postscript, that
your teachers are pleased with you. Remember the comforts
you will enjoy, or the unhappiness you will endure, will depend
in a great measure upon your own conduct. You have a great
share of resolution, and I believe your integrity has never been
impeached. Continue to preserve it inviolate, and let your for-
titude always be exerted in a good cause. Write to tie with
confidence. Tell me all your hopes and fears. I shall always
write to you with the most perfect freedom, and I trust that you
will, through your life, ever practise the candor and ingenuous-
ness which has hitherto characterized you; and I shall continue
to look forward with pleasing anticipation to the time when I
shall embrace you, improved in mind and person.
"Were it not for my having been shipwrecked during ihy last
voyage, of whih I wrote you an account when I first arrived in
port--but even in that event I was fortunate to get an immediate
7

i
p

4
B


146         EMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
passage home, and to be able to get into employ as soon as I
got here, so you see there is nothing so bad but it might have
been worse ;-I say, had I not been shipwrecked, I should have
been able to come and see you, and to have done something for
you ; but as it is, my dear Emma, I have only to hope that the
times will change with both of us ; and whatever that change
may bring to light, I do not think it will ever contradict me
when I call myself
"Your affectionate brother,        JARED."
CHAPTER       LIII.
"Though the wings of thy spirit be broken and crushed,
And the voice that thou luved'st in eternity hushed ;
Though death blight thy prospect of all that was fair,
vet thine is a promise-then 'never despair !'"
THE quiver of adversity was not yet empty ; it still contained
some arrows for our noble-hearted hero. Jared performed his voy-
age prosperously until he neared the American coast, when they
were overtaken at night by a severe storm, which drove them on
the headland of Cape Fear, and again he was wrecked. The
crew were nearly all saved, but some of them were not even as
fortunate as that. Again was Jared destitute and penniless,
just before the joyful anticipation of seeing his sister could be
realized.
It was in the last of June that he arrived in Charleston, and
to add to his distresses, a few days after he got there he was
taken with the yellow fever. A hospital was his only resource.
He, the wealthy born, the finely educated, the talented, the
noble and the good, was consigned to a ward of one of those
receptacles of the wretched: here he remained until he was able
to walk about the streets. He then endeavored to get into some
employ, but no captain would receive a mate who had just risen
from a sick bed.
During all his 'sickness his thoughts had constantly turned to
his sister, and one day while wandering in the streets, endeavor..
ing to meet with some one who would want a mate, and be will-
ing to employ him, he came across a Captain Lewis, over whom,
as a cabin-boy, he had once held control, and in gratitude for
Jared's former kindness to him, he gave him passage to New-
port, whither he was bound ; and he was soon receiving from
Emma tears of sympathy, which were all she had to give: But
it was enough to soothe his wounded spirit. He remained with

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.            147
her until he concluded that he had acquired sufficient strength to
be able to get into employment, and not finding any there, he
determined to go to New York to seek it. He took leave of
Emma, who smiled as she gave him a parting kiss ; but after he
had gone a few steps he thought of some last words that he was
desirous to say to her, and he returned to her room. He found
her weeping convulsively. "Why do you weep ?" said he, affec-
tionately embracing her.
"For you," she replied.
"Oh, do not weep for me," said he; "I shall shortly return
to see you; better off, too, I hope, than I am now."
"No, Jared, you are going, and you are not able to go. You
cannot deceive me. I know you are not well enough to encoun-
ter the hardships of your profession. Oh ! if I could only go
with you, to nurse you if you were sick, I should then be
satisfied."
"And would you go, my dear sister, if you could ?"
"Would I ! Oh yes, with joy."
"Well, then, will you solemnly make me one promise, that
from the day you are seventeen years old, should we both live
to see that time, always to accompany me in all my voyages ?"
"Yes, solemnly will I promise, and gladly will I perform."
"I am in hopes to be the captain of a ship before that time."
"Whether you are captain or mate, will you let me go.?"
"Yes ; and. your being with me will add greatly to my hap-
piness ; but we must not talk of this now, for I must leave you."
He said all he could to cheer her, and after she had become
composed, he kissed her again, strained her once more to his
breast, and left her to mourn his absence.
After some difficulty he succeeded in getting a situation as
mate of a packet, which plied between New York and Charles-
ton. But he had overrated his strength. The service which
his situation required, and which he diligently labored to perform,
exhausted recovering nature ; and in his second voyage to
Charleston, as he was one day giving orders to the men, he fell
down in a fit. The next day the vessel arrived in port, and he
was carried on shore, and again committed to the hospital, and
on the third he died, pronouncing blessings on his sister. Death
sealed his utterance with her name upon his lips!
The news was conveyed to Emma by an old sailor who had
been appointed her brother's nurse, and the tears ran down his
weather-beaten face as he told the direful tale.
And how was Emma affected by it? It was a shock from
which she never entirely recovered.. To her Jared had united

I

.
:Y
a
fi
:}

s
,,
i
'
a


14S         EMMA STANLEY, OR TIlE ORPHANS.
the characters of father, brother, guardian, friend. It was to
him that she had told all her joys. It was into his ear that she
had poured all her sorrows. And thus to lose him !-to know
that there was no loved one near him to catch his last words-
to hear his last request ; that his couch was tended only by one
of the sailors of the ship, who, however attached he might be,
could but illy supply the place of a sister who loved him. Such
harrowing thoughts added three-fold agony to the acuteness of
separation.  For many months her buoyancy of spirit entirely
deserted her, for she had a load of anguish at her heart.  Grief
dulled the lustre of her eyes, and a smile could scarcely be called
upon her lips.  She would sit for hours and gaze upon vacancy,
while her thoughts were hovering round the nameless grave of
him for whom, had it been possible to recall him to life, she
would have cheerfully yielded up her crushed and wounded
soul. This blow, so sudden, so severe, had an effect to change
her character in some degree for life. Hitherto she had been
wild as the young fawn of the desert, with no thought for the
future but such as was whispered by hope. Henceforth she
learned to fear the future, and to gild it with no bright anticipa-
tions ; and it was seldom that she ever after had those bursts of
careless joy which before had always characterized her. In short,
it awaked her to the full perception of the sad realities of an or-
phan's life. Now she was indeed alone. Her brother Richard
was in Alabama, and she, with no relative upon whom she could
rest all her burden of affections, and with no guide but the re-
membrance of the counsels of those who were gone.
CHAPTER        LIV.
The gloomiest soul is not all gloom;
The saddest heart is not all sadness;
And sweetly o'er the darkest doom
'There shines some lingering beam of gladness.-HEMANs.
BUr in this hour of desolation Emma was not left alone and
forgotten. He to whose care she had been so often and so sol-
emnly committed-the Strength of those who have no helper-
raised her up another friend in her hour of need. Let the or-
phan place her trust upon His arm who is mighty to save, and
it will never be placed there in vain. Richard came to her aid
when she needed his services. At the time that he heard of his
brother Jared's death, he was just recovering from a long and
severe fit of illness, the expenses of which left him considerably

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.           149
in debt, but he hesitated not to come to the aid of her who was
yet more destitute than himself. With a generosity truly noble,
he was willing to deny himself yet longer the hope of being uni-
ted to her who was the loadstone of his affections; for he was
well aware that to burden himself with the support of another,
would be narrowing his own means of living, and consequently it
would be deferring his union with Miss Dampier ; but when his
friends required his assistance he thought not of himself. He
accordingly wrote to her, urging her to come to Alabama ; send-
ing her a hundred dollars, and offering to find her a protector on
the journey.
She would gladly have accepted this first invitation, but the
lady under whose charge she was placed, refused to allow her
to do so unless with the consent of Mr. Witherington ; and he,
with the true spirit that had always characterized him, refused
it, for no other reason but because she was so anxious to go.
She was, therefore, obliged to decline ; for what could a girl of
thirteen years of age do against the will of those who pretended
to control her? She therefore continued at school, and, as far
as the gloom which the death of her brother had cast over her
spirit permitted, she pursued her studies ; but she wrote to
Richard how much she desired to be with him, who was now the
only being whom death had spared for her to love.
That summer had deprived Richard of his friend, Mr. Wil-
liams, under whose protection he went to Alabama, and the
other partner of the house, knowing Richard's business habits
and his integrity, and being aware how valuable a member this
would make him of-the firm, made him an offer of Mr. Williams's
place, and when the following autumn came, it found him in
much superior circumstances to what he had been the year be-
fore. Again he wrote to Emma, making her the same offer that
he had done the year before, and again Mr. Witherington op-
posed her going ; but gifted with a spirit of independence superior
to most of her sex, and a firmness of purpose that nothing could
shake, she boldly told her uncle that she had once submitted to
his opposition, but that henceforth it would be vain ; that her
brother Richard was the only one upon *hose kindness she had
a claim, and that she should write to him, that he might appoint
her escort on the way; for she would go to him; that if he
gave his consent it was well; but if not, she would go without
it, and if he attempted to stop her, she would elude his vigi-
lance; but go she would.
He felt that it would be worse than useless for him to inter-
pose his authority, and he then took another course, and endeav-


150         EMMA STANLEY, OR TILE ORPHANS.
ored to dissuade her from going, by representing in the most
frightful colors all the inconveniences to which she would be
exposed. He also tried to excite her fears, by assuming the
kindness of a friend, and depicting the dangers of the climate ;
but he might as well have talked to the wind, as far as the effect
of his eloquence was concerned, for she had too just an appre-
ciation of his character to let it move her resolves. She acted
as she had said she would. She wrote to her brother Richard,
telling him that she would joyfully accept his offer, and she be-
gan to make immediate preparations for her departure, and in the
month of September she received, with joy, the protector to
whom her brother consigned her.
CHAPTER       LV.
To meet, to p art, to smile-
To shed the frequent tear-
The hope to win-the joy to love-
This is our history here:
To find the rose, whose bloom
By no dark blight Is riven-
To meet and never more to part,
Is not of earth, but heaven.-L. H. SIGOURNEY-
HER last visit ere she left her native city was to Mrs. Chap-
man, to whom she was sincerely attached, and whom she much
regretted to leave. It was early in the afternoon when she went
to see her, and night was drawing her sombre curtain over the
earth when she rose to depart.
"My dear Emma," said Mrs. Chapman, "you are about leav-
ing me for the home of a brother, to whom you are attached not
only by the ordinary ties of kindred, or by his present kindness,
but also by the remembrance of the many virtues which adorned
his character in boyhood, and which his letters give assurance
are interwoven in the wreath which affection sees placed upon
his manly brow. I feel confident, my dear child, that he will
not fail to give you that guidance which your youth must neces-
sarily need ; but yet I cannot part with you, knowing that it is
in all probability forever, without mingling some words of advice
with my parting blessing ; for I have alwayswished to see you
one of the most perfect of female characters. You have received,
in the example and precept of your beloved aunt, those incen-
tives to remember your Creator in the days of your youth, which
even my parting advice can hardly strengthen ; but should you
ever depart from his law, I hope, as your thoughts fondly, turn

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHfANS.          151
to the home of your childhood, it will, like the Israelites turn-
ing towards their temple, bring back your thoughts to him. A
mind like yours will require constant watchfulness and culture.
It cannot lie idle, but must be continually engaged in good or
evil. Let it be your every-day care to cure every defect, and to
improve every virtue, and I wish you to notify me of every tri-
umph which you gain over that worst enemy of us all-self. I
trust that you will never have a deviation from the path of right
to record.
"I hope, my dear child, that in all the employments and
new scenes which will unavoidably occupy your mind in your
new home, you will often remember me. I would chain my
mind to yours by such every-day associations that you cannot
avoid often thinking of me. I would have you think of me
among the flowers, with which I hear the woods of that delight-
ful clime are richly dressed ; and let the beauteous display of
their varied forms, colors, and properties, exalt your mind to Him
who clothes the lilies and listens to the raven's cry ! Think of
me in your twilight walks, and recall the many questions pro-
posed, and meant to convey lessons of instruction adapted to
your tender years, at that calm, peaceful hour ! Think of me,
when you are diligently plying the knitting or sewing needles,
and remember the striving, hiding in corners and concealments in
various places, that you might surprise your aged competitor
with your wonderful achievements ! Think of me as I often sat
by the side of your respected and worthy aunt, while you were
listening to the maternal counsels conveyed in the dulcet sound
of her pleasant voice, and doubtless treasured -in your memory,
and tending more than any other code of morals to the formation
of your character ; and while these reminiscences of former times
cross your mind, with many others 'which I omit mentioning, and
to your vivid imagination represent things long gone by as pres-
ent realities, remember the blessing which in God's name I now
bestow upon you, and forget not, my dear Emma, to pray with fer-
vency to Him who alone can give it effect." She paused for an in-
stant, and then raised her hands above the head of the young girl
who stood before her. "May God's blessing mingle with and give
effect to mine !" said she. "May it rest upon you, and may its
sanctifying influence be with you through this vale of tears, and
prepare you for a better country ! May you enjoy all good
here, and.may we meet in heaven; for my great age precludes
the hope that we shall ever again see each other here !" She
folded her arms around her as she ceased, and it was affecting
to see that aged saint-like mortal, mingling her tears with those

I

i


EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

I

of the child. Again and again she pressed Emma to her heart ;
again and again she kissed her, and for some time seemed una-
ble to summon fortitude to bid her adieu. "You must leave
me, my child," said she, "and forever, and thus lengthening our
separation only adds force to its agony. May God bless you!-
Adieu !" Once more she pressed her to her heart, unclasped
her arms, turned and left the room. Emma sat down for a few
moments, and after a struggle with her feelings, regained her
composure sufficiently to return to that home which she had
inhabited since her aunt's decease, and to which she was soon
to bid adieu forever.
CHAPTER        LVI.
Oh point to Heaven
Thy holy thought, and bright
And soaring hopes, that were not given
For the touch of mortal blight !-IIKMANs.
EMMA arrived safely in Alabama, and she remained in Mobile
until her brother went down to bring her to his house. When
he came in she did not know him, for it was six years from the
time that he had left Newport ; but as soon as he pronounced her
name she remembered him, for as he spoke he smiled, and there
are but few persons whose smile is easily forgotten. They ascended
the Tombigbee River in one of the first steamboats that had
ever navigated that stream, and they were four days performing
the journey. When she arrived at St. Stephens she wrote to
Mrs. Chapman accounts of every thing she saw, drawn with the
glowing pencil that youth only uses, and so brilliantly colored
with joy, that they told to the anxious heart of her friend that
the new scenes into which she was ushered had given fresh vigor
to her spirits, and for a while, at least, had renewed her buoyancy
of spirit. The society of her brother, to whom she was devotedly
attached, was enough of itself to render her happy for a time ;
but besides that, every thing possessed the charm of novelty, and
what youthful heart is dead to that charm!
After she had been in St. Stephens about a month, Richard
described to her the character of Miss Mary Dampier, and told
her that he had serious thoughts of presenting her to her as her
sister-in-law, and she was delighted to hear the news; for she had
none of that mean jealousy in her disposition, which would lead
her to think lightly of one who was only a relative by marriage:

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

153

on the contrary, she had full faith in her brother, and she was
confident that any one whom he would choose for a wife must be
worthy of all her love. During the first summer of her residence
in Alabama, she received the following, among many other letters,
from Mrs. Chapman:
Letter from Mrs. Chapman to Emma.
"NEwroRT, Oct. 30, 18-.
"My DEAR EMMA:-
"November, the month appointed by Mr. Swinton and family
for taking leave of Newport and embarking on their Alabama
expedition, is just at hand ; I would not be unprepared for a greet-
ing of my Alabama children (yourself and brother) in their com-
pany. It was my intention- to have taken a larger paper, and
filled it to overflowing-with what? truly with what many would
consider the garrulous scribblings of impotent dotage.
"You may ask my reason for contemplating such lengthy
dispatches, and your habits of mind being rather argumentative,
I will tell you. In the first place, leaving every thing coming
under the head of intelligence to the oral communication of Mrs.
Swinton, whom you knew as Miss E. Beekam, I thoughtof much
to say to you in the character of an ancient friend. How are
you stocked with patience, dear Emma? for in asking you this
question, I presume that you have not been unmindful of study-
ing your own character. Abundance of leisure, and ample means
of forming correct views of your interior self, have doubtless led
to a just estimate of the different ingredients that compose at
least one human mind and heart. Have your searchings of heart
brought to light hidden imperfections-some requiring to be
pruned as valuable though redundant, others to be wholly'ex-
tirpated as worthless or injurious?
"You may, and not unlikely will, smile at my letter assuming
so much the form of a lecture. I have neither the desire nor the
talent for sermonizing ; but you are often in my thoughts as the
little, feeble pet of your beloved aunt, whose memory I shall
ever venerate, and knowing it her supreme desire that the chil-
dren she reared with tender affection should become real Chris-
tians, I am impelled by my own wishes to 'that consideration,
and my advanced age forcibly reminding that every letter may
be my last, to enforce upon you, my dear Emma, the necessity,
in order to insure your happiness, of your choosing that good
part that can never be taken away from yoti.
"It may be thought selfish or unkind to rejoice in the regrets
of those we love. Much as I wish you spared from all painful
?1*

I


154         EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.
remembrances, I certainly felt a pleasure in your expression of a
wish to revisit the scenes of your childhood, the friends by whom
you are fondly remembered, and especially the temple where you
were first taught to bow the knee in humble praise and adoration
to the 'Father of mercies,' among his worshipping people. It
is greatly to be lamented that no church is established in St.
Stephens; but happy for us-that our God is not confined to
temples made with hands : everywhere present, his parental care
is over all his works, and his ear equally open to the cries of
his sincere disciples, when ascending meekly from the cottage,
the hill, or the vale, in confession, supplication, and praise, as
from the loftiest edifice, decked with its imposing splendors, that
was ever reared by mortal man. While you possess your Bible
and opportunities for retirement, you may not unfrequently hold
sweet communion with the 'Father of spirits.'
"Write to me frequently, my dear child, and give me every
little item of intelligence respecting yourself and household, no
article of which will be void of interest, and none unwelcome to,
"Yours truly and tenderly,
"B. CHAPMAN."
CHAPTER       LVII.
Thou hast a charmed cup, O Fame!
A draught that mantles high,
And seems to lift this earth-born frame
Above mortality:
Away! to me-a woman-bring
Sweet waters from affection's spring.--HMAns.
ONE misfortune after another assailed Mr. Witherington. The
policy of insurance for an extensive range of buildings, containing
stores, warehouses, and dwelling-houses, had expired, and he had
of late been so immersed in business, endeavoring to repair several
heavy losses that he had sustained, that, contrary to his usual
custom of renewing it on the day previous to its expiration, he
had that once delayed it, though he had determined not to put
it off beyond the next day ; but when the next day came, the
resolve was vain. An extensive fire, which, frora the violence of
the wind, defied the efforts of the firemen, broke out in a house
adjoining the range belonging to him. It swept every thing be-
fore it, and as his own otlice was on fire before he could reach
the spot, many of his most valuable papers were destroyed, and
he was irretrievably ruined. The distress consequent upon that
knowledge so preyed upon his mind as to produce a fever, of

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.           155
which he died in a few weeks ; but he died as he had lived, a.
votary of the world; and his last breath was expended in lament-
ing his fate, and cursing the misfortunes that produced it. A few
days, however, before his death, he called Harriet to his bedside,
and related to her truly every circumstance concerning his
last interview with Mr. Thorn. "I have observed," added he,
"your pallid cheek, and the little interest with which you looked
on life ; but while I live I would not that he should know that
I ever regretted. the act which deprived me of a son-in-law whom
I have always honored in my thoughts, even against my will;
but I hope that after I am gone, you will be his wife, for then
he will be unable to reproach me even with a look ; -and it is my
last command to you, if I should die-and poor as I now am I
don't care to live-if I should die, Harriet, remember that I com-
mand you to write to him that I amno more. Tell him that I
deceived you with regard to his motives for deserting you, and
that in my last sickness I told you all the truth, and desired that
he might yet be united to you."
"Oh, my father !" said Harriet, "I cannot so expose you ;
neither can I become a suitor for his love."
"Obey me !" said he, preserving his sternness and his love of
power to the last ; "you cannot, you dare not, refuse to do as I
bid you. Did you not at my bidding send back his letter un-
opened, and because you now apologize, do you call it stooping?
No ! and unless you wish to have my curse rest upon your head,
you will obey me. And as to exposing me, think you that I
care for aught the world can say of me when I am out of it?
No, I care not."
But Harriet needed not to obey his last command ; for Mr.
Thorn happened to be in Newport on the day of her father's
death, and he not only attended the funeral, but the next day
wrote to her a note, asking her if a visit from one who yet loved
her would be unpleasant. She sent him permission to come,
and before the day had ended, every misunderstanding was ex-
plained, every offence forgiven, and they had anew plighted to
each other their mutual love.
Mr. Thorn was urgent for Harriet to complete his happiness
by giving him her hand as soon as possible ; he appeared to fear
that something else might intervene to separate them; and as
soon as she could consent to leave her widowed mother, who re-
fused to desert her own home for that of another, she promised
to give him her hand; and about three months after her father's
death, she fixed the day of their marriage on the next Thursday.
Harriet looked forward to the period with happy anticipation;


156          EMMA STANLEY, OR TILE ORPHANS.
not so Lucy-the gloom   of envy and disappointment settled on
her face when she reflected that her sister, whom she had ever re-
garded as inferior to herself, and had looked upon with contempt,
because she was less highly gifted by nature than herself, was
about being married to a man to whom even her envy could find
no objection ; and still was that bitterness increased by the
knowledge that their union would be one of fervent reciprocal
love, that neither time, absence, nor misrepresentation, could de-
stroy: and then, to dwell upon the contrast of her own fate-
for she, with all the advantages that she fancied she possessed
over her sister, had failed to touch the heart of him who had
gained her own-and though for several years she had been fol-
lowed, praised, and flattered ; though she had been called the
belle of the city, and had reigned supreme as the queen of fash-
ion ; had had her society courted by the aristocratic, the wealthy,
and the proud,-yet she had failed to gain the love of any one
being whom she could respect, esteem, and love in return !
CHAPTER        LVIII.
And there the water lifts no wave
To the breeze wo fresh and cool,
But lies within the dark rock's curve,
Like a black and gloomy pooL
Its depth is great,-a stone thrown in
11Mbh a dull descending sound ;
The plummet hath not there been cast
Which resting-placenth found-.caas. NORTON.
NOT far from the city, just where the ocean beats against the
rocky barrier which on that side says to it, "Here shall thy proud
waves be stayed !" at that place is a remarkable cavity, a round
hole in the rock, about eight feet in diameter, which is soundless
as far as experience has proved-for many have attempted to
fathom  it, but so far without success.  Upon a stone being
thrown into it, it bounds from side to side, until the sound dies
away in the distance, and is heard no more. This place is called
"Purgatory," from   the following circumstance: A few years
after the first settlement of Newport, there came two Catholic
priests to the village for the purpose of making converts to their
faith. At first they were very cautious and prudent in the prop-
agation of their doctrine ; but as they found several to listen at-
tentively to what they advanced, and were treated with respect
by most of the tolerant disciples of Roger Williams, they became
bolder in advancing the peculiar tenets of their faith. Finally,
they went to the dwelling of a fisherman, who had built his but

EM MA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.          157
just below the ledge of rock which formed one side of this cav-
ity of which we have been speaking, in order to have its shelter
from the blasts. The fisherman was of violent temper ; and it
was whispered about that the cause of his coming to America
was his having been guilty of parricide in England during a fit
of passion. However that may be, he was so hasty that few
cared to cross his humor. One day, as this man was spreading
his nets to dry, he was accosted by one of these zealous enthu-
siasts, who began to'talk to him concerning the peculiar doctrines
of his faith. At first old Simon listened to him without evincing
any other sign of anger than a contraction of the brow, for he
thought that the Roman Catholics were the favorite emissaries of
Satan, yet there was something so persuasive and gentle in the
old priest, that for a while it had its effect even on his savage
nature ; but when become emboldened by his forbearance, the
priest began to urge upon him the pangs of purgatory, old Si-
mon's nature could bear no more. The wrath, which had be-
come so much the greater from its unaccustomed restraint, burst
forth with unusual violence-he foamed at the mouth, he gnashed
his teeth, and at last, springing upon the priest like a tiger upon
his prey, he caught him in his arms, and, dashing him down the
cavity which was gaping so temptingly before him, told him
now, if it were possible, to pray himself out of purgatory ! The
other priest was witness to the startling deed ; but he knew
that the prejudice against his sect was too violent, and old Si-
mon itoo much feared, for him to hope for redress, and fearing
for his own life also, he wisely left the place. And it is to its
being the scene of this tragedy, that it owes the name of Purga-
tory, which it has ever since retained.
At the time of which we speak, it was a fashionable promenade
for the young of both sexes. Every vestige of old Simon's but
had disappeared, and since the event from which it took its
name, many had been the tale of love which had been breathed
over that soundless chasm. The view was one of the finest on
the whole island. The glassy surface of the bay stretched far
beyond the extent of vision. The distant view of several small
islands, which seemed to lie upon the water as if they had gone
to sleep upon its bosom at the setting of the sun, and the dis-
tant hum of the busy city which reached the ear in. such low
murmurs as only to increase the quietness of the scene, altogether
made it a place much frequented by the happy whose spirits
sought repose; or the wretched, who, in the peaceful communion
of nature which this place afforded them, had their sorrows
stilled, if not forgotten.


158

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

This was a favorite walk with Lucy Witherington ; and on
the Sunday evening previous to the Thursday fixed for Harriet's
wedding, she sought with young Coleman this rocky shore.
They had walked on some time in silence ; but it was broken by
his urging her to fix a day for the fulfilment of a promise which
she had made him long before.
"I have long doubted the reality of such love as men vaunt
of possessing too much to be willing to give it the test which
it will be obliged to bear, if I set a definite day for our long-
deferred union."
"Is it possible, Lucy, that after my long-tried constancy of
affection, you can doubt me?  Put my love of you to any trial,
and see if I shrink from it! I would go through the fire to serve
you, if I could be rewarded for so doing by the possession of
your hand."
She smiled with incredulity and scorn upon him as he spoke,
for in her heart she despised him; and, as she once confessed to
her sister, she only waited for a more eligible offer to cast his
love back unreturned into his bosom.
"You smile," said he, observing her beautiful mouth curling
with contempt : "if you still doubt me, why not ask some
proof ?"
"And if I ask it, will you give it ?"
"Try mc !"
As he spoke they had just arrived at the brink of the cavity
above described. "Jump across this chasm," said she.
"And if I do, and alight safe on the other side, will you give
me your hand next Thursday ?"
"Yes," she replied, and again her lip curled with withering
scorn. She did not think that he would dare attempt it, fnd if
he did, she hoped that he might fail.
But that smile that he again noticed nerved him with courage
to make the attempt ; but it also created towards herself, in his
bosom, a feeling nearer akin to hatred than to love, to think that
she could thus needlessly and heartlessly peril the life of one
whom for four years she had professed to love, and to whom
she had then plighted her hand, and pretending to give her
heart had never cancelled that engagement. "Then swear it !"
said he, in a tone that startled her, as he rather roughly seized
her arm. "Swear it, in the sight of yon heaven, earth, and sea,
that next Thursday you will become my wife."
Hitherto she had found him the servile tool of her wishes, and
she was frightened by his sudden violence, to yield to his de-
mand.

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.            159
"I swear it," said she faintly.
"Nay !" said he, "not such an oath as that ; but repeat my
words : I swear by the heaven above me, by the hell below,
and earth around, that next Thursday we will become man and
wife, and as I fulfil my oath, so help me God ! Amen. While
he spoke he had still maintained his hold upon her arm, and had
glared upon her as if unless she complied his vengeance would
be sudden and severe. The silence of the scene, and his stern
manner, made her fear that if she disobeyed he might repeat
towards her the act of old Simon to the priest ; and she slowly
pronounced after him the oath he dictated. He then looked
carefully round and prepared to spring; but as he jumped the
terrible truth flashed across her mind, that if he were killed, she
would be his murderess, and she reached out her hand to catch
him; but he sprang before she could touch him, and safely
reached the other side of the cavity, and then turned round to
look upon his victim.
She was standing with her arms outstretched, just as she had
bent forward to catch him, and pale as death, and the horror
depicted in her countenance somewhat softened his feelings to-
wards her.
He walked slowly round to the spot where she stood, and
took her hand. "I am safe !" said he, "and now remember
your oath !"
His voice restored her to immediate self-possession. "Let us
go home; let us leave this hated place."
"Say, rather," he replied, "this blessed place, which has at
last put an end to my suspense."
She replied not; but turning from the spot they walked slowly
and silently homeward.
CHAPTER LIX.
"Her timid thoughts win almost ask,
If this be happiness?
The bursting of the heart she feels
Beneath her last caress."
THE eventful Thursday at length arrived, and the double mar-
riage of Mr. Thorn with Harriet, and Mr. Coleman with Lucy,
was to be celebrated. The marriage ceremony was to be per-
formed in church, and the two happy Couple were immediately
to start away ; Mr. Thorn and his lady to New Haven, and Mr.


1

160

E1tA 7STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

Coleman and his lady on a visit to his father, who lived in the
southern part of Vermont, among the mountains. The word
happy might well be applied to Mr. Thorn and Harriet, who
were united from motives of sincere and mutual affection ; but
ah ! hew illy was it applied to the others ; for Lucy regarded Mr.
Coleman with a mingled feeling of hatred, disgust, and fear ; and
though he had as much affection for her as his nature was capa-
blt of feeling, yet there were, perhaps, never two more unlike in
all their sentiments, feelings, and propensities, united in hymeneal
bands. His was a nature which never forgave or forgot an injury,
whether supposed or real, whether intended or accidental; and
consequently deep and long might she expect his revenge to be,
for the test to which she had subjected his love ; and though she
had married him because his wealth would enable her to enjoy
all those luxuries, and all that pride and display to which she had
been accustomed, had she seen correctly into his disposition, few
of those indulgences would she have expected to receive, for he
was niggardly to excess. 'Tis true, that as far as self was con-
cerned, few could be more liberal; but his bounty never extended
beyond that narrow limit, and little likely would he be brilliantly
to add new beauties to her whom his natural jealousy would tend
to make him confine to his own sight only, or to bestow upon her
any means to excite that admiration from which he had determined
to debar her. He married her because she was a belle ; and as
he had many rivals, he gloried in bearing off the prize; but he
resolved from the hour which made her his own, that she should
be excluded from that society which constituted her only happi-
ness, and that the beauty which she so much prized should only
be exposed to his own admiring gaze. With such feelings to-
wards each other, small was the probability of their happiness.
George Witherington waited only until his sisters were married
to go to Alabama, and endeavor in that sunny clime to acquire a
fortune, which he had all his life expected to inherit, but which
he was now conscious that if he ever possessed, it must be the
fruit of his own exertions.
As the fortunes of the family sunk, Robert gave himself up
more and more to the brutal indulgence of the intoxicating bowl,
until he became a castaway from his family and friends.
Mrs. Witherington remained a while in Newport; but finding
her home too desolate, she yielded to the earnest solicitations of
Mr. Thorn and Harriet, and went to spend with them the re-
mainder of her days.
Our old friend, Miss Hoxie, survived but a few months the
death of her beloved Nancy. She appeared afterwards to have

EMMA STANLEY, OR THE ORPHANS.

161

no energy, and she lost all interest in every thing. For a few
weeks she went about the house like one who had no object in
life, and then she took to her bed, and without any apparent dis-
ease, and without any complaint, she went to meet in a better
world one whom she had followed so faithfully in this.
Mr. Chapman died soon after ; but Mrs. Chapman still sur-
vives in a green old age, and the mountains lift their majestic
brows, and mighty rivers roll their waters to the ocean, between
herself and Emma ; yet she still continues to be in part her guide
and counsellor, while to those in her immediate circle she is still
the Christian friend, the consoler of their troubles, and the cheer-
ful partaker of their delights ; but always taking every opportu-
nity, whether in sorrow or joy, to lift their souls to heaven and
make them thankful to the Giver of good, or resigned to the
afflictive providences of their Father and their God.
Richard is married to her who was the first and only idol of
his heart. Emma has seen, and seeing she has loved his wife ;
for it has been the lot of few to know, and not to love, her whom
we have known as Mary Dampier, but of whom we will take
leave as Mary Stanley. Perhaps at some future time we may
continue to trace the fortunes of Emma ; but at present our task
is finished, and we will leave her happy in her brother's home,
which she considers as a haven of rest, where she will enjoy a
life of contentedness and affection, and where a brother's love
can shield her from all the storms of care.
THE END.

i

.


                                                                                                                                                                 
             
         
       
   
