
    ----CITATION----
        Gardner, H. C., Mrs.. Extracts From the Diary of a Country Pastor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6506
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               EXTRACTS FROM THE DIARY OF A COUNTRY PASTOR. 
             
            BY MRS. H. C. GARDNER.
             
            
               CINCINNATI: 
               PUBLISHED BY POE & HITCHCOCK. 
               R. P. THOMPSON, PRINTER.
             
            1864. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, BY POE & HITCHCOCK, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. 
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            IN offering this little volume to the general reader the writer has but a word to say. Its title will give an idea of the scope of the work, and its perusal will show that in its principal incidents it is a transcript from real life. 
            It is, pleasanter to read truth than fiction, even when the plainer account may lack the graces of style and imagery; but, in narrating the simple occurrences which make up the following pages, the writer's only fear has been lest her plain and truthful statement of facts should unwittingly offend those who ignorantly hinder or discourage the pastor in his work. 
            If the different result should be attained of opening the eyes of indifferent Christians, or rather of fault-finding ones, to the difficulties and responsibilities of the pastor's work, to the high character of his mission, and to a consideration of his peculiar claims upon their sympathy and regard, the writer will have abundant cause to congratulate herself that her labor has not been in vain. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I. AN UNEXPECTED VACATION. 7
                
               II. PARSON MAGOG. 33
                
               III. OUR PARISH MENTOR. 65
                
               IV. THE OCEAN AND CLAM CHOWDER. 84
                
               V. A MINISTERIAL EXCHANGE. 103
                
               VI. STATIONED AT MIFFDOM. 128
                
               VII. CHESTNUTTING EXCURSION. 145
                
               VIII. A NEW LIGHT IN MIFFDOM. 169
                
               IX. FOURH QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AT MIFFDOM. 189
                
               X. STUDYING ECONOMY. 211
                
               XI. A NEW STATION. 223
                
               XII. A STORY CONTINUED. 231
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Extracts from the diary of a country pastor 
             
             
            EXTRACTS FROM A DIARY. 
             
               NUMBER I. 
               AN UNEXPECTED VACATION. 
               
                  LANSWOOD PARSONAGE, OCT. 4, 18-
                
               A BEAUTIFUL October morning! I sit by my study window and gaze out upon the glorious garniture of early Autumn; the; transient but inimitable colors with which the frost has touched the forest trees. All down the valley the silvery mist of the morning still lingers, the dark belts of pine across the plain are just visible through the haze, but beyond, and on either side where the hills rise so proudly, each rock and serried crag seems to have assumed a sharper outline, and every clump of furze, though miles away, is clearly defined, and adds its own purple softness to the view. 
                
               Nearer to me is life, human life. Strong men and robust women are gathering the plenteous harvest that God has given us, and the merry sound of the flail chimes with the merrier laughter of young men and maidens. 
               Extensive as is the prospect it does not begin to take in my whole parish. That cluster of white houses by the church, those large farmhouses north and south of us, which, with their various out-houses, seem to be villages by themselves, would seem to demand a church edifice much larger than our humble temple; but those families do not number one-third of those nominally under my care. Some of my people come from five and six miles distance, over rocky and irregular roads, over bleak hills in Winter and burning plains in Summer, yet these are my most constant hearers. When those who live scarce a stone's-throw from the church door are kept at home by the dangerous clouds of the Sabbath, I am sure to find these distant parishioners in their places. 
                
               Sunday is always a Sad day for me. Small as the church is the pews are never filled, unless a funeral, or a wedding, or a lecture upon some popular theme is to come off. No one seems to feel any special desire to listen to Gospel truth. I can not be indifferent to the fact that business and pleasure take precedence of religious duties even on the Sabbath. Only yesterday I heard two little boys, who are to work all the work at picking up potatoes, planning to have a fine time chestnutting next Sunday. How can I help feeling sad on the Sabbath? 
               One could not wish for a more cordial, kindhearted people, or for a pleasanter country location, and, after my twelve years' pastorate in various noisy villages, the change to this rural district was very refreshing for a time. The bustle and confusion that characterized every thing at Mill Creek, my last station, had upon my nervous system, and when began to take the place of discord, I was not capable of enjoying the blessing. I could only sigh for some remote corner where such sharp contentions should be morally impossible. It never occurred to me that the religious apathy that I find here could exist among thinking human beings. Can it be that those who are brought by their daily occupation into constant contact with the wonderful works of God should be those who most completely forget him? 
               Last week I went to New York. One of my brothers was to join his regiment at Washington, and wished me to meet him to take his directions in regard to his wife and his property, to be carried out in the event of his death. At first I thought I could not go, and that he would be obliged to intrust his message to our oldest Brother, who lives in Brooklyn; but my wife for the first time in her life resolutely set her face against my usual pastoral labors, and declared that I must, could, would, and should have a change of scene. She declared that I had become so dispirited in my work, so hopeless of awakening any interest in the people that it affected fected all I said and did. I knew that my health began to suffer, but I did not know till she told me that my sermons were as blue and yellow as myself, 
               "Decidedly bilious," said my wife, sportively, feeling my pulse. "Liver, that is, pluck, either torpid or gone altogether. For Speedy cure a short journey will be indispensable" 
               "Nonsense, Mary." 
               "Not at all, thank you. You will come back refreshed if you stay but a week. You will find that there is a little life left in the world yet; that stagnation is the exception not the rule." 
               "I can't go, Mary. Please say no more about it. I have no desire to go." 
               "You can go, Ernest, and I shall give you no peace if you don't. You can go to Boston to-morrow in time to take the cars for Stoning-ton, and on Tuesday morning you can surprise Dr. H. before he has time to go to his office. Dear me! what a Babel of chat you will have! It would be quite stunning to a woman. Now, don't shake your head, please, because you are booked for New York, and there is no use resisting fate. I expect you will be so inspired by the change that you will indite a rousing leader for Tuesday's paper, and let Doc. rest. Let me think. How many shirts shall I pack?" 
               "None, Mary. I must walk over to Brown Ridge to see Almon Prickett's sick mother as early as possible to-morrow. The old lady is failing, her son tells me." 
               "That dressing gown that I finished last week will be just the thing. You called it extravagant, but you see it is needed. The patched elbows of this old thing would not answer for high life." She lightly touched my sleeve as she spoke. "And as for the sick old lady, isn't Mrs. Dean coming to-morrow to take Hetty and me to her cranberry meadow, and don't we go' directly by Almon Prickett's door? I will take a little jar of jelly with me, so as to hear the old lady praise it." 
               "Pharisee!" I said, laughing as I had done many a time at my little wife's desire to know that her charities were duly appreciated. "But there is another objection, my dear-one too strong for you to dispose of." I took out and displayed the contents of my purse, which, all counted, amounted to four dollars and eleven cents. "It is all I have, Mary. It looks very little like going to New York." 
               "Poor little purse," said Mary, "it must be filled directly. Now for a rub at Aladdin's lamp." 
               I started at her in amazement, not surprised at her words, for she was ever rallying me in like manner; but as she spoke she laid three gold eagles upon the empty purse and placed it in my hand. Then starting back and rubbing her eyes in pretended astonishment, she exclaimed, "Well, I never before had any faith in those charming Arabian genii, but here is golden evidence in their favor." 
               "Is this-is this money ours, Mary?" I asked hesitatingly. 
                
               "It ought to be. I have earned it all since last Spring." 
               "How?" 
               "Why, in giving lessons in drawing. It is no secret. Have n't I talked to you about my wonderful gains every time that you have silly cautioned me not to get a fixed habit of gossiping abroad? Have n't you read Scripture at me, and composed little homilies for my special edification, and really felt hurt because I persisted in spending an hour every morning at Mrs. Allen's, where my class assembles? Let me think. What is that text you read so often? I ought to know it by heart. 'Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbor's house lest he become weary of thee and so hate thee.'" 
               I did not deny that my wife's sudden propensity for gadding abroad had considerably annoyed me, and that I had in various covert ways tried to make her see its impropriety. 
               "And you have really been teaching, Mary?" 
               "Yes. I knew you would need some recreation tion as soon as I saw this place, and the Sunday deportment of the people. I knew, too, that you would have no spare funds. So I put a little of my surplus talent into use, and when I saw how discouraged you were growing, I felt that I had done wisely, and persevered in spite of reproof and doctrine. Now, then, don't you believe you will go to New York?" 
               She would not let me thank her for her exertions, or listen to a word of my lecture about over tasking her own strength. And to all further objections to the recreation, which began to look desirable, she was deaf. 
               "But, Mary, who will supply my pulpit? I suppose you won't preach for me?" 
               "No; but I will ride over and get Mr. Lane, 'the locust preacher,' as aunt Debby calls him. He will be rejoiced to get the chance of holding forth. You know how he likes to 'magnify his office.' And if the people complain of his prosing, I shall tell them it serves them right for paying so little attention to their own pastor." 
                
               "If you would go too, Mary," I said a little doubtfully, for my wife greatly dislikes the bustle of city life. 
               "I go! What nonsense! I have a happier prospect before me. There are grapes to preserve, and quinces, too, catsup to make, pickles to see to, and the whole house is to be turned out of doors and cleaned." 
               "Indeed! Then I think I will go." 
               "Of course you will. There is no comfort in house-cleaning when there are men in the way." 
               My wife gained her point at last, and I left home the next morning. I must wait till to-morrow to narrate an incident of my journey that I wish to preserve here; for my eyes are perpetually wandering from my paper and drinking in the exquisite loveliness and glory of this Autumn landscape. Such rare combinations of colors! The purple ash and crimson maple, the fadeless cedars, brown hickories, and golden, feathery birches blend together and make the hill-sides like a dream of fairy-land. And just below me at the foot of the garden is the little lake fringed all around with willows. There is a boat in motion, and, though I can not see it, the plash of its oars falls musically upon the ear. It comes in sight now, and I rub my eyes in dismay, for I recognize in the occupants my own child Hetty, who is universally known as the biggest romp in the parish, a bareheaded, ragged boy from the poor-house, whom she has persuaded to help her navigate the frail skiff, and a huge Newfoundland puppy, belonging to neighbor Allen. 
               This is Hetty's hour for studying geography. While her mother is away busy with her drawing pupils, Hetty is expected to prepare her morning recitations. And this is how the lessons always are defective. I can not find it in my heart to scold the child. She is so happy and so affectionate that it is impossible to speak sternly to her. Now, with her bonnet thrown to the bottom of the boat, and her long hair blown back upon the breeze, she adds the finishing charm of life to the beautiful picture. But I must insist on Mary's restraining her more. She must, really must make her study more and frolic less. 
               
                  October 5th.-My journey to Boston was as monotonous as possible, and the two hours' detention there was not particularly exhilarating. There was no time to visit places of interest, and I felt too misanthropic and gloomy for social intercourse, although other gentlemen were waiting like myself. More than once I had nearly determined to go home in the return train, but I was ashamed to do that after Mary's generous self-sacrifice. We were half-way to Stonington before I began to rouse up and look about me. I was awakened by the cries of a child, and I saw that the seat in front of me was occupied by a young woman, plainly but decently dressed, but with an expression of anxiety on her face that instantly attracted me. She had a baby in her arms, and another, just big enough to walk, on the seat by her side. He was a bright little fellow, with great flashing black eyes and thick coils of chestnut curls clustering all over his head; but he did not seem to be well, and fretted continually for the soothing attention that he saw bestowed upon the more helpless babe in his mother's arms. There were several bundles and a carpet-bag piled one above another on the seat next to the window, and the little boy in his restlessness often displaced them, and they came rolling down upon the floor. I would like to see the man who would not have succumbed and hauled down his flag before such a complication of petty miseries. 
               The young mother bore up bravely. While hushing the baby and lulling it with a sweet, low lullaby to temporary quiet, she contrived also to coax the little boy's curly head to a pillow on her knee, and thus, doubly burdened, found means to divert his attention with a cheap picture-book. 
               But the weather outside grew dark and unpleasant. Thick clouds were slowly gathering their forces, and the wail of the wind was often heard above the noise of the engine. The anxious expression of the mother's face deepened as she watched the ominous signs that foretold a stormy night upon the Sound. There was a quick, tremulous motion of her lip at times, as if she were repressing the inclination to have a "hearty cry" over heir troubles. 
               I had just thought of what should have occurred to me a long time before, that it was possible for me to relieve her of a part of her burden, and was trying to drive myself out of my selfish isolation, by calling up all the good Samaritan thoughts that I had ever used in my sermons on practical benevolence, when an accession of passengers at a way-station obliged me to resign my seat to a lady, who actually thanked me for the civility. 
               Left again to myself, leaning against the door of the car I resumed the thread of gloomy Contemplation that had of late become habitual, and was soon lost in the old weary labyrinth of conjectures in regard to the state of my parish, its spiritual deadness, and the measures to be used to awaken any interest in religious things. I grew more and more sad and desponding as I meditated, and my cogitations were as fruitless as ever. I did not again think of the babies and their mother till we were about leaving the cars at Stonington. Happening then to glance down the car before getting out, I saw her looking about her with evident perplexity. The heavy rain was already pouring down, and the darkness outside was not very attractive even to unincumbered travelers. 
               I am ashamed to own that I did not offer my assistance. Mary says she will never believe it, that it is impossible for human nature to be so bearish, but the humiliating truth must be told. My own wretchedness and my sense of utter uselessness in my profession made me almost indifferent for the time to the claims of humanity. Still I was sensible of a feeling of surprise which gradually became indignation as I saw one lady after another unconcernedly pass by, and other gentlemen as heartless as myself ignoring her silent appeal to our sympathy. The car was emptied at last, though I still stood in the door hoping to see another do the Christian duty that I was so reluctant to perform, I could not leave her to her fate as the rest had done. 
               Just then some one entered the door at the other end, and I saw the young woman look eagerly round. She had again failed in her efforts to arrange babies and bundles for transportation to the boat. The new comer was a stout looking, elderly man, plain and almost shabbily dressed, with a great shock of red hair nearly lifting his hat off his head, and a round fat face deeply marked with the small-pox. He was whistling a lively air, which seemed to breathe a whimsical sort of defiance to the discomforts of the bleak night, but he stopped at once when he saw the helpless group before him. 
               "Going aboard, ma'am?" 
               "Yes, sir, as soon as I can." 
                
               "Good; so am I. Let me carry this youngster for you. I've got one at home just his size. Jehoshaphat! how nat'ral it seems I" said the man as he lifted the boy to his shoulder. The child stopped crying and laughed gleefully. 
               "And these bundles; are they yours, ma'am?" 
               "Yes, sir. Thank you, I can carry those very well. I can, indeed." 
               "That depends." He had already gathered them in his arms, and wrapped her thin shawl more closely around the baby. "Now we 're ready. Keep close, behind me, ma'am. It is but a few steps." 
               As they passed me in the door I seemed to awake from a horrid dream. My anxiety and morbid melancholy vanished. I suppose they could not stay in the same atmosphere with that man's blunt, cordial kindness. I envied him the luxury of doing what I ought to have done. After all, I said to myself, there is real good in the world-real Christian charity, living piety, and active benevolence. I followed close at the man's heels. We were jostled a little as we pressed through the throng, but were soon safely on board just in time to avoid being left behind. 
               "Here we are. A nice ride you've had, my little man." There was something absolutely inspiriting in that rough man's voice. "Now, ma'am, I '11 just take you bag and baggage down to the ladies' cabin, for it rains as if it meant to free its mind. You had better get those damp wrappings off as soon as you can. Come, it is but a step further." 
               She hesitated. "No, sir. Thank you. You have been very kind, but my ticket is only for a deck passage, and I have no money. I-I should not have attempted such a journey, sir, without more means, but I have just heard from my husband, who is returning from California and is sick in New York. He did not send for me, but I could not leave him to be nursed by strangers." 
               "Of course you could n't. But you must not stay here. You'll all catch your deaths if you do. Wait till I see the captain. I'll fix matters for you, never fear." 
               He trudged off to the captain's office, I still following. The captain glanced at the rough man and his rougher attire carelessly, and listened without much interest to his story till he bagged that the poor woman might be allowed to take her babies into the cabin. Then he assumed a very knowing look indeed. 
               "Is the lady a particular friend of yours?" he asked. "We are importuned every trip for especial accommodations for delicate ladies with gentlemen friends on board, all as poor as Job's turkeys. We serve them all alike, and each person gets what he pays for." 
               "Look here, sir, there's no call to insult any body. You've had a fair chance to act like a gentleman and a Christian, but I never quarrel with a man if he prefers acting like a heathen. How much do you charge for a cabin passage?" 
               "One dollar." 
               "There 's the money. I've got just seventy cents left. It will buy them a little supper, and I can go without mine." 
               The captain looked a little ashamed. He handed back half a dollar. 
               "I've no doubt it is all cheat and humbug," he said, "but if you are not telling the truth you lie so naturally that it is worth fifty cents to hear you." 
               "Thank you all the same," was the reply as the coin so ungraciously proffered was accepted. 
               I never saw a more grateful creature than that poor young woman when she found that her friend had secured a shelter for her. She cried with pleasure, and kissed his great freckled hands in a transport of thankfulness. He helped her to a comfortable seat, waited till a tray of refreshments was brought to her, then giving the stewardess a trifle to secure all necessary attention, he left her to enjoy the comforts he had provided. His berth in the cabin was just above mine, and, though he kept me awake half the night whistling softly to him self or humming tunes whenever he was not snoring, I forgave him with all my heart. I wrote to Mary in the morning that I had found a curiosity-a man with a soul as big as a cathedral. 
               I staid in New York a week. The civil war was the all-absorbing theme of discourse, and I heard speeches, witnessed parades, and heard discussions till I caught the glorious enthusiasm, and forgot all my little local difficulties in the greater interests of the nation. I visited many beautiful places, explored the magnificent Central Park from center to circumference, and thanked God in behalf of the poor, who can there breathe the fresh air of heaven. I saw many wonders of science and art, and from morn till night was kept continually on the move by my brother, who gave up his whole time to my amusement, stimulated thereto by a letter from my wife, who rightly guessed that no half measures would make me oblivious to my own disappointed hopes and borrowed troubles. 
               But the sweetest sight to me was when the slow-plodding coach stopped to leave me at my own door, and Mary, in her neat calico wrapper and prim little collar, radiant with delight at my return, came tripping down the walk to meet me at the gate. 
               
                  October 10th.-Mary is at Mrs. Allen's, busy with the continued drawing lessons, which she persists in calling "real fun." I know her well enough to guess that the "fun" will be in expending her earnings for those she loves. When she brushed my old over coat yesterday I saw plainly that its doom was sealed. I am sure I read rightly the smile which told of nearly means enough to purchase a new one. She is so happy in all this that I can not have the heart to object, though I fear she is often over tasked. 
               Hetty is swinging on the garden gate instead of attending to her geography. What can we do with the child? She really hates books, but is never tired of hearing stories. She is quick enough to learn, far too quick to catch a knowledge of things that she should never know. 
                
               "How can I study, mamma?" she asked this morning. "The little red squirrels are running all over the woods, and the trees are so bright. And, mamma, if I put my fingers in my ears it is of no use, I can hear the chestnuts dropping, dropping just the same." 
               "But you must try, Hetty. You do not want to be a dunce." 
               "Did you like to study, mamma, when you were a little girl like me?" 
               Mary hesitated, for she remembered her early preference for outdoor sports. 
               "Not always, Hetty, but I learned to love it by trying, and I want my little girl to try too. She must try very hard this morning while I am away." 
               But Hetty, mounted on the gate, has already quite forgotten her task. Whistling! That is a new accomplishment. Where can she have learned it?" 
               "Hetty," I call from my window, "where you learn to whistle?" 
                
               "O, down street. All the boys can whistle. This tune is Nelly Gray, papa. Isn't it a beauty?" 
               "But, Hetty, do you think it is pretty for little girls to whistle?" 
               "Yes, sir. It sounds like a flute. Wait while I can think how it begins, papa, and I'll whistle Dixie." 
               "No, I don't like to hear girls whistle. How old are you, Hetty?" 
               "Seven years old the first day of last August." 
               "Old enough to keep off the fences and gates, are n't you? Old enough to be more careful of your frocks and not make so much mending for poor, tired mamma?" 
               "O, papa, I think there is a birds nest on that great elm. Will you please let me climb and see?" 
               "What! climb that tree! Why, Hetty, you would fall and break your limbs." 
               She laughed and clapped her hands together merrily. 
                
               "Why, papa, I 've been to the top of it many and many a time." 
               "Hetty!" 
               "You can see the Springdale town-house from that side next the barn. If you had looked out yesterday when you were fixing your bookcase you would have seen me. I sat on that long pole all the time. You don't know how beautifully it swings!" 
               The branch she indicated was full twenty feet from the ground, and the boughs had been lopped off because they impeded the view. Naked and gaunt as it was, it did look as if it might "swing beautifully." 
               "That is not a safe seat for you, Hetty. Does mamma know that you climb trees?" 
               "I-I guess not," she answered with some hesitation; "I never told her. But she does know," added the child triumphantly, "that I can ride horseback, because Mr. Baylies's colt ran away with me, and he came right down this street. You see," said Hetty, apologizing for the colt, "you see no one had ever been on his back before, and he did not know what to make of it." 
               "I should think not. What did Mr. Baylies say to you?" 
               "O, lots of things. He was real mad, and he scolded at me till I almost cried. But Joe Curtis-he lives down at the poor-house, papa-says his talk was all gammon." 
               I sank back in my study chair really speechless with amazement. What could I say to such a child? I could only send her back to her hated studies, and resolved to have a serious talk with Mary upon the subject. Her wistful glance at the birds nest showed her reluctance; but she obeyed, and I soon heard her in the room below, first studying aloud, then whistling, and then rummaging among my garden tools in the back shed. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER II. 
               PARSON MAGOG. 
               
                  LANSWOOD PARSONAGE, OCT. 13, 18-.
                
               YESTERDAY was the Sabbath. For the first time I succeeded in interesting the congregation. They are very unlike the enterprising audience at Millcreek. Usually, before I have fairly introduced my theme, I am edified by seeing quite a number deliberately settle their heads on the backs of the seats in front of them and shut their eyes for a nap. I think their foreheads must be calloused as well as their consciences, or the hard pillow would prove unendurable. But yesterday only one of my Church members went to sleep in the afternoon, and he was slumbering peacefully when I announced my text. 
               How ever, he overtook me on my way home, and we had a long talk on spiritual things. He felt that something must be done for souls. They were fast asleep in their sins. Did n't I think I could put more life into my sermons? The people did not need prettily-rounded periods or flowery essays; they needed the "marrer" of the Gospel. Wouldn't it be a good plan, as the evenings grew longer, to have a series of extra meetings, and get some experienced revivalist to help? There was parson Magog, down in New-town, about the strongest team going, and he hired himself out to do such extra work. 
               "Indeed!" I said, "and what are his terms?" 
               "O, cheap enough. He can get a hundred dollars a month, but I reckon, as we 're neighbors, he 'd come here for seventy-five." 
               "I should think he might. Very few of our regular clergy are paid so liberally." v 
               "Well, you see this is different. There's no humbug about him. When he says he'll do a thing you may account it already done. If he pledges himself for a good work here, we shall have a most wonderful increase." 
                
               "Are the other brethren desirous to secure his services?" 
               "Brother Blake is. I talked the thing over with the rest, but they leave every thing to the minister. 'If he needs help he is bright enough to find it out without telling,' says brother Eddy. 'Ministers are human and have their little failings,' says I." 
               "Well, what do you expect me to do? What is it you require?" I asked. 
               "O nothing in particular. The brethren seemed so backward about shouldering any responsibility that I thought it might be best, on the whole, to just mention the subject to you before I went to parson Magog. It might save a deal of hard feeling and talking. I suppose you have no objections to offer?" 
               "If the Church wish to fill my place with another preacher, I am ready to vacate it at any time. Or I will consider the time he is with you as a vacation and spend it in traveling." Very crestfallen looked my good brother, but he rallied immediately, and asked if I was opposed to a revival of the work of God. 
               "No. It is the work of man that we were speaking of. The work of God can only be revived in this place by deep repentance and renewed zeal on the part of our backslidden Church. We need, brother, to pray very earnestly for ourselves, to search our own hearts and humble ourselves before God, before we dare to ask for his converting grace in behalf of other sinners." 
               "Then you don't believe in the use of extra 
               means of grace?" I 
               "I heartily believe in the use of the means that God has appointed, and I think his Spirit can do more for us than a dozen Magogs, even if assisted by as many Gogs." 
               "For my part," He persisted, "I believe in being zealous for the Lord of hosts." 
               "So do I. But you must allow me to say that the contrast between your present zeal and your rather long nap in church makes your advocacy vocacy of extra efforts a little ridiculous. But here is the parsonage, and I must bid you good-evening." 
               The prayer meeting in the evening was very encouraging, though but few were present. There was a spirit of humility and penitence in the different prayers that betokened improvement. God knows we need to humble ourselves before him. 
               
                  October 20th.-I have just returned from a meeting of the official members. Brother Blake proposed sending for parson Magog to come over to our help, but the proposition was quietly voted down without discussion. 
               
                  Eleven o clock.-We had retired to rest and I had nearly lost all recollection of poor parson Magog in a sound slumber, when we were aroused by the loud ringing of the door-bell. I hurried on my clothes, thinking that some serious accident had occurred, or that some of our neighbors were take suddenly ill. Mary sat up in bed, her teeth chattering with the fear that her sudden awakening had caused. She declared that I should not venture my precious life by opening the door to people who were most likely thieves or murderers, till I had ascertained their business. So I opened the chamber window and asked, "Who's there?" No reply, but I heard a stifled giggle and a cough. 
               "What do you want?" 
               "To get married." 
               I brightened up on hearing this, for I have always found it rather pleasant work to make other people happy, and on rare occasions have been made a little richer by the operation. So I told them I would Come down directly and let them in. 
               "I would n't, Ernest," said Mary. "It will be only a dollar concern. Nobody that is any thing would come to be married at this time of night." 
               "You must get up, Mary. I shall want witnesses. 
               "Let them be witnesses for each other. I am too tired to get up." 
               "It won't take long. You can just slip on your wrapper while I go to the study for pen and ink to make the proper returns to the town clerk. Come, you can sleep longer in the morning." 
               "Yes; a long nap in the morning does give the work such a fine start for the day." She began to dress, so I left her and hurried down stairs to admit the bridal party. 
               There were two couples to be married. But when I came to ask the usual questions I found that they had all been divorced from husbands and wives still living. Mary tried to catch my eye, and coughed to attract my attention, but I would neither see nor hear her. I knew that her looks were plainly saying, "There, Ernest, what did I tell you?" So I looked the other way. The party had walked from a factory village five miles off. One of the men was very-young looking, and gave his age as twenty years old. The lady of his choice was about thirty. The other couple were more equally matched as to age, but were both quite young. I did not pursue my inquiries, but I told them, as I wiped my pen and screwed the cover on my inkstand, that in my opinion one husband or one wife apiece was sufficient, and I would have the pleasure of wishing them good-night. A blank look of amazement spread over each coarse, reckless countenance. They had never dreamed that an obscure country pastor would hesitate to earn a marriage fee for conscience' sake. 
               "You don't mean that you won't marry us?" said one of the women. 
               "I mean that very tiling. You have no right to be married." 
               "We is all divorced quite regular." 
               "Yes. And it is a scandal to the State that you are so. But there is a Bible law in such matters, and that forbids all such abominable and scandalous doings. It is getting late. If you will let us have our house to ourselves we will again attempt to seek the rest that you have interrupted." 
               "Well, if we must, we must. Come along, Dan. We've had our five miles' tramp for nothing. These ministers are all fools alike." 
               When the door was fairly locked behind them, I turned for the first time to look at Mary. 
               "Are you paid for getting up?" she asked. 
               "I think in future I shall be guided by your suggestion, that nobody who is any thing would come at this hour in search of matrimonial felicity. But this advent of grass widows and widowers has driven all inclination to sleep from my eyes; so, my dear, I will write a little before retiring and quiet my nerves by the labor." 
               So it happens that while Mary and Hetty are sleeping soundly, I am sitting here at midnight vainly trying to weary the restless thoughts that keep me so wakeful. 
               
                  October 30th.-All yesterday afternoon Mary and I spent in calling on our nearest parishioners. It was a lovely day, but it grew cloudy very fast as the sun went down, and before dark a drizzling rain began to fall. As we looked out upon the gray fogs that quite hid the whole valley we congratulated ourselves upon the prospect of being without visitors, and Hetty received permission to bring her whole play-house into the sitting-room. 
               "Now," said Mary, "I am going to don my washing-day suit and twist all my hair into one big knot at the top of my head, and then chop meat and apples for some mince pies." 
               "I'll help you, Mary," said I, jumping up to replace a book I had taken from the library. "I'll chop the meat while you pare the apples." 
               "Agreed. It is no more than your duty, for you eat such quantities of pies! But let me fix your dress first." 
               Mary brought out a wide, white apron, such as cooks usually wear, and tied it around me, and having further ornamented me by pinning a huge napkin around nay neck and tucking up my sleeves, she bade Hetty bring in the apples and meat, and we sat down to enjoy ourselves. In a little time, in spite of the outer darkness, we were as merry a little party as could be found any where. I am naturally silent and somewhat grave, but Mary has life and spirits for us both. Hetty began, as usual when we were alone, to beg for stories-stories of her mother's childhood and youth, and I, attentively listening to some of these adventures, began to understand Hetty's proclivity to climb trees and ride refractory colts, and inwardly hoped that she would not be further incited by maternal example to swim across the lake or to shoot woodchucks. How the child's eyes sparkled as she listened! 
               "Why, Hetty, dear," said her mother, "what are you thinking of?" 
               "Of you, mamma, when you were little. O, what a happy, happy child! But, mamma, were you never scolded when you tore your frocks, and left your hat and shoes in the woods?" 
               "I don't remember that I was so careless as that. I hope I was not," said Mary, very seriously, "because it would have been very wrong, after my parents had been at the expense of buying them." 
                
               Hetty colored, for she understood the implied reproof. "Uncle Cyrus told me, mamma, about how you got into Mr. Bryant's mill and set it all agoing, and how you made jack o' lanterns arid hung them before the windows on dark evenings like this." 
               "Did he? I think he might have told you something better." 
               "He thought it was real cunning, and so did grandpa. But say, mamma, did you have a jack-knife, and did they let you whittle?" 
               Mary looked at me shyly before she replied. She remembered that I had among my treasures the pattern of a trim little boat, which had been shaped by her own hands in childhood. 
               "You know, Hetty," she replied, "that all little children have many foolish habits that have to be broken up as they grow older. We must learn to be womanly and quiet, instead of rude and hoydenish. My mother used to teach me how to behave properly, just as I try to teach you, and it became easy after a while." 
                
               "And have you got over wanting to-to be real happy?" asked the child, who could think of no other language to express her appreciation of free, wild sports. "Do you never want to climb the chestnut-trees, or to swing in the tops of the birches?" 
               Mary was saved the trouble of replying to this rather embarrassing question, for we were all startled by a loud rapping at the door. I hurried to open it, unmindful of my queer costume. It was so dark in contrast with the lighted room that I could see nothing; but a voice from the murky depths immediately accosted me. "Are you to hum this evening?" 
               Happening to become conscious of my white apron and other appendages, I replied somewhat doubtfully that I thought I was. 
               "Kin ye do a job for me?" 
               "That depends on its nature." 
               "Well, the woman's in the wagon under the shed. Shall I call her in?" 
               "What woman?" I asked, much mystified. 
                
               Mary's quicker apprehension caught the man's meaning, and she enlightened me by telling me in a loud whisper through the open door that he wanted to be married. 
               "What?" I was not quite clear of the fog yet. 
               "He wants to get married, Ernest. Do ask him in and shut the door before we all freeze." 
               "That's the talk," said the man, who had heard the whisper as plainly as myself. "Shall I call in the woman?" 
               "Yes, I will marry you." 
               Ha gave a loud whistle, and we soon heard other r steps in the yard, and presently a little, round-faced woman, holding a baby in her arms and followed by a child of about twelve years, appeared out of the gloom and were ushered into our sitting-room. Mary took off their wet wrappings and made them as comfortable as she could, while I divested myself of my superfluous attire; and assumed again the appearance of a gentleman. I think I must have changed considerably siderably, for as soon as I entered the room again I was greeted anew by my visitor. "Bless me! then 't is you, sartain. I thought it war your granny." 
               I recognized the party at once as a family who lived at the edge of the wood three miles north of us. I had been to the house several times in the course of my parochial calls, and in common with their neighbors and friends had supposed that they were married. But a few days previous the owner of the house, where they had lived so long together, learned to his surprise that they were not married, and indignantly threatened to turn them out of doors unless they were married at once. 
               The man, who was too shiftless to look up another tenement, promised to "look round" at the minister's in the course of a week, but the week had nearly expired and another visit from his landlord was hourly expected before he was ready to fulfill the engagement. He seemed now to be wholly unconscious that his life had been either sinful or shameful, but the woman evinced a childish delight in the ceremony that convinced me she had thought much upon the subject and rejoiced to be legally a wife. He stood indifferently gazing about the room, with his hands in the pockets of his brown great-coat, and his mouth full of raisins, with which he occasionally treated his family. I noticed with some amusement that he gave them but two or three at a time, and watched them while eating them as if he were studying the solution of some scientific problem connected with the process of mastication. 
               I asked the usual questions, "Wilt thou have this woman for thy wedded wife?" etc. 
               "Sartain!" he responded heartily. 
               "Wilt thou have this man?" etc. 
               "Yes, sir," she replied, courtesying low, and very unexpectedly adding, "It an't my fault, sir, that we did not come years ago. Ben knows it an't." 
               I never knew how we got through the ceremony mony, but it was very touching to see her eagerness to obtain a certificate of the marriage. She would not trust it out of her own keeping, but after kissing it several times placed it for safe-keeping in her bosom. 
               Then came the Consideration of the fee. He would like to pay me in money, he said, "but over to his house money was skurse some." However, he had fetched us a big pumpkins that beat all the pumpkins in the land for size. "Big enough for Thanksgiving and Christmas, too." 
               We were not lacking in our thanks for the pumpkin, or in our good wishes for the newly-wedded couple, though a suitable fee would have proved very acceptable. But the wife, the true legal wife, had slipped a gold quarter eagle into Mary's hand as she assisted her to wrap up the baby. 
               "I have kept it hidden away for years," she hurriedly whispered, "hoping that some time it might come to this." 
                
               Ah, that wife deserved a better husband, but surely there was never a happier wife. 
               "What a curious wedding I" said Mary, when they had gone. "Taken as a whole, pumpkin and all, it was rather amusing." 
               "It would have been too much so for a sacred ordinance," I answered, "but the poor woman's delight gave a pathos to the affair and neutralized the ludicrous part of it. I never felt better satisfied with a wedding." 
               "The man is a mere brute, Ernest." 
               "Papa," said Hetty suddenly, "shall I be married when I am a woman?" 
               "I can not tell. We will wait and see." 
               "Tell me again, mamma, how you went to school to papa before you were married. Did he make you mind as well as the others? Ah, papa, I think you never kept mamma after school for bad lessons, as Miss Price is always keeping me. 
               "Did I never?" I smiled at the changing color in Mary's cheek. 
                
               Poor Hetty was summarily hurried off to bed, to change the current of her thoughts, I suppose. 
               
                  November 5th.-I. would give a good deal to know whether there is any subject, human or divine, aside from money matters, that can fully arouse my people. I try in vain to interest them. There is the same stolid indifference, the same apathy that characterized them at first. All through the Summer I have hoped against hope. How fully have I proved the truth of that Scripture, "Hope deferred maketh the heart sick!" I often said to myself, when the busy hay-making days are over it will be different. The Lord is merciful, and it is to be hoped that he will summon none of them to the eternal world in haying-time, for no one would feel as if he could spare time to go. 
               Then came the rich Autumn harvest, when the bounteous products of the earth seemed, in their abundance, so exactly calculated to awaken emotions of love and gratitude to the Almighty Giver. But no one apparently gave a thought to the subject. All this is now over, the harvest is garnered; but the dead forest leaves are the fit emblems of our Church. Our Sabbath exercises are as dull and spiritless as possible. Perhaps other men can preach with a row of closed eyes and mouths like gaping sepulchers ranged before them, but I confess to being human. Perhaps other men can go calmly and cheerfully through the delivery of a carefully-prepared discourse, when its manifest effect is like that of morphine or chloroform, according to the constitution of the hearer, but I am no stoic. I get entirely discouraged. I feel the deadening influence of the conference meetings all through the week. It seems such a stupendous mockery of heaven to meet professedly for God's worship, and manifest such complete indifference. 
               Last evening the official members met. It was to talk about finances, and I had the happiness of seeing them awake. They came in to talk over the possibility of my family being able to get along with a hundred dollars less salary than what was paid to my predecessor. I don't know why they met at my house, for no one asked my opinion upon the subject discussed. They just sat down in my house, and in the coolest manner possible debated with each other as to the amount absolutely necessary to keep the minister's soul in his body. 
               There was great harmony in their deliberations. Indeed, I may say that a spirit of cordial unanimity pervaded the meeting. Nice little jokes about the amount to be deducted were handed about, pleasant little hints upon domestic economy were gratuitously expressed, and, upon the whole, it was a very exhilarating occasion. 
               I am afraid I rather checked the unusual liveliness by inquiring why I was to receive so much less than my predecessor. Were my services worth less? Was I not as faithful a pastor? In what respect did he deserve more salary? 
               "Why, he has nine children and you have but one." 
                
               "Indeed! Then if I should adopt a half dozen orphans I should have a larger claim on you. That is a new idea." 
               "Of course you will admit that it costs brother Lane more to live than it need to cost you." 
               "That has nothing to do with the subject. You engage me to preach to you, to be your pastor, independent of such strange considerations. There was nothing said about the number of children required in order to secure a decent salary. If I remember rightly you asked for a small family. It is hardly fair that I should lose a hundred dollars because your wish was gratified." 
               "You misunderstand us." 
               "Do you carry out this principle, in hiring laborers to work on your farms? Does the single man get less wages than the man with a large family?" 
               "No; but it is different when we hire a minister. We know-we know then"- 
               "You know then," I interrupted, "that the preacher, for the time, is in your power. He can not turn to some other vocation, because he feels in the depths of his soul that there is woe for him if he preaches not the Gospel. Appointed by the authorities of the Church to labor here, he has no choice but to do his best, always committing his cause into His hands who judgeth righteously. We give up all prospect of wealth, of ease or rest in this life; we go from place to place as strangers and pilgrims in order to preach to a dying world the unsearchable riches of Christ. And you, who make no real sacrifice of money or pleasure, can meet together and contrive means to reduce the already meager salary of your preacher, and decide that if he pinches himself and his family as much as you had to in order to put that last thousand into the savings bank, he can live on four hundred dollars. Be as just to me as to the hired menial in your kitchen, and I will not complain." 
               "Keep calm, brother," said brother Blake, "there is no use in getting excited." 
                
               "I suppose not." 
               "You don't look at the matter in the right way. We are willing to pay you all we can. But we have a debt on the church and are behindhand on last year's expenses." 
               "But those are not my debts, brethren. I am not responsible for them. Why should I be expected to pay them? If you should take a part of brother Curtis's wages to pay the mortgage on your house, I think it would hardly be considered just. The principle, whether applied to preachers or laymen, is a regular gouge." 
               "It is harder to raise money this, year than last. Brother Bacon has lost his horse and may not be able to give any thing, and you know how unfortunate brother Snow has been. He has had four fine calves stolen and all of his turkeys." "And you expect me to pay for them all, do you-the dead horse, the stolen calves and turkeys?" 
               "You are too harden us, brother. You don't; seem to understand us at all." 
                
               "I am afraid I shall never be able to understand how my position as your pastor makes me responsible for all your debts and misfortunes." 
               "We don't see it in that light. We mean to raise more for you next year." 
               "It is possible that you may raise more, but not for me. I shall leave at the end of the year." 
               "I hope not, brother," remarked one who had been rather silent, "I hope not. We have always kept our preachers two years. It hurts a society to change oftener. A trifle like a hundred dollars should not part us. I am afraid our ministers are getting a little worldly-minded." 
               I might have replied that there was not money enough in the place to hire me to preach another year to a Church who did not honor my sermons with the slightest attention. But I was too thoroughly sick at heart to say any thing more, and as there was no other business before the meeting we adjourned immediately. 
               
                  November 15th.-It is a lovely day; not too cool to be uncomfortable, and so clear that with a glass I can see several distant villages distinctly. I often climb to the top of this hill to get a glimpse of the world outside just to satisfy myself, not that "the world is my parish," but that my parish is not the world. When I can see, as I do this morning, the blue waters of the distant bay, with the tiny specks of sails dotting its bosom, my pulses throb with fresh life, and I, like the Psalmist, long for the wings of the dove. 
               Mary was too busy to walk with me this morning. She has two new pupils in drawing. The lessons which were undertaken to furnish means for needed recreation must now be continued to enable us to live on our reduced income. 
               On all sides I can see the comfortable homes of my people crowded with the manifold wealth of the farmer. In all my travels I have never known a parish where the people were generally so well off. Not very rice, but all making a good living and laying up Something for the future. And I-be still, my rebellious heart. 
                
               My future is in the hands of a merciful God. I will not distrust his providence. Instead, I must treasure up a portion of the glorious prospect, the bracing air, to carry home. I must meet my tired, patient, and ever-cheerful wife, with a little of this blessed sunshine reflected on my face. She has chased away the dark shadows from my prospects long enough, and breasted her own cares singly, and alone. We will now, God helping us, bear our burdens together and so lighten their weight. 
               Hetty, released from her morning studies, is coming up the hill in search of me. Her light springing step scarcely touches the ground. She is singing as loudly as she can. It is a charming song and a sweet voice. Listen: 
                      
                        "Far up the golden mountains 
                        There is thy dwelling, Hope." 
                     
                  
                
               
                  November 20th.-I come to my Journal this evening with pleasant things to record. After the preaching yesterday morning a young man arose and asked for the prayers of the Church in his behalf. God has lately taken away his only child. He was a bright little fellow not quite three years old, and died very suddenly. It was God's wise method to save the careless parents. I have often seen them since his death weeping together over the little grave in the rural cemetery. I have been glad to observe, also, that they were constant attendants at Church, and earnest hearers of the Word. 
               How the good Brethren rubbed their sleepy eyes while he was Speaking! Brother Snow put on his spectacles to be sure it was not an optical illusion. One old lady, a true mother in our Israel, wept aloud for joy. To me it was like cool springs of water in a desert land. It came just in time to save me from despair. 
               He had scarcely ceased speaking when another young man, on the opposite side of the church, got up and made a similar request. The incredulous and wondering looks of our, veteran unbelievers vanished now, for all instantly recognized ognized the mighty hand of God in the unlooked-for blessing. 
               "You all know me," said the young man, "and you have all seen how wicked and reckless has been my life. You know my praying, pious mother. She has often prayed for me in this house. I am her only son, God help her! and she is a widow. But if there is mercy for a repenting sinner, I will seek that mercy. I am determined to lead a new life." His voice trembled, but he still stood up and gazed in silence upon the young people around him. They understood the wistful, yearning look, and many seemed completely subdued. 
               I went down at once into the altar and invited all who were desirous of securing the salvation of their souls to come forward. One young man besides those who had spoken, and two young ladies, accepted the invitation. 
               In the afternoon the church was crowded with serious hearers. In the evening so many came that chairs and benches were brought in to accommodate commodate them with seats. It is a wonderful work of God-beginning without apparent human means, at a time when I was so utterly despondent and faithless. I see now how wicked my own heart has been, how slow to believe in a merciful God. Because the Church were so life-less and indifferent, I too began to limit the power of the Almighty. I feel deeply humbled, and yet my heart exults in the view of God's saving grace. "O that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!" 
               
                  December 2d.-We have had no rest yet in our happy work. Every evening the church is crowded. The altar is also crowded with weeping penitents. Church members come forward with the rest and earnestly seek the lost favor of God. By the fireside and in the street religion is the sole theme of conversation. Even the little children of Hetty's age are interested. They come every afternoon to the parsonage for religious instruction, and Mary has prayer meetings ings with them. They are seasons of deep interest, and the Savior is present to receive and bless the little children. I went into the room where they were for a few minutes this afternoon. A little boy of nine years was praying earnestly, though the tears and sobs often choked his voice. "O Lord," he said, "I'm real wicked; I don't mind my mother; I tell lies, and last week I sweared." It was brother Snow's boy, and his little daughter is also seeking the Savior. But brother Snow is not a believer in children's religion. He says they only imitate older people, and would as soon imitate them in any thing else. 
               
                  January 1st.-Another month and yet the spiritual harvest is not all gathered in. God strengthens us for the work and we need no rest. The new year opens brightly. The dark clouds that so shadowed this beautiful place have vanished, and the Sun of Righteousness has risen upon us. Truly we are now a happy people-a peculiar people, whose God is the Lord.: 
               Among the good results of this revival I count the payment of the Church debt. Another board meeting has been held and the question of my salary reconsidered, and instead of reducing it one hundred dollars, it was unanimously voted to add one hundred, thus making it six hundred. Added to this I have just received from the young people a purse containing seventy dollars. A good old brother whispered in my ear last night that they had concluded on the whole to forgive me for not "saddling the society with the support of a dozen young ones." 
               Truly there is no power so potent to exorcise the demon, of penuriousness as the Gospel of Christ. Stinginess and grace never dwell in the same heart. Religion puts a soul into the mere animal nature and makes a man. I think we shall remain here another year. 
               With a people now hungry for the bread of life, a good salary, a pleasant home in a charming country, and, more than all, with the blessing of God on my feeble labors, how can I contemplate moving as among the possibilities? 
             
             
                
               NUMBEE III. 
               OUR PARISH MENTTOR. 
               
                  LANSWOOD PARSONAGE, MAY 20, 18-.
                
               I HAVE just returned from the burial of a child-a lovely little girl only seven years of age. She was sick but a few hours. On Monday morning she was well and strong, and came dancing up the hill to the parsonage to see Hetty's white rabbits. I thought, as I leaned out of my study window to speak to her, that I had never seen a lovelier child. Bright curls of glossy chestnut fell over her white shoulders, and her full blue eyes were raised to the window, where at first they could scarcely discern me behind the vine which Mary has trained to shade the room. Pretty little Miriam! I can not realize that she is dead; that all that innocent beauty is laid away beneath the turf to await the resurrection. 
                
               She was poisoned by eating colored candy. A peddler had sold a large quantity of it to our village store-keeper, but fortunately very little of it was sold before its nature was ascertained. Miriam was an only child, and her parents can not yet listen to any words of comfort. We left them at the grave. They seemed completely stunned by the unlooked-for calamity, and no persuasions of their friends could induce them to return home. Some kind neighbors remained near them, and now from my window I see them all slowly bending their steps toward their silent home. God help them, for vain is the help of man in a trial like this! 
               
                  May 21st.-Mary has just been up stairs to report a visit from our parish mentor, Miss Clara Reed, a little woman of thirty-four or five, with a little face covered with little wrinkles and baby crow's-feet. Rather a miniature affair taken altogether; but our mentor, notwithstanding. I think we are none of us particular favorites with her. We did not begin right. In the first place, I declined hearing her account of the rise and progress of Methodism in the place, because she interspersed so many depreciatory remarks in regard to the existing Church members with the doings of their predecessors. I told her she was welcome to confess her own sins, but no others. Then Mary, her next resource, positively refused to be governed by any taste but her own in the arrangement of window shades, carpets, and furniture, and paid no attention whatever to Miss Clara's suggestions as to the proper width of a minister's shirt-collar. "That spoiled young one," as Miss Clara designates our pet Hetty, was as hard to control as her parents. In the face of her protestations did she not actually coax brother Samuel Perly, a staid and exemplary bachelor, a Church member, too, to put a swing on the big elm behind the church in full view of Miss Clara's windows, obliging that considerate lady to sit with her back to the light rather than to witness the death of the child? 
                
               "O," exclaimed Miss Clara, as she vigorously rubbed a seed-wart on her fore-finger, "how I wish that child was mine! Wouldn't I break her in?" 
               I am afraid our mentor finds jus a hard set to manage. Only last Sabbath she came to me as soon as the afternoon service was over, and particularly requested me to say eyether and nyther instead of the old-fashioned either and neither. I was obliged to tell her that I never changed the common pronunciation of a word without some reason for doing so, but I recommended her to say sizure and lizure instead of seizure and leisure, and thus show no partiality in the use of the diphthong. Miss Clara passed by this morning As she was taking her morning walk, and was quite scandalized on finding out that Mary and Hetty were helping me plant the garden. Hetty wore one of my old straw hats, and, according to Miss Clara's report, was whistling like a man. So she called this afternoon to remonstrate. 
                
               
                  June 4th.--There seems to be very little in our quiet life that is worth recording, yet if valued according to the happiness enjoyed, I think the pleasant occupations of our busy hours, and the tranquil enjoyment of our leisure ones, are worth remembering. Mary came running into the study about ten o'clock to beg me to go and look for Hetty. She had obtained ten minutes' leave of absence from her hated studies, and permission to go just over the brow of the hill to gather some violets. Two hours had passed, and she was still absent, and Mary, who is as little inclined to borrow trouble as any person I know, now began to feel alarmed. Considering the wild proclivities of the child, and her absolute forgetfulness of all restraint when out of doors, I did not wonder at Mary's anxiety, but I was a little surprised that she had allowed her to go by herself into the regions of temptation. 
               It was scarcely a moment's walk to the hillside where the violets grew. I found a small basket half full of violets and a pink sun-bonnet at a short distance from it. The bonnet had a large stone in it to prevent it from being blown away. It was the first instance in all my knowledge of Hetty of her taking care of any thing, and I felt suitably encouraged in regard to her. But I looked in vain for any sign of the child's presence. There was nothing to hide her from my sight within a quarter of a mile, not even a clump of cedars or furze, and only an occasional forest tree shaded the lovely green of the meadow. But beyond the meadow was a belt of woods, and the different shades of green with which June had draperied the trees were even to my eyes exceedingly charming. Very tempting to Hetty's young eyes, and very inviting to her sense of the beauty of nature, I was sure the prospect before me must have been; for I, who had been puzzling myself with geometry, and had only allowed myself a peep into. Virgil as a recreation, felt like shouting and dancing like a schoolboy as the pure breeze fanned my cheek and my eyes took in the loveliness around me. I was at no loss as to the direction in which I should look for Hetty. 
               It did not take long to cross the plain, or from a half-dozen paths select the likeliest one to attract those little feet. Indeed, I had scarcely entered the woods before I saw the print of her shoe in a strip of soft moss beneath a low gray rock, where she had stopped to gather some wild honey-suckle that grew luxuriantly from the crevices wherever a bit of loam had found a lodgment. A little further on I heard her voice singing. It was a song that she had learned only yesterday, but it had so filled her mind that we were several times awakened during the night by her singing it in her sleep. I thought that Mary, who had composed the little ditty for the child, ought to be answerable for its results. So I stood still and listened- 
                      
                        When Aurora cometh 
                        In her mantle bright, 
                        All the forest leaflets 
                        Quiver with delight; 
                         
                        All the sweet wild roses 
                        Lift their gentle heads,  
                        All the violets waken 
                        In their lowly beds;  
                        Comes a merrier tinkle 
                        Down the pebbly way 
                        Where the rippling waters 
                        Sang the night away; 
                        Swells a happier chorus 
                        Than the evening heard, 
                        When the saffron morning 
                        Rouses bee and bird." 
                     
                  
                
               I came out into the path beside her as she finished the song. 
               "Ah, here is the truant," I said. "Did mamma give you leave to come here?" 
               "O, papa, will you just go down by that great pine?" exclaimed Hetty, jumping up and throwing down a great quantity of wild flowers from her lap. "There is such a nice seat in a little birch, and it hangs exactly over the water, and the water is so still and dark it looks like a looking-glass. It is the place you showed me, papa." 
               "Not that deep pool called 'The Witch's Basin,' Hetty?" 
                
               "Yes, that is the place. All the ferns and leaves around show in it like a picture; and, papa, do you know," continued Hetty, breathlessly, "you can make your feet lock around the birch and swing down, down till your eyes look right into the eyes in the water! Only you must be careful, you see, not to let your hair fall into the water, for it wrinkles it up and spoils the picture, so that you can see nothing." 
               I glanced at Hetty's long, black curls, and saw that they were wet. 
               "Did your mamma say you might come here, Hetty?" 
               "Why, no, I don't think she did. But I have found such a quantity of beautiful things since I came. I wish mamma was here, don't you? There are four birdsnests close by, and down by that flat rock where the sun shines so bright there is a roll of yellow and brown snakes all twisted together as big as my head." 
               "Snakes, Hetty!" 
               "Yes, but not ugly ones. Shall I tell you what I found at the bottom of that old cellar where there was a house once, and people lived who are all forgotten? Wasn't that a snug home all in the woods?" 
               "I want to ask you, Hetty, if you know that all this time while you have been running about in the woods mamma has been worrying about you?" 
               "Has she?" 
               "Yes. Is it right to make her unhappy?" 
               "O, no, I would not do that. But, papa, isn't it pleasant here? Don't you think mamma would like to bring a lunch and spend the day under the trees? Please, papa, go home and ask her." 
               "No, indeed. We must wait till some day when the lessons have been well learned, till Hetty has learned to be obedient and careful; then we will come and spend the day here." 
               "Ah, papa," replied Hetty, doubtfully, "I am afraid the cold Winter will get here first." 
               
                  June 14th.-I came home from meeting last evening half an hour earlier than usual. There had been a heavy shower early in the evening, and only five persons came to the vestry. So we did not try to hold a regular meeting, but prayed together and adjourned. As I opened the gate I thought I would steal into the back door and give Mary a surprise. I went around the house on tiptoe, and succeeded in turning the handle of the door without noise. But my foot was arrested on the threshold by a strange voice talking loudly in the sitting-room, and I listened involuntarily. 
               "I have told you the truth; you can believe it or not." 
               "You have told me nothing." I heard Mary reply. "You have only thrown out insinuations which I am sure are groundless. I know that if the ladies you have mentioned were indeed my enemies, as you hint, they are too refined and noble to make their pastor's wife the subject of village gossip." 
               "I wish you could have heard what Ellinor Snow said about you last Tuesday at Mrs. Gray's party. Perhaps you would believe your own ears." 
               "I should be slow to if they reported any thing to Nelly's disadvantage. And I must again request that you will not come here to repeat the floating gossip of the place for my benefit. This is the third time that you have come on a similar errand. I confess I am at a loss to understand your motives." 
               "Well, I've made up my mind to leave you to take care of yourself. I thought you would be glad of a friend. I am sure you need one. But you can suit yourself. You will find out in time that I have only given you a friendly warning. If you approve of your husband's particular attentions to Miss Clara Reed I have nothing to say." 
               Mary, who knows exactly what an aversion I have for "our mentor," here burst into a fit of hysterical laughter. It seemed to provoke her informant beyond expression. She did not stop to take leave, but banged the front door after her in a rather uncourteous manner. Mary continued to laugh and sob together for some moments, and my entrance into the room where she was only seemed to excite fresh outbursts of merriment. She saw by my amused looks that I had, like other listeners, "heard no good of myself." 
               "Of all persons in the world, Ernest, Miss Clara is the last person I should have thought of as an object of jealousy." 
               "Who is this woman?" I asked, as soon as she was sober enough to talk. 
               "Her name is Joram-Maria Joram, I think." 
               "How do you happen to know her?" 
               "O, she has called here several times lately to caution me about my most intimate friends." 
               "Do you believe her stories?"" 
               "No. But, notwithstanding, they sadden me, and make me for the time quite dispirited. The first time I felt very friendless, though I did not really credit a word she said, and begged her to stay away in future. But she will come. And she says, Ernest, that every body here believes you were very unpopular at Mill Creek, and that you 'ran that society all out.' How does she know any thing about Mill Creek?" 
               "She has a sister there." 
               "Do you know this Mrs. Joram, Ernest?" 
               "I should think I did," I replied. "She was expelled from the Church last Summer for willfully slandering people. You can not have forgotten how you blamed brother Roberts for his want of charity for her?" 
               "Is this the person?" 
               "Yes. I passed her house this afternoon, and the doors and windows being wide open I was treated to a fine scene. She was scolding her husband and flogging her son at the same time. I bowed, but since her expulsion from the Church she never returns any courtesy of mine." 
               "Did you hear what she said of Nelly Snow?" 
                
               "Yes; and that reminds me that I have a note for you from her in my pocket." 
               Mary's face brightened as she read it. 
               "Just hear this, Ernest: 'We are going to the shore on Tuesday. Quite a number of the neighbors are to join us, and we shall stay at least a week. Papa insists that you and your dear ones shall accompany us, and that it is his privilege to pay all the expenses. Our mode of life will be very primitive, but you will enjoy it all the more for that. Do not disappoint us, but be in readiness to start early.' There, Ernest, what do you think of it?" 
               "That it does not sound very unfriendly. I wish we had more of such enemies. I think we must accept the invitation if I can find a supply for the pulpit." 
               "I wonder if Miss Clara will go," said Mary mischievously. 
               
                  July 21st.-Neither Mary nor myself a fortnight ago had the slightest idea of what is meant in these regions by "going to the shore." When brother Snow's carry-all stopped at our door, and we saw the broad-brimmed hats and deep sun-bonnets of the occupants, and were sent back into the house to change our own attire for something that couldn't spoil, I began to feel that we were really going on a pleasure excursion. The delight of Hetty in resuming her usual dress knew no bounds, for in her case the change betokened freedom of motion. 
               By the time we were ready other friends and acquaintances had joined the party. Several of the young ladies wore a sort of Bloomer costume, which, though to my mind a most ungraceful dress for a lady, has its advantages for such an occasion. Several times after we were sure we were quite ready we were sent back to make other changes which the experience of our friends suggested. My great garden-hat and brown tweed Raglan were substituted for the semi-clerical attire which my second toilet had produced, and two blue cotton umbrellas were hurriedly brought to us by a neighbor. 
                
               "I telled Polly," said the kind old lady who had been so thoughtful, "that I knowed you'd never been to the shore, for I saw Mis's Ashley with her meeting-bonnet on and Hetty dressed like a doll. And ten to one, says I, that they don't own a decent umbrill, and nobody can go to the shore in comfort without one." 
               "We are very much obliged to you, Aunt Debby," said Mary, "though I can hardly think my 'meeting-bonnet' too nice to wear any where. But these umbrellas are large enough for tents." 
               "None too large. You'll need all the shade you can get," said brother Snow. "I believe we are all ready now, but the omnibus must lead the way." 
               The omnibus was a large hay-cart ornamented with green boughs and drawn by four horses. It contained the trunks and other baggage of the party, and a dozen young people besides, who must have had any thing but easy seats, but whose good spirits and delight on being together made them insensible to discomfort. They had been singing merrily ever since their arrival, and now joined their persuasions to Hetty's entreaties that she might be permitted to ride with them. 
               "O, mamma, do let me," pleaded Hetty. "It is so much prettier than this shut-up carriage, and Bob Linton is there." 
               "Who is Bob Linton?" 
               "He does chores down to Mr. Reed's. He helped me catch those little pigs when Miss Clara came over and scolded so about it. He's a real nice boy," said Hetty, unconscious that she had decided her mother to keep her under her own eye. 
               The sun was just peeping over the hills, burnishing the windows of the parsonage and the church spire, when we took a last look to be sure that all was right, and gave ourselves up to enjoy the novelty of the occasion. Ta-quamenaw, the Indian name of the place to which we were bound, is one of the finest sand beaches in New England. It is a favorite resort during the warm season for such as choose to be independent of hotel life and to take care of themselves? We had a long, dusty ride, and it was late in the afternoon when we arrived. Although I was by this time prepared for a kind of Gipsy life, I was surprised at seeing half a dozen white tents under a cluster of trees which shaded an eminence from which the wide ocean was seen in all its sublimity. These tents had been sent in advance of the party, and we were further surprised by being first warmly welcomed to our strange home by familiar voices, and then by an invitation to supper, which was spread on a long table in the rear of the tents. A small tent had been expressly fitted up for our accommodation, and because we were, as Nelly Snow said, "a little green in such experiences," a cot bedstead, two camp-chairs, and a wash-stand had been provided for us. In the other tents rude benches served for seats, and straw mattresses laid on the ground for beds. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER IV. 
               THE OCEAN AND CLAM CHOWDER. 
               
                  LANSWOOD PARSONAGE, July 21, 18-.
                
               HETTY, whose disappointment in regard to riding in the omnibus had clouded the whole day, now became wild with delight as she inspected the premises. She darted into one tent and out of another with the light, quick motion of a bird. Two or three times I saw Miss Clara chasing her down the slope of the hill, the child shrieking with merriment, and our mentor nearly as wild with indignation. All this I knew meant mischief, but I did not interfere. At last Mary, attracted by the unusual noise, came out to quiet the belligerents just as Hetty had taken refuge in a tree that, as the child afterward said, "seemed to grow there on purpose." On its high branches she was quite beyond Miss Clara's reach. 
                
               "Hetty," said her mother, "come down here directly and tell me what this uproar means." 
               "Let her go away first, mamma." 
               "Not till you give up my property, you little thief. You deserve a whipping, and I should like to administer it." 
               "If you please, Miss Clara," said Mary, "I will manage Hetty myself. If she has done wrong she shall confess it and make reparation. What have you been doing, Hetty?" 
               "I just went into her tent, mamma, and she was unpacking her trunk. She had some daguerreotypes, and that made me remember that I had brought papa's likeness in my pocket, and I took it out and opened it. Miss Clara turned round and saw it, and she said, 'O, you little mischief, hand that here. I'll teach you to let my things alone.' So I started and ran, and she chased me, and then I kept running just for the fun." 
               Miss Clara, now understanding that she had been hunting on a false scent, turned shortly about and walked off, and. Mary led the child back to our tent. We went out to look at the ocean. It was very grand, almost fearful in its sublimity. When the tide came in the great curling waves broke at the foot of the hill on which we were standing. As they rolled in one after another I felt it to be a relief to know that God had set bounds to the sea, that he' held the mighty floods in the hollow of his hand, and that his all-powerful voice had said, "Thus far shalt thou come, but here shall thy proud waves be staid." Our Whole party came together for the evening devotions. I thought I had never heard any thing so sweet as the old familiar hymn beginning, "The day is past and gone." Long after the rest had retired to seek repose Mary and I remained on the brow of the hill looking out upon the great deep. And even after we had followed their example it was a long time before we could sleep. The ceaseless dashing of the waves conspired with the novelty of our surroundings to keep us awake. 
                
               As soon as breakfast was over the next morning we held a general consultation in regard to the best mode of spending the day. Some of the men were for procuring boats and starting on a fishing excursion; but the ladies were not sufficiently rested to venture far from home, and they were not yet tired of their present situation. So it was decided that a part of the company should go a mile further down the shore and dig clams for a magnificent chowder. It is a pity that a chowder, like joy and other ecstatic commodities, will not be described; like the old-fashioned Indian pudding, the only satisfactory proof of its excellence is in the eating. As our chowder was to be our day's work, and in it was to be our recompense and reward, we all agreed to eschew hurry and to proceed advisedly. We furthermore resolved that, whereas, no sauce for a chowder is so piquant and delicious as hunger, we would merge both dinner and supper into one grand meal, to be served when human endurance could postpone it no longer. 
                
               Then came the selection of a presiding genius to oversee the operations of the many cooks who volunteered their services. For a full half hour no lady could be persuaded to take this post of honor, but I thought it a little curious, and rather characteristic, too, that as soon as Mrs. Snow was fairly elected every other lady discovered at once her own abilities, and began to tell of her wonderful successes, and the praises she had received from appreciative epicures, till a general spirit of self-glorification took possession of the gentle sex, and the duties of the day seemed in imminent danger of being lost in the chowders of the past. 
               All this time Hetty had been pulling my coat and begging for leave to go with me to dig clams. I consented reluctantly, although she assured me that Bob Linton had brought a little spade on purpose for her. 
               "O, my goodness I", exclaimed Miss Clara Reed; "who ever heard of such a thing? You are all bent on ruining that child. If I had her I'd break her in. Do, Hetty, stay at home with the other little girls. I wouldn't be a boy." 
               "I like boys," said Hetty. 
               "I suppose you do, but good little girls don't." 
               "Sam Perly was a boy once," rejoined Hetty, innocently." 
               She had heard some foolish gossip about Miss Clara's predilection for the good-natured bachelor, and it naturally occurred to her now. 
               "What has that to do with it?" 
               Miss Clara's sharp tone betrayed her sense of, Hetty's random shot. 
               "Why, men are gust big boys, don't you, see? My papa said last night that men and women were only grown-up children. I guess he knows." 
               "Look at Jessie Snow and Alice Turner. They are dressing their dolls. They are playing at keeping house under that green tree. If you will go and play with them," said Miss Clara, now unusually anxious to carry her point, "I will give you some pink muslin to make your doll a frock." 
               "No," said Hetty, decidedly, "I am going after clams. I want to see where they live at high water. Mamma says I am always as happy as a clam at high water. I want to see them for myself." 
               "We have no means of knowing any thing about the happiness of clams, and I think it is wicked to speculate on such subjects. It is one of those things which have been wisely kept from our knowledge, and I, for one, never felt like prying into such matters." 
               Hetty, who understood very little of this speech, just then happened to see the men and boys starting with their baskets and spades, and, without waiting to reply, ran to join them. I watched till I saw brother Samuel Perly take charge of her, and then more slowly followed. 
               As Miss Clara's remarks had evidently been intended for my admonition as much as for Hetty's, I took them into serious consideration, and the question came up for perhaps the hundredth time, "What can be done to make the child diffident and retiring?" Brother Snow, who was walking by my side, observed my anxiety, and, I think, guessed its cause. 
               "I am glad you let Hetty come," he said. "It does me good to see her enjoy herself." 
               "I wish she were more womanly," I replied. 
               "Time enough for that. She don't want a woman's head on her young shoulders. She'll come out right in time, never fear. There is something wholesome and invigorating in her way of doing things. She has been a great blessing to me." 
               "In what way?" I asked, surprised. 
               "Do you remember the long fit of low spirits that I had last Winter? I have had many visitations of the blue imps, but none so dark and abiding as that." 
               "I remember how you suffered." 
               "Well, you don't know that when the doctors and even my own family had quite given up all hopes of a change in me Hetty cured me. I will tell you how it happened. It was one of the most dismal, drizzling days that was ever known. Not downright rainy, but a thick, gray fog on every thing. I had passed a wretched night, and I remember thinking as I went out to fodder the cattle that the weather alone was enough to make a man hang himself. I went through the customary chores mechanically, as something that must be done, but with no interest in the work. I had just finished, and was leaning against a post in the yard, too full of the blues to try to get out of the damp air, when I was startled by a shrill whistle just behind me. It was Hetty. She was sitting on the top of the fence, and that forlorn old donkey that brother Tim gave to my boy was looking up into her face with a most melancholy expression of countenance. I suppose I had not smiled for months before, but there was something ludicrous in the sight before me that affected me favorably. You know how I used to run on at that time about coming upon the town or dying of want, and how tightly I held on to what money I had. So you will believe I could appreciate Hetty's sermon to the donkey. 
               "'Dear me!' said the child, reaching down and taking hold of the long ears before her, 'what is the matter? And what a long, homely face! It beats the Deacon's. 
               "You know that I am sometimes called by that title, so I knew whom she meant. She went on: 
               "'Are you afraid of coming upon the town? If it weren't for your ears you would be just his likeness. And aren't you ashamed of yourself? You've got every thing that you need and more too. Look, Jack! See this pretty mist like silver that covers up all the valley, and do smile if you can.' 
               "Just then she saw me. 
               "'Ah, I didn't know you were here.' 
               "'So I look like the donkey, Miss Hetty?' 
               "I thought she would be embarrassed, but she was not. 
                
               "'You look worse than that,' she said, 'because you are a man. Besides, the donkey don't take his long face into folks' houses and make other people dismal. And, you see,' said Hetty, 'he has never had his senses like you have. You can't expect him to be any thing but a donkey, though it would do him good to rouse up and caper a little. But you, don't you see that you have no business to look sour and glum?' 
               "Hetty was very earnest, and, though her language did not sound very respectful, I could see that she did not mean to show any disrespect. It was the frank, honest nature of the child speaking out the truth that no one else dared to utter in my presence. 
               "'But I can 't help feeling sad and gloomy, Hetty.' 
               "'You ought to laugh more,' she went on. 
               'You see, nobody can bear to stay where you be. My papa talks and laughs, and so does mamma, and they are not rich like you. If God should take away all your good things and give them to us we should be thankful to him, but you only worry and fret.' 
               "'If you were in my place, Hetty, you would feel as I do.' 
               "'I should not act so, any way. I should be willing to thank God. Now,' said Hetty, slily, and pointing to the low door of my apple-cellar, 'if you should go in there like a dear, good Deacon Snow and bring me some nice, large pippins, don't you think I should look glad?' 
               "Something in her manner more than in her words tickled me, and before I was aware of the change in my feelings I laughed heartily. Hetty laughed too, and the staid donkey, startled by the noise, kicked up his heels and capered about the yard as if he were possessed. Then the sun shone out and made rainbows all over the valley. You may be sure I did not let Hetty go without the pippins, but my familiar demon had been fairly exorcised by that hearty laughter, and I was a free man. Now, brother, don't try to spoil one of the sunniest tempers and warmest hearts in the world, because she is original, and acts out her own nature." 
               
                  July 22d.-I have not yet recorded all I wish to remember of our late excursion, though I felt last evening, after writing down brother Snow's kind defense of Hetty, that journalizing was rather fatiguing work. I still recall pleasantly the quiet walks with Mary over the surrounding country, or the merrier fishing-parties on the bay. I think the tourist of whatever land would be puzzled to find a more charming locality than Taquamenaw. Far across the bay, and on clear days distinctly visible without the glass, glitter the spires and domes of a thriving city. A little further south are two large towns noisy with the heavy rattle of machinery, and full of bustle and enterprise. Mary and I, standing at the door of our tent, were quite oblivious of the close crowded houses and the pale mill operatives-the crowds of ignorant foreigners that make up so much of the real life in those places. The enchantment of distance mellowed every rough point, and hid the dirty streets and the comfortless homes of the idle and the poor. But we saw the encircling hills, the dark foliage of the woods in the background, the bright church spires, and the deep violet sky over all. Scattered along on either shore were quiet farm-houses, whose straggling outhouses and spacious barns gave them as imposing an appearance as some of those western cities, where we, unfortunate itinerants, own corner house lots. We always found something new in the prospect, no matter how often we came out to admire it, and Hetty's "castles in the air," full of people who were to live out of doors always, seemed feasible projects and desirable ones. When the time came for us to leave all those beautiful scenes to resume the routine of daily duty, I could almost have joined in Hetty's lamentation that she would have to be good again when she lived in a house. But Mary was anxious to get home. 
                
               "Landscapes and waterscapes do very well for a time, but, Ernest, I think that clean rooms at home, a thorough bath, and some clean clothes would be more attractive now. For me I am sick of clam-shells and fish-scales, though if I could scale you and Hetty and restore your natural complexions I would willingly stay a day longer. You have no idea, Ernest, how you are tanned. And Hetty looks like a young squaw. O dear!" 
               "Have you looked in the glass, Mary?" 
               "No, I dare not." 
               "You have the advantage so far as variety goes. Let me look at you. White forehead, red nose and chin, contrasted with very brown cheeks and neck. Truly, 'beauty is but skin deep.'" 
               
                  August 2d.-Now that we are again quietly settled, we find that absence has given a new charm to home and to home pleasures. Even the accustomed routine of pastoral labor has lost its sameness, and I enter the house of my parishioners and inquire into their spiritual progress with a real interest that is encouraging both to them and to myself. 
               My experience in pastoral visiting is not always pleasant. Yesterday I heard that Mr. Carew, the husband of one of my best Church members, had been dangerously injured by the falling of a tree which he was cutting down, He is not a church-goer, and it has so happened that whenever I have called at his house he has been absent-intentionally absent as I now believe. But now, with a broken leg and arm, he could not so easily get out of the way. Supposing that he would be in his bedroom, and fearing lest I should disturb him, I made my way without knocking into the family sitting-room, where I found him alone. He was lying on a wide lounge, upon which he had been placed for the convenience of the surgeon, and from which it was deemed unsafe to remove him. 
               I went up to him and began to express the sympathy I really felt in his misfortune. He looked up so surlily that I was quite startled. 
               "It is nothing to you," he said roughly; "you need not meddle." 
               "I only wished to express my sorrow that you had met with so serious an accident. I do not mean to intrude." 
               "Stay away then; I don't want any of your pity. I can take care of my own affairs. You mind yours, if you please." 
               He seemed to be suffering greatly, and, in spite of his angry words, I could not help looking concerned. I tried again to apologize for my unceremonious entrance- 
               "I heard of your accident this morning at the Post-Office, and"- 
               "And thought it would be a fine chance to preach me a sermon," he interrupted. "Well, sir, I don't want to hear any of your preaching." 
               "You will at least let me hope that this trial may be made a blessing to you," said I, now determined not to leave without attempting to lead his thoughts to the spiritual danger of his condition. "God has probably permitted this as a warning to you. He tells you by it to repent of your sins and turn to him." 
               "If I could stir from this confounded couch," he answered furiously, "you'd stop that talk pretty sudden. If Phoebe had not chosen this time of all others to go for the doctor's liniment I'd make her turn you out of doors, much as she thinks of your sermonizing. But you can't be hushed, I suppose, till you've said your say out. The doctor ordered quiet, but that won't stop a preacher's tongue any more than a clam-shell will hinder the tide from coming in." 
               "I will leave you immediately, sir; but can not you understand the anxiety I must feel as a fallen sinner with yourself that you may be persuaded before it is too late to secure heaven and eternal life? Think how awful it will be if your soul should be lost forever, because you will not attend to its interests now." 
                
               "If it is lost, sir, it is none of your business. It is my own soul, I hope. Here, Phoebe, where have you been staying so long? Just show this fellow the way out and fasten the door after him. Broken bones are bad enough, but broken bones and a Methodist parson are too much." 
               I could not resist the pleading looks of his wife, so I bid him good-day and wished him a speedy recovery. 
               "You just clear out and keep away. That is all I ask of you. It is none of your business whether I get well or not." 
               As I followed his wife to the door and listened to her apologies for her husband's rudeness, which she attributed to his bodily pain, I was at no loss to account for the look of depression habitual to her countenance. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER V. 
               A MINISTERIAL EXCHANGE. 
               
                  LANSWOOD PARSONAGE, AUGUST 20, 18-.
                
               YESTERDAY I exchanged with brother Sutler, pastor of the Church of Old town. Though his people are extraordinarily opposed to an itinerant ministry, they change their preachers oftener than the Methodist brethren. Brother Sutler is the fifth pastor they have had during the last six years. I think I like our sort of itinerating the best, for it is a system. We can feel the solid ground under our feet, and are not expecting earthquakes to break out in every direction. I should not feel easy a moment if the length of my pastorate in a place depended on the caprices of the people. 
               Brother Sutler is a good man and a fluent speaker or reader, but is not thoroughly educated cated, if I may judge from Mary's report of the high-sounding and far-fetched adjectives which garnish his discourses. A simple-hearted brother, who has an impediment in his speech, and whose acquired knowledge is of very limited extent, told me that he called that preacher "drefful smart," but I have yet to find a good scholar who is addicted to the use of unintelligible language. 
               Mary was unable to attend the morning service, but during lunch brother Sutler gave her a sketch of the sermon she had lost, and its manifest effect upon the people. Knowing the sedate, non-committal character of our audience, she was a little surprised to hear of the sorrowful tears and joyous smiles which the discourse had elicited, and disposed to think with the good man that, independently of the close, sultry air of the dog-days, they had "had a most melting season." 
               She sympathized in his apprehensions that he might be quite "shut up in the afternoon, as a reaction generally followed such extraordinary enlargement." At such times, when it was nearly impossible to express a "single consecutive idea," he was afraid he expressed himself "metonymically." 
               Mary, though a little mystified, agreed with him, but she owned to me that she was at a loss to imagine how the correct reading of a manuscript could be affected by the reader's frame of mind. My little wife has a kind heart, but I doubted the genuineness of her sympathy on this occasion. One look into her eyes assured me that the twinkling in them was not occasioned by tears. 
               I said nothing. I never encourage criticism of pulpit effort. I think if it was my privilege to hear the Word instead of preaching it I should be satisfied with the crumbs from the Master's table. I think I should feel that the least gifted of the Lord's embassadors had a message for me. I feel too truly my own shortcomings to look with a curious eye into the faults of my brethren. O, that I had grace to preach as I ought the unsearchable riches of Christ! O, for another outpouring of the Spirit of God upon this people! The young converts of last year hold on their way, and, except in one or two cases, are ornaments to their profession. The Church generally seems to thrive, a hearty union prevails, and the meetings are deeply spiritual and interesting. But we have had no new trophies for months. Perhaps we need the leisure granted us to train up for active usefulness these babes in Christ. 
               To help them in becoming established in the faith I must begin this afternoon the labor of getting subscriptions for our Church periodicals. Next to the Bible and our Sabbath worship I esteem a sound religious literature. A little effort introduces it, and when once a taste for it is formed we are sure of stable and enlightened Christians. 
               
                  September 7th.-A good cousin of mine has been spending the last fortnight with us. When I call her good I mean very good. She is remarkably conscientious, and, though naturally timid, is as bold as a lion in the performance of duty. Nothing is suffered to interfere with her stated hours of devotion, and she seems to have no subject of interest, in common with others except the one great theme of religion. Her earnest prayers and exhortations in our prayer meetings are very spiritual, and her deep experience of the things of God makes her a valuable counselor for the young convert. 
               Yet it so happens that my Mary, who appreciates all her goodness, does not enjoy her stay with us. 
               "Her strictness and devotion," said Mary just now, as she came into the study to search for Hetty's ever-missing atlas, "are a perpetual reproach to me. I feel all the time as if I ought to be converted anew." 
               "Well, my dear Mary, perhaps it would not hurt you. I am sure I need more religion." 
               "Yes; but I don't know how far wrong I may be. If I spent all my time in prayer and meditation who would starch and iron your shirts and cook the dinners? You remember you had no dinner the day cousin kept house for you-the day I went to take care of Mrs. Slater. She read and meditated, but forgot the dinner till her own hunger reminded her. And only yesterday I asked her to see to the fire and just keep the dinner cooking while I gave Emma Allen her drawing lesson, but she happened to take 'Upham's Interior Life,' and the fire was forgotten and went out, and the underdone veal made us all sick." 
               "Well, Mary?" 
               "Well, Ernest, I could not help thinking when I was eating the raw meat that the good Father in heaven, who had created us with bodily wants, and had given us the means of supplying them, had made it somebody's duty to cook that dinner. And I thought, too, that if I had neglected so plain a duty, even for prayer or reflection, I should not have felt quite clear in my conscience. 
                
               But there cousin sat as serene as a June morning, and nothing disturbed the even tenor of her thoughts." 
               "Take care, Mary. You are not feeling very kindly." 
               "I confess that I feel provoked. I felt really angry yesterday, and did not get over it all the afternoon. I had no idea it required so much grace to live in the same family with a saint." 
               "Mary," I said reproachfully, "think what you are saying." 
               "If you had it to bear, Ernest, you would agree with me. I believe in prayer and meditation, too, and confess my inability to live a Christian life without often turning aside to commune with my God; but there are active duties to perform, and a pretty confusion would result if no one attended to them. Don't you think God meant us to work as well as pray? to be 'diligent in business? as well as 'fervent in spirit?'" 
                
               "'This ought ye to have done and not to have left the other undone,'" I said. "Where there are so many worldly-minded Christians I have no heart, Mary, to be severe on our cousin for the strict piety that we both believe to be sincere." 
               "But, surely, Ernest, you do not think it is piety that makes a person shut himself up like an oyster in its shell. How can we do any real good if we must keep our eyes shut so as not to suffer our attention to be diverted from spiritual things? There are other duties besides speaking and praying in meeting, and other crosses besides lecturing folks out of meeting. The Bible tells us to do with our might what our hands find to do. That is a text for idle Christians." 
               "My dear Mary, you seem really displeased." 
               "I am afraid," she continued, "that I lack patience as much as cousin lacks-what shall I call it? Not activity, perhaps, for she is active in her way, though it seems to me a selfish, lazy way. Only think of her gravely preaching to me for half an hour because I was finishing off some of Hetty's clothes with embroidery! 
               "'Such a waste of precious time,' she said solemnly. 'You will have to account, Mary, for spending it so foolishly.' 
               "'Well,' I answered, 'I am glad I have not got to answer for whole days and even weeks spent in idle meditation when there is so much to be done for the poor as well as for ourselves. I have made two dresses and a jacket for that destitute Irish family since you came here, besides all my own work. I think that will offset the few hours spent in fancy work.'" 
               "Why, Mary, what did cousin say to you?" 
               At this question Mary, who was just ready to cry with vexation, suddenly burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter. It was so spontaneous and hearty that I joined in it perforce without the least idea what it was all about. 
               "She said," replied Mary as soon as she was sober enough to speak, "that she wished to speak to me on another subject. She thought it wrong for a Christian woman to wear hoops. I told her my conscience would not let me starch my skirts with flour that might be made into bread for the poor as she did. Besides, I added, the waste of time in ironing such stiff cloth is more than I should like to answer for. Now, Ernest, don't put on that grave look, for I assure you there was no harm done. Cousin only looked at me earnestly for a moment, then shut her eyes and resumed the thread of her meditations. I am sure she is not offended, for she has commenced running the breadths of poor Mrs. Doolan's dress on purpose to help me. I was quite astonished when she offered her services." 
               "Well, Mary, one thing is plainly to be seen. We do not meditate on spiritual things enough to injure us. I fear our temporal interest too often take precedence, if they do not altogether crowd out of our thoughts our eternal ones. You are at leisure just now, aren't you?" 
                
               "Yes, if I can assist you." 
               "Then let us read this beautiful Psalm together commencing, 'Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations.' I was reading it just before you came in. And let us unite our prayers for God's grace to rest upon us, so that, however others may come short of doing their duty, we may not be found lacking in that day when God shall judge the world." 
               That hour of prayer! Shall I ever forget its sweet, soothing influence upon our hearts? When only trifles seem to disturb us we can truly say, God is a refuge for us. 
               Mary rose from her knees strengthened to bear the ills that are unavoidable, and I thankful to God for a companion who is a cheerful, earnest Christian as well as an accomplished and lovable woman. 
               
                  October 30th.-It is a fine evening, though somewhat chilly. The young moon is still high in the western sky, and a blessed quiet pervades' the house-thrice blessed after the bustle and toils of the day. Mary has gone to bed completely wearied out, and Hetty sits in a little rocking chair at my feet, hugging and soothing a puny yellow kitten which has taken up its abode with us for a day or two past. Where it belongs, whether it has strayed, or been stolen, or purposely lost are problems that seem to absorb Hetty's thoughts. She is in constant fear that the squalid-looking and every-way-" repulsive little beast will be reclaimed by some appreciative owner. There is little danger of so happy a catastrophe. 
               Ah me, how tired I am! Mentally exhausted as well as physically. We have been to L., to do some necessary shopping. We have often been there before on such business, and, after getting rid of all our money, have returned no ways dissatisfied with our excursion. But in an evil hour Mary accepted Miss Clara Reed's offer to accompany us on this last tour, and also her proposal to spend last night at the parsonage so as to secure an early start. Mary was up betimes, and had a nice breakfast smoking on the table by sunrise. The bell, according to last night's programme, was rung twice, half an hour before breakfast in order to give time for dressing, and again when breakfast was ready. But at this point it was ascertained that the lady had not left her bed, and Hetty, who was sent in to hurry the proceedings, returned with an armful of nondescript articles of clothing to air by the fire, as Miss Clara had observed the fog in the valley, and was sure her raiment must be damp. So the toast and coffee were replaced on the stove, and a fresh fire made to air the aforesaid rigging. This was trial number one, and we thought it sufficiently aggravating-in our innocence imagining that no inconvenience could be more provoking than an unnecessarily-spoiled breakfast. 
               After breakfast and prayers were over and the kitchen work done up-for Mary never leaves greasy dishes and unswept floors to be locked up in her absence-after Hetty was dressed for school and the active housekeeper had made her own neat and tasteful toilet, I am afraid to say how long the horse stood at the door waiting for the final touches to be put to Miss Clara's bonnet-strings. But I know it will be no small task to-morrow to replace the gravel in the yard where the impatient animal stamped his sentiments in regard to punctuality. However, we did start at last, just one hour and forty, minutes after the hour appointed. 
               Mary had quite a list of articles to procure, preparing during the Autumn, as she always does, our clothing for the Winter, and thus avoiding the hurry of many housekeepers. But her purchases were soon made, and we were ready to return before noon. "Now came the tug of war." Miss Clara had not commenced business; she had thought best to look round a little first and see what goods were most in demand. So we sat down quietly in a retired corner of a large store to watch the progress of her trading. I thought she was very hard to suit. The clerks took down and unfolded one dress pattern after another only to hear its colors depreciated, its texture found fault with, and its price especially reprobated. I remembered just then the gossip at Lanswood which asserted that brother Samuel Perly had once been attentive to Miss Clara, but after going with her to town to do some shopping he had suddenly ceased his attentions; and that more recently, when a stranger in the place had been similarly attracted, he had, acting on a hint from the said Samuel, gone on a trading excursion with her, and returned sobered and in his right mind, with no disposition to prolong his acquaintance with her. I have no doubt the story is perfectly true. Clerks must be particularly endowed with patience. Mine was soon exhausted, for I have no feelings of forbearance or courtesy on such occasions. But Miss Clara was not satisfied with overhauling and disparaging the contents of one large store; she seemed to have a mission to take account of all the stock in town, and we were dragged from one store to another till the declining sun warned us to delay no longer if we meant to reach home in time for the evening conference meeting. Still Miss Clara had made no purchases, and there was yet another store that she must visit. Mary must go with her to look at the goods. This I would not suffer. 
               "Mary is already worn-out with trotting up and down street after you. She is not your spaniel, Miss Clara. You can look over goods all night, if you please, but we shall start for Lanswood in ten minutes." 
               "Why, I have not bought a thing yet." 
               "Can't help it. You have had time to buy the town. We shall be off directly." 
               Thus hurried Miss Clara at length bought some damaged bonnet ribbon for twenty-five cents, and got into the carriage in no amiable mood, if her looks did not belie her. We drove on for half a mile in silence. I felt no disposition to talk, and Mary was too tired. 
               "I am sorry," at last said Mary in the gentlest tlest tone of voice, "that you could not trade after taking so much pains to come with us. But, indeed, it is time we were at home this moment." 
               "I didn't want to trade, I wanted to see the goods. I like to look them over and price them, and get patterns when I can. I bought all I intended to. But I wanted particularly to go down to Davis's store and look at his plain delaines and alapacas. I saw them advertised, and I think it is a shame to be obliged to return without seeing them. But here is my uncle's, and I will thank you to stop. I want to get out." 
               "We can't wait long," I remarked as I reluctantly stopped the horse. 
               "I am going to spend a week here." 
               "Indeed. So we have waited five hours to bring you half a mile, besides walking half a dozen times that distance in following you about. I think"- 
               "Do, Ernest, be quiet," interrupted Mary. 
                
               "Here is your carpet-bag, Miss Clara. Now let us drive on." 
               "Well, Mary," I said, as we started again, "I must say your words and manner are rather curt and peremptory. I would have given her a lecture worth remembering if you had not interrupted me." 
               "One that you would have remembered with regret long after Miss Clara had forgotten it, I never saw you look so very angry." 
               "Well, I never met with any one so uniformly provoking. I felt it impossible to be civil." 
               "But a Christian minister must also be a gentleman always. Discourtesy would not remedy the evil, but it would injure your influence." 
               It was too late for the conference meeting when we got home, and I was in no mood to go if we had been earlier. Hetty had made tea for the first time in her life, and had also boiled potatoes and broiled ham in a manner very creditable to a child of eight years. She was dancing around the table perfectly delighted with her housekeeping achievements when we drove up. Our praises of the unexpected repast, which seemed almost providential to us in our weariness and hunger, did not tend to sober her, and the permission to clear the tea things away, and then to sit up an hour later than usual, completed her satisfaction. 
               
                  December 30th.-It is a long time since I have written a line in my journal. Sickness and death have been busy all around us, and many families have been mourning the loss of loved ones. Mary and Hetty have both been very ill, and both have very nearly entered the dark valley. But God has spared them in answer to my prayers, and we shall begin the new year together. There have been no new cases of fever for some weeks, and we hope it has claimed its last victim here. It seems selfish to indulge the joy and gratitude that fills my heart as I see the faint roses again deepening on the cheek of my loved ones while the light of home has been quenched in so many dwellings. But while I pity others, and would do all in my power to comfort them, my soul exults in view of God's special goodness to me. 
               A rather unpleasant; incident occurred last Sunday. I had read the lesson for the morning, and had announced my text, when I was disturbed by the noisy whispering of three children, who sat by themselves in one of the wing pews at my right hand. They were looking over their Sabbath school books and discussing the merits of the pictures as unconcernedly as if no one else had been in the house. I supposed at once that there was no one present who had a natural right to restrain them, and so I pleasantly asked them to lay aside their books, and told them it was not good manners to whisper when I was trying to talk to them. I soon forgot them in the interest of the theme I had chosen, but on descending the pulpit stairs after the service was over I found myself suddenly confronted by their mother, a tall, hand- some woman, whose great black eyes flashed with excitement. 
               "The next time you undertake to teach my children better manners," she said in a loud voice that was heard all over the church, "I will thank you not to do it in public." 
               "If they had been properly taught at home, madam," I replied quickly, "they would not have needed it." 
               Nothing more was said, but the trifle so unsettled my thoughts that I found it impossible to preach the sermon I had prepared for the afternoon, and I merely gave an exposition of the first Psalm. It was a foolish nervousness, but I could not rise above it. I have been told to-day that that family will attend another church till the close of my ministry here. I regret it extremely, for they have much influence in the society. 
               I have ever esteemed it an act of meanness for a minister to whip his people from the pulpit. It is a desecration of his sacred office. It is cowardly, too, because there can be no reply without bringing contention into the house of the Lord, and most Church members will bear a great deal in this way before answering back. I have heard some farewell sermons in which the preacher has poured out the real or fancied grievances of the past year, and his own sentiments in regard to them, in such a manner as to disgrace as well as to grieve the Church, while the enemies of the cause rejoiced and strengthened themselves in evil doing. This is not preaching the Gospel, and no blessing attends it. "If thy brother sin against thee go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone." Too cowardly to obey the divine mandate it is possible to be, but far better to suffer in silence than to proclaim the faults of an offending brother upon the house-top. 
               
                  December 31st.-It is the last day of the old year. I have called on Mrs. Orley and convinced her that I meant no disrespect to her family by reproving them in church. She was a little cool and distant at first, but when we rose from our knees after prayers she thanked me with tears for not suffering my pride and my sense of innocence in regard to her to hinder my visiting her. She frankly owned she had been hasty and wrong, and also culpably careless in training her children. So the last sun of the old year goes down, leaving me at peace with all mankind. 
               It is very cold, and the snow lies deep on the ground. Merry sleigh-bells are ringing in all directions. The dark firs on the hill are loaded with the soft white snow, and in the distance seem to be bearing silver fruit. I hear Mary, who is not yet well enough to venture out, singing a farewell to the old year in the parlor below. It is very sweet, and I must go down and join in it; but first I must look out of the window and ascertain what has become of Hetty. It is an hour since I saw her coasting on the hill-side with a troop of noisy children Now, with her hood thrown back, and her long black curls floating on the keen breeze, she is skating with all her might upon the pond at the foot of the garden. Skating, thanks to capricious fashion, is now considered a proper amusement for females; but I can not help wishing that Hetty would not try to out-skate the rough and stronger boys. When she was prostrate with fever, and Mary and I expected to close those bright eyes for their long sleep, I often wondered that I had suffered her love of Sport, her fearlessness, or her original modes of enjoyment to annoy me. I think I shall in future be grateful to keep her as she is. God bless my beautiful darling! No one closes up the old year with greater reasons for gratitude than myself, or with more cheering prospects for the future. For twenty years the new year has found me on my knees before God, anxiously reviewing the past and seeking grace for the future. The coming year, so near, fraught with unknown joys and unthought-of sorrows, must also find me watching. O, for a fresh baptism from above! I need it in order to spend the year in the service of God. I need it that I may not preach Christ in vain. I need it for every-day life in my family, and especially to fit me to join the unnumbered family in heaven. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER VI. 
               STATIONED AT MIFFDOM. 
               
                  MIFFDOM, AUGUST 3, 18-.
                
               IT is a long time, little volume, since I have committed either my joys or sorrows to your safe-keeping. I have had no heart to journalize, no desire to record for future reading the events which are so trying to poor human nature while transpiring. Indeed, I have nearly resolved to wrap the mantle of oblivion, so far as it was possible, over the incidents and feelings of the entire Conference year, but a long conversation with my wife has altered my programme. She argues that a book needs a sprinkling of the ills of life to make its sunny scenes agreeable, and protests that the record of my life, which she expects will be read in future ages by our admiring descendants, will be tame and incomplete plete with out a history of our sojourn in Miffdom. 
               When I came home in May last, from our Conference at Ash field, and told Mary that our field of labor for the coming year was to be in Miffdom, I saw that it was not pleasant news to her. Her cheek paled and her lips trembled suspiciously. But she is a whole-hearted believer in the itinerancy, and has never yet murmured at an appointment. "It will be a fine thing for Hetty," was her first remark. "She will have the advantages of the high school there. I think she will feel more interested in her studies if she has companions to recite with her." 
               "Yes," I said, "it will be a fine thing for Hetty. There is no parsonage, Mary. The preacher lives in the same house with one of the brethren-a very fine man, brother Grant says." 
               I saw Mary winced a little, for she is decidedly of the opinion that there never was a house too large for one family, or too completely isolated for a preacher's family. She was silent a little while, and then inquired how large a family were to live with us. 
               "Only brother Dean and his wife. Their part quite separate from ours, and we shall be nearly as independent as if living alone. Sister Dean is rather odd, I hear, but good-tempered and obliging, and not at all disposed to be meddlesome." 
               "I shall not mind her oddities if that be true. She has a right to be odd, I suppose. I hope Hetty will not annoy her. The child is always singing and making a noise." 
               "Brother Grant says she likes children, so we need not fear any trouble on that account. She will put up with any thing but hens." 
               "Hens?" said Mary, in some astonishment. 
               "Yes. Several years ago a preacher who lived there had a present of two enormous Shanghai fowls and half a dozen bantams. To keep them comfortably through the Winter he made an opening to admit them into the cellar, and the roost happening to be nearly under the good lady's bedroom, she was awakened every morning, long before day, by a tremendous cock-a-doodle-dooing that fairly shook the bedstead. Then the bantams were so tame that they were always getting under her feet, or being shut into the doors. So, when the preacher moved, she resolved that the nuisance once abated should never be renewed. Since then ministerial poultry in Miffdom has been tabooed." 
               "Well," said Mary, laughing cheerfully, "we will sell the hens. And Hetty must give away her rabbits. Is the house convenient?" 
               "Yes And well furnished. There will be no trouble about our support. Brother Grant says it is paid promptly every quarter in advance. The village is a fine, thrifty-looking place, and is really a charming locality. The outside look of the station is inviting. But every body knows there is a 'skeleton' there," I added, sighing deeply as a probable vision of fruitless labors and profitless efforts rose before me. 
                
               "Never mind the skeleton," said Mary, cheerfully. "We will manage that somehow. If we can not do so we will enjoy ourselves independently of it. And I really think, Ernest, after such a succession of pleasant appointments as we have been favored with we ought to be ashamed if we can't rough it for once." 
               Still, in spite of good resolutions, we found it hard to sever our connection with the dear friends at Lanswood. It was a sore trial to us to leave the snug, cozy parsonage, where we had both sorrowed and rejoiced, the furniture whose convenience we had tested, and the shrubbery just coming into leaf, which our own hands had planted. It is on such occasions that the itinerant preacher most sensibly realizes that he has no permanent home, no earthly abiding place. 
               I was well acquainted with my successor. I knew him to be a man of sterling worth, a good preacher, and excellent pastor. I had, consequently, no misgivings in resigning my loved charge into his hands. It was a pleasant labor, during those last sad days, to secure for him a cordial welcome to the hearts and homes of those so soon to be under his care. I almost forgot my own gloomy prospects while trying to open an effectual door for him. He was to leave one of the most discouraging stations in the Conference, and he needed warm sympathy and generous appreciation to restore his old confidence in humanity. I, alas! was to occupy his vacant place. 
               The chief men of the Miffdom charge had sent a delegation of members to attend the Conference, and secure, if possible, my appointment to that place. They had heard of my success, and the great revival at Lanswood, and they thought they needed a similar work of grace. I suppose there never was a revival which was more evidently the work of the Almighty, or so little aided by human instrumentality as the one in question. But it was impossible to dispossess those brethren of the idea that some hidden influence of mine was the mainspring of the whole work. They must have me for their minister or no one. It may be that the Lord overruled in my being stationed there. I like to feel that he has an influence in the cabinet; but in giving them their desire I think he sent leanness into their heart. 
               
                  August 8th.-I have been, helping Mary do the week's washing. It is just the work for Monday, when the mind is indisposed for effort. One can pound clothes in a barrel with out much mental exercise; but the clothes are all on the line, snapping and twisting in the wind, as if haunted by uneasy spirits. Mary is resting on the lounge, deep in the pages of the Repository-by the way, what a splendid magazine Dr. Clark gets up!-Hetty is at school, and the whole house has such a listless air that I sit down to my desk and open my journal in self-defense. To keep awake I must describe our "skeleton." 
               Miffdoin is not the real name of my present parish, but a sobriquet it has acquired by the endless petty dissensions, or miffs, among the people. It is not the Church alone who are given to trivial disagreements; the whole population have either been inoculated with the spunky virus or have it the natural way. Who has not seen the little barking terrier come tearing down the door-yard, with a ten-mouse power to yelp at the passing traveler? I think I shall never see one of the species again without being reminded of Miffdom. 
               Very insignificant appeared these quarrels when taken in detail. I do not now recall one of those which have been forced upon my notice, which was calculated to excite any other feeling save contempt for its puerile childishness. Yet, as a whole, they become a mountain of difficulty, looming to the skies and effectually hindering all Christian effort. 
               When the war commenced every one acquainted with the pugnacious Miffdomites rejoiced that, by enlisting in the service, the men would find a natural vent for their grit in belaboring secession; but instead of being grateful for the prospect of good, honest, legitimate fighting, the whole people staid at home, and found fault with every tiling done by the army or the Government. It was plain that domestic warfare was their forte. 
               My predecessor had spent his twelve months here in the vain attempt to piece together the numberless odds and ends of variance into one stout band of love and fellowship; and though he had not joined a single thread, he had succeeded beautifully in raising a mighty hue and cry against himself. Every body accused him of partiality toward every body else. Forewarned by his experience, I determined from the first to have nothing to do with any particular party in the Church. There were one hundred and eleven members and one hundred and eleven parties. No, I would get up a party of my own, and preach the Gospel as well as I could to all the other parties. 
                
               
                  September 6th.-So far I have kept out of hot water. At least, I am not scalded. But a report is gaining ground that the new minister is a "shirk." 
               "He don't do his duty," says one. 
               "He should be a peacemaker," says another. 
               "And a cross-bearer," adds a third. 
               "We are entirely disappointed in him," respond the lay delegation, who were the fortunate instruments of securing him for their pastor. "I wonder," they whisper to each other, "if we should not fare quite as well if we did not interfere with the appointments?" 
               I was working in the garden after breakfast when I heard the door-bell ring, and directly after Mary came to call me. "There is a man with a miff in the parlor, Ernest" 
               "How do you know?" 
               "O, he looks it. It is brother Luton. Now, do be careful what you say to him. He looks really savage. Be sure to say nothing you will regret hereafter." 
                
               "Don't be Alarmed, I will remember." 
               "I hardly feel like trusting you. You can not be too cautious, and these petty quarrels are so aggravating. I wonder they are n't ashamed to detail them." 
               "I shall find some way to curtail them," I answered. "I have too much important work on my hands to find time to hear their stories." 
               After this speech I saw that Mary felt less confident of my good behavior, and I was not surprised when she brought her work-box into the parlor and sat down near me. 
               She was right, brother Luton had a miff. He came to complain of one of the other Church members. 
               "Every member of the Church is dissatisfied," he said, "because you have made him a class-leader. Why, he don't know enough to take care of his own soul, to say nothing about the absurdity of his watching over others." 
               "He is a very good leader, I think, and his class are pleased with him." 
                
               "You may think so, but I have been round among the brethren this week, and a good many are of my opinion. Several of the sisters hinted their astonishment at his being leader instead of myself, but I told them I never strained after office." 
               "If you had desired this one you could not have been accommodated, for I understand that you neglect both the class meeting and the Lord's Supper." 
               "Well, sir, it is this very man who keeps me away. If it were not for Torn Blair you would have no reason to complain of me. But I can't stand his hypocrisy. He 's got to be stopped some how, or I shall give up going to meeting on Sundays, and I shall take my children out of the Sunday school too." 
               "And lose your soul at last and ruin your little ones, rather than give up your animosity to brother Blair. That will be the finale unless you are careful." 
               "Can't help that. He'll have it to answer for, not I. I suppose you know that I sha' n't feel bound to pay my subscription for preaching if I stay at home?" 
               I smiled at his threatened looks, but asked quietly how much he paid. 
               "Well, I subscribe four dollars." 
               "You have put down that sum for a number of years, I believe." 
               "How do you know?" 
               "O, I have been examining the financial records of the Church, just to find out how you are accustomed to manage. I saw that you had usually subscribed four dollars, and never paid it." 
               He started and colored. "Well, that has nothing to do with your doing your duty by us, I suppose." 
               "No, I shall not be influenced by it. It does not affect me so much as it does the brethren who pay your part of the salary. Perhaps I should feel more interest in the grievances of a perfectly honest man, but my feelings will not be permitted to control my actions. May I ask what it is that you require of me?" 
               "I want you to stop Tom Blair's praying and speaking in meeting. He is n't fit to peak any where, but it is a disgrace to the cause for him to open his mouth in public. If you knew him half as well as I do you'd hush him up mighty quick." 
               "What has he done?" 
               "What a question! As if there was any thing mean on earth that he hadn't done!" 
               "If he has gone so far astray you surely must be able to specify some fault. What do you know that he has done?" 
               "I know he 's slandered me, and he's a liar," he answered so fiercely that Mary involuntarily started from her seat. "He denies ever trying to hurt me, and laughed in my face when I repeated his lies; but he's a poor, half-witted wretch, and don't know enough to be accountable." 
               "Why, then, do you trouble yourself about one so greatly your inferior? I presume he never has desired to injure you." 
               "I know better. Kiah Loring told Miss Johnson, and she told old Mr. Chester, down to the poor-house. Milly Tozer is one of the paupers, and she came right over and told my wife. It was three years ago last Saturday. I remember it, because I was out in the garden by the hog-sty, husking some green corn for succotash, and my wife came running out to tell me, and in her hurry ran right across a bed of tomatoes. They were a new kind, and I was ripening them for the fair. She caught her foot in the vines, and tore up the roots and trampled down the largest and finest ones in the whole lot. It made me so mad to see them all ruined that I threw the corn at her, and it went over her head into the hog-pen, and I would not pick any more or let her, so we went without any dinner. That is how I came to remember all about it so well." 
               Not particularly enlightened by this long harangue as to the sins of brother Blair, I remarked, "You forget, brother Luton, that you have not told what he said about you." 
               "Why, he said that he passed by my house one night about dusk, and me and my wife was quarreling enough to raise the neighbors. Now, I can prove that we never disagreed in our lives." 
               I stole an amused look at Mary, over whose demure face the repressed smiles were dimpling out in all directions. 
               "No, sir!" he went on, "I don't believe in quarreling with a woman. I always said that when a couple could not live together peaceably it's time to quit. Nobody can say that me and my wife ever had a word of difference." 
               "Not even when you threw the corn at her head?" I suggested. 
               Mary touched my foot with hers warningly, but it was too late. The mischief was done and brother Luton hopelessly offended. 
               "I was a fool to come here for justice," he said, angrily. "I might have known you would have been on Blair's side. He knows how to buy people. I met his boy as I came in at your gate, with a great empty basket. I saw then what he had been up to. Well, go ahead, and see where you come out. But you don't catch me to meeting again while you are here, and you won't stay the second year, I promise you." 
               "Amen!" was my involuntary response. 
               After he was gone, and we sat talking the matter over, uncertain whether to laugh over his assured domestic harmony, or to grieve over his inconsistency as a Christian, I felt more than ever confirmed in the wisdom of my resolve to have nothing to do with the miffs of Miffdom, unless they were introduced in such a form as to demand a Church trial. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER VII. 
               CHESTNUTTING EXCURSION. 
               
                  MIFFDOM, OCTOBER 12, 18-.
                
               "PAPA," said Hetty, bursting into the study, quite out of breath with running, "I want to tell you something. Are you very busy?" she asked anxiously, as her eyes fell on the open books before me. 
               "Not too busy to listen to my pet, if she has any business of importance." 
               "It is not very important, but mamma has gone over to help poor Mrs. Green. Mr. Green came for her. She is very sick, so I could not run in to ask mamma if I must ask the girls in my class to tea on Saturday. Did not you hear mamma tell me I had better invite them this morning?" 
               "Yes, I thought it would be a pleasant thing for you all." 
                
               "So I thought. But just now I happened to remember that Mary Leeds said last night that the girls were not going to have any thing more to do with me. They have all agreed to it. She said that her father said that you would not take any body's part if they were injured ever so much, and we ought to live on an island or a prairie by ourselves, instead of among folks. So," added Hetty, drumming a tune with her fingers on my study-table, "they decided to let me play and walk alone in future." 
               "Indeed! and what did you say to her?" 
               "I? Let me think. O, I said I was glad they could agree on any subject, which was more than their parents could." 
               "Why, Hetty!" 
               "Is n't it true, papa?" 
               "If it is, it was not the best way to reply to them. It would only make them angry." 
               "O, I spoke just as pleasant as-as a kitten," said Hetty, helped to comparison by a glimpse of Mrs. Dean's cat on a cherry-tree by the window. "I told her I did n't care. I liked myself for company, and if the girls were suited, I was. I told her how it bothered me sometimes to be polite to them all, when my thoughts were busy, and I 'm sure, papa, she did not think I was offended, because she told Sue Atkins that I seemed to be pleased." 
               "And don't you care at all, Hetty?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "There, let those charts alone; and the books too. What busy little hands! Are you going back to school?" 
               "In a minute. But must I invite the girls to tea?" 
               "No, I should think not." 
               "I wish I might go chestnutting instead." 
               Hetty put her fat little arm coaxingly ground my neck, and laid her warm round cheek against mine. 
               "Chestnutting, Hetty! There are no chestnut-trees near us. I wish there were. We miss the Lanswood woods, pet, don't we?" 
                
               "Papa, do you know that poor old man who sits in the pew by the door in church? The boys call him old Kriss, but his name is Peleg Andrews." 
               "I have seen him, but I have not yet called on him. I don't know exactly where he lives." 
               "Well, I am acquainted with him." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "He lives in a queer little house with only one room in it, away outside the village, in the edge of the woods. It is five miles from here, and he walks all that way to church. I think he is real good," said Hetty, earnestly, unconscious that her words were a condemnation of, my neglect of him as a pastor. 
               "He lives quite alone, papa. There is n't a house near him." 
               "How do you know all this?" 
               "Why, he told me himself. He looked so lonesome, sitting by himself in the cemetery on Sabbath noons, that I could not help going out there after Sabbath school and getting acquainted with him. The girls laugh about it, but I don't care. He is such a nice old man! He had a wife once and a little girl like me. He showed me their graves in the cemetery." 
               "I am sorry for him." 
               "Yes, papa; but I was going to tell you that there are quantities of chestnuts in the woods near his house. I told him I should come and see him when they were ripe, and he said last Sunday that I must come soon, or the boys and the squirrels would get all the nuts. May I go?" 
               "It is too far for you to walk, but if mamma approves, we will borrow Mr. Stone's pony and carriage and all go together. Now, puss, run away to school." 
               "The bell hasn't rung yet. I don't believe I can study if I go-I shall be in the woods all day." 
               "Do you know, Hetty, why Mr. Andrews lives in that retired place?" 
               "Yes, I asked him, and he said he could live in peace there. You see," said Hetty, "he don't enjoy quarreling." 
               "And you, Hetty." I said, returning to the evidently forgotten subject, "are quite willing that all these girls should dislike you?" 
               "Why, they don't really dislike me. They treat each other in the same way. Last week Mary Leeds herself had only me to play with; now it is my turn. It is only their way, you know," she went on apologetically; "they hear their parents talk about each other at home, and they talk it over at school, and of course they stand up for their own folks. My! how mad they get sometimes! But the girls are not so much to blame, don't you see?" 
               "Yes. But it is a sad state of things when people feel so unkindly. We should pity them and not judge them too harshly." 
               Hetty laughed merrily, and raised her black eyes wonderingly to my face to see if I were speaking seriously. 
               "Pity them! Why, papa Ashley, they like it." 
                
               There had been dark clouds seemingly accumulating over my head for weeks. In vain Mary had tried to cheer me or to divert my thoughts to agreeable themes. I had found it quite impossible to shake off the depression from my spirits. I think if Mary had looked at me impartially she would have mingled with her words of pity and encouragement a little whole some admonition for the cross and bearish disposition that I exhibited. 
               "Mr. Ashley is discouraged and low-spirited," I heard her remark to Mrs. Dean, who had observed the thunder cloud on my countenance. Alas! I could lay no such sweet unction to my soul. Disheartened I certainly was, but morose and crabbed enough withal to attempt to bite off a nail. I am afraid I had a miff. 
               With Hetty's laugh a streak of sunshine rifted through the dark clouds, and they began to break up The child's philosophic and rare indifference to the whims and follies of her associates was a lesson to me. I saw at once the foolishness of brooding over and worrying about things which can not be helped. At dinnertime I astonished Mary by my returning appetite and sociability, and when I saw her brightening smiles I inwardly resolved never again to visit upon her head the chagrin and disgust engendered by the provoking behavior of other people. 
               
                  October 15th.-Last Saturday we indulged both Hetty and our selves with a visit to old Mr. Andrews and a chestnutting excursion. It was one of the softest and clearest of October days. The woods never looked lovelier. The oaks in their magnificent array of russet brown, the rich chrome-yellow of the maple, the crimson ash and maize-colored chestnut, the scarlet hawthorn, and the deep orange of the beech, each in its way contrasted finely with the fadeless green of the ivy and holly, and with the statelier and darker beauty of the pines and cedars. Combined in one faultless picture, we beheld the unequaled glories of an American forest landscape, brilliant and varied beyond description, but with every color so shaded and harmonized by the great Artist that it seemed to lose its individuality, and to become only a part of the perfect whole. Above us was the heavenly blue of the unfathomable sky, so peaceful in its beauty, so sublime in its declaration of the glory of God. 
               We spent the whole day in the woods. Mr. Andrews accompanied us, and twice during our stay we missed him and Hetty for an hour at a time. They would come back from some remote forest nook laden with walnuts and chestnuts, Hetty laughing, or singing, or earnestly talking, as the case seemed to require, he carrying her basket and lifting her over difficult places, and both seeming to have abandoned themselves entirely to the pleasures of the occasion. 
               How soon the short day closed! I felt when we got into the carriage like a new man, refreshed physically and mentally. We had our supper with old Mr. Andrews in his one-roomed cabin, It was a miracle of neatness considering the limited space in which his housekeeping operations were carried on. I was surprised to see in one corner a respectable collection of books, and to find among them standard works of history and biography. Hetty assisted him in getting supper ready. The happy child seemed to fly rather than walk from the house to the carriage, where our eatables were stored, and had the table ready by the time our host had prepared some coffee for our refreshment. 
               After supper we united in offering up our evening devotions to the Giver of our blessings, and then, after a cordial invitation from the kind old man to repeat our visit, we rode home in the bright moonlight. It will be long before we shall forget the tranquil, innocent enjoyment of that beautiful Autumn day. On our way home we took Hetty's relations to the schoolgirls into calm consideration, and decided that the safest course would be to remove her from the school, and again burden Mary with her recitations. 
               "I am sorry, Hetty, dear," said her mother, "for you are getting on finely, both in arithmetic and grammar, and Mr. Allen is a superior teacher; but I am afraid you will some how become entangled in the dissensions of your companions if you continue to go." 
               Hetty's reply betrayed the region to which her thoughts had strayed. 
               "What a sweet smell the woods have, mamma! And what a many pleasant things the trees and little brooks are always saying! How sociable it seemed after"- 
               Hetty hesitated, and Mary laughingly completed the sentence.- 
               "After living in solitude so long in the midst of a crowd." 
               
                  October 28th.-The school-teacher called on us this evening. He seems a fine, intelligent young man, and is also, I trust, truly pious. He began at once to explain the occasion of his introducing himself to us. He had heard that I had removed Hetty from the school because I disapproved of the new method of recitation which he had introduced. 
               "I assure you, sir," he said, "I had no idea of assuming any improper authority, but I really thought it best for the pupils to give the sense of the answers in their own language, instead of, parrot-like, repeating the text. I thought I could in this way ascertain exactly the progress made. I am sorry that you disapprove my plan, because the pupils seem to feel more interested in their studies since its adoption, and also for another reason, which, I am afraid, you will call a selfish one." 
               "Perhaps not. What is it?" I inquired absently, for I was wondering how such unlikely rumors could obtain a circulation in a sane community, or what interest could possibly be advanced by misrepresentations so trivial. 
               "Since your withdrawal of Hetty several others have followed your example, and my best classes are quite broken up. The regular examination of the school is to be in three weeks, and it hardly seems fair to place me at such a disadvantage as a teacher for what at most is but an error of judgment." 
               I could not help pitying him. I remembered when I taught a district school for a living, and the wholesome awe with which I then regarded the visiting committee and public opinion. And all this variety of evils had grown out of the simple circumstance of our keeping Hetty at home. 
               "My dear sir," I asked suddenly, "are you a native of Miffdom?" 
               "No, sir;" He looked surprised at a question so irrelevant. 
               "Then perhaps you will believe me when I assert that so far from disapproving of your method of teaching, I sincerely regretted the apparent necessity e of depriving Hetty of your valuable instructions. I have always expressed to others my sense of your fine qualifications for a teacher whenever your school has been mentioned. My wife will regret her absence this evening, for she has been desiring for a long time to express her gratitude for the pains you have taken with Hetty. As she has become interested in her studies she has changed for the better in various other respects. Indeed," I added, patting Hetty's head as she sat on a low stool at my feet hemming a towel, "she has become quite a careful little woman. Papa's housekeeper as well as pet, aren't you, Hetty?" 
               She colored rosily as she met her teacher's admiring look, and shook her long curls over her face so as to quite hide it from view as she bent over her sewing again. 
               "When the girls at school united in the determination to shun her society, Mrs. Ashley thought it best to remove her from their influence. She has a sunny, affectionate disposition, but a way of stating plain things plainly that might irritate her companions and aggravate the peculiar dissensions indigenous to the place. I think now that we should have consulted you previous to removing her, but it did not occur to me then. Hetty," I asked, "should you like to go to school?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "But you will be alone there." 
               "I guess not, papa. Mary Leeds told me last Sunday that they all wanted me back again. She said they had concluded to give up quarreling with me because I did n't seem to care, but they wanted me to promise not to take sides with any of the others in their disputes." 
               "Well, did you promise?" 
               "Yes, sir. But I told her it was queer that I must agree to do just what every body found fault with papa for doing." 
               The teacher's face had been brightening all through our interview, and he joined with me in laughing over Hetty's natural inference. I am glad that any chance has led us to an acquaintance with him; he seems to comprehend all the perplexities of my position, and to appreciate my determination to live in peace. I hope we shall see him often. 
               
                  November 22d.-It has stormed all night and nearly all day-a regular old-fashioned northeaster, first snow, then sleet, then a cold, fine, piercing rain that seems to penetrate to one's marrow. I have been out in it attending a funeral. An old man, nearly ninety years old, who has been helpless and childish for years, has at last been freed from the chains of earthly existence and put on immortality. The feeble intellect was renewed, and the departing soul looked out brightly from its falling tenement to bid us all adieu, and to give expression to the Christian's hope. 
               "It is very sweet," he said to me just before he died, "to be so near home." 
               How often we have pitied that poor old man! It seemed such a sad thing to linger here after all the friends and associations of youth and manhood's prime were gone forever. How desolate he looked in his quaint, high-backed chair in the corner of the room where his great grand children gathered to indulge in the noisy sports and roguish pranks that were never allowed in the family sitting-room! Ah, well! He is rich to-night. Christ, the good Shepherd, has taken him home at last. He will never be neglected again. 
               What a pitiless storm! Mary and Hetty are speaking about our brave soldiers, the privations they endure, the friends they leave behind, and the uncertainty of their return. It makes our home blessings and united life seem very dear to us, and we wonder that we have dared to murmur over the discomforts of our lot in Miffdom. We resolve in future to look at our mercies and be thankful. 
               
                  November 25th.-I have found, scattered about in different parts of my parish, a number of excellent families, whose acquaintance is a great blessing to us here. They know exactly how to sympathize with me. They have wealth and influence, and manifest a deep interest in the prosperity of the Church. Indeed, most of the preacher's salary comes from them. Yet, O strange anomaly! so jealous are the majority of the people of this class of their brethren that, in order to encourage their pastor effectually, they are obliged to express their sympathy for him privately. Woe to the preacher who is known to be particularly liked by them! If there were no other reason for his being unpopular with the crowd this would be a sufficient one. To give us a chance to ingratiate ourselves in the good graces of those who were never known to be suited, this class had at first kept aloof from us; but when our Ishmaelites-of whom it can be truly said that every man's hand is against his brother-united for once to give expression to their indignation at my neglect of my duty as a peacemaker, these noble brethren came forward and took upon their own shoulders the burden that so weighed upon mine, and publicly approved my proceedings. A most animating state of things was the result. The whole society fermented and effervesced like new cider. For two Sabbaths the "aristocracy," as my friends were called, had the Church to themselves. Then the cider stopped working, and we began to quiet down again into the old track. 
               All this time every body has been clamoring for peace. How ever the United States may be torn to pieces by the unnatural rebellion of the South, every body in Miffdom goes in strong for union. In our last quarterly conference this feeling found expression. Indeed, there seemed to be no other business of any consequence to be transacted. 
               "We shall never have prosperity till we have peace," each one insisted. 
               "O that the preacher would do his duty and make my brother agree with me!" was the burden of every soul. 
               I said nothing, but the presiding elder ventured to hint that the best way to settle difficulties culties, especially those of no particular consequence, was for the parties to meet, bury the hatchet so deep as to preclude the hope of a resurrection, pray together, and shake hands. 
               A smile at the elder's simplicity went round the circle. 
               "Ours is a peculiar place, sir," said brother Bowers. "Your plan would n't work here. You gee that many of our difficulties have been standing for years. It is of no use to try to smooth them over. They need a thorough overhauling and settling up, and then we can hope for peace. Not before." 
               "When brother Melton was stationed here," said brother Lester, "I really hoped we should get out of our tangles somehow. He was not above doing his duty Hem! He raked up all the old stories and brought the opposing brethren face to face. There were four of our members who had not exchanged a word for years, and he would have ended that matter but for one thing." 
                
               "What was that?" inquired the elder, whose face wore a curious expression of amusement quite distinct from its usual gravity. 
               "Why, sir, one of those brethren was taken sick and died. He was the only one who could tell how the fuss started; so it was impossible to settle it." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "But brother Melton was not discouraged. There were plenty of other cases to look after. There were two sisters living with their father in that little white house over on the bend. The women did not pretend to speak to each other or to their father, and he appeared quite unconscious of their existence. I don't know, how they could have managed to keep house together if it hadn't been for the cat." 
               "The cat!" 
               "Yes. She was the only medium of communication between the parties. If the flour got low in the barrel, or any other necessary item needed replenishing, one of the women would catch up the cat in the presence of the old man, and, while caressing it, would say, 'Pussy, we must have a barrel of flour soon, must n't we? And some coal, pussy, or we shall freeze. We don't like the dark, do we, pussy? so we must not get out of candles.' The old man would listen attentively, and the needed stores would soon make their appearance." 
               "Did brother Melton reconcile them?" 
               "Why, no, sir; not exactly. They joined in abusing him and with drew from the Church; but, I believe, they live now just as they formerly did, excepting that they have a cat apiece now." 
               "Could not the rest of those who are at variance be persuaded to follow their example and withdraw from the Church?" I asked eagerly, for a sudden hope dawned upon me that in this way we could steer our leaky boat to the shore. 
               "No, indeed. It would quite break up the Church. If you had troubled yourself enough with the cares of the Church to understand the extent of the evil you would not dream of such a measure." 
               "If there are a dozen cancers eating up the Church instead of one the more reason for their removal. Of what use are these quarreling members? They ought to have been cut off, root and branch, years ago." 
               "It is easy enough to talk in that strain. I wish you found it as easy to do your duty by us. I hope our next preacher will be willing to sacrifice a little of his own ease to advance the cause of Christ." 
               "If you will bring these matters up in the way that our Discipline requires I will engage to straighten them out. But don't expect me to go about raking open every body's dust heap. I was sent here to preach the Gospel, not to be a public scavenger." 
               "Brethren," said brother Lester, solemnly, "hadn't we better adjourn?" 
               
                  December 21st.-Among the wonders that I am called to record there can be nothing more surprising than the fact that several young ladies and one young man have experienced conversion, and seem to be zealous and Earnest in the cause of their Master. O for a general work! The Holy Spirit alone can affect the Church and inspire brotherly love. Most of the members stand aloof, watching, the young converts with jealous eyes, expecting, if not hoping, to see them stumble and fall. I am surprised at the amount of perfection they require from these tender lambs. The old professor, who should be a man in Christian strength and knowledge, seems to expect these weak babes, just born into the kingdom, to set him, a perfect example, and to lead the way in the heavenly journey. They are steadfast thus far, praise be to God! 
             
             
                
               NUMBER VIII. 
               A NEW LIGHT IN MIFFDOM. 
               
                  MIFFDOM, JANUARY 4, 18-.
                
               A NEW light has appeared in our midst. I was preparing for Church last Sunday morning when I heard the door-bell ring, and immediately after Hetty came in search of me. 
               "Who has come?" I questioned her. 
               "One of those" strolling, good folks, papa." 
               Hetty as well as her mother has a particular dislike to entertain religious strollers, and she seems to recognize a member of the class intuitively. 
               "What makes you think so?" I asked. 
               "O, he is so sociable, and he looks hungry, and-and he wears a white cravat. He's come to stay, I guess." 
               Hetty's black eyes danced roguishly. 
                
               "Well, tell him I will be down directly." 
               I found that Hetty had guessed very correctly in regard to our visitor. It is impossible to give an idea of the condescending cordiality with which he received me. My natural reserve, which often repels the advance of strangers, did not affect him in the least. He was quite at home, and seemed amiably desirous to make me so. 
               "Fine morning, sir. Happy to meet you. This is a very pleasant location. How long have you been here, may I ask?" 
               "Seven or eight months." 
               "Your first year, then. Well, in many respects the first year's residence of the itinerant in a place must be the pleasantest. Moving-time is so far distant that you scarcely dread it. How many inhabitants are there in this village?" 
               "I do not know." 
               "In passing up the street this morning I was exceedingly pleased with the order and thrift manifested. So neat and tasteful a factory village is a rarity. Many foreigners?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Ah, that accounts for it. How many churches are there 
               "Seven." 
               "And which is the largest denomination?" 
               "The Baptists and Methodists number nearly the same, and are the most numerous." 
               "That is gratifying, very. I like to see all Churches prosper, but the two Churches you have mentioned lie nearest my heart. I was brought up a Baptist, but I became a Methodist after my conversion. I began to preach among the Methodists, and that brings them still nearer; and since I have been a traveling evangelist I have always found a home in the house of my brethren in the ministry." 
               I made no reply to this appeal to my hospitality, and he went on: 
               "I have been laboring during the Autumn among my Baptist brethren in New Hampshire, and have not only been flattered by the intense interest manifested by them in my labors, but gratified by seeing the rich fruits of my ministry." 
               Another pause, during which he attempted to caress Mrs. Dean's cat, which lay sleeping on the window-sill, and got scratched for his pains. 
               "I am preaching now in various places," he recommenced, "to aid the Bible cause. My health is poor, and I find that traveling suits me. I pursue a regular method in my labors, and so far the results have been the most satisfactory. I sell tracts and Testaments at prices that do not pay the cost of printing." 
               I was still silent, and Mary, who began to fidget over my unusual want of courtesy, asked pleasantly, 
               "What is your method?" 
               He turned with alacrity to reply to her. 
               "Well, madam, I first introduce myself to the acquaintance of the people by preaching to them, as I hope your husband will permit me to do to-day. Then I spend a week or two, or more, visiting them in their homes, talking to them, praying with them, and disposing of religious reading suited to the different cases I find." 
               "I thought all that was the work of their regular pastor," remarked Mary quietly. 
               "Yes; I only cooperate with him. After a week or two I commence extra meetings, and when the preacher in charge cordially works with me, and I see the usual fruits, these extra means are continued indefinitely." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "I am but a poor, humble servant of the Lord, madam, but he deigns to use me in promoting his work. I suppose, sir," turning to me, "you will not object to my preaching for you to-day." 
               "Have you any papers to show that you are regularly authorized to preach the Gospel?" 
               "No, sir. I get my commission from a higher authority than man. I am called of God to the work." 
                
               "Nevertheless, as you come a stranger to us, I have no means of judging of your heavenly calling, and shall decidedly decline your help in my pulpit and parish. As it is nearly time for our morning service, excuse me for wishing you good-morning." 
               Mary, who had nodded her hearty approval of my determination, thought she detected beneath the apparent humility of his leave-taking a spirit of bravado that betokened trouble. 
               "You have not got through with that man yet, Ernest," she said, confidently. 
               "I will have nothing to do with him," I answered. "I prefer doing my own work in my own way. I'll not risk his meddling in my affairs to any great extent." 
               "You may be sure, Ernest, that he has no idea of giving up so inviting a field of labor as this large society would afford. Why, he could loaf round sponging his living out of them all Winter if he could only open his ministry. And he's just the sort of humbug to take here. They are so carried away with any thing that is novel." 
               I laughed at her earnestness. 
               "I thought, Mary, that you never borrowed trouble." 
               "You thought rightly. But do you remember brother Grant's account of his revival here last Winter?" 
               "Yes. It lasted two days, did it not?" 
               "A week, Ernest. One Sunday evening the large vestry was crowded with anxious seekers and Church members; the next, when he was so confident of a great work being in progress, the whole Church and congregation went to hear a spiritualist hold forth in a town hall. Characteristic, was it not? Why, this man will be a lion at once, if he can introduce himself." 
               "Well, we will not anticipate evil." 
               I had scarcely entered the pulpit when brother Lester came tiptoeing up the aisle to inform me that there was a clergyman in the house-in brother Lee's pew. Glancing in that direction I was not surprised to see my morning visitor; but I must own that the peculiar sanctimonious look which he had put on for the occasion was truly amazing. I told brother Lester that I had already seen him and considered him a humbug. 
               I think I did not have my usual liberty in preaching. I felt a little harassed by the incident of the morning, and also by the presence of my unwelcome guest. His frequent responses to my remarks were any thing but animating to me. They came with a suddenness and sharpness that startled me. 
               I soon found that he was attracting more attention than myself. The young people exchanged amused smiles and expressive looks, while some of the children giggled out right, and got a whole some shaking from their parents in consequence. Those who were disposed to listen to the sermon were not able to do so, and the entire service appeared to be a barren and profitless occasion to all concerned. When he joined his deep, nasal bass to the music of the choir, a little dog, who was curled up in the broad aisle by his master's pew, started up and howled terrifically. 
               In the afternoon it was worse yet, with this difference, that he grew devout and noisy just in proportion to the coldness and insensibility that crept over me. There were large additions to the audience from the young people of the other Churches, who, according to, Hetty, came to see the fun. It was any thing but sport to me. I was conscious that my effort to preach was a failure, and that I was totally eclipsed by the new light. 
               In the evening prayer meeting he availed him self of the liberty of speech accorded to all Christians, and succeeded in introducing both him self and his mission. I had been undergoing a hardening process all day, and could have borne this new success on his part with equanimity, but the eager interest taken in him by many of the Church members puzzled and Confounded me. "Surely," I thought, "they can not help knowing that his whole course is a studied insult to their pastor." It humbled me in the dust to know that they were capable of encouraging him. Not that they intended any thing of the sort-let me do them justice-but their childish delight in the novelty of the affair rendered them absolutely blind to its inconsistencies. 
               Persons who had never manifested the least concern for the prosperity of the Church since my coining among them engaged readily in the prayers and exhortations, and in warm and fluent language told of their longing to see a "good old-fashioned revival." Even brother Luton, who had neglected the class-room and the Lord's Supper for years because of Tom Blair, became so animated that he arose and gave the always-faithful, patient old Church members a rousing exhortation to shake off their slothful habits and do a little for the Master before it was too late. "Your opportunities tunities for usefulness are fast slipping by," he said earnestly. "They will soon be gone forever. There is no such thing as recalling the past; but O, brethren, remember that there is no chance to work for God in the grave to which you are hastening." 
               I rubbed my eyes and looked at the speaker. There was no mistake, it was brother Luton. It was quite a sight after the meeting closed to see the brethren crowding round the stranger, shaking hands and pressing upon his acceptance the hospitalities of their homes. 
               "He's booked for a long stay," said Mary, as she hung her cloak on the rack after arriving at home. 
               "That woe-begone face and solemn tone are quite unlike my hopeful Mary," I replied. 
               "I can't help it. It is too bad. What a mean, mean set!" 
               "Take care, Mary, we must not suffer ourselves to feel unkindly. It will all come right in time." 
                
               "But to see such mockery of worship in the house of God I" 
               Mary began to laugh and cry at the same time so hysterically that I felt some alarm at her unusual want of self-control. 
               "Let us sit down here, Mary," I said, drawing the blinds and wheeling the sofa to the fireside. "This is snug and pleasant on such a cold night. There is no happier place than one's home, to my thinking. We can defy all out side discomforts while our household treasures are secure. God has been very gracious to us, Mary. There is no vacant chair by our fireside, no loved one missing from our little circle." 
               "Forgive me, Ernest, I forgot all this in my vexation." 
               "I, too, nearly forgot to trust in God. It will all be overruled for good. There are sensible, thinking people here who will not countenance these proceedings. Depend upon it, love, it will all come right." 
                
               "Do you know the fellow's name, Ernest?" 
               "It is Sharpley, I think." 
               "He's a regular imposition," said Mary, firing up again as the events of the day were recalled. "There may be some word in some unknown language to express the meanness of such actions, but there is none in the English. I wish-" 
               "There, there, let him rest. We will not suffer ourselves to be annoyed by such folly. Let us leave it all in God's hands. It is something new, Mary, for me to speak encouragingly to you. You are generally beforehand in discovering the sunbeams." 
               "I can not understand your courage now." 
               "And yet it seems very clear to my mind that we only need to wait patiently a little time to see the salvation of the Lord. It may be that he is teaching this strange people a wholesome lesson." 
               "I hope so. There never was a generation since Adam who needed instruction more. If a little common-sense could be sprinkled into the lesson it would not come amiss. I'd live in a squirrel's hole before I would"- 
               "Hush! hush!" 
               I put my finger on her lips to keep back the hasty words. She smiled. 
               "You are right, Ernest," she said; "but lest I again break over the bounds and that-that scamp as he deserves, do let us have prayers and go to bed." 
               
                  February 10th.-For some time after writing last I felt that my trust in the good providence of God was being most severely tried. Mr. Sharpley continued to usurp my place, and I heard of no objection to the new arrangement. If I attended a prayer meeting or class meeting he was there before me, and often did not deem it necessary to await my coming to commence the exercises. If I called on the sick I was told of brother Sharpley's blessed ministrations by the bedside. He crossed my path every-where. In church, on the Sabbath, he sat in the altar beneath the pulpit with the resigned air of a martyr ready for the stake. 
               "Ready for the steak," punned Hetty, who still thought he looked hungry. Mary, after her first outbreak, maintained an obstinate silence on the subject, lest, as she now says, she should express the thoughts that fairly frightened her self. So I struggled along with out sympathy from any quarter till last Sunday evening. During the prayer meeting I reached the limit of human endurance, and made up my mind to give up my pastoral charge and leave the place. I was utterly discouraged. 
               We were leaving the vestry, and happened to be near Mr. Sharpley, when Mary suddenly pulled my sleeve. 
               "See there, Ernest." 
               I followed her glance, and had the privilege of seeing Mr. Sharpley taken into custody by two police detective officers from New York. They had been in the meeting, and, though they occupied a shaded corner by the stove, I had observed their interest in the strange proceedings. 
               "Sorry to take him away," said one of the men in reply to some remonstrances made by brother Lester. "Fear it will break up your revival." 
               Both the men laughed aloud. 
               "There must be some mistake," said brother Lester. 
               "No mistake at all. He knows better than that. He's a keen one. We have been working up his case more'n a month, and should have missed him now if Bill here hadn't remembered that he was a Millerite preacher once. So we took up that thread and followed it, and here he is." 
               "But what has he done?" asked several voices in chorus. 
               "He's troubled with a short memory, that's all. Forgot all about his first dear wife and her children till she made him a call while he was snugly keeping house with his second love. One of the finest young ladies going. Rich, too." 
               Brother Luton, who had stood by the culprit, as in duty bound, considering that he was soon expecting to receive him into his family as a son-in-law, now suddenly turned away, and, seizing his daughter by the arm, marched her off toward home with great speed, as if he feared she might become the third Mrs. Sharpley unawares. 
               The officers conducted the prisoner to the hotel, after giving him an opportunity to take leave of his friends, which he did not improve. I did not join in Mary's expressions of triumph, but I did not, as I ought, try to temper their warmth. For once I have had the pleasure of seeing the Miffdomites thoroughly ashamed of them selves. I hope it may last, for "before honor is humility." 
               
                  March 18th.-I have just returned from a pleasant visit to Lanswood. Mary and Hetty accompanied me, for brother Grant, in his kindly-worded invitation to me, said that my old friends would not be half satisfied unless they could welcome us all. Brother Snow came for us in his big family sleigh, and, to Mary's terror, let Hetty drive the spirited horses nearly all the way. We found brother Grant and his family with sister Snow when we arrived. Nelly had walked a mile through the snow to meet us, and had startled us by springing into the sleigh as we were slowly mounting a hill. What a delightful, cheery, pleasant evening it was! Brother Grant, grown hale and hearty under the benign influence of his pleasant field of labor, yet retained a pungent sense of his past trials. 
               "I think," he said, "that I could not have appreciated as I ought the mercies of my present situation if I had not passed through the fire first. Next year, my dear brother, if you live through the rest of this, I shall expect to see you enjoy your work, both as preacher and pastor, as you have never before done." 
                
               As brother Grant offered to go to Miffdom to preach for me, I concluded to remain over the Sabbath and take his place. It was a pleasure indeed to speak once more to my dear friends. We spent nearly a fortnight among them, and brother and sister Grant accompanied us home; not to make a visit, but "just for the sleigh-ride," as sister Grant said, when we welcomed them back to their old parish. 
               We have still nearly two months to stay in Miffdom. A number of new quarrels have grown out of their new connection with Mr. Sharpley, but I do not know the particulars. I look out of my window and see two of my neighbor's roosters fighting furiously, and Mrs. Dean's, cat rushes up the cherry-tree, with her tail nearly as large as my arm, to escape from brother Lester's dog Towser, who is growling below. Mr. Lee's balky horse has stopped opposite our house, and resolutely refuses to budge another inch with his load, and, glancing down the back street, I see three men vainly striving to drive as many hogs into a pen from which they have escaped. And my spirit cries, Woe is me that I sojourn in Miffdom! 
             
             
                
               NUMBER IX. 
               FOURTH QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AT MIFFDOM. 
               
                  MIFFDOM, APRIL 11, 18-.
                
               OUR last quarterly conference for this Conference year was held last evening. It was, in its way, a rather interesting season. Scarcely had the opening prayer been offered before brother Lee asked in a loud voice what the presiding elder intended to do for them the next year in regard to a preacher. 
               "We begin to think," he said, "that it is about time to stick up for our rights. We know that we ought to have a talented preacher as well as other societies. We support our preachers well. All the world owns that. Nobody disputes it." 
               "Nobody except the preachers themselves. Your method of settling with them at the close of the year is not particularly agreeable, and does not make a favorable impression." 
               "They can't say we don't pay them up. But, they are never satisfied. We might give them every cent we have and they would want more. They are the most unthankful set of people in the world. We think that as they don't earn their living they might at least be grateful for it when it is given them." 
               "And you will think it strange," said the elder, "when I tell you that, though our preachers accept their appointments cheerfully, even when assured that pain and hardship await them, it is impossible to get one of the smallest preachers in the Conference to come to your place willingly. Those who do consent to come look upon themselves as martyrs, and the whole Conference view them in that light. It is the self-denying missionary spirit of our ministers that keeps your pulpit supplied." 
               The brethren glanced uneasily at each other during this plain statement of the case, and coughed and cleared their throats for several minutes after its conclusion. Then brother Lee asked, in a tone that betrayed considerable internal commotion, "If this is such an awful place, why do you send preachers here at all?" 
               "For the same reason that we send them to India or China. Aren't you one of the committee who came to the last Conference to insist on having brother Ashley appointed here?" 
               "Ye-es," was the stammering reply. "But we thought he was a different man from what he has proved to be. We thought he would be a peacemaker and would get up a revival." 
               "And as he could not work miracles you turned against him and made his life here unendurable. You have broken down his health and spirits, till he is but the shadow of the active, cheerful laborer we sent you. Look at him," said the elder, rising and placing his hand on my shoulder; "look at him and dispute it if you can. Do you not see the change in him?" 
                
               "Well," was the hesitating reply, "I can't say we hav' n't noticed it. But ye thought he was lazy and ought to exercise more. Why, he spends all the long forenoons in his study, and only gives the afternoons to the people. No man can stand it to be shut up so much. It would make me look worse than he does. And a minister of Christ," added brother Lee, who had been gradually recovering hi "has no right to indulge in carnal ease" 
               In regard to next year," said can promise you nothing. You like about being supplied by the If you depend on us you will what you can get. I tell you beforehand that you will have no more of our strong faithful men to break down by your petty squabbles and divisions. You have had some of our best preachers of late years, for it hoped that something might be made of you but you have not been able to appreciate them." 
               "I would suggest," said brother Lester, who had been silent hitherto, "that if we really can't better ourselves, we conclude to keep brother Ashley another year. He is a favorite with the congregation generally, and it is often good policy," he added slily, "to humor the people. Hadn't we better decide to keep him and let the matter drop?" 
               I was about to utter the indignant remonstrance that rose to my lips when I caught a look from the elder which kept me silent. I saw, as he did, that we could get rid of the subject in no other way than by apparent submission to their plans. So it was resolved that, as nothing better offered, they would accept me as their pastor another year. 
               When I recounted the proceedings of the evening to Mary it was quite amusing to witness her indignation. 
               "You may laugh at me as much as you please, Ernest. I am glad to see you able to laugh at all. But to-morrow the remembrance, of that heartless talk will discourage you utterly. O, dear, dear! How perfectly mean they are!" 
               "Mary, dear," I said, a little emotion, "do not talk in that way. You must pray for them." 
               "I won't do it," said Mary vehemently. "No, indeed. As if," she added "there were not decent folks enough to pray for to occupy all the time I can spare to pray 
               "Mary! Mary!" 
               She sat down on the sofa burst into tears. I almost cried, too, while trying to soothe her. 
               "They are killing you by inches, Ernest," she said; "they will wear you into the grave. If I could only make you feel as spunky as I do there would be no danger, but you hide all this grief and despondency in your heart and brood over it, and it is undermining your health." 
               "The year will soon close now, Mary. Only one month more. The presiding elder assures me that I shall be indulged with a pleasant appointment pointment next year, and I shall soon recruit when the change is made." 
               "God grant it!" said Mary fervently. 
               After she went to bed I sat awhile by the fire, thinking. The sweet promises of the Savior never possessed more consoling power for me, and I could understand how the apostle felt when he said it were better to depart and be with Christ. For me to die would surely be gain-but ah, my poor Mary! 
               
                  April 24th.-I have felt very much discouraged for a week past. It is so disheartening to know that the well-meant labors of a year have had no result for good, but have been so misunderstood as to prejudice against me the very persons I have most desired to benefit. Every thing I do, every word I say, is caught up and turned against me. Even the children, the dear, innocent children, become silent and hush their sports and laughter if I approach them. I long to call them about me, and tell them how Jesus loves little children, how tenderly derly he watches over them, but the influence of their parents makes them shrink from the least advance on my part. If I were the veriest monster on earth I could not be more steadily shunned by them. 
               If these little ones grow up careless and irreligious, and are finally lost, upon whom will the fearful responsibility rest? I do not suppose that any one among my people has deliberately prejudiced his children against me. But they have been allowed to hear daily criticisms of my preaching, my manner of life, and censorious surmisings in regard to my motive of action, till they have no confidence in me. O, that parents could know how fatal must be the result of destroying a child's trust in the sincerity and goodness of his pastor! 
               A little self-condemnation has helped to depress my spirits. There is one brother in this Church who, from the beginning of the year has set himself to publicly contradict the doctrines that I preach. His own views are ultra Calvinian, and his chief hope is in the belief that however deeply a saint may sin and bring reproach upon the cause of Christ, he is a saint still, and never can fall from his state of grace. He takes up a great deal of time in our conference and class meetings, and there has never been any apparent religious interest in our meetings that he has not succeeded in killing out by his determination to indoctrinate us all. He is a very ignorant man, and it is exceedingly amusing to the young folks to note the complacently-wise, but rather owlish, demeanor that he assumes when he rises to enlighten us; but I can not feel amused with what so hinders the work of God. 
               I have requested him many times to stop a course so annoying and injurious, but my wishes have produced no effect hitherto. He seems to glory in opposing me. Last Sabbath evening I was quite unwell, and felt hardly equal to the exertions of attending the evening prayer meeting. I had preached in the afternoon from this beautiful text: "Who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth." As I went on with my theme-the glorious provision made for any and all who will accept the offered salvation-my heart burned within me on account of the wonderful goodness of God to the children of men. For once I felt that I had the attention of the audience, and signs of a softening, hallowed influence were seen in many, a hitherto careless countenance. So, hoping to witness a further development of this feeling, I nerved my weak body for the necessary exertions of the evening. 
               As I expected, an unusual number of people were present, and all seemed thoughtful and disposed to profit by the exercises. The opening prayers were uncommonly spiritual, and I was asking myself, Might not this be the auspicious dawning of a better day? When our expounder of doctrines got up to speak. In less than five minutes an entire change came over the meeting. He began by deliberately asserting that the afternoon sermon was in direct contradiction to the doctrines of grace as taught in his Bible, and he was sure that no man ever studied into those things more deeply than himself. I do not wish to record all the insulting things he said in his half-hour's speech, but I was glad to see that many of the more intelligent ones present would not listen to his remarks, and left the house while he was speaking. I could not help peremptorily insisting that we should have no more of his help in our meetings till he could be influenced by a sense of decorum, and could understand a little of what was due to the feelings of the Church to which he belonged. 
               "I have no objection," I said, "to your believing the strange ideas that you express, but I do object to being publicly contradicted by an ignorant man when I am preaching the faith of the Church to which he belongs. I have traveled a great deal, and have had many opportunities for observing my fellow-creatures, but I never before saw a man possessed of such consummate impudence. I have no wish to dictate to any man what he shall believe. Our Church allows a generous latitude in such matters, only stipulating that that the heart be thoroughly renewed and changed by the grace of God. But if a person likes to eat carrion, his peculiar appetite gives him no right to put the disgusting morsel on my plate. And I say once for all, in regard to this matter that I don't like carrion, the Church and we won't have it on the table." 
               "I suppose," he persisted, "that if one person sees into a subject further than another he has a right to help his broth. Now, I have always been studying into"- 
               "I advise you to go home and devote your energies to writing a commentary," I interrupted. "That will preserve your wisdom for the use of distant generations. 
               His face flushed a little, the first evidences of modesty I had ever seen in it; but in a minute he had recovered his self-satisfied look. 
               "I hope you will pray for me," was his unexpected remark. 
               "What would be the use of that?" I asked. "You have just told the people that every thing was irrevocably fixed at the time the world was created. If that be true, no amount of praying could affect you or prevent your being the universal bore that you are now." 
               Alas! how sadly I reviewed this conversation when alone with, God in the silence of my study! Not that the offending person had not richly merited the rebuke, but because I had forgotten, for the time, to exhibit the sweet gentleness and meekness of spirit becoming a minister of Jesus. 
               
                  May 10th.-I have signified to the brethren my determination to leave Miffdom, if the Lord should spare my life to the end of the Conference year, and, although but a few weeks intervene before "the day that brings me sweet release," I feel a fretful impatience of the slow progress of time, a nervous hurrying of spirit to leave forever the scene of my late trials. I think them over, and they seem so petty and insignificant, when taken in detail, that I am ashamed to have no greater powers of endurance; but it is not the mighty occasional torrent that wears away the solid rock, but the continual dropping. 
               I was told last night that the brethren had concluded to hold a general reconciliation meeting, and put things on a new basic before the coming of a new preacher. A thorough overhauling of all grievances-past, present, and to come-is contemplated. I have no faith in such measures. A general forgetfulness of the past, and a sincere desire to glorify God in the future, is what is needed. Reviewing the old troubles, supposing it possible to set them in a clear light, will only add fuel to the fire that is already consuming them. I have declined to be present at the meeting. I must stop writing, for Mary and Hetty insist on my accompanying them in a walk. 
               
                  Evening.-When I went down for my walk, I found a gentle old horse and an open wagon awaiting my pleasure, and Mary and Hetty, in their deep Shaker bonnets and cool gingham talmas, all ready for the proposed excursion. 
               "I thought I was invited to walk," I said to Hetty, who was dancing in and out of the house and singing gayly in anticipation of the pleasure before her. 
               "Well, we are going to walk. But I told mamma that we should all get tired before we reached the outside of the village, and there is no place fit for a walk till you get away from these houses and out of the noise of these mills. And I told mamma I was going to ask that old Mr. Joy to let us use his horse." 
               "Mr. Joy! Why, Hetty, he never lets his horse to any one." 
               "So mamma said. But I thought I would ask him. If he refused we were to be quite as well off as before, you know." 
               "What did he say?" 
               "Well, he talked first-rate. He said we were welcome to use the horse at any time when you needed a ride. He said that the preachers before you had always used his horse when they pleased, and he never had thought of charging a cent for it." 
               "Strange that we never heard of this before," I said, turning to Mary. "It have saved me many a weary walk if I had known that he was so willing to accommodate me." 
               "At any rate, Ernest, you will be able to finish up this last round of pastoral visiting with less fatigue. I am so glad Hetty went to him. And I shall pet the old horse well, now that I have discovered his call to help the ministry," added Mary, as she joined Hetty in filling the poor beast's mouth with the fresh green grass that grew by the door. 
               "Papa," said Hetty, "perhaps I ought to tell you that old Mr. Joy did not look kind, though he was so willing to oblige us. He looked just as I have seen him when he is selling vegetables at our door. As if," said Hetty, pausing and studying how to express her feeling, "as if he hadn't got quite as much as the peas or potatoes were worth. I was real glad to get the horse, papa, but I did not like his looks." 
               "Nonsense, child," said Mary, laughing heartily at Hetty's attempt to study character. "Let us get into the wagon and be off, Mr. Joy's likes or dislikes can not affect us. Where shall we drive?" 
               "There is a lovely piece of woodland just out of the village on the south road. I have twice passed through it in making calls at Kinnipiac Hill, where that poor cripple, Mary Jones, lives. The trees sweep back from the road quite to the lake shore, and the underbrush has been all cut away." 
               "Just the place for our ramble, Ernest." Hetty, who had been thinking of a visit to her old friend Mr. Andrews, looked a little disappointed, but her face cleared up as soon as we came in sight of the grove. The young leaves of the maples and beeches were not yet grown enough to shut out the sunlight which flecked the ground with their restless, beautiful shadows, and the dark firs looked, in their unchanged costume, like mourners too much absorbed in their sorrow to note the fresh life and gladness on every hand. 
               What a sweet, holy influence does nature, or, rather, God manifested in his works, have upon the diseased mind! My spirits soon began to rise, the depressing lassitude that had made the slightest effort a task, gave place to a youthful buoyancy of feeling, and before I was aware, I was playfully chatting, and heartily laughing in full enjoyment of the occasion. Since I returned, my study seems to have undergone some mysterious change. Every thing is in its usual place, but the cares and sorrows have vanished, and there is a hopeful, cheery aspect lighting up every corner. I take up Hetty's atlas and run my eye over the divisions of land and water with a renewed faith in their existence. I have somehow got out of the peck measure in which I have been working and struggling for long months, and I do believe, I will believe, that there is considerable of a world out side of Miffdom. 
               
                  May 12th.-The result of the meeting for reconciliation is what I expected. The whole village is now like spruce beer which has been bottled just long enough to make it work off like "all possessed." I got some idea of the proceedings from brother Blair, who, as one who needed to be reconciled in a particular manner, was present with all his family. But brother Blair could n't get reconciled, or, rather, brother Luton would not be reconciled to him. Brother Blair was to confess saying and doing things of which he had not the slightest recollection, and to profess his deep sorrow for the same, or the breach could not be healed. 
               In vain brother Blair protested that if he had ever, in any way, by word or act, injured or grieved brother Luton, he was sorry for it, and humbly asked to be pardoned. It would not do. He must confess the particular things required of him, and do his duty by remembering them. Brother Luton owned that the report of brother Blair's offenses against him had come to him through a number of persons who were known to be enemies of the Church, but he averred that such evidence was more reliable than would have been the evidence of his own senses, because, according to Scripture, it is by the mouth of two or three witnesses that every word shall be established. 
               In the prayer meeting, last evening, brother Luton spoke at some length in regard to his feeling toward the Church, and said that if there were any real Christians among them he should like to have their prayers for his benefit. He hoped none but real Christians would offer a petition for him. In conclusion, he graciously remarked that he was willing that every body should go to heaven. 
                
               "One would think he expected to be doorkeeper there," said Mary, "and that it would depend on his condescension whether any of us were admitted or not. I wonder what sort of a place he thinks heaven is? One thing is sure," said Mary, turning away her face so as not to see my deprecating glance, "he never will find out by personal observation." 
               "I hope he will, Mary." 
               "Well, I have no desire, if I go there, to find the place lumbered up with trash. There, now, I have both grieved and offended you, Ernest." 
               "I am not offended. But, Mary dear, I fear sometimes that the spirit you display in commenting upon the people here will have to be sorely chastised by our Father, ere it becomes meek and patient enough for admission to the kingdom of peace." 
               "I wish I could feel differently," said Mary, penitently. "I know I ought to pity them. They must be very unhappy. Indeed, how can they be otherwise, while-while they are so abominably mean? I will try to feel sorry for them, and to pray for them too; but, Ernest"- 
               "Well, love, go on," I said encouragingly, for her face flushed, and she made no effort to finish the sentence. "What is it, Mary?" 
               "Please don't look grave, Ernest. I will pray for them, but should like to knock their heads together first." 
               "O, Mary!" 
               Hetty came running in to show us how prettily she had arranged some lovely Spring flowers. I was glad of any thing to divert our thoughts, and very willingly consented that Hetty should litter the study-table as much as she pleased, if her mother, who is her teacher in botany, thought it best to analyze the specimens she had brought in. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER X. 
               STUDYING ECONOMY. 
               
                  MIFFDOM, MAY 20, 18-.
                
               IT is one of the sweetest, balmiest days of Spring-warm enough for the middle of Summer, but clear and bracing too. The orchards are white with bloom, and the scent of the blossoms is very refreshing as it steals noiselessly in at the open study window. 
               Mary is cleaning house. She will not hear a word of my entreaties to hire this work done, though she does not deny that it will overtask her strength. 
               "We must save every cent we can, Ernest," she answers. "We must positively have enough when the expenses of moving are paid to enable you to buy a gentle horse. You will need outdoor exercise, and you are not strong enough to walk. And brother Snow writes that we can have that pretty sorrel pony for a hundred dollars. You know he has had fifty dollars more than that offered for it, but he says he will never sell it unless to some friend who will promise to keep it and pet it." 
               "I am afraid we can not afford to have it." 
               "We can if they pay us up here, and if we have any thing like a decent parish afterward. I suppose there is no doubt about their paying us here, though they seem so dilatory about it." 
               I told her what the presiding elder had said in the quarterly conference in regard to some peculiarity, unknown to us, in their method of settling up their pecuniary affairs. "I have not felt exactly easy about the matter since, though, as the elder did not dispute their boast of always paying up, and you, Mary, have contrived to manage to keep clear of debt, I can, conceive no way in which they can keep back what is due and expect us to give them credit for paying us." 
                
               "Of course there is no such way," said Mary. "We shall come off with flying colors as to finances. We will have the pony, and when we get to our new home we will ride every day. I am going to make over my gray alpaca into a riding habit for Hetty, and get a new one for myself, and between us all the pony will get a chance to exercise enough to keep him steady. Courage, Ernest! It is only a fortnight now before you leave for Conference; not a month before we shall be cozily settled and ready to laugh over our late experience of human nature." 
               I hear her now singing cheerfully to herself as she scrubs and rinses the parlor walls. One would think she had not a care in the world, and yet not an hour does she spend that is not crowded with thoughtful, loving plans, or, rather, the active execution of such plans for the good of others. My hopeful, self-denying Mary! The light of my home and of my life! How utterly impossible for me to have breasted the cares and discouragements of the ministry, of the itinerancy especially, had not God given me her strong heart and perfect sympathy! 
               May 24th.-I have been busy all the morning packing my library for removal. I had a headache and felt unusually depressed when I began the work, but after the breakfast things Were cleared away Mary came up to help me, and every book she handled seemed to suggest some happy thought or to recall some choice reminiscence of old times. Among the volumes were several text-books that we used to study together the Winter before we were married. What a host of pleasant recollections were associated with them! Little incidents that have slipped from my memory in my pursuit of more important things came up all fresh and sparkling as Mary recounted them. All the fun and enjoyment came back to us unspoiled, and the hours flew by as if winged. In spite of the labor, I find myself refreshed and quite cured of the headache. 
                
               
                  Evening.-Spent the afternoon in visiting the sick. I have latterly availed myself of Mr. Joy's kindness, and have had his horse and wagon when obliged to go more than a mile from home. I have always offered payment, but he says he never yet charged a preacher any thing, and is not going to begin now. I dislike very much the feeling of obligation that accepting such favors always gives me; but Mary told me this morning that I need have no such feelings in the present case, for she had been making dresses and doing other work for Mrs. Joy, which, if paid for, would amount to more than the horse-hire. 
               "I sewed considerable for her in the Fall, during her long illness. I pitied her, for no one seemed to like her or to do any thing for her, and she was really a great sufferer. So many unkind things were said of her that I was certain they could not all be true, and I determined that, let others do as they please, I would call on her and try to cheer her. Poor old lady! I had but little success, though she was eager to avail herself of my offer to sew for her, and would have overburdened me with work if I had not backed out." 
               "So you did back out of it at last," I said, laughing, for Mary's "final perseverance" in whatever she undertakes is a matter of household faith with us. 
               "Yes. They are rich people, and-and I ascertained that they are too stingy to hire their work done. But Mr. Joy's liberality proves, after all, that they are not insensible to kindness." 
               "But, lest we encroach too far and nip the bud of generosity before it has time to blossom, we must manage to make him some present before we leave that will make him remember us pleasantly." 
               
                  May 30th.-Last evening the official members of the Church met at the parsonage and "paid me up." Heigh ho! Mary sits on the lounge by the window, amid the unpacked crockery ware, trying to coax back her usual fortitude, but, in spite of every effort to control herself, crying like a grieved infant over the downfall of her plans for my benefit. The sorrel pony can not be ours. If we get to our next station, and get settled in our new home without incurring debt, it will be as much as we can do. I do not try to comfort her, for I feel too deeply myself the injustice to which I have been subjected. I understand the presiding elder's meaning very well now. Shall I record for other eyes to read what has so grieved and mortified us? 
               I met the brethren with unusually-buoyant spirits, for it was really a pleasure to know that all business association with them was so nearly ended. And I suppose I did feel a trifle elated at the prospect of placing in Mary's hands the hard-earned means of purchasing the coveted pony. At least two hundred dollars were due to me, and I had no idea that a society that always "paid up" promptly would now fail to acknowledge their just obligations. Brother Ely was the first person to open the business. He inquired of the treasurer how much there was back on his account. 
               "Three dollars on your pew rent and seven on the regular subscription. Ten dollars in all." 
               "Well, brother Ashley will remember the fine pair of steelyards I made for him last Winter. They were of extra good steel and finished off in my best style. I suppose they are worth to him at least two dollars." 
               "I did not ask you to supply them," I remonstrated. "You brought them to me as a Christmas gift, and you brought at the same time stockings and other small presents from your wife. The steelyards were as really a gift as the other things." 
               "Hem! Of course they were. The other things amounted to two dollars more, if we reckon at market prices." 
               I sat in dumb amazement while brother Ely went on to prove to the satisfaction of the brethren that he owed me nothing. The treasurer said that he had called that afternoon on a number of persons whose money had been depended on to make this final settlement, and had been surprised to find that they too had "paid up." He supposed I understood all about it, and if I was satisfied that was all they wanted. 
               "But I am not satisfied," I said. "This is downright cheating. I want further information in regard to the brethren upon whom you have called. Who are they?" 
               "Brother Layton is one. He says he sent you all the rye and Indian-meal you Used for two months." 
               "Yes; because, he told me, he could not bear to let all of my wife's care of sister Layton, during her last sickness, pass by without some reward. You all know that Mrs. Ashley spent many days with her, and after her death took charge of her little boy till brother Layton could get a housekeeper. I think she earned the meal." 
               "I don't know any thing about that. Brother Layton calls his subscription paid, and I have so marked it in the book." 
               I sat back in my chair, determined, if I lost all that was due to me, not to open my lips again to remonstrate. 
               "There's the Doctor. He says he has 'paid up' in medicines and visits. I don't think much of doctoring myself. I think medicine kills more than it cures. It's a regular humbug. The less a person doses himself the better." 
               "I offered to pay the Doctor," I said, forgetting my resolution, "and he said he was very glad to give me his services." 
               "Then there is old Mr. Joy," continued the treasurer. "He says he has 'paid up;' that you have had his horse and wagon to use. He thinks you probably owe him a trifle, but is willing to call it square." 
               "Indeed!" 
                
               "Brother Luton declines altogether to pay his subscription. I am sorry, because he is rich, and so is his wife. But it seemed to be a matter of conscience with him. He says he don't care for the money; he had just as lief pay it as not, but he is not clear in his own mind as to the amount a preacher should receive." 
               "Does he contribute to any of the benevolent objects of the Church?" I asked, with some curiosity. "Does he give any thing for missions? or for the old, or sick, or worn-out' preachers? or for the educational interests of the Church?" 
               "Well, he is rather scrupulous about every thing. He considers himself as a steward of the Lord's property, and as accountable to him for every penny bestowed unworthily. Besides, he has no faith in those institutions. I think myself that if the old preachers had worked for their living when they were younger, as I do, they would be able to look out for themselves in their old age." 
                
               "Very few of them live to old age," I remarked. 
               "Enough to run up a pretty heavy bill for the Church to pay every year," was the curt reply. 
               The business of settling with me went on. I made no further remarks, and when the meeting was over, and I was declared to be "paid up," I found myself in possession of fifty-four dollars and thirty-seven cents. I have learned in other places, though in a less aggravating way, the worth of a three-cent piece, but it has been reserved for Miffdom to teach me the dimensions and value of a cent. 
             
             
                
               NUMBER XI. 
               A NEW STATION. 
               
                  GREENDALE PARSONAGE, JUNE 25, 18-.
                
               DO I realize that I am happily and finally delivered out of the hands of the Philistines? that I am a hundred miles from Miffdom? that I am among the kindest, most thoughtful people? Let me write down, before I forget, a detail of the grateful items, the particulars of our reception here. 
               The hearty sympathy and soothing attentions of my brethren at Linford, during the Conference session, were inexpressibly comforting. How my soul blessed the God of mercy who has provided for his children such sweet relief and joy along the thorny way of duty! I grew stronger and more cheerful every day. But it was as weary pilgrims, after all, that we came to our new place of labor. It had been a hot, dusty day, and the only air stirring seemed to be produced by the rapid motion of the cars. For about fifty miles we had the society of other preachers and their wives, who, like us, were seeking their new homes, but, unlike us, were ever turning with regretful yearning to the tried friends just left behind. We, in obedience to the apostolical teaching, were more than willing to leave the things which were behind, and to press forward to those which were before. A heavy thunder-shower came up just as we reached the station where we were to leave the cars. The first shade of care that had darkened Mary's face during the day came over it as we stood by our trunks on the platform, while the train swept round a curve in the road out of sight. She had Ho chance to express any apprehension of discomfort, for, as we turned to seek a present shelter from the pouring rain, a pleasant, hearty voice accosted us: 
               "Is this the Rev. Mr. Ashley?" 
                
               "Yes." I looked up at the speaker, who was already backing a handsome close carriage up to the edge of the platform. He was a fine-looking man, with bright black eyes and dark whiskers, and a courteous deference of manner that was very prepossessing. 
               "And this is sister Ashley, of course," he went on, as he hurriedly lifted her into the carriage. "And this is your daughter. A welcome to you, little girl." He had already placed her beside her mother, and was holding the door open for me. "Get right in, brother Ashley. How the rain pours! We will wait for a more formal introduction to each other till we get home. We are all ready to welcome you, and we mean to make you feel at home in less than two days, if possible." 
               Mary, who had cheerfully met all sorts of discouraging things, could not bear the friendly cordiality of our good brother with any thing like composure. She tried to thank him, but burst into a hearty fit of crying instead. He seemed to understand her perfectly, and replied in a hearty tone, 
               "My poor, tired sister! you are worn-out with fatigue, and this coming to live among strangers must be an anxious time with you. I don't see how you itinerants can bear such things as you do." He had got into the carriage, and we were going at a rapid pace through the village. "I often think that if I had to form new associations and leave old friends every two years, I should give up trying to live. Look, sister! We shall pass the parsonage directly. That is our church. The next house to it is to be your home, little girl." 
               "O, mamma!" exclaimed Hetty, "do look out! See those beautiful trees in front; and the shrubbery all down the yard! There are roses all over the portico, and the whole place seems to be full of-of"- 
               "Of what?" questioned our new friend, who seemed to enjoy the child's pleasure as much as Hetty herself. "Full of what?" 
                
               "Of rest, I think; of peace and comfort; of every thing good, I believe. Do look out, mamma. You haven't seen it at all." 
               But Mary was crying again, and I felt very much like expressing in the same way my grateful sense of God's goodness to us. 
               "Let mamma rest, little girl. She will have plenty of time to look about the place after she gets over her fatigue. What is your name, my dear?" 
               "Henrietta. But every body calls me Hetty. What is your name?" 
               "George Hamilton," he answered, laughing at her straightforward questioning; "and I have a little girl at home with eyes as black as yours. She will be glad of a new playmate." 
               "What is her name?" 
               "Evangeline. But we call her Eva. There she is dancing in the hall by that open door. Do you see her? She can't rundown the avenue because of the rain." 
               "I don't see her." 
                
               "You are looking the wrong way." He turned the horse, as he spoke, and we drove through a fine arched gateway into a shaded carriage path that led in a circular direction to the stable in the rear of the house. "There, do you see Eva now?" 
               Without answering him, Hetty stood up in the carriage and gazed for a moment at the spacious house, with its lovely surroundings, and then at the charming view from the gentle eminence we had already ascended, upon which the building stood. 
               "Mr. Hamilton," she asked earnestly, "is this your home? I mean, do you own it?" 
               "Hetty!" exclaimed her mother reprovingly. 
               "I expect it is mine," he answered, laughing; "but I see you wish to ask something more. Hetty." 
               "Do you love God?" 
               Her clear eyes were raised searchingly to his, but he did not shrink from their scrutiny. 
               "I think I do. God help me to love him better!" he answered reverently. "Here is another curious Eve," he continued, as he jumped from the carriage and stooped to whisper in the ear of the impatient little girl awaiting us. "Show them into the parlor, and then call mamma. You can welcome your little friend first, if you wish." 
               The two children kissed each other and went together to call Mrs. Hamilton. We found our hostess as thoughtful and kind as her husband. 
               "I have had almost to quarrel with our brethren and sisters since you left home, George," she remarked as she led the way to the tea-table. "They were so anxious to welcome their new pastor that they would have gone in a body to the station had not this opportune shower prevented. I told them how weary our friends must be, and I have positively forbidden any calls on them till they have time to recruit." 
               "You did perfectly right, Alice; but let us have tea directly, that we may ourselves carry out the lesson you have been teaching the others, and give brother and sister Ashley an opportunity for repose." 
               Ah, how earnest, how sincere were the thanksgivings that went up from our hearts to the throne of God that night! Not so much for the pretty parsonage with its tasteful surroundings, not for the certainty of a generous support, but for human sympathy. Blessed, genial, human sympathy! 
             
             
                
               NUMBER XII. 
               A STORY CONTINUED. 
               
                  GREENDALE, JUNE 25, 18-.
                
               SO far I had written yesterday. I will go on with my pleasant story. We were not allowed to go near the parsonage for two days. We knew that our goods had safely arrived and were housed, because brother Hamilton told us that he had himself directed their removal from the railroad station. He had also obtained leave for his hired man to unpack the goods, and so enable us to get settled earlier and with less fatigue. Mary, though feeling sensibly the ease and comfort that surrounded her on all sides at brother Hamilton's, was a little impatient, and desirous to be at home once more. 
               So, on the third morning, Mrs. Hamilton consented to accompany us to the parsonage. All the morning there were the most unaccountable hinderances to our starting; Mrs. Hamilton seemed to have every variety of household duty pressing upon her at once. For so thorough a-housekeeper, her perplexities seemed rather surprising. In vain we proposed to go by ourselves, and so have the pleasure of welcoming her when she was at leisure to follow us. She would hear of no such arrangement. 
               As the morning wore on and the dinner hour approached, we both became nervously anxious. "We might have arranged half the house by this time," said Mary. 
               At last, just when our appetite for dinner had reconciled us to a little longer delay, Mrs. Hamilton came in, dressed to accompany us, with Mary's bonnet and shawl in her hand. There was nothing said about our remaining till after dinner before undertaking this task before us. And, with what seemed to us a strange neglect on the part of our attentive hostess, nothing was said about taking the slightest lunch with us to serve till we could prepare our own food. And to crown all, it was Saturday afternoon. I confess to a slight return of my old melancholy as my mind took in the whole situation. 
               Ah, how enlivening was our first view of the preacher's home! So finished and complete in its convenient arrangements, with such a homelike air of repose pervading the whole! We had scarcely glanced at the outside attractions before we observed that the house was full of people-our own people assembled to welcome us. The most cordial greetings were uttered on every side. We seemed to have known them for years; and when brother Hamilton, speaking for the rest, assured us that it was their purpose to make our stay with them as pleasant as possible, and that it would be our own fault if we needed any service in their power to render us, I could scarcely believe myself a stranger in their midst. 
               I don't know how I replied to them; I have a confused recollection of hesitating and blundering through a few sentences, but not the least idea of what I said. "We are not here now to make you a visit, brother Ashley," said brother Hamilton, "though we mean to come for that purpose after you are used to our off-hand sort of cordiality. But we all have our Saturday's work to finish up; so with our best wishes we will leave you to examine your new home at your leisure. We have taken the liberty to prepare your first dinner in the dining-room. Come, friends, let us get out of the way as soon as possible. Alice, help me to drive out all these intruders." 
               In his good-humored way he hurried every body out of the house, though the young people made a playful show of resistance; and, in so short a time that it seemed like a dream, we found ourselves alone by the parlor window, listening to the retiring voices of the friends who had so kindly welcomed us. 
               We found the house all ready for our reception. Our unpacked goods were all nicely arranged in their appropriate places; all but the library and our wardrobe, our friends rightly judging that we should prefer attending to those ourselves. The cellar and pantry were stocked with cooked provisions and uncooked hams and vegetables, and a barrel of flour occupied a corner of the store-room. There was plenty of coal in the cellar, and the kerosene lamps on the shelf looked as if Mary herself had just filled and polished them. A tempting dinner for three was laid in the dining-room, and here we found Hetty established at the table, ready to wait on us, and loudly complaining that every thing was getting cold. 
               I had observed with some surprise that all those things which had occasioned us so much grateful emotion, seemed to be taken by the child as matters of course. Except in a certain curious watchfulness of us, she had betrayed no consciousness of anything unusual being in progress. As she now stood by the table, rattling the carving knife, one would have supposed that she had never lived any where else. So when Mary's admiration and gratitude were sufficiently calmed to admit of her trying to eat, I began to question Hetty. 
               "It seems a little strange to be dining here so quietly by ourselves. How do you like it, Hetty?" 
               "It would have been better to dine as soon as the folks left. The asparagus is quite cold." 
               "Yes. But this salmon is very nice. Aren't you glad to be at home again, Hetty?" 
               "Rather. Though I liked staying at Eva Hamilton's. She is one of our sort, papa." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "O, she likes reasonable things: she can fish as well as I can, but I can shoot the best." 
               "You shoot, Hetty?" exclaimed Mary in horror. 
               "Only at a mark, mamma. Georgy Hamilton taught me. He says I ought to be a soldier." 
               "Promise me, Hetty," said her mother earnestly, "that you will never again touch a gun without my permission." 
                
               "Yes, mamma; but you wouldn't mind if I used bow and arrows, would you?" 
               "It is a boyish sport, Hetty. I had rather you would not try it." 
               "Did you see Eva's gray horse, mamma? Such a beauty! Eva is a little afraid, but I made him behave himself. He tried to throw me a dozen times, but I did not get off his back till I got ready," 
               "And when did you get time to display all these accomplishments, Hetty? You and Miss Eva must have been very busy." 
               "O, we got up in the morning, you see. It is light so early, and the sunrises are as pretty as"- 
               "As the guns and horses," suggested Mary. 
               "Almost." 
               "But, Hetty," I asked, "how is it that you take every thing to-day so indifferently? Is it because every thing else seems tame and commonplace beside your outdoor amusements?" 
               "No, indeed, papa. But I knew all about this, day before yesterday." 
                
               "Why, Hetty! How could you? Did Eva tell you?" 
               "No; I don't think she knew it till we came here. I must tell you all about it," said Hetty, with a look of apprehension at both of us, "because I promised you, mamma, to have no secrets from you. There is a stone seat at the foot of the garden at Mr. Hamilton's. There are trees all around, and vines hang over it, and you would never know it was there if you did not look it up. Just back of it looms up that great fir-tree that you mentioned, papa, the night we got there; the tree that has been twice struck by lightning, and is dead at the top. Do you remember?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Well, I wanted to see what the lightning had done to it; so the next morning I just climbed it, not meaning to stay in it three minutes, because you do not like me to climb trees, mamma. But I had only got into that thick green part when Mrs. Hamilton and three ladies came and sat down on the bench-'to be sure of privacy,' Mrs. Hamilton said. I was ashamed to come down, so I just had to hear all their plans." 
               "And have kept them to yourself since?" Mary inquired. 
               "Yes. I thought it would not be fair to tell even you, mamma." 
               "You thought right, my dear. Never betray the confidence of others, though it be accidentally obtained, as in the present case. Shall I make you promise, Hetty, to climb no more trees?" 
               "Please don't," said Hetty; "I should forget it, I am sure. I wish I might be a sailor, papa." 
               "A sailor!" 
               "Yes; Jack Snow used to say that the view from the mast-head, when going into port, was enough to make one howl with delight." 
               With a hearty laugh over Jack Snow's original way of expressing rapture, we rose from the dinner table, and recommenced our exploration of the house. Without fatigue or labor on our part, we are settled in our new abode, and ready to enter upon the labors of the year. How can I do enough for God, who has been so gracious to me? 
               Sad feelings mingle with my joyous emotions as I enter upon my new pastorate. I think of the beaming young faces that smiled their welcome; I feel the clasp of the warm hands; I hear again the hearty, cordial voices, and I realize, in a deeper sense than ever, that, in no small degree, I am responsible for the eternal wellbeing of all these precious souls! What a fearful charge have I assumed! 
               But O, blessed, cheering thought! I may here win souls to Christ. I may so preach the Word as to awaken the careless or instruct the feebleminded; I may so delineate the perfect loveliness of the Divine character as to attract the lowly and sorrowful ones into the path of peace. Glorious mission! God help me to be faithful! 
             
         
       
   
