
    ----CITATION----
        Custard, Ethelinda. The Discipline of Storms .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6210 wright2-0679
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE DISCIPLINE OF STORMS;
               A Tale of the OLD WORLD AND THE NEW.
            
            BY MRS. ETHELINDA CUSTARD.
            
            
               
                  
                     "Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth."
                  
                  —PAUL.
               
            
            
               New-York:
               H. DAYTON, PUBLISHER
                  
                     107 NASSAU STREET.
                  
               
               INDIANA: INDIANAPOLIS—
               DAYTON & ASHER.
            
            1859.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1858, by H. DAYTON, In the
                  Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
                  District of New York.
               J. J. REED, PRINTER & STEREOTYPER,
               43 Centre Street, N. Y.
            
         
         
            TO REV. JOHN NEWTON BROWN, D. D., [Historical Editor of the American
               Baptist Publication Society,] THIS WORK IS MOST RESPECTFULLY
               Dedicated, AS A TOKEN OF GRATITUDE FOR HIS CHRISTIAN COUNSELS AND
               NUMEROUS ACTS OF KINDNESS TO THE AUTHOR.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. PRAYER AND FASHION, 11
               
               CHAPTER II. A TALE OF MIDNIGHT, 17
               
               CHAPTER III. THE WIDOW AND MOTHER, 23
               
               CHAPTER IV. EARLY TRAITS, 27
               
               CHAPTER V. ERRORS AND INCONSISTENCIES, 41
               
               CHAPTER VI. INCIDENTS—HESTER'S MARRIAGE, 50
               
               CHAPTER VII. FIRST YEARS OF MARRIED LIFE, 59
               
               CHAPTER VIII. NEW VIEWS AND THEIR RESULTS, 65
               
               CHAPTER IX. SEEKING THE TRUTH—THE PARTY, 73
               
               
               CHAPTER X. FARTHER SEARCHING FOR HIDDEN TREASURES, 88
               
               CHAPTER XI. CHURCH MEETINGS—HESTER'S BAPTISM, 98
               
               CHAPTER XII. PERSECUTION, 106
               
               CHAPTER XIII. WORKING FOR THE MASTER, 120
               
               CHAPTER XIV. INCIDENTS, 125
               
               CHAPTER XV. A SINNER CONVICTED, 137
               
               CHAPTER XVI. PROGRESS OF FAITH—RECONCILIATION, 150
               
               CHAPTER XVII. BELIEF—BAPTISM—TEMPTATION, 166
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. ON THE ATLANTIC, 173
               
               CHAPTER XIX. LAST HOURS—NEW SORROWS, 181
               
               CHAPTER XX. PERPLEXITIES—SORROWS, 191
               
               CHAPTER XXI. THE FIRE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES, 205
               
               CHAPTER XXII. CHANGING SCENES—CHARACTERISTICS, 215
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. TIDINGS FROM HOME, 228
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. NEW PHASES OF LIFE, 233
               
               CHAPTER XXV. THE SECOND MARRIAGE—CHOLERA SCENES, 249
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. REMOVAL—CORRESPONDENCE, 256
               
            
         
         
            
            INTRODUCTION.
            TO THE PUBLIC.—"Truth is stranger than fiction." The incidents recorded in this
               volume are not, as is often written, "founded on facts," but they are
                  real unvarnished facts themselves. Many more as striking as those in
               this book portrayed, might have been written, but they have been suppressed, lest
               they should swell the volume to an undue size. The names only are assumed—some of
               them are real, but they will be readily recognized. The places, also, are some of
               them concealed, while others are not. All that is necessary to lead the reader into
               the investigation of truth, has been left in its natural form. The object of the work
               is to show the power of Gospel TRUTH, and of saving, sustaining GRACE under every
               circumstance in life.
            May the Holy Spirit bless the contents of this volume to the hearts of its
               readers.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
               April, 1858.
            
         
      
      
         
            The discipline of storms
            
            THE DISCIPLINE OF STORMS;
            A TALE OF THE OLD WORLD AND THE NEW.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               PRAYER AND FASHION.
               IT is the hour of morning prayer, and within one of the princely mansions which
                  tower above the noble river Thames, are gathered the family of Lionel Warwick. It
                  is a balmy morning in June, and the windows are thrown open, revealing one of the
                  loveliest landscapes beneath the sky. The lady of Warwick has seated herself on
                  the low divan in the recess, and six lovely children surround her with a decorum
                  of behavior suited to the hour. The husband and father has drawn his arm-chair to
                  the table, and the ponderous gilded Bible lies open before him at the first of
                  Kings and the third chapter. Then in silence all kneel, while the master of the household reads from the prayer-book
                  of the Church of England, the "Lord's Prayer," followed by petitions like
                  these:—"Since it is of thy mercy, O gracious Father, that another day is added to
                  our lives, we here dedicate both our souls and our bodies to Thee and Thy service,
                  in a sober, righteous and godly life. In which resolution do Thou, O merciful God,
                  confirm and strengthen us," &c. "Give us the assistance of thy Holy Spirit,
                  that we may be effectually restrained from sin—make us afraid to offend Thee."
                  "Keep in our minds a lively remembrance of that Great Day in which we must give a
                  strict account of our thoughts, words and actions, and according to the works done
                  in the body be eternally rewarded or punished," &c. Most beautiful petitions
                  these, and expressive of the wants of an immortal but fallen nature. Were they
                  uttered by truthful lips, faithful reporters of the heart's emotions, or were they
                  but forms without life—voices from the graves of other and holier beings? We shall
                  see.
               
               "What shall we do about those cards the Morton's sent last evening?" said Mrs.
                  Warwick to her husband, a few moments after the scene just described.
               "Oh, the fete at Malmsbury Castle? Why, go, of course. Have you replied to the
                  cards?"
               "I have not, for though you know I would like to attend, yet Henry and Emma are
                  not yet strong enough to leave with Jane, as she is so inexperienced, and if they
                  should have a relapse, they might never recover."
               "True, this fever is a dangerous visitor, and perhaps I had better remain near
                  home for a few days."
               "No, Warwick, it would never do for neither of us to go, the Norton's would never
                  forgive us. So just reply in excuse for me, but acceptance for yourself."
               And ere the voice of these solemn petitions had scarcely died upon his lips, the
                  man of fashion has forgotten them. He uttered them, and his duty was done; now he
                  turns back to the world, to enjoy its pleasures just as freely as if there were no
                  God, and no futurity of unending happiness or misery.
               The grand old pile of ruins, Malmsbury Castle, stands upon an eminence fronting
                  the river, and opposite the town of "Henley-on-Thames," in which resided Lionel
                  Warwick and his family. The name of Malmsbury belongs solely to a race of the
                  past, and this relict of antiquity is but a resort for the pleasure-seeking
                  public, and an office of inspection. Families from town, city and country, choose
                  it as the resort for their summer festivities, and Malmsbury Castle is the temple
                  of pleasure.
               The fashionable patricians of Henley were alone favored with cards of invitation
                  to this day's gaities, for "the Nortons" were of the peerage. Early in the day the
                  gay companies were seen on horseback, or
                  in their richly liveried carriages hastening to the scene of amusement. Lionel
                  Warwick received his charger from the hands of his servant, and bidding a playful
                  farewell to his lady and little ones as they stood in the embowered piazza,
                  mounted and rode away with his friends.
               And now the groups are gathered, servants in livery have awaited their arrival,
                  and are ready with their obsequious attentions. In the spacious echoing halls, the
                  tables are spread with luxuries innumerable, and the rich masses of silver plate
                  vie with the sparkling cut glass, ruddy with the juices of the grape. Pass to the
                  rooms. Here are the card-tables—who can tell what results may attend their use
                  this night! Come to these broad saloons—dilapidated as they are, the hands of
                  taste have decorated them for the dance, and old Time will not look grimly around
                  upon his trespassers, for they have made him seem young once more. Look around
                  from these quaint old windows, upon the lawn below, and peer far out through those
                  shaded parks. In those arcadian groves, lovers are straying, companions are
                  greeting, the low whisper, the loud laugh, the merry jest, the senseless titter,
                  float upon the breeze in their varied tones. Equestrians are mounted on their
                  horses or their donkeys, numbers are at "ball and bat," others at "battledore and
                  shuttlecock." Within, you hear the oaths of the gentlemen, and the
                  ejaculations of the ladies as they are engaged in the plays of "snap dragon," or
                  "hunt the slipper."
               And now the feasting has commenced. Beef, venison and game, pastries, cakes,
                  confectionery, pineapples, oranges, and ices, raisins and nuts, and wine, have
                  been pressed into the service of the table. Hours go by, but the eating and the
                  drinking have not terminated.
               Night has drawn its curtain over the scene of festivity, and many are gathered
                  within the walls of the saloon for cotillions, quadrilles, waltz, and gallopades,
                  while airy music measures their steps. Others are seated at the card tables, while
                  wine and punch go round, and masquerade occupies the splendidly illuminated
                  parlors, with their antique windows and walls. The small hours of the night come
                  and depart, and fathers and mothers are still there, listening to, or
                  participating in the fascinating song, the giddy dance, or the laugh of senseless
                  glee. Morning draws nigh, and Lionel Warwick suddenly remembers that his little
                  ones may need their father's aid, that his wife has borne her burden of care and
                  anxiety alone. He rises, and calling for his steed, mounts and leaves the gay
                  scene behind.
               Ah, man of the world, was it to spend thy hours in scenes like this thou didst
                  kneel and ask for grace and strength? And yet, thou art not alone—thousands like
                  thee, in the brightness of the morning,
                  kneel to adore in words the God whose service they forget or despise; thousands
                  return from scenes like this, to repeat the prayers of the church, and lie down as
                  if all their duty on earth was done, and their heaven secured forever.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               A TALE OF MIDNIGHT.
               IT is night, and the wife of Lionel Warwick enters her nursery, and gathers around
                  her the little ones who call her mother—all but the two little invalids, scarcely
                  convalescent from an attack of disease—these lie in their little cribs, and their
                  mother sits near by them. Those who are well recite after her the articles of
                  Faith. "I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth," &c.
                  All kneeling, the mother reads an Evening Prayer, and also the Lord's
                  Prayer—perhaps, also, some simple verse, as "Now I lay me down to sleep," &c.,
                  or, "Gentle Jesus, meek and mild." Her duty now is all performed, and conscience,
                  trained to the requisitions of the Mother Church, asks no more, and the nurses
                  attend the children to their rest.
               Night slowly marches to its noon. The mother looks out from her chamber across the
                  dark Thames, and the lights are still gleaming from the castle windows. She wishes
                  she were there. She wishes Lionel would return. It is so solemn, so lonely,
                     this night-watching, this listening to
                  every sound in the stillness of night, this lingering state of expectancy, with no
                  one to share it with her, and her little ones so ill.
               Occasionally, a woman of fashion is a loving wife and devoted mother, and Mrs.
                  Warwick is one of these so very rarely found. The lamp burns brightly upon her
                  table, and the door of her children's apartment opens widely into her own; but she
                  is wakeful and desires no sleep until her husband returns. She throws herself upon
                  her bed without disrobing, to rest her frame, and listen for the first note of
                  childhood's wail. The low breathing of her infants in their slumber, and the loud
                  snoring of the nurses, are the only sounds heard in the stillness of the night,
                  and without, nature is calmly asleep beneath the canopy of heaven.
               At last the latch-key turns in the door, and the well-known step of Mr. Warwick
                  ascends the stairs; but heavily and slowly it comes, striking each carpeted stair
                  in the assent. "What a pity," says the wife and mother to herself, "that Warwick
                  should have taken too much punch, and the children so unwell." But as he enters
                  she resolves she "will not reproach him, as no doubt he could not help it." He,
                  too, is silent, lest he should waken the little slumberers in the next room, and
                  slowly throwing off his coat and vest, approaches the bed. "I'm awake, Lionel,"
                  now speaks the wife, "don't be foolish, give me your hand and I'll help you." She
                  reaches out her hand, the loud clock on Henley church strikes out the chime of
                  twelve, and throughout the house sounds the blast of a mighty rushing wind, as if
                  closing every door and window with a sudden clang. But Lionel Warwick, where is
                  he? Gone, vanished. Nay, he has not been here. The frightened nurses and the
                  children are awake, and in terror inquire, "What is the matter, madam?" "Mother,
                  what was that?" The strong-minded, iron-nerved mother has presence of mind, and
                  she calmly replies, "I suppose its the wind, nothing but the wind—go to sleep
                  again." They are quieted, but she who has soothed them, clasps her hands, and
                  sinking back on her pillow, exclaims almost audibly, "The Lord have mercy on me!
                  but this is no imagination!" She lies awe-struck and wondering, for a time, and
                  then rises to see if reality has not been the cause; if, indeed, her
                  highly-wrought brain has not imagined all this. But not a door or a window has
                  been moved, not a vestige of her husband's attire is to be seen, not a servant has
                  left his room, and "what could it have been, God only knows. Perhaps something has
                  happened to Warwick," is the mental exclamation of the watcher. An undefinable
                  dread takes possession of her mind, and she looks out from her window to catch the
                  first glimpse of her absent lord. Again
                  that solemn chime peals out—it is the hour of one, and he comes not yet. Never was
                  night so long. In waiting and watching how wearily pass the hours, so fleet when
                  rolling by as unconsciously we rest in happiness and peace. Hark! 'tis the tramp
                  of the iron-hoofed steed that breaks upon her ear, and this time it is Lionel
                  Warwick, returned in safety and health to his own door. The private key has
                  admitted him now, and rousing his groom, asleep on the lounge, he ascends with
                  lively steps to greet the wife who is waiting him.
               "Why, Clara! are you up at this hour? Why did you not retire? Are the children
                  worse?"
               "Oh, no, but I was wakeful, and thought I would wait for you."
               Not a word concerning what had alarmed her passed the lips of the wife, and for a
                  long time these companions talked over the incidents of the fete, until, as
                  morning grows gray in the east, they fall into heavy slumbers. And so ends a day
                  and night of pleasure.
               
               
               It is just one week from the night of watching and alarm, the night of revelry and
                  dissipation. Lionel Warwick has for a few days past remained at home, from an
                  apparently slight indisposition. He walks about his house, reads a little, lies
                  down occasionally, and has but very little appetite for food. To-day he has been
                  worse, and the physician is here, and a cousin of the family. The evening is spent
                  in the usual chit-chat, and as the patient is unwilling to retire, he is allowed
                  to sit up in his arm chair.
               "Clara, I think if I had some of your nice gruel once more, I would go to bed, but
                  it is so late I hate to ask you for it, and nobody can make it to please me as
                  well as yourself."
               "Certainly, Lionel, you know I will make it, or anything else you wish." And the
                  good wife hastens below to prepare the nourishment. It occupies but a little time,
                  and she is ascending the stairs with the smoking bowl. The chimes of the Henley
                  church have commenced the hour of twelve, and she is met at the stair-top by her
                  cousin.
               "Give me the bowl, Clara, I will take it in for you," says the
                  friend, extending her hand.
               "No, thank you, Lionel always prefers to have me wait on him when he is sick."
               "Do give it me, Clara, and come quickly," is the agitated reply.
               "Why, what is the matter, Sarah, is Lionel worse?"
               Just then, the last chime of midnight attracts her ear, and a rushing vision of
                  that midnight hour of loneliness and watching, sweeps before her mind's eye, and
                  she adds almost with a scream, "is he dead?"
               "Yes, Clara, he is gone, just gone."
               
               As the words fall upon her ear, the stricken wife gives one shriek, and falls
                  senseless upon the floor.
               Truly, this is a house of sorrow. The husband and father is suddenly cut down in
                  the prime of his days. His wife is a widow, his children are fatherless!
               
               Long years after the scenes above recorded had passed away, and the children of
                  Lionel Warwick had attained to maturity, did their mother repeat to them the story
                  of that night of warning, and of that other night of dreadful reality. Whether the
                  mystery which shrouds the former, was ever explained in any other way than by the
                  results of the latter, we do not know. We give the legend as told us forty years
                  after, by one of the daughters, who had heard it many times. She represents her
                  mother as being very far from superstitious, and as a woman remarkable for her
                  matter-of-fact disposition.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE BURIAL.—THE WIDOW AND THE MOTHER.
               THREE days have passed, and the funeral pageant is at the door of the late Lionel
                  Warwick; waiting to convey the dead to its last resting place. Here are mutes with
                  their muffled standards, the pall and the hearse with its nodding plumes, the jet
                  black horses, the mourning coach, the scarfs and hoods, and all the paraphernalia
                  of fashionable grief, and a large attendance of fashionable friends. Onward the
                  pageant moves, the dead and the living. The cemetery is reached and its wide gate
                  is thrown open, and the clergyman stands with his uncovered head and his
                  prayer-book in hand, waiting to receive the solemn crowd. It is here, and
                  preceding it to the grave he reads aloud, slowly and solemnly, the triumphant
                  declaration of our ascended Lord, "I am the Resurection and the Life," &c.,
                  &c. Then follows the lesson, "Now is Christ risen from the dead and become the
                  first fruits of them that slept," &c., &c. Slowly the coffin is lowered
                  into its narrow bed amid the sobs of the widow, and the cries of the little ones,
                  for their "lost papa," and while the
                  earth falls so chillingly and despairingly over the closed tenement of the dead,
                  above all rises the clear solemn voice of the clergyman, repeating, "Forasmuch as
                  it has pleased Almighty God in His wise Providence to take out of this world the
                  soul of our deceased brother, we therefore commit his body to the ground, earth to
                  earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, looking for the general resurrection in the
                  last day, and the life of the world to come through Jesus Christ, at whose second
                  coming the corruptible bodies of those who sleep in Him, shall be changed and made
                  like unto His own glorious body." Can anything be more consoling? Ah, these are
                  blessed truths, they are glorious doctrines—would they were never misapplied.
               The service is over, and the remains of the man of the world and the devotee of
                  fashion and wealth are deposited in their last resting place; and though the widow
                  weeps, she doubts not the eternal safety of the departed soul, for had he not been
                  born within the pale of the church, baptised into its holy communion, lived and
                  died in its faith, and been buried with its sacred rites?
               
               Mrs. Warwick returned to her darkened home, the sole guardian and guide of six
                  fatherless children. No woman considered in a mere worldly point of view could
                  have presented a better model of a mother; leaving out the religion of the heart,
                  no children could have been more strictly trained to the performance of duty. Few
                  ladies in England equaled her in the possession of grace and dignity, and in the
                  exercise of these she presided over her household.
               With uncompromising firmness of government, she always exacted implicit obedience
                  from her children and servants, and a glance from her eye was always sufficient to
                  restrain, often to guide. The speech, manners, movements, food, dress, studies and
                  companions of her children, all came under the closest supervision, while at the
                  same time no department of household affairs escaped her scrutiny. The office of a
                  mother and the mistress of a family, requires the full development of the mental
                  faculties, and those of the highest order are in the most frequent exercise. So
                  thoroughly ought the mind of woman to be cultivated and disciplined.
               Mrs. Warwick was, as has been premised, a member of the established church, and
                  devoted in her whole heart to its observances. Born within its pale, considering
                  all outside of it as condemned heretics, and ignorant of everything relating to
                  other denominations, she could not do otherwise than train her children in the way
                     she thought they should go. And this she did with a faithfulness
                  which plainly proved her dependence on the observances of the church for eternal
                  salvation.
               
               When the time which the rules of fashionable life allowed for mourning and
                  seclusion from society had passed, Mrs. Warwick again made her appearance in the
                  circles of high life. Again were too many of the precious hours of the day passed
                  in the exchange of fashionable calls, and her evenings at the card-table, the
                  dance, or the theatre, and yet, no morning nor evening was suffered to pass
                  without instructing her children in their religious duties, or
                  gathering her family for the reading of the prayers of the church. The lateness of
                  the hour at which she returned from her nightly amusements, never prevented her
                  reading a chapter or a prayer before retiring to rest. Christian
                  mother, are you thus faithful?
               Such was an English mother of whom it is written. Do not mothers lay the
                  foundation on which the character of a life-time is built? Does not the education
                  of childhood mold the prejudices and the religious predilections of the head, and
                  give to life its peculiar coloring of circumstance? Then Hester Warwick, one of
                  those six fatherless children who were left with the mother here described, shall
                  exhibit in her life-history the influences and counter-influences of teaching
                  childhood the attempt to "serve God and mammon."
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               EARLY TRAITS.
               A WINTER has been passed in the rounds of gaiety, and the widow of Lionel Warwick
                  has removed, with her family, from Henley-on-Thames, the scene of her marriage
                  pleasures and her bereavements, to a pleasant house in Oxfordshire. It is upon an
                  estate which is part of her maternal inheritance, and is a delightful situation,
                  realizing to the view all the beauty of an old English home, with its delightful
                  parks, verdant slopes and lawns, beautified by smiling lakelets. The society
                  around is sufficiently aristocratic withal, to gratify even the high-born and
                  stately dame who watches so keenly over the young beings who call her
                     mother, lest they should descend to any companionship beneath their
                  rank. She has brought these six fatherless ones here to obliterate, if possible,
                  the memory of their first grief, but even the paradisaical charms which invest
                  this new home, cannot efface from the mind of one of them at least, a grief
                  stronger than childhood usually cherishes, even for the dearest of those lost to
                  their love. It is the little Hester, once
                  the pet and plaything of her father, who now for months after he has left the
                  world, still looks for him to return. Ah, what a day was that when she was led to
                  the side of his cold, lifeless form, and saw that the eyes which had always looked
                  love to hers were closed, the lips sealed tightly, and the voice which had so
                  often addressed her by the most endearing names, would not answer when she called
                  "papa, papa, I want to see you." Ah, what a grief was hers, distressing to behold.
                  It was an abandonment of feeling incredible in one so young, a burst
                  of passion which told of the volcano hid in that little heart which had beat for
                  only six years. No attempts to console could silence the storm of her distress.
                  "My papa is dead! my papa is dead!" She never thought that her mother, and
                  brothers and sisters had lost papa, too. No, there could be "no sorrow like unto
                  her sorrow." Poor little Hester! It was not so very strange after all, that she
                  should so lament over him who was lost to her thus early—not so strange that she
                  should steal away into the room where her dead papa was laid, and pushing a chair
                  to the side of his body, climb up and pull down the white sheet which covered him.
                  "Her papa might be asleep, and she was going to waken him," was her sobbing reply,
                  when found and told she must go away. She had tried to waken him, too, for she had
                  put her little fingers on the rigid eyelids and tried to open them, and on the
                  lips, but they would not part. "Oh, my papa is so cold, why don't you warm him,
                  and then he will wake up."
               "Your papa will never wake again," says the nurse, as she covers up the insensible
                  clay, and lifts the child in her arms.
               "He will wake I say, if you warm him. What is dead—won't he talk to Hester
                  to-morrow?
               "No, child, no—they will take him away and put him in the ground, and you won't
                  never see him again."
               "Oh, I want to stay with my papa," screamed the child, fearfully, and kicking and
                  sobbing, and struggling, she was borne out of the room, and the door locked
                  against her further attempts. Was it so very strange? It was her father's hand
                  which had strewed flowers in the daily paths her fairy feet had trod, and
                  sheltered her in his arms from the slightest breath of chiding. It had been his
                  voice that, when her sterner mother sought to restrain within the bounds of
                  fashionable etiquette and conventional forms, spoke liberty to her young spirit,
                  and sent her forth, free as a bird on the wing. She had been truly one of his
                  household gods, and had not the worshiper been removed, the object of his idolatry
                  would have known no wish, no will ungratified. Thus idolized, thus unrestrained,
                  the beautiful and passionate child would have entered upon the realities ties of life unfitted for its duties,
                  unnerved for its storms. Ah, little Hester! who shall say this early discipline of
                  thy heavenly Father's hand was not a design of infinite love, to fit thy young
                  mind, by a remembrance of the first sad trial, to brave life's coming storms,
                  leaning upon an arm of grace?
               But now little Hester is no longer in that old house by the river-side, where she
                  sat on her father's knee and looked out of the piazza upon Malmsbury Castle. She
                  is there no longer to count those old melodious chimes as they ring out the hours
                  of day and night. She no longer passes the room on tiptoe, where her dead papa had
                  laid, or goes in to look wonderingly about, to see if he may not be there still.
                  His memory has lingered with her all the long days of autumn and winter, and
                  often, when returned from school, she has ran to her mother with the inquiry, "has
                  papa got back from heaven yet?" How often in her daily instructions, has that
                  mother spoken to her little ones of their "father gone to heaven," telling them to
                  "be good and they would see him again." But little Hester cannot wait, and day
                  after day she looks for her father's return.
               Here, in this beautiful and healthful retreat, with plenty of room to ramble about
                  and gather the spring flowers, or play with her brothers and sisters on the lawn,
                  Hester will forget to call for papa so often. At least, so her mother thinks, and
                  is startled when she comes in with the inquiry, "mother, is papa coming to live
                  with us soon?" It is too trying to endure, and every effort is made to prevent
                  inducement to any more such strange queries.
               Hester, withal, is not a sad child. Nay, she is mirthful, and even mischievous,
                  but this first great storm has bent the little flower, and it will take time to
                  prop it up, and heal the wound. Hester is like an April sky; one hour her face is
                  radiant with smiles, the next, it is bathed in tears. One hour she is calm and
                  gentle, and the next some pebble has been thrown upon the still lake of her
                  passions, and it is ruffled and surging in fury. Poor Hester! can the journey of
                  life be a smooth one, for a spirit like thine? Can thy heaven be always bright
                  above thee?
               But the sorrows of childhood, though deep, cannot overwhelm all of its fleeting
                  hours, nor storm-clouds darken always the sunlight of its brief sky, and the
                  little mourner after a while ceases to inquire for papa, or look for his coming,
                  though often when laid on her little pillow at night will she see him in dreams,
                  and when wakening talk of him to brother and sister.
               And Hester must be sent from home to a fashionable boarding-school, and one of her
                  sisters will accompany her.
               It is quite time the laws of fashionable education were obeyed, for Hester is past the grave age of
                  seven. Fashion requires that she be sent away from the untiring care and vigilance
                  of a mother, to be confided to the mercenary guidance of a cold-hearted, careless
                  principal of a boarding-school of quality. It requires that at her tender years,
                  she be deprived of the thousand comforts and the healthful freedom of her
                  beautiful home, and immured in the pent-up walls of a crowded institution. Here
                  she is provided with a scanty share of mean food, forbidden to run, jump, or play,
                  except by rule, to walk only as in a funeral procession, and to be cramped in all
                  the overflowings of a young and bounding spirit,—giving rise to every invention of
                  mischief to escape such unnatural surveillance and find occupation for the mind's
                  activity. And why all this? That she may be enabled at the requisite time, the
                  fashionable age of seventeen, to appear as is becoming to a young lady of rank.
                  She must know how to read, write, understand arithmetic, needlework, drawing,
                  music, French, dancing, be able to carve at the table before her guests, and know
                  how to regulate all the affairs of a household, all in the space of ten years. She
                  must early learn to lay down her knife and fork in silence, to sit gracefully, eat
                  according to rule, and walk like a master of broadsword exercises. All these great
                  matters accomplished, and she is to be presented to society as a candidate for
                  matrimony. How will Hester, the independent dependent, blunt-spoken, mischievous,
                  restless little spoiled pet of her lost papa bear all this?
               She is but seven years of age when she bids farewell to the mother stern in her
                  sense of duty, mistaken though she be. Ah! what a change,—and here her young
                  spirit rebels, and now as night after night her cheek is laid closely to her
                  sister's as the two nestle together in their stranger bed, she weeps for home, for
                  mother, for papa that is dead. "I know papa would never have sent us here if he
                  hadn't died," she sobs, and finally falls asleep to dream of grave old women with
                  books in one hand and a ferule in the other, standing over her bed. But sister
                  says in the morning, "mother said if we did not obey Mrs. Principal, we would be
                  put to shame before everybody, and then locked up in dark closets. Oh, dear,
                  Hester, we must be very good and mind every word."
               Hester and her sister learn very well. Hester is apt and bright, and so the
                  lessons are not so tedious and difficult as they would be to duller minds. She
                  catches, too, almost by intuition, the fashionable airs she sees in those around,
                  for intercourse with fashionable society renders children precocious. Being
                  cramped for room to develope the more lovable traits of her disposition, after
                  becoming well acquainted with her teachers and classmates, she feels prompted to
                  devise some scheme of mischief, and show her independence of feeling, by some sort
                  of a don't-care action. This however
                  cannot be accomplished, excepting in the few moments allotted to play, but little
                  Hester is very soon constituted the queen spirit of all the fun-loving juveniles
                  at the school, and some of their childish pranks require the discipline of the
                  superiors.
               It is but twice in the year that holidays are permitted to the inmates of the
                  school, and only at these times can little Hester spring with unchecked steps,
                  over the grounds of her mother's estate. The first visit home—it is indeed
                  sun-light in the path of the little recluse, and how warmly she bounds to embrace
                  her mother and the four little ones who have remained behind, enjoying privileges
                  of which she has been deprived. How bright everything appears! How wild with joy
                  she runs from room to room with the little troop who are nearly as glad as she;
                  how she chats with the servants as they call her pet names, and tells them, "she
                  wishes there was no such thing as school in all the world, for then she could
                  always stay at home, and home is so pleasant." And there
                  she is out upon the lawn, jumping and running and chasing and flying, till the
                  little heart, so long accustomed to beat in time with the rules of school,
                  palpitates as if it would burst its hidden bounds.
               Well, to-morrow is Hester's birth-day. She has been at home from school several
                  holidays, for "she is now nine years of age, and she is so old, and grown so
                  big."
               "Mamma, to-morrow is my birth-day—only think."
               "I think, my love. I know it—but what then?"
               "Why, mother, if you please let me have a little company?"
               "How many do you want, and who are they?"
               "Well, mother, Sarah and I went to see all those old women at the poor-house
                  yesterday; I mean all your old women that you give so much to, and I
                  want to have them all here to supper, every one, and they will be so glad, and it
                  will be so funny to see them."
               "Why, Hester, what put such a scheme into your head, to want to make fun of such
                  poor old people? I fear you are very naughty."
               "Oh, no, indeed, mamma, I don't want to make fun of them; but I want to see them
                  pleased, and they will be so glad to eat supper in a nice place, that I thought it
                  would be funny. Oh, no, mamma, I should be very wicked to make fun of them."
               "Well, if I give you leave, what will you do? I can't be troubled
                  with such a gathering."
               "Oh, please let me do it all myself. Hatty and Jane can boil some mutton and
                  turnips, and we can buy some beer, and have some tea too, and Henry and John can
                  make a great long table with boards out in the orchard, and Sarah and I can set
                  the table so nicely."
               "But all these preparations require money, Hester, and I am not quite certain that
                  I have any to spare."
               
               "Oh, I have some that I saved a long time from what you gave me when I went to
                  school, and I will take that."
               "Very well, I will gratify you this time, but if anything improper takes place,
                  your company will be broken up, and you sent to bed."
               "Oh, I will be so careful,"—and down stairs skips Hester to tell Hetty and Jane
                  all the grand scheme. Having gained their co-operation, she starts for Henry and
                  John, and succeeds in eliciting their promises of assistance for the morrow.
               "Come, Sarah, now let's go invite all the company," and off the little ladies
                  trudge nearly a mile to the parish poor-house. They go their round among the poor
                  decrepit superannuated creatures, filling each with wonder and a strange delight,
                  as she tells them, "It's my party, for to-morrow is my birth-day, and
                  I'm nine years old, and mamma said I might do all myself."
               "Bless the little lady! Long life to her bright eyes!" are the frequent
                  exclamations which follow her as she goes round.
               They are sixty in all, these poor old women, and they have in prospect a feast
                  which is to many of them a new era in existence. What a fixing up of old rags to
                  bear some appearance of decency and comfort. What a washing, ironing, borrowing,
                  and limping to and fro. How they are living over again their once youthful hours,
                  and how visions of their young days, long since forced from remembrance, come over
                  them like the first glad breath of spring! How little is required to increase the
                  happiness of old age, the second childhood of life!
               And among the little folks too, with Hester at their head, what plotting and
                  contriving, giving orders and counter-orders, laughing, singing, and running back
                  and forth! "La! sakes, Miss Hester, one would think it was the queen's birth-day,
                  you make such a to-do,"—say the servants, laughing at the self-important airs Miss
                  Hester assumes. But Hester has it all her own way, after all.
               It looks very nicely, that long table under the orchard trees, and the benches
                  arranged around. It is about the hour which Hester has named for their convening,
                  and one and another is constantly making way through the wide garden gate. Here
                  they are, the motley group, some bowed low with age, or infirmities, the lame, the
                  deaf and the blind; their cotton handkerchiefs are pinned over their shoulders,
                  and their gray hairs are covered by caps of every shape and material. Their
                  furrowed brows, their toothless jaws, bringing noses and chins into close
                  proximity, their quivering heads and limbs—would they not furnish a scene for
                  Hogarth? Ah, if only a Daguerrian were here—but his age is not yet; this is a view
                  in the foreground of the past, but we can look at it here in the light of
                  memory.
               
               The nicely boiled mutton comes smoking on the table, as the huge lids are removed,
                  and the dishes of turnips, and the fragrant tea. We can see the poor women now as
                  they eat, for we are with Mrs. Warwick and a few friends she has invited, to be
                  lookers on at Hester's birth-day feast. In a shady nook, quite unseen by the
                  guests, we can see and hear for ourselves. Glasses of beer are added to the table,
                  and Hester, wild with delight, flits from one guest to the other, saying something
                  to each, which, by their smiles, seems to be very pleasing in their ears. The
                  servants and the brothers and sisters are all waiters on those who are sitting at
                  the table. The glasses of beer have circulated freely, and now they are
                  replenished with gin, (remember these were not the days of temperance
                  and Mainelaws,) and eagerly they are sipped. Hester is flitting around and slyly
                  slipping a paper into the hands of each. "Bless her little heart, what is it? oh,
                  snuff—how kind to think of it—oh, what good snuff, too," mumbled out the poor
                  creatures, as each regales herself with a pinch. Hunger and age render them
                  incapable of disposing of the eatables very rapidly, but now they have nearly
                  finished their meal. They are warm with the stimulating beverages they have drank,
                  and hark! we will draw nearer now—they are cracking their jokes of olden time. Now
                  they are telling stories for the gratification of "Miss Hester," who listens in
                  great glee, and now their trembling voices rise high and shrill in songs of the
                  workhouses and the "Beggar's Opera."
               Supper is ended, and Hester leads the way to the barn. "What is she going to do?"
                  says her mother, following. Oh, surely her little head has concocted a dancing
                  scheme. The floor has been cleaned and nicely swept, and here in one corner, is a
                  seat for old John, the blind fiddler, who is the only gentleman
                  invited. And now he plies his fiddle in the quaint old airs of other days, and the
                  dance begins. The scene defies description. Here is the fun for which Hester has
                  longed, and for which she has plotted all this. We laugh till we cry, and we laugh
                  again, and are almost ashamed of ourselves. But to see the contortions, the
                  jostling against each other in the vain attempt to keep time, the glee with which
                  they toss their arms and try to swing round, is irresistibly comical. At last the
                  poor tired creatures drop on the floor to rest, and here they might continue their
                  laughing and chatting until too late an hour. Mrs. Warwick enters, and giving to
                  each a small sum of money, and saying some kind words, advises them now to go back
                  to their home, and thus the strange company breaks up, declaring that "it is the
                  happiest time they ever seed," and "thanking and blessing the sweet little lady,
                  Miss Hester."
               This was a scheme originated by a child but nine years of age, wondered at, and
                  laughed at by her mother and all her
                  friends. "Where could she have got such an idea?" was more than once the inquiry,
                  but might it not have been suggested by her reading of our Lord's injunction,
                  "When thou makest a feast call the poor, the maimed, the lame and the blind, and
                  thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be
                  recompensed at the resurrection of the just." Hester had read her Bible, and her
                  young mind had interpreted it as has been seen. She had not seen such feasts at
                  her mother's house, for they were of a far different character.
               But this affair has made Hester a great favorite with the poor, and the praises,
                  and the eulogiums passed on her whenever she meets the families around, are fast
                  filling her little head with vanity. She has not a mother who can teach her
                  humility—every lesson she learns inculcates directly or indirectly, pride and
                  self-conceit. The foundation is being laid daily for building up
                  self-righteousness, and looking for salvation as the reward of good deeds.
               And now Hester returns again to school. These early traits of character will soon
                  develope themselves in various forms, and bring forth fruits either of evil or
                  good. What a charge is the guardianship of an immortal spirit. What consequences
                  depend upon it, both in this life and the next, consequences not limited to the
                  immediate actors in the scene, but to posterity.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               ERRORS AND INCONSISTENCIES.
               HESTER WARWICK was a great favorite with the poor of Oxfordshire, especially after
                  the affair of the birth-day fete. There was something quite different in the
                  active, impulsive charities of the energetic young girl from those of the cold,
                  systematically trained alms-givings of her mother and others who were the patrons
                  of the destitute in that parish. It was quite a different affair for her to be
                  seen at the doors of the humblest hovels in the coldest weather, with her basket
                  and bundle as heavy as she could carry them, than for the stately ladies with
                  their strict inquiries into the necessity of the case, to slowly dole out the
                  pennies, and tell them to get this and that article themselves, and if they made
                  good use of the money, they should have more. But then, Mrs. Warwick and those
                  other ladies heard their names read out in public on certain Sabbaths, as having
                  paid such and such liberal sums for the charities of the church, and it was a
                  matter of emulation among them who should appear to the world as the greatest giver, for pride would not permit them to
                  rank among the least devoted. And so, if they could report having "visited and
                  relieved" a certain number of poor families, at a certain time, their duties to
                  God and man were fully discharged. The children of these ladies were also early
                  initiated into the practice of giving, by having little sums given to them to
                  throw into the charity boxes, or bestow upon the little ones of the poor. But
                     self-denial for the purpose of charity, was a virtue unknown in
                  their category, and of course it could not be inculcated upon their children.
                  Therefore, neither were losers by any acts of benevolence they might perform.
               "La! 'ere's Miss 'Ester; set down, darling, 'ere's a box in the corner. Jack, go
                  get some stubble and make a blast, for Miss 'Ester, the poor little
                  dear is neramost perished." This was the kind of salutation the little daughter of
                  Mrs. Warwick often received in her visits to the hovels on the hill-side, or near
                  the road. So well did these children of want love their young friend, that if not
                  sure of another stick of wood that day, their last would be laid on the fire for
                  her, while she, crouched down in the miserable corner, would distribute her
                  bounties, and then read to them long chapters from her little pocket Bible. Over
                  this singular child there seemed to rest an influence she knew not of, prompting
                  her amidst all her volatility and mirthfulness, to think of something beyond the
                  present, of which she heard at church and in the prayers and the Bible. In reading
                  to these ignorant families, she seemed gifted with the talent of a missionary, for
                  when they gathered around in listening wonder, would interrupt her with inquiries
                  into the meaning of what she read, she would explain and enlarge upon the subject
                  in a manner altogether her own. "Ah, dear! a wonderful child is that Miss 'Ester.
                  What'll she be some day—the Lord knows!" was the remark of many of her auditors
                  after she had left their presence. And how proud was the heart of little Hester
                  when being rolled away in the post-chaise which was bearing her from home, she
                  would see "her poor families" standing in the doors of their huts and calling out
                  their farewells, or following her long distances in the road with their blessings.
                  All this was not good, it was fuel to her natural vanity; yet this was better than
                  being a child whom no one loved, and no one regretted, spoiled, selfish and
                  useless.
               Ah, Hester! thou art treading a path of temptation, but it is hedged in, though
                  thou canst not yet see the thorns, nor hear the distant rolling of the storm.
               Hester at school, is a very different girl from Hester at home. At school she is a
                  good student, but being a quick one, she has time to give vent to the activity of
                  her disposition, in planning schemes of
                  amusement, and mischievous sport. Often these are of a character to create an
                  excitement through the whole institution, and when others are blamed as being the
                  authors, Hester boldly steps forth and acknowledges herself as the culprit. Such a
                  course generally ends in severe reproofs by the teachers, and in a closer union of
                  herself and schoolmates in the bonds of affection. But young girls are
                  sufficiently apt in concocting plans for mischief, and a record of Hester's
                  exploits in this line might be amusing enough, but not so improving.
               Hester Warwick is fourteen years of age, and it is now time she is
                     confirmed. A visit of the Bishop is announced to take place, and
                  she must return home for the purpose of uniting with other children of the diocese
                  in submitting to the sacred rite. (Were they children whom Paul
                  confirmed?) Hester believes if she is not confirmed, she cannot be saved, and she
                  submits to it as an act of necessity, and is heartily glad when it is over, "it is
                  so tedious." And very similar, also, are her feelings when kneeling by the side of
                  her mother, she partakes of the holy sacrament, or communion.*
                   These solemn services might have influenced her mind in a very different
                  way, but the manner in which the communicants partake, indicates that they regard
                  them only as a mere matter of form. She rises from her knees, deeming the work now
                  fully done. She is a Christian in her own view, and that of the world around, and
                  has a right to eternal happiness.*
                  
               
                  
                  *See "Order of Confirmation," Book of Common Prayer.
               
                  
                  *See "Order of Confirmation," Book of Common Prayer.
               
               Hester Warwick is not now the blooming, healthy girl she was at the age of nine.
                  Confinement at school, constant study within closed walls, and low diet, have
                  deprived her of a natural and healthful appetite, afflicted her with a daily
                  headache, and in the place of bloom and freshness, her cheeks are pale and hollow,
                  and her eyes are sunken. She has grown so rapidly, too, and is so tall, that she
                  is quite emaciated. The fears of her mother are at last aroused, and Hester is
                  withdrawn from school. But it will take great care and attention, and much skill
                  will be required to remedy the evils of years. And then ill health has bestowed
                  upon the young girl a gravity of demeanor which is not natural, and causes her to
                  be considered by strangers, as a young lady of eighteen. Consequently, visitors at
                  her mother's house are disposed to pay her marked attentions, which are not at all
                  acceptable to Mrs. Warwick.
               The residence of the widow, being but a few miles from the city of Oxford, was the
                  frequent resort of the deans, and other dignitaries of the church, with their
                  wives also. Theology, we will not say religion, was discussed freely
                  in the long sittings at table, in Hester's presence, and the supposed peculiar
                     excellences lences of THE church, was
                  the theme of frequent conversation. Greatly did it puzzle her young mind to see
                  these very dignitaries entering with a zest, keenly as others, into all the
                  gaities of the ball-room, and the mysteries of the card-table. The striking
                  contrast between the conversation and religious observances of these members of
                  "the Holy Church," and their manner of living, struck her mind as something
                  inconsistent and anomalous—she tried in vain to reconcile the incongruities. After
                  much reflection she arrived at the conclusion, that either the officers of the
                  church were wrong in their lives, or that its doctrines and forms could not mean
                  all that was written and preached.
               The god-mother of Hester, who was a cousin of Mrs. Warwick, resided in London, and
                  learning that her god-daughter was in delicate health, wrote a very earnest
                  invitation to Hester, to make her a prolonged visit. The request was not at first
                  granted, as Mrs. Warwick did not wish her daughter to enter the circles of fashion
                  until the proper time for her "coming out." Hester, while at the boarding-school,
                  had become a proficient in dancing, but her mother wished to initiate her into the
                  science of card-playing before she was introduced into the society of which she
                  would soon be a member. So Mrs. Warwick daily instructed her young daughter in the
                  various games fashionable at the time, and the learner made rapid proficiency. She
                  soon became able to handle the cards with deterity, and to practice all the
                  secrets of the games.
               The invitation from her god-mother being urgently repeated, Hester was at last
                  permitted to visit London. The solemn relation in which this lady stood to the
                  young girl as sponsor for her christian education, and having endorsed in person
                  her public "renunciation of the devil and all his works," &c.,*
                   would seem to have indicated a superior watch care over her spiritual
                  interests. And such, in her simplicity, Hester expected. But the first salutation
                  of her god-mother, as she opened her arms to receive and embrace her, entirely
                  dispelled such an illusion.
               
                  
                  *See Book of Common Prayer.
               
               "Why, bless me, child, how you look! You've been moped to death in the country.
                  All you want is amusement."
               "Oh, I have had amusements plenty," replied Hester, "but I did not care for them.
                  I felt no inclination to enjoy them."
               "Oh, fie, child, you will soon have the inclination, if you stay with me. I shall
                  have no moping about me."
               The aftercourse of the god-mother proved a determination to verify her words. The
                  delicate, wan girl was made to participate in scenes of gaiety which continued
                  their exciting rounds, by day and by
                  night, and all to regain her health! She who should have taken Hester
                  by the hand and led her to the feet of the Saviour, opened to her the allurements
                  of the world in all their force. The card-table, the dance, and the theatre, were
                  the nightly scenes to which she was introduced, and yet, an unvarying attendance
                  on the morning services of the church was exacted, while sumptuous dinners, and
                  fashionable companies occupied the afternoons. Such is a faint outline of Hester's
                  first winter in London.
               Yet, amid all these scenes, Hester's young heart is sick. Constant excitement,
                  heated rooms, and late hours, cannot restore to a debilitated frame, vigor and
                  elasticity, and she wearies of these new and unnatural prescriptions! An aching
                  void pervades her mind, while each night, as she retires to rest, something
                  whispers, "all is vanity!"—"all is wrong!" She understands but one way of duty,
                  and so conscientious is she in treading that path, that no weariness nor lateness
                  of the hours prevents her observance of the lessons inculcated by her mother. What
                  lessons are they? To "read a portion of scripture, be it ever so small, and
                     recite a prayer before closing your eyes." All vague and dark to
                  Hester's understanding are the truths of our holy religion; yet in the small,
                  still hours of night, the precepts she reads startle her with their striking
                  contrast to the practices of herself and all around her. He, who
                  convinceth the world of sin, is He not speaking to Hester, as alone she lies upon
                  her bed, in the heart of that great city? Are not these nightly thoughts, oft
                  warning visitants, knocking at the portals of her young heart?
               At the close of the season, her god-mother, seeing that her prescriptions had
                  failed to restore health to Hester, and that she was even becoming more frail,
                  took her on a trip to the Isle of Wight. Here the life of pleasure was continued,
                  though of a far more healthful and natural character; but Hester, charmed to
                  enthusiasm with the wild beauty of those picturesque regions, turned with disgust
                  from the artificial pursuits of fashion, to spend hours in wandering amid the
                  delights of nature, listening to unwritten music, and feasting her eyes upon
                  beauties God alone can bestow. The pure, bracing air, the comparative quietude she
                  enjoyed, the natural hours of rest permitted to her, and almost constant exercise
                  in the open air, gave her a healthy appetite, and corresponding vigor of frame,
                  and strength of nerve. In a few months Hester's god-mother returned her to Mrs.
                  Warwick, with a proud boast of her skill in matters of health.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               INCIDENTS.—HESTER'S MARRIAGE.
               DURING Hester's absence from home, the neighborhood in which Mrs. Warwick resided
                  had received an addition to its society. The family of Lord C———, whom Mrs.
                  Warwick and her daughters had frequently met in the London circles of fashion,
                  having there taken up their residence. Of course cards were exchanged, and in time
                  quite an intimacy formed; but a few months elicited a knowledge of Lady C———'s
                  circumstances, which called forth all the sympathy which ladies of fashion can be
                  supposed to possess. Lady C——— was remarkably beautiful, and her husband became,
                  from some cause, an unjust and jealous tyrant, exercising the closest
                     surveillance over every moment and action of her life. The most
                  common pleasures were denied her, except accompanied with the most unpleasant
                  restrictions. Three lovely children called her mother, yet, solely to render his
                  wife still more wretched, Lord C——— placed them at a school near by, forbidding
                  the preceptress to permit their heart-broken mother to see them. At last, he
                  forbade his wife to leave the house under any circumstances; but fearing the
                  ill-will of his neighbors, he dared not deny her the company of those who chose to
                  visit her. At last, the loss of her children, anxiety, and close confinement, did
                  the work the husband in his cruelty intended should be done. Lady C——— grew paler,
                  and more fragile, every day, and finally became unable to rise from her couch.
                  Friends came around her, seeking with their vain talk and amusements to cheer; the
                  clergyman came with his prayer-book, and read by her side the "visitation of the
                  sick;" but there was no power in either to soothe the heart-broken woman. Hester's
                  bright face, and lively ways, always seemed welcome to Lady C———, and with the
                  consent of Mrs. Warwick, she was a frequent visitor in the room of the
                  invalid.
               "Read to me, dearest," said Lady C———, one day, in reply to Hester's inquiry,
                  "what shall I do for you to-day? And what shall I read? There are no books here
                  that I see, excepting the prayer-book."
               "I suppose Lord C——— has locked the library, and I am tired of the
                  prayer-book."
               "Well, here is my little bible in my pocket, suppose I read a little in this."
               Very indifferently Lady C——— assented to the proposal, and Hester, with an
                  intuitive perception of that which would most readily attract her attention, selected some of those beautiful passages
                  in the psalms, and the gospels, so well adapted to soothe a wounded spirit. Hester
                  closed the book, but to her surprise Lady C——— laid her wan hand on hers, saying,
                  "Read, on, my dear, I did not know such beautiful words were there." Hester
                  continued to read for a long time, and then Lady C——— remarked, "You are wearied
                  now, dearest, but will you not come to-morrow, and read to me again? Your bible
                  seems to me like a new book."
               And so day after day did Hester visit the sick and troubled woman, and read to her
                  the words of life, not knowing how truly she had become an angel of mercy. Mrs.
                  Warwick, and the ladies of the neighborhood wondered, "how a young girl like
                  Hester could immure herself daily, for hours, to amuse a sick woman;" but as Lady
                  C——— declared she never felt so comfortable as when Hester was with her, her
                  mother could not object. When others spoke of Hester's remarkable devotion to the
                  invalid, and wondered she could take any interest in reading the bible so much,
                  Mrs. Warwick usually replied, "Oh, Hester was always a strange child. I don't know
                  where she learned such ways;" but the mother did not know, or did not remember,
                  the words which God spake,—"I will lead the blind by a way they know not."
               Feeling indignant at Lord C———, for his cruel treatment of his wife, her native
                  independence of character showed itself in disregarding the frowns with which he
                  met her, when on her errands of kindness, and in disobeying the restrictions he
                  would have placed upon her intercourse with Lady C———. She voluntarily took
                  advantage of his absence on several occasions to beguile the children into the
                  presence of their mother, leaving her to enjoy, unrestrained, the privilege of
                  embracing and folding them to her heart, while she herself kept watch, lest the
                  unnatural husband and father should suddenly return. Such acts of kindness, which
                  no other of her numerous friends dared to perform, greatly endeared Hester to the
                  heart of the afflicted woman, and the blessed effects of these ministrations of
                  mercy, though performed by an unconscious instrument, eternity only can disclose.
                  Strange did it seem for that young girl, thus to turn aside from the fascinations
                  of pleasure, and the scenes of mirth she loved so well, to read the bible to a
                  lonely invalid; but the Lord sends by whom He will send, and He had
                     designs in thus choosing her as the instrument to shed light on a
                  departing soul. Lady C——— died with her hand in that of the young Hester, and her
                  last glance directed to the little bible which lay upon her bed.
               Ah, Hester! little dost thou know, now, while in this darkened room, with thy
                  mother, and her companions around thee, how the memory of this hour will in future years bring joy to thy spirit and
                  thanksgiving to thy lips.
               
               But winter came, and with the return of the gay season, Hester was again in
                  London. How thickly there were the nets of the tempter, spread beneath her
                  unsuspecting feet, and how soon was she completely involved; beauty and grace, wit
                  and intellect, rank and wealth, all were hers—what wonder then, she became the
                  cynosure of all eyes, the admired above all others. Flatterers termed her "Mary
                  Queen of Scots," from her remarkable resemblance to the portrait of that lovely
                  but unfortunate woman. From this giddy height of fashion and folly, Hester Warwick
                  looked down upon the worshipers at her shrine, with no emotion save that of scorn,
                  and retired to her room each night, imagining the world contained no other Hester;
                  she, the worshiped of earth, the blest of heaven! With what a calm, pharisaic
                  pride did she enter daily the abodes of the poor, to dispense her alms; or kneel
                  by her bed to utter the devotions of the church. And yet, she was sinking deeper
                  and deeper into the pit of sin, pushed downward by the very hand which should have
                  led her in the strait and narrow path leading unto life. She saw no danger; the
                  world around her were going the broad road, and if the words of the holy book
                  suggested to her, there might be a better way, it was not yet opened to her
                  view.
               All who are familiar with the records of high life in London, know that
                     gambling prevails in nearly all the circles of fashion, and to an
                  enormous extent among fashionable ladies! Says an author of
                  unquestionable veracity, in his "GLORY AND SHAME OF ENGLAND:"—"There are cliques
                  of women who assemble night after night, for no other purpose but
                     play, and the wine flashes on the card-table. They
                  gamble on till their money is gone; they pledge their jewels, family plate, horses
                  and carriages, to the pawn-brokers, and often the first intimation their husbands
                  have of it, is from some long-bearded Jew, who presents his claim with the very
                  comforting intelligence, that the day of grace is over, and that he has now an
                  opportunity of redeeming the property. The Jew had received from fifty to five
                  hundred per cent for his money."
               Such was the society into which Hester was constantly led; these the scenes she
                  witnessed from week to week. She saw her god-mother, and all the ladies of her
                  rank, indulging in these practices during the week, and on the Sabbath joining in
                  the solemn devotions of the church, partaking of the holy communion, observing the
                  fasts, and other weekly services, and then returning to their nights of
                  dissipation. They were her superiors in age and wisdom, the leaders of others, young, like herself; if
                     they did these things, who could reprove her? and so
                  conscience was silenced, and the naturally depraved inclinations of the heart,
                  became the leader of the actions. Night after night found Hester at the
                  card-table, permitted at first to play for amusement, but gradually the temptation
                  gained upon her to play at stakes, higher and yet higher every evening. At last
                  there came a night in which Hester, young, in-experienced, excited and infatuated,
                  and angry at repeated losses, staked all the valuable jewelry she wore, amounting
                  to a very large sum, and all was lost! Humiliated, angry and disgusted, she left
                  the tables, declaring she would never stake again. The company
                  laughed, and some remarked, "Oh, she is young, she will soon come round again;"
                  but they did not know the spirit of Hester. Although she often after played for
                  amusement, yet her vew was sacredly kept. The jewels were afterwards redeemed by
                  her mother, and Hester profited by her dearly bought experience.
               
               It is the close of a London winter. Hester Warwick, the belle of the circles,
                  round which she has flitted away the seventeenth year of her young life, has seen
                  titles and wealth uncounted laid at her feet. Her hand has been sought in
                  marriage, by those whom her god-mother and friends consider fit aspirants for so
                  valuable a gift; but Hester is proud and vain, and she is a coquette, and so she
                  turns away and spurns those upon whom just now she has smiled. But one comes now,
                  with all the arts a man of fashion knows so well; he stands at a distance as if
                  hardly daring to approach the queen of the season. Winningly comes Herbert
                  Marchmont, and steals the prize, which others could not purchase. He has rank,
                  wealth, talents, and the manners of a courtier, and he knows the way to the heart
                  of woman. He makes himself a magnet, and Hester's affections yield. And god-mother
                  and mother are satisfied, and Hester is pleased, and surrenders the happiness of
                  her life into the keeping of one, whom others have in vain tried to secure as
                  their partner in the drama of married life.
               Months pass. The golden hours of summer and autumn are occupied with preparations
                  for a great event. A great event, one which will influence a long
                  life, and its consequences be felt in eternity. One kind of
                  preparation is made, indeed, but another, and the most important, is entirely
                  wanting. But the history of one fashionable bride, is, with a few variations, the
                  history of all, especially in high life in England. There are the months of bustle
                  and expenditure in getting up all the useless accustomed paraphernalia—the
                  wedding, splendid, of course; the
                  subsequent sumptuous entertainments, excursions of pleasure, and rounds of travel.
                  When Hester Warwick and Herbert Marchmont knelt at the altar, and were pronounced
                  "man and wife," the world said of them, "twin spirits are they; how admirably
                  suited to each other! She so beautiful, graceful, and young; he so elegant, so
                  noble, so manly." But even this same sagacious world has not always the
                  penetration requisite to discern character, nor to read the secrets of the heart,
                  nor to unveil the future, and so, alas! it is often sadly mistaken in its
                  estimates of appropriateness. And so in less than a year from the time that Hester
                  first met Herbert Marchmont, she bears his name. Daily and nightly she treads with
                  him the floors of assembly-rooms, lounges at the card-table, and sips the wine, or
                  listens to the fascinating rehearsals and performance of the theatre. But God has
                  CHOSEN Hester, as "a brand plucked from the burning,"—and her husband "shall be
                  saved, yet so as by fire."
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               FIRST YEARS OF MARRIED LIFE.
               HESTER Marchmont entered upon her married life surrounded by all the concomitants
                  of luxury and splendor. A house, not a home, for is any
                     fashionable residence truly a home? was taken in one of the
                  aristocratic portions of London, furnished with elegance, and provided with
                  domestics, by the still worldly-wise and careful Mrs. Warwick, who wished no other
                  establishment to excel that of her daughter. With servants fully competent to
                  relieve her of every care, and a husband and friends devoted to her wishes, the
                  young wife seemed borne above the realities of every day existence, and to float
                  lightly on a stream of arcadian bliss. The silent-winged messengers, who once came
                  to her pillow in the hours of slumber, were heard no more, and their whispers were
                  forgotten. Hand in hand with her husband, she thoughtlessly lived as if there were
                  no God—no heaven—no hell.
               Seven years, with an interruption of illness each of those years, did Hester live
                  with her husband, this life which was but
                  a moral death. Each winter they trod the same old paths of sin, and in summer they
                  would hie away to the fashionable resorts of Bath, and other watering places,
                  thoughtless of aught but themselves, regardless of their accountability, and
                  relying on their deeds of charity, and daily reading of the devotions of the
                  church, as an entire absolution of all which might possibly be wrong about
                  them.
               But with all this appearance of happiness, and all this apparent devotion of her
                  husband, Hester Marchmont knew well the depths of the heart's bitterest
                  sorrows,—sorrows which could appeal to no human sympathy, and which no human aid
                  could relieve. The jewel she wore in her bosom stung her with poisoned darts; the
                  idol of her affections was the very one to overthrow the worship he had demanded.
                  Yet it was not until many months after her marriage, that she made the appalling
                  discovery which revealed the partner of her life as a monster of iniquity. And
                  more crushingly came the weight of this blow to her pride in her husband; when she
                  found that of all the world around her, herself and family were the only ones who
                  were ignorant of the career of this man of fashion. And yet, for her, there was no
                  redress. She might indeed plead for a divorce, but the solemnities of the marriage
                  vow ever rest upon an English wife, with a weight of obligation which
                  circumstances can rarely have power to remove. Public opinion stands ready to
                  point the finger of scorn at the wife who would subject herself to the publicity
                  of a court-trial, and appear as the accuser of him, whom she had taken "for better
                  and for worse." Ah, who can tell of the ebbing of the life-current, day by day,
                  the sinking of the vital powers, the tortured affections, and withered hearts,
                  which are the lot of many wives, who bear smiling faces to the halls of fashion,
                  glitter in their garbs of splendor, and ride in their pompous equipages of
                  state!
               At last a little daughter came in its wailing helplessness to call forth the love
                  of parents in the hearts of Herbert and Hester Marchmont. For some time before
                  this event, the young wife had begun to weary of the tedious and unvarying rounds
                  of pleasure to which her husband unceasingly dragged her; but regardless of her
                  situation, every expression of reluctance on her part offended him exceedingly,
                  and he often vented his, anger in personal abuse. But the advent of this innocent
                  claimant upon his love, seemed for a time to win him towards his wife and home; he
                  was not so frequently intoxicated, and sometimes remained with Hester, instead of
                  resorting to the gambling halls. But not very long did this new attraction have
                  power to restrain. As soon as his wife was able to leave the house, he again
                  commanded her to accompany him in his nightly rounds of dissipation. Hester with
                  her newly awakened sense of duty, as the
                  mother of an infant, exceedingly frail, declared she "must remain at home to nurse
                  her babe, until it grew stronger."
               "Pshaw! can't you get a nurse for it, as other women do, and not make an old mope
                  of yourself, not fit to look at?"
               "I could not trust so frail a child to a hired nurse, and I am determined, now
                  that I am a mother, to do a mother's duty so long as our babe shall live."
               "Very well, madam, if you refuse to go out with me, you may sit up all night to
                  nurse your child, for what I care; only don't you dare to go to bed while I am
                  out. I'm not going to be let in to the house by a lazy servant, while I have so
                  independent a wife."
               Knowing the violent abuse to which she would be subjected if she dared to disobey
                  in this matter, Hester at once prepared herself to comply with the heartless and
                  unreasonable requisitions of her husband, yielding her own comfort a sacrifice to
                  the holy principle of a mother's love. Whole nights were now frequently spent in
                  her chair, watching for her faithless and cruel husband, and if wearied and
                  exhausted, she did not fly instantly at his summons, she met with the vilest
                  abuse.
               Ah, what shall console Hester now? she, the once light-hearted and cheerful
                  consoler of others. Alone by her sleeping babe, in the silent watches of the
                  night, and her servants slumbering around her, she weeps hot, bitter tears.
               Earth seems dreary everywhere, friends faithless, love a mocking shadow, and
                  heaven dark above her. But memory brings in this hour of desolation a picture of
                  the past, and recalls the scenes of another room than this. It is a vision of a
                  pale woman, whose large sad eyes rest on the bright face of a young girl who is
                  reading from the holiest of books. And then the scene changes a little, and the
                  room is full of sad and weeping friends,—a dying woman sits propped in her bed,
                  her cold hand laid in that of the blooming girl, while her eyes in their fading
                  light rest lovingly upon a little well-worn Bible, which lies upon the bed, and
                  her face, once so very sad, is serene and happy. Ah, Hester, that book which
                  became the comforter of one desolate like thyself, can show thee also the way of
                  life. Her regular devotions have long since been performed, but this night she
                  will beguile these hours of unbearable wretchedness, by reading her long-neglected
                  Bible. Its calm pure words soothe, for a moment, the storm of passion in her
                  heart, gradually she becomes interested, and forgets the great grief which is
                  gnawing at her life. The husband comes at last, the small hours of the night are
                  passed; the watcher flies to the door, but she looks not so sad, so weary as is
                  usual.
               "What's the matter, Wide-awake, you're brisk tonight; I guess sitting up agrees
                  with you," is the greeting Hester receives from her husband.
               
               "I am weary enough, and this watching is killing me, but I have been reading the
                  Bible, and that kept me awake."
               "Some Methodist book, I suppose, you've got hold of," is the reply, giving her a
                     kick, and the vile husband staggers up stairs to his bed.
               The reading thus commenced is resumed the next night, on which the lonely wife
                  repeats her task of watching. She dares not open the book when her husband is
                  present, for he has threatened to destroy it, and now it is very precious to her.
                  Her days are still occupied by the numerous calls of that society she has not
                  wholly left. Calls of ceremony, receiving visitors, and giving and attending
                  dinners, still form the daily events of Hester's existence. Surely this discipline
                  of the night watching, severe as it is, is the only mode by which these day-dreams
                  of worldliness can be dispelled. And so the once gay, cardplaying, haughty belle,
                  the proud wife and mother, has in her secret hours become a diligent searcher of
                  the Scriptures.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               NEW VIEWS AND THEIR RESULTS.
               HESTER MARCHMONT continued her reading with increasing interest, while yet the
                  language of the New Testament seemed invested with deeper mystery the longer she
                  read. Darker to her seemed those descriptions of our Saviour's baptism, and the
                  corresponding scenes in the various Gospels. These she had often read, yet as a
                  school-boy reads his lesson, thinking nothing of its meaning, and forgetting it as
                  soon as read. But now they seemed to her hidden realities, with which she was in
                  some way concerned, but how she could, not understand. At last she turned with
                  feverish impatience to all these narratives of baptism, from Matthew onward, until
                  she came to the story of Philip and the eunuche; and then alone in the solemn
                  silence of her chamber, with clasped hands, she uttered the startling cry, "the
                  Lord have mercy on me! I believe on Jesus but have never been baptized!" The real
                  import of that word "baptize," what was it? How could she find its
                  meaning? The morning was drawing nigh, and Marchmont mont would not now come home at all, his
                  debaucheries would keep him until the morning meal; and so, wearied and worn, she
                  laid by her book, and prepared to rest. But according to her views of duty, she
                  must read one verse on her knees, ere she threw herself upon her bed. The verse
                  which met her eyes, came with sudden force upon her already interested mind. "The
                  publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you."
                  "Oh," thought Hester, "if I, who have lived such a life of charity, devotion to
                  the church, and obedience to my mother and husband, must be cast out of
                  heaven—what will it be for?" Perplexed and distressed, she laid
                  herself down, and exhausted, fell into a slumber, from which, mercifully, her
                  wretched husband did not then return to arouse her.
               At a late hour Hester has arisen, and the words which came to her spirit so
                  forcibly, are again sounding in her ears. But she has time only for her regular
                  devotions, and the babe claims her attention. By noon the father has returned
                  stupified with his night revels, and is soon snoring in drunken sleep. The little
                  babe has been cared for, all its wants have received attention, and it lies
                  sleeping as sweetly as if it was not breathing an atmosphere of sin and sorrow,
                  and there were no thorny paths in the prospective of its existence. Hester's
                  morning toilet over, she would gladly return to the reading of that book, in which
                  she is so interested, but fashion claims her hours, and she must yield. But the
                  veil is being drawn aside by an unseen hand, and the Spirit has begun
                  his work, which he will never relinguish. The senseless routine of ceremonies
                  which etiquette demands are beginning to weary the mind which has caught a glimpse
                  of higher things, and she even longs for the night of silence and watching to
                  return.
               Night comes. Perhaps Marchmont will not go out to-night, and how will Hester find
                  the meaning of that word baptize, as the scriptures
                  define it? She is at no loss for its meaning as rendered in the book of common
                  prayer; but are there not two ways of baptism? Or is the baptism of the Bible one
                  thing, and that of the church of England another. In vain these inquiries are
                  suggested to her mind, for she knows not where to look for a reply, excepting in
                  the book which is to her mind, at present, a sealed volume. Why should she be so
                  uneasy about the meaning of a mere word? She will dismiss the subject from her
                  thoughts, and rely for salvation upon the church of her fathers, and surely all
                  will be right.
               But it is in vain to contend, with an uneasiness that unfits her for enjoyment.
                  Ere she is aware, the same influences are hovering around her spirit, and the
                  words of the Master are sounding in her ears: "The publicans and harlots go into
                  the kingdom of God before you." "He that believeth, and is
                     baptized, shall be saved."
               
               Too excited to sleep, for the first time with pleasure she finds that her husband
                  is preparing for a night with his club. Having made his toilet and feeling in an
                  unusual good humor, Marchmont jokes his wife, and turning to his babe impresses a
                  kiss on its brow, and tossing it in his arms, remarks to Hester, "Well, baby
                     does grow finely with your wise nursing, Wide-awake; guess staying
                  at home o'nights agrees with you both." And with a careless laugh the father
                  leaves the house, while the mother calls nurse to disrobe the baby.
               And now all is still; the late hours of a London evening are merging into the noon
                  of night, and Hester seats herself by the side of her sleeping child to search the
                  Word of Life. Determined to ascertain all that the Bible contains on the subject
                  of baptism, she begins at Genesis to look for the word, turns over the leaves and
                  runs her finger down each page, But coming to the prophets, her attention is
                  arrested by such passages as these: "The heart is deceitful above all things,"
                  &c. "Behold I am vile." The longer she reads, the faster her
                  self-righteousness takes to itself wings, and a conviction of sinfulness takes
                  possession of her mind, until the search after baptism becomes merged in the
                  search for salvation. The days of her childhood loom up before her with their joys
                  and their little sorrows, and in memory she is again in the hovels of the poor,
                  and by the side of the invalid, reading to them words she knew only as a tale that
                  is told. Then came trooping by, with aspects dark and frowning, the ghosts of
                  wasted hours—nights spent in sin, days in folly, and squandered gifts of intellect
                  and wealth. Hester Marchmont, the Pharisee, the woman of fashion, bows her head
                  and weeps, oppressed with a load of guilt, and appalled at the remembrance of a
                  judgment to come. She prays, but knows not how, she knows not the way to the mercy
                  seat. To her prayer-book she again resorts, but these written prayers, so familiar
                  to her eye and ear, do not express the meaning of her soul. They are solemnly
                  beautiful, and she feels the force of these aspirations:—"O God, make clean our
                  hearts within us."*
                   "O God, the Son, Redeemer of the world, have mercy on us miserable
                     sinners."†
                   But these are not enough for the long, sad tale of misery she would pour
                  into the ear of the sinner's Friend, if she only could. But the husband comes—the
                  hours of night-watching are past—her task is done, and she retires to rest, but
                  not to slumber.
               
                  
                  *"Evening Prayer."
               
               
                  
                  †"Litany."
               
               The history of this night is the history of weeks succeeding. Her state of mind is
                  known only to her God and herself, and Hester Marchmont bears this
                  burden, also, alone. But ONE, mighty to save, has borne greater
                  sorrows than these, and laid down His life that such as she might live. The law
                  given on Sinai is engraved on Hester's
                  memory firmly as the alphabet of her mother-tongue, for she has often, in the days
                  of her childhood, studied it at her mother's bidding as one of her daily tasks.
                  But now she reads its sublime commentary, the Sermon on the Mount, and finds them
                  both obligatory upon the lives and hearts also of all human kind. Thoughtfully she
                  looks upon the past and the present of her life, and finds herself condemned. In
                  thought, or in deed, she has broken each one of the commandments. Where now is her
                  refuge? Who shall save her from the anger of a just and holy God? Her eye lights
                  upon the words: "Come unto ME, all ye weary and heavy laden, and I
                  will give you rest." The thought, "would God invite a sinner to go to Him if He
                  did not mean to save," darts into her mind, and almost audibly the
                  prayer breaks from her bursting heart, "Lord, if Thou wilt, Thou canst make me
                  clean;" and suddenly to her mind follows the reply: "I will, be thou clean." This
                  seems strangely like language addressed to her, and she begins to hope that
                  somehow she will be saved. But she reads the epistle to the Hebrews, and becomes
                  alarmed, lest she should take comfort not intended for her—that an evil one has
                  appeared to her as an angel of light.
               It was during this time of walking through deep waters, that Hester accepted an
                  invitation from a friend, to accompany her to a church of Scotch Presbyterians
                  byterians. Frequently she had attended the worship of dissenters, merely as a
                  change of the usual Sabbath routine, but knew nothing of their sentiments, and
                  scarcely the denomination. The term dissenter was enough, and was, in
                  her view, and that of her family, synonymous with heretic. On this
                  Sabbath the clergyman announced as his text, "Come, see a man who told me all
                  things whatsoever I did; is not this the Christ?" So perfectly adapted to the
                  exercises of Hester's mind, was this Gospel sermon, that she began to wonder if
                  the preacher did not know something of her life, and her late troubles of soul.
                  But as he went on to describe the usual operations of the Holy Spirit in the work
                  of conversion, suddenly came the idea into her mind, "What if all I
                  have experienced should be the work of the Spirit." How intently she listened
                  while the minister continued to speak of the goodness of God, in leading men to
                  repentance, and in providing for penitent believers a way of salvation by Christ.
                  "Surely," thought Hester, "if God has condescended to teach me my sinfulness, He
                  intends to save me." Like Christian before the Cross, the burden seemed to fall
                  from her heart, as this new view of God and His great plan of salvation burst upon
                  her mental sight. She went home, flew to her Bible, and read over the chapter she
                  had heard explained. "Lord, I believe," burst from her lips, and from that moment
                  Hester Marchmont believed in Jesus with all her heart.
               
               Strange was this change to herself, stranger still to her husband, but most
                  strange indeed to those from whose companionship she now withdrew. Ridicule was
                  their weapon to win her back to the old ways—commands and abuse, those of her
                  husband. But Hester had begun a new life alone, and in her ignorance of Christian
                  fellowship, she found herself apparently doomed to continue it alone, until death
                  should terminate both sorrows and joys. God had been her teacher, the Bible her
                  school, and she thought, "I know in whom I have believed, and He will keep that
                  which I have committed to Him."
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               SEEKING THE TRUTH.
               IN the peace which now filled her mind, reading her Bible, prayer and meditation,
                  and the increasing charms of her little one, Mrs. Marchmont found her consolations
                  for the trials which would otherwise have rendered her house an abode of
                  wretchedness. These pleasures could not be taken from her, and then, too, came the
                  Sabbath, once a day of tedious forms and observances, now a day of delightful
                  blessedness. She saw a new beauty in many of the exercises of the church, and her
                  heart joined in the prayers which were once to her a dead language. Still
                  something was wanting—she felt as Mary at the sepulchre. "They have taken away
                     my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him."
               Instead of frequenting the afternoon services of the established church, her
                  inclinations often led her to the dissenting chapels, finding their worship more
                  in agreement with her newly awakened perceptions of the divine life. Her husband
                  and friends found her determined on "strange paths," as they termed them, but she with her natural decision of
                  character, stated her objections to the church in which she was born, and her
                  reasons for preferring the others.
               From the moment she had obtained peace in believing, the thought which had once
                  struck her with so much force, returned to her mind with weight she could not
                  shake off. Again and again she uttered in her hours of meditation—"I believe on
                  Jesus, but have never been baptized." But what this baptism could be,
                  that seemed so connected with believing, was an enigma she could not solve. But
                  while daily praying the Lord to lead her into all truth, she resolved
                  to search diligently until she found it, and to leave no stone unturned, which
                  might reveal to her the treasure she so anxiously desired. She even tried to
                  ascertain from her husband in his best moods, if other churches had the same modes
                  of baptism as the Church of England. His answers shed no light on the subject, and
                  if she now and then met with an acquaintance, with whom she dare converse on the
                  subject, no one could give her any information. That there were such a people as
                  Baptists, was wholly unknown to her, and no one of her friends ever mentioned
                  their existence.
               A Sabbath morning came in which Mr. Marchmont happened to be in an unusually
                  gracious mood. Hester sat reading her Bible, when he called her by a name, which
                  had of late become a familiar appellation—
               "Come, Wide-awake, I'll take you to hear old dad Upton, the dipper."
               "Upton, the dipper, who is he?"
               "Why, he's an old chap that dips people into the water, all over, head and
                  ears—what you've been thinking about so much lately."
               Quite pleased at the thought that by means of this singular proposal, she might
                  learn something of the subject which so frequently occupied her thoughts, Hester
                  Marchmont gladly consented to accompany her husband. Unfortunately they did not
                  arrive at the church until sometime after the services had commenced. "The dipper"
                  himself did not officiate, but a younger man occupied his pulpit. He was
                  discoursing with earnest solemnity and tenderness upon the value of the soul, and
                  the infinite cost of its redemption. The sentiments affected Mrs. Marchmont
                  deeply, and in returning home but few words passed between herself and husband, so
                  absorbed was she in her own reflections. Mr. Marchmont disturbed them by
                  inquiring,—
               "What are you thinking about, Wide-awake?"
               "I am thinking what a hard thing it is to be a Christian."
               "Hard thing to be a Christian! Why, you are a Christian, good enough;
                  you give every thing you have to feed the hungry and clothe the naked; you read
                  your Bible and say your prayers—what more do you want?"
               
               "Ah, there is more to be given up than the goods we possess!"
               He said no more, but the thought dwelt upon her mind—
               "If I give up my church, and give up the world, who knows what I may endure from
                  my husband?"
               The ensuing week Mrs. Marchmont was called upon to give more decided proofs that
                  she was indeed resolved to give up the world.
               Her first trial of faith was at hand. Her sister, who had recently become aware of
                  the state of Hester's mind, resolved upon "weaning her from her foolish notions,"
                  and gave invitations for a grand fete, "complimentary to Mrs. Marchmont," a formal
                  and particular one being sent to Mr. Marchmont and his wife among the very first.
                  Mrs. Marchmont saw the not which was spread for her, and turning to her husband,
                  remarked—
               "Mary need not have done this, for I shall not go."
               "Not go! Is it possible you are such a fool?"
               "Yes, quite possible, for I cannot enjoy myself at such entertainments, and more
                  than that, I consider them wrong."
               "Oh, fudge! You'd better turn Methodist preacher at once. But, come now, be a good
                  girl, and leave off this nonsense, and say you'll go; you know you are always the
                  star of the evening, my pretty Wide awake."
               "Indeed, I cannot be tempted to go, so leave me to my own choice."
               "Well, I know what'll tempt you to go. Come, say yes, plainly, and I'll go and
                  take a seat for you in old Upton's church, this very week, so you can go whenever
                  you've a mind to, and you can hear all about dipping there."
               This was indeed a "temptation," and caused a throb of delight in Hester's heart,
                  but still she feared her own strength. She therefore replied—
               "I will decide to-morrow."
               Her husband was obliged to be satisfied with this, for he knew well she could not
                  be persuaded to do any thing against her will.
               Mrs. Marchmont, in her rounds of benevolence, had frequently met with Mrs.
                  Browning, the lady by whose invitation she had attended the church of the Scotch
                  Presbyterians. Hester had become aware that she was a Christian woman, and an
                  intimacy had grown up between them since that memorable day, which was truly an
                  advantage to one situated as herself. Mrs. Browning had entered into Hester's
                  newly awakened emotions with true Christian sympathy, but in regard to her anxiety
                  concerning the meaning of baptism, she declared herself unable to
                  afford her any assistance. She knew they called the Rev. Mr. Upton "the dipper,"
                  but supposed it was some new fanaticism which had sprung up, and therefore never troubled herself to inquire into
                  it. But her "conversation was in heaven," and her "walk such as became the Gospel
                  of Christ." To her Mrs. Marchmont went with her new trouble, the entertainment she
                  was so unwilling to attend, and the proposal made by her husband. Mrs. Browning's
                  advice was to yield obedience this once to her husband's wishes, but
                  to bear in mind it was a trial of her faith, and while in company to "watch and
                  pray," that she might not displease her Lord and Master, and that the world of
                  fashion might know by her conduct she was no longer one of them. She assured Mrs.
                  Marchmont that if she stood firm in her behavior as a Christian, they would soon
                  weary in their efforts to obtain her company on such occasions.
               Hester, on the morrow, informed her husband that if he would pledge himself
                     certainly to redeem his promise of a seat in the Rev. Mr. Upton's
                  church, she would go with him that once.
               
               "Like a sensible girl, as you would be if you would let these foolish notions
                  alone, and well make a lady of you yet," was his reply.
               Mrs. Marchmont's delight was great in the prospect of hearing "the dipper," and
                  perhaps finding an opportunity to converse with him on the subject so important to
                  her repose of mind.
               The evening of the fete has at last arrived, and as Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont are
                  about to leave home, the alarm of "Fire! fire!" bursts upon their ears. It is very
                  near their dwelling, and the flames are pouring from the windows of the house; the
                  street is filled with the din of the fire engines, and the noise of an alarmed
                  crowd. Their carriage waits at the door, but the coachman can hardly hold the
                  frightened horses.
               "Oh, Marchmont, what if it would reach our house, and our babe should be burned to
                  death! Let me stay at home, if you will go."
               "Now don't act the fool again; you know nurse will take care of Lizzie, and if the
                  house does burn, it's insured. Get into the carriage now, quick. I'll have no more
                  fooling."
               It is five miles through the great city to Regent's Square, the residence of
                  Hester's sister, and what anxious thoughts she is casting backward to her precious
                  child, surrounded by the smoke and confusion, and deserted by her parents. But
                  fear not, Hester, thy Maker reads thy heart, and the time is not
                  yet—thy babe shall not be harmed.
               Nearly half the distance is gained, for the fleet animals have sped rapidly on—but
                  dark clouds have obscured the light of the stars, and the still atmosphere and the
                  low muttering of distant thunder have heralded a storm. And now it comes; the
                  elements are let loose, and the winds are careering madly around, while thunder,
                  lightning, and pouring rain contend for
                  the mastery, and the bewildered coachman can hardly guide his steeds. Hester again
                  pleads—
               "Marchmont, do turn back; do you not see the very elements forbid our going?"
               The husband swears a terrible oath, and in a voice hoarse with passion bids her
                  "Be quiet, for go I will, if it storms like hell!"
               And so the poor wife leans back in her seat, and closing her eyes, endeavors to
                  commit herself and her darling Lizzie to the care and protection of a merciful
                  Father in heaven.
               God cares for his children, and Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont reach in safety the
                  illuminated residence of Mr. Stoneman. They are early, and Mary is delighted that
                  Hester has arrived, and friendly greetings are exchanged, while Mr. Marchmont
                  declares she may thank him, for he "got Hester there in spite of fire and water,
                  and thunder and lightning."
               "How are the children, Mary?" is Hester's inquiry.
               "Oh, yes! since you have become so sanctimonious, all your talk is of the
                     children," replied the mother, with a sneer, "but, however, they are all
                  well but Ellie and Freddy, they are very sick."
               "How long have they been ill?"
               "Oh, these three weeks."
               "Why, Mary! how could you have such a company and your children sick?"
               "I sent out my cards two weeks ago, and do you think I would disappoint my company
                  because the children were sick? Why, you're as bad as Stoneman, he's been
                  bothering me to send excuses."
               "Mary, I must go and see the children before I enter the drawing-room."
               "No, Hester, you needn't go up stairs, I don't want to make a nursery-maid of
                  you," replies the heartless Mrs. Stoneman.
               "But I will go up and look at the children before I enter the room,"
                  and so Mrs. Marchmont very decidedly ascends the stairs. A sad place truly does
                  she find. Little Ellie, not quite two years of age, lies upon two pillows placed
                  upon a slab-table, with a bladder of cold water under her head, and a fly-blister
                  on her breast. The blisters have been so repeatedly applied that the little ribs
                  are exposed to the view. The tiny feet are encased in sheep's melts, and a nurse
                  sits by her side, but the little sufferer, mercifully, is unconscious. Mrs.
                  Marchmont is shocked; she has never received a hint of their illness until this
                  evening. On a cot in another corner of the room lies the little boy, his cheeks
                  red with the fever which burns within, him. At Mrs. Marchmont's tender
                  inquiry—
               
               "How is little Freddy?" while she takes the poor hot hand in her's, the child
                  murmurs out—
               "Oh, aunty 'Ester, me so hungry. Fooly ma won't let me eat—why don't
                  she let me eat?"
               "Freddy is sick now—when he gets well he shall eat."
               Mrs. Marchmont takes a white cloth, and pinning it over her elegant dress, lifts
                  the poor little child tenderly, and walks with him soothingly about the room,
                  while she despatches the nurse with directions to prepare the suffering boy some
                  cooling nourishment. It is not long before the mother herself appears. Raising her
                  hands and eyes, she exclaims—
               "Well, really, I have a new nursery-maid—but I assure you, two are sufficient, so
                  you may put Freddy down, and just go with me to the parlors. The company expect
                  you—this is pretty doings!"
               "But, Mary, I must and will stay with the children, and all night too. I could not
                  go down a moment and they in such misery."
               "Why, they have the best of nurses, and our physician is very attentive, and
                  everything is done for them much better than you or I can do it."
               "Very well, go down; I shall certainly remain here."
               So the hostess is obliged to descend alone to her guests, and in great anger she
                  ridicules "Hester's queer ways—just because the children happen to be a little
                  unwell."
               But the dear little boy puts his fevered arm around Mrs. Marchmont's neck, as she
                  kisses his parched lips, and he lisps out—
               "Dood aunty 'Ester, do stay wid Freddy."
               Soothingly Mrs. Marchmont nurses the little sufferer, and administers the cooling
                  remedies, until his haggard eyes close in a sleep he has not known for days. She
                  lifs her heart in silent gratitude to God that He has permitted her thus to spend
                  the night in relieving the sufferings of these neglected ones. For no paid skill
                  can compare with the thousand voluntary attentions of keen-sighted affection. True
                  womanly love bends over its object, hearing the first breathing of a wish, and its
                  perceptions intuitively catch the meaning of a glance, while the step and the hand
                  and the very air is hushed lest the unquiet nerves should be startled again. Who
                  that received from a mercenary hireling those stinted services so unwillingly
                  rendered, but shrinks from encountering illness or suffering in any form. And
                  harder yet is the lot of a helpless child, on whom no eyes of love can look but
                  those of strangers. God help the little one who knows not a mother's love!
               It is a tender and a profitable season spent in that apartment of suffering, with
                  these little ones trembling on the brink of the grave. Hester thought of her own little one whom she has been
                  compelled to leave, and in faith commits her to the watch-care of an Eye that
                  never slumbers. And as she sees now the love of fashionable amusements sears the
                  heart and renders callous the natural affections, she blesses the grace which has
                  opened her eyes to see their sin and folly ere it be too late.
               Freddy is still sleeping, and little Ellie breathes somewhat more easily, when the
                  mother enters the room. Hester raises her finger, lest her sister's voice should
                  arouse the little slumberer, and Mrs. Stoneman whispers in her ear that supper is
                  now ready and she must come down. And so Mrs. Marchmont steps lightly
                  out and lingers a moment in the dressing room to adjust whatever may have become
                  disarranged in her attire. Hester is a beautiful woman, and Marchmont proudly
                  leads her to the feast, while plainer ladies cast glances at each other, as it is
                  know that "Mrs. Marchmont has become a Methodist."
               Hester sees and understands all, yet realizing her position, she watches firmly,
                  remembering the counsel of her friend. She is polite and social without descending
                  to the usual frivolities, and repels with a quiet dignity any attempts to ridicule
                  her new code of action. All see there is a change, but somehow it is one they
                  cannot define.
               Supper is over, and Mr. Marchmont leads his wife to the door of the card-room,
                  where several ladies and their partners are already commencing the games.
               "Oh, here is Mrs. Marchmont," exclaims one. "I would rather try a hand with her
                  than any one I know."
               Mrs. Stoneman immediately adds—"Oh, yes, Hester, I'm sure you cannot refuse to
                  play once; indeed you must."
               "Mary, you must excuse me, I cannot play to-night," is the reply uttered in a low,
                  calm voice, and a manner expressive of the most perfect decision. Then taking a
                  seat near the door, she inwardly resolves to escape as soon as possible. Sounds of
                  music and dancing greet her ears from an adjacent room, but the tones seem blended
                  with the groans of the little sufferers above.
               Seeking an opportunity, Hester slips up stairs, and is again in the nursery, where
                  she remains watching by the sick infants, and arranging matters for their greater
                  comfort on the morrow, until the company have all dispersed. And now, from both
                  sister and husband, she receives a united storm of anger and abuse. It is in vain
                  to reply; no argument she could use would be heeded or understood—and
                  so she bears it meekly, looking upward for strength, and thanking the Lord that
                  she has been saved from mingling in the vain pursuits of the night, and permitted
                  to do good instead of evil.
               
               On the day succeeding the fete, poor little Ellie was removed to the country, and
                  after a long time recovered. Mrs. Marchmont visited her dear little Freddy daily,
                  and spent many hours each night endeavoring to save him, but in vain; he was taken
                  away from the evil to come. The week succeeding that "splendid entertainment,"
                  witnessed an assembling in the same mansion for a far different purpose. As the
                  mother gazed into the coffin, and saw the little being she had so cruelly
                  neglected, folded in the cold arms of death, a few natural tears dropped from her
                  eyes, and perhaps some emotions of regret that she had loved pleasure more than
                  duty, passed over her spirit, but it was too late for repentance. Another
                  fashionable mother in attendance at the funeral, observing that Mrs. Stoneman
                  wept, remarked to an acquaintance—
               "God Almighty has never been so kind as to knock at my door, to take
                  any of my children from me; all my brats are spared!"
               In less than five months from that time, however, God did "knock at
                     her door," and in kindness bore away to His fold above, ALL of the
                  little ones who called this heartless woman mother. Oh, Fashion, sinful Fashion!
                  thou art more cruel than the grave! How truly did one who walked by faith, write
                  with an unerring pen, "She that liveth in pleasure isdead while she
                  liveth;" dead to the holiest of natural affections; dead to all convictions of
                  duty; dead to her accountability as guardian of the immortal beings God has
                  entrusted to her care.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               FARTHER SEARCHING FOR HIDDEN TREASURES.
               HESTER Marchmont's hopes in regard to attending on the ministry of "the dipper,"
                  and a consequent solving of the problem of baptism, were doomed to be suddenly
                  frustrated. A removal of residence was to take her from the sphere in which she
                  had hoped to acquire the long-desired knowledge. Mr. Marchmont had contracted
                  "debts of honor," which greatly impaired his establishment in London, and as he
                  owned an estate in Cardiff, Glamorganshire, Wales, his friends advised him to go
                  there for a time, until affairs should improve. Hester cheerfully acceded to the
                  proposal in the hope that the retirement of that quiet and wildly romantic region
                  would have an influence soothing to his stormy passions, and perhaps in reforming
                  his dissolute habits. But she was doomed to disappointment, for here, only on a
                  diminished scale, were the same temptations and excitements which existed in
                  London. Attentions were paid to Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont by all the fashionable
                  families of the place, who regarded visitors from the city of London as the very
                  magnets of society. Occasionally Hester would accompany her husband to a place of
                  amusement, or to a private entertainment, but her heart was not there, and he
                  always abused her on their return for being "such a fool as to let everybody see
                  she was a —— Methodist."
               While in this locality, Mrs. Marchmont endeavored to seek out some one who could
                  enlighten her on the subject which occupied the second place in her mind. But no
                  one knew of any other baptism than that practised by the mother church, neither
                  could she find in any work she read the information she sought. The way was hedged
                  in, her path lay in the old beaten route of the Established Church; all her
                  friends and acquaintances were of the same class—how could she hear of the
                  despised sect called Baptists? She was laughed at for trying to discover something
                  which had never existed; and at last began to wonder why the Scripture had
                  enjoined a practice which found no followers.
               Hester Marchmont, in time, became the mother of another young immortal, whom God
                  permitted to live for a time to share her love and brighten her hours of darkness
                  and trial. Six times ere her little Lizzie had entered this world, Mrs. Marchmont
                  had borne the sorrows of a mother in vain. But Lizzie, the lovely and the gentle had been spared, and now
                  another drop of bliss was added to her cup. In her quiet home she could now remain
                  to care for her little ones and enjoy her religion, while her husband rushed madly
                  onward in his career of wickedness.
               To those who enter into them with the spirit and with the
                  understanding, the services of the Established Church have great power to
                  strengthen and encourage a devotional spirit. The sublime sentiments of the
                  Liturgy elicit the fullest responses of a heart which has been truly converted.
                  And so in her private and family prayers Mrs. Marchmont still followed the
                  prescribed rules, knowing as yet no better way. It is true, extempore prayers and
                  ejaculations were uttered by her almost hourly, but in leading her little Lizzie
                  to the mercy seat, she still followed the teachings of the church. And Lizzie
                  listened with the gravity of a woman to the reading of the Bible, long before she
                  knew the meaning of a word. Her gentle and obedient spirit was the balm which
                  softened the rough passages in her mother's daily walks.
               But now this quiet must be disturbed, and Mrs. Marchmont must yield to her
                  husband's determination to return to London. It would be useless, because
                  uninteresting, to describe the removal and the journey, the reunion with former
                  friends, and the re-entering into a London home. All these have passed ed, and now
                  Hester has once more time to continue her search after baptism. This
                  time she is determined to set out in earnest, and remembering her Oxfordshire
                  friends, she resolves on applying to several of the Canons of Oxford, with whom
                  she was well acquainted. She was not willing to abide by the testimony of
                     one man, and therefore wrote to several a request that they would
                  favor her with a literal translation of the word "baptizo" into
                  English. Their answers were one and the same, though each was ignorant of Hester's
                  application to the other—and read thus—"To dip; to plunge; to wash all over,
                     as you wash your tables, chairs, &c., &c." But with this Mrs.
                  Marchmont was not fully satisfied, and resolved on seeking still further. With
                  several Jewish families, she had for years been on the most friendly terms, and
                  calling on them in the rounds of her visit, she begged them to give her the
                  meaning of baptizo in Hebrew. They informed her it was literally
                  "baptizing," and explained it by a reference to the custom of the Jewish ladies
                  preparing a vat full of water in the house of a bride elect, putting
                  her into it and washing her all over, head and feet also, before the solemnization
                  of the marriage ceremony. Determined to press still further, Hester called on an
                  aged Rabbi of the Jews, in whose family she had formerly been quite intimate, and
                  taking her little pocket Testament, opened to those passages which describe the baptism of Jesus, and those of
                  the apostles.
               "Rabbi," said Hester, "pardon me while I read a verse in our Testament, which I
                  very much wish you to explain."
               "What is it, my daughter?" said the aged man, who was remarkable for his
                  urbanity.
               Mrs. Marchmont then read to him various portions in the different Gospels which
                  portray these events, and also the baptism of the eunuch.
               "And now, Rabbi, what do you understand by 'baptism,' baptizing, baptized,
                  &c.?"
               "I understand the burying of the whole person in water; and were I to become a
                  Christian, I should certainly follow the example of Him you call Messiah."
               Quite interested in Mrs. Marchmont's spirit of inquiry, which he considered very
                  remarkable in a lady, the Rabbi took great pains to explain the Hebrew
                  signification of many other passages, particularly that of Hebrews, tenth chapter
                  and twenty-second verse. Hester thanked him with the sincerest warmth.
               Mrs. Marchmont's next step was to call on the clergyman of St. John's, Southwark,
                  and reveal to him her long search and the result of her inquiries. He seemed
                  surprised that such a subject should have been the cause of so much anxiety and
                  exertion; and inquired if she was not satisfied.
               "I have called, sir," was her reply, "to ask if you will baptize
                  me."
               "Have you never been baptized?"
               "No, sir; I have only been christened."
               "How is that, madam?"
               Hester opened her prayer-book, (which is in many places different from the
                  American version,) and pointed him to that passage where it declares—"The child
                  shall be dipped verily in water, or shall have water
                     poured upon it, according to the health of the child," remarking,
                  when she had read it, "Neither of these have been done to me, for I have often
                  heard my godmother relate how I cried when I was sprinkled."
               "Well, Mrs. Marchmont, if you insist on my "baptizing you, as you
                  call it, I suppose I must do it or lose my gown; but I had rather not, for there
                  are plenty of men even in our church in London who believe in it, and
                  will gladly do it for you."
               This clergyman well knew there were Baptists in London, and knew also who they
                  were. But it is supposed he felt unwilling to lose such a parishioner as Mr.
                  Marchmont, and therefore kept silent on the very subject which would soonest have
                  brought peace to her mind. As the case now stood, Mrs. Marchmont's perplexity was not relieved, it had
                  only taken another form.
               The following week Hester sought the society of her friend, Mrs. Browning, for the
                  purpose of consulting her respecting this new phase of her anxiety. But, alas! she
                  knew nothing of Baptists, nor could imagine to whom the clergyman of St. John's
                  referred, but supposed that all dissenters, except the Free Church of Scotland,
                  went by the name of Methodists. In the course of conversation, Mrs. Browning
                  mentioned having some time before dropped in at the church of the Rev. J.
                  Stevenson, and spoke of his high character and remarkable benevolence. Never
                  dreaming he was a Baptist, she recommended Hester to go the next
                  Sabbath and hear him, as his sermons were pre-eminently spiritual. Mrs. Marchmont
                  gladly agreed to go.
               The ensuing Sabbath morning, Hester with her friend was at the door of Rev. Mr.
                  Stevenson's church. On being shown into a pew, they found the pulpit occupied by a
                  tall, dignified man, whose name Mrs. Browning did not know. He announced as his
                  text, "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian." It was a Gospel sermon,
                  apparently delivered extempore, and rich in Gospel lore and love to souls, How
                  sweetly upon the anxious soul of Hester Marchmont fell the influence of the
                  precious truths thus earnestly spoken! The conviction that she was indeed deed
                  born of God, and had chosen Jesus as her only hope for eternity, was made clearer
                  to her mind, and she rejoiced in God her Saviour.
               The aged minister sat down, and then arose a small, pale, thin man, whom her
                  friend told her in a whisper was Mr. Stevenson. He remarked that "if there were
                  any in the congregation who felt almost persuaded to be Christiana, he would be
                  glad to have them tarry after the conclusion of the services, for conversation on
                  the important theme. And if any who wished to converse could not remain, he would
                  be pleased to see them at his residence at ten o'clock the next morning. Mrs.
                  Marchmont could not remain on account of her children, even if she had dared, but
                  she observed to her friend, "How I should love to converse with that man!"
               The hour of ten on the next morning found Hester at the minister's door. She was
                  very kindly received, and freely related her history of darkness and struggles and
                  searching. "Believe and be baptized," had been the echo of her first impressions
                  when alone in her room, and it had reverberated through the halls of her soul
                  every day since that hour. Very patiently did the meek, pale man listen until
                  Hester had told her story, and then kindly addressed her thus—
               "My sister, you seem satisfied that the Lord has blessed you, and that you ought
                  to be baptized; and now what doth hinder you?"
               
               "I do not know any one who believes in this baptism. Our parish clergyman would do
                  it, but he does not believe in it."
               "Well, my sister, I will baptize you."
               "But do you believe in it, sir?"
               The minister started and smiled.
               "Why, what difference would it make to you whether I believe in it or
                  not?"
               "I think I should not feel right to have any person baptize me who was not a
                  believer in it himself."
               The good man wept.
               "My dear sister, I am a Baptist, one of those who believe our Lord
                  and Master was buried beneath the wave, and that his followers should do
                  likewise."
               It was now Mrs. Marchmont's turn to weep. The long pent up feelings of her soul
                  gushed out, the portals of the spirit were let loose, and she sobbed out tears of
                  joy. Hither had the Lord led her this morning to His long-sought people; here was
                  the way opened for her to obey His commands.
               "Do you know, my sister, that while you come to me for instruction, I have been
                  taught of you? for never before did the necessity of the administrator's personal
                  belief appear so clearly evident to my mind."
               "And when will you baptize me, sir?" was now Hester's inquiry.
               "Just as soon as the church can be made acquaint ed with your wishes, and decide
                  concerning them. Come to us next Sabbath day, and we will converse with you."
               This reply led Hester to request information of the regulations of the church, its
                  requirements, its discipline, and greatly was she surprised to learn of the
                  numbers and resources of a people whose very existence, if known to her friends,
                  was ignored by all.
               After a season of prayer, Mrs. Marchmont left the minister's dwelling with an
                  enlightened mind and a happy heart, rejoicing that she had found the truth as it
                  is in Jesus.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               CHURCH MEETINGS.—HESTER'S BAPTISM.
               THE history of Hester Marchmont, and her desire for baptism, was made known to the
                  church. And on the ensuing Lord's day it was proposed that the deacons should
                  visit her. Hester was obliged to decline the offer, stating as the reason, Mr.
                  Marchmont's contempt for religion, and her fear that, though as a gentleman he
                  would receive them, still if he knew the object of their visit, most trying scenes
                  would succeed. And more than that, he would discover her recent movement, and
                  prevent her from enjoying the liberty with which she was now favored. Then arose
                  the question, how would he bear to know that she was to be baptized? Her answer
                  was that her intention must be kept profoundly secret, or he would prevent it by
                  every means in his power.
               Mrs. Marchmont then, at Mr. Stevenson's request, agreed to attend a meeting of the
                  church on that evening, and there relate the history of her awakening and
                  conversion, which she did, and the church unanimously agreed to receive her.
                  Preparations were accordingly made, and her baptism, with that of several others,
                  appointed for the following Sabbath. What strange delight filled the heart of
                  Hester as she looked round upon these warm-hearted, loving disciples of the
                  Redeemer, and saw the simple solemnity of their proceedings, and felt that she was
                  soon to be one of them—their Saviour, her Saviour—their welfare her's also. She
                  could not help the contrast which so vividly presented itself to her mind, between
                  the scriptural primitiveness of these Baptists, and the grandeur and pomp, and
                  forms and fashion of the church in which she had been educated. In her heart she
                  bade it farewell forever—soon she would publicly renounce her church, and soon,
                  too, would those who were now her friends renounce her. Her heart
                  quailed for a moment before the coming storm—but she looked to Christ—and all was
                  peace. With a heart filled to overflowing, she received the warm greetings of the
                  pastor and his members, and returned to her home strengthened for expected
                  trials.
               
               It is Saturday night. Mrs. Marchmont has read the evening prayer with her little
                  Lizzie, and has heard her repeat her childish hymn of praise, and the nurse has
                  disrobed Lizzie and the babe, and both are slumbering sweetly in their little
                  beds. Hester's thoughts are full of the
                  solemn step she is to take on the morrow, and she is seated at her table reading
                  in that book which is a light to her path and a lamp to her feet. Anon she stops,
                  and resting her head upon her hand, asks God to so order events that the Sabbath
                  shall be one of peace. For she cannot now see how she will elude the observation
                  of her husband and his consequent abuse. He will remain out all night, and in the
                  morning most probably will exact attentions which will interfere with proposed
                  arrangements.
               It is yet quite early—the door opens, and Marchmont enters, apparently in high
                  spirits.
               "Come, Wide-awake, you must have my clothes all arranged this evening, for I must
                  start bright and early in the morning for G——. We fellows are going to have a
                  grand time there, for H—— gives a splendid entertainment. I'm going to bed right
                  off, and tell John to call me at six—not a minute later."
               Here is relief, truly. Much as Hester regrets the manner in which her husband will
                  spend the precious hours of the holy day, she knows it would be no better were he
                  to remain at home. She believes this arrangement to be a peculiar interposition of
                  Providence in her behalf, for well she knows that if Marchmont had any idea of the
                  act she was going to perform, he would not hesitate to prevent it entirely, and
                  her heart sickens at the very thought. So she makes all the arrangements, and
                  gives all the orders he has required.
               She commits herself to God, and several hours earlier than she is usually
                  permitted, her head is resting on her pillow. "For so he giveth His beloved
                  sleep."
               The morning of the Lord's day. How peacefully now upon the dark and dingy streets
                  of London, the beams of orient light are slowly rising. Silence still reigns in
                  the great city, and heavy slumbers weigh down the eyelids of the weary from toil,
                  and the weary from dissipation. A few here and there, who love the God of the
                  Sabbath, have arisen from their beds, and in the calm and silence of the morning,
                  are preparing themselves for the worship of the Most High, by seeking communion
                  with the Intercessor at His mercy-seat. Hester Marchmont is one of these. A few
                  there are, too, who are planning this day a double service of sin and Satan, and
                  Herbert Marchmont is one of these. Oh, house divided! may God unite thee! Long ere
                  the hour for morning service, Marchmont and his companions have left the city
                  behind, and are wending their mad way through the peaceful suburbs of London to
                  the scene of revelry.
               Hester Marchmont has prepared her little daughter to attend the church with her,
                  and bids her be a good child, and sit very still, for mother is going to do as
                  Jesus did, and be baptized. Wonderingly the child looks in her mother's face,
                  while in language adapted to her
                  comprehension, she tells her the beautiful story of the Saviour's baptism. And now
                  the mother and child are on their way to the church, and soon it is reached. They
                  are met at the door by the deacons and a few of the sisters, and are conducted to
                  the vestry. Here little Lizzie looks on with wonder while she sees her mother and
                  six other happy mortals robed for the baptism. Entering the church, the candidates
                  and their attending friends are seated near the font. How happy, how solemn they
                  look in their white robes! so truly emblematical, so suggestive of purity and
                  holiness.
               The subject of discourse chosen for this occasion, is found in the declaration—"I
                  do set my bow in the cloud," &c., and the sermon is just such an one as true
                  believers love to hear. The chapel is filled to excess with eager listeners and
                  those who have come to look on, but Mrs. Marchmont, wrapped in delightful
                  meditation, feels no trembling, nor fear, nor hesitation. The happy candidates
                  rise and surround the font, while Mr. Stevenson reads out a joyful hymn, which
                  multitudes of voices unite in singing. Every line is imprinted on the heart of
                  Hester, and she sings with the spirit if not with the voice. 
                     
                        Jesus, we come at thy command,
                        Now on the water's brink we stand,
                        Ready to sink beneath the wave,
                        A lovely emblem of the grave.
                     
                     
                        Let neither fear, nor shame, nor pride,
                        Divert our steady feet aside,
                        'Tis thus appointed in thy name,
                        We venture down into the stream.
                     
                     
                        Behold, ye multitudes, behold!
                        This was the way in days of old;
                        Then where's the fear, and where's the shame,
                        While we're baptized in Jesus' name?"
                     
                  
               
               Most impressively has the good pastor read the hymn, and at the last verse he
                  lifts his eyes and hands, by his manner appealing eloquently to the crowd looking
                  down upon the candidates. The silence is breathless here, yet amidst this dense
                  throng there are tearful eyes, and hearts which are yielding to the sweet
                  influences of truth.
               Cheerfully Hester gives her hand to the minister, and unfalteringly, nay,
                  triumphantly, she walks with him into the miniature Jordan. Is there on earth a
                  holier sight than this baptism like unto the Son of God, this yielding to the
                  likeness of His death and resurrection? Amid the strains of solemn praise, the
                  wife and mother rises from her vow of obedience, her countenance beaming with the
                  joy of her heart. She has given herself to the Lord forever—she is His by an
                  everlasting covenant. Come joy or sorrow, pleasure or pain, life or death, all
                  shall be accepted at the Master's hand.
               Little Lizzie has been a serious spectator of all that has passed—very quietly she has gazed, but
                  when she sees her mother led away out of her sight, her little heart fears that
                  she has gone away never to return, and the quivering lips give place to tears and
                  sobs. But the friend who has her in charge, soothingly caresses her, saying—
               "Your ma has only gone to get her bonnet; she will soon come back, and then she
                  will take Lizzie home."
               And the little girl's grief is hushed, and soon she is led to her happy mother.
                  Ah, cling to each other, mother and child, for you will soon be all the world to
                  each other.
               Evening comes. The day has been full of solemn interest, and now in the still
                  evening hour, the churchs are to commemorate the death of their risen Redeemer.
                  Mrs. Marchmont has cared for the comfort of her babe, and it is ready for its
                  early repose, but the little girl pleads—
               "Ma, may I go to see Christ's supper too?"
               So the mother leads again her darling to the house of God, and seats her by her
                  side, while she partakes of the solemn ordinance. Greatly is she strengthened in
                  her love and obedience by the privilege she is enjoying. She is learning now the
                  true meaning of Christian fellowship. She is now a member of Christ's church, and
                  his people are her people.
               The service is over at a reasonable hour, and several of the sisters and their
                  husbands accompany her to her door. Marchmont will not return until tomorrow, and
                  a night of rest is her's again. She kneels in prayer with her little daughter, and
                  giving her the good-night kiss, is surprised by the question—
               "You took de tup of tanksgibin' to-night, mother, didn't you? You tall on de name
                  of the Lord?"
               The seed is beginning to spring up surely, when a child of five can have such an
                  understanding of the Lord's Supper! And so the mother prays and resolves to bring
                  up her little ones in the knowledge of that book which has taught her the way of
                  life. Soon all is quiet, and Hester and her little ones are slumbering beneath an
                  ever-watchful Eye.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               PERSECUTION.
               THE clock told the hour of two before Herbert Marchmont and his companions
                  returned from their revels. He came home in good humor, and awaking his wife,
                  commenced a relation of the scenes of the day, the exciting and glorious chase,
                  the sports, the superior wines, the toasts, &c., &c. Hester was obliged to
                  listen patiently till he had completed his narrative of sin, and then replied—
               "You have told me of your enjoyments—don't you want to know something
                  of mine?"
               "Why, yes, I don't care, if your story's rich."
               "Well, I have to-day seen a baptism for the first time."
               "You have—well, who was dipped?"
               "I do not know the names of any save one, though there were several."
               "Who was that one?"
               "It was myself."
               "Good—the next thing I shall hear, you'll be going out preaching."
               "Oh, no, I shall never do that, you need not fear."
               Marchmont sprung from his bed, as if stung, and going to his drawers took out his
                  flute and began to play "Highland Reel," "Jack, my Lad," and other low tunes,
                  dancing round the room, and behaving like a maniac.
               The children and servants were roused by his noise, and then he jumped on the bed
                  and continued playing, while the babe cried in affright. After a time, becoming
                  soberer, and finding this conduct was exposing himself to the nurses in the next
                  room, he gave up his antics, and retired to bed where Hester was secretly
                  weeping—for to betray her suffering would only expose her to still greater
                  annoyance. At last this game being played out, Marchmont commenced in earnest a
                  torrent of abuse which Hester bore in silence until the morning, and the slumbers
                  of her husband afforded her some respite.
               From this morning it seemed as if the demons of malice and cruelty took full
                  possession of the soul of Herbert Marchmont, and hatred of his wife seemed his
                  absorbing passion. Ridicule was not now the weapon he wielded, for he knew it
                  would not avail, neither would trifling annoyances affect a decision like her's.
                  She had chosen to enter on a path widely divergent from that in which his feet
                  were traveling, and he exerted his
                  ingenuity to the utmost, to lacerate both her mind and her body.
               Hester's naturally high and haughty spirit, could ill brook such treatment from
                  the man who had vowed to love, cherish, and protect her; but she had taken up her
                  cross, knowing before what it would be, and she resolved to bear it, with the
                  assistance of Him who is the strengthener of his people.
               Marchmont's greatest delight was to keep his watching until a late hour of the
                  night, and then to enter with his private key, and stealing up stairs without his
                  shoes, burst into her presence before she could hide her Bible. Taking it from
                  her, with oaths, he would fling it into the water or into the fire, and then abuse
                  her with kicks and blows. In vain she would ask him what harm she had done; in
                  vain she would appeal to him as her husband; his only reply was—
               "That's what you deserve for your dipping, and Bible reading."
               It was only by stealth, now, that she could attend the church of her choice.
                  Marchmont was sure to be at her side on the Sabbath, and with mock politeness,
                  offers to attend her to church. She would reply:—
               "I wish to go to my own meeting, and if you will accompany me, it will be all
                  right."
               But this was never his purpose, and when the street was gained, which led to the
                  Established Church, he would seize her arm in a cruelly ingenious manner, which no
                  one else could perceive, and force her to go the way he chose. Seldom, even on the
                  days of the week, could she elude his watchfulness, so as to attend the meetings
                  of the church, or those for prayer.
               Hester had always found in her mother a friend and comforter in trouble. In
                  leaving the national church, she knew she should incur her displeasure—but, little
                  did she imagine the nature of that displeasure. Some weeks after baptism, she
                  wrote to her mother a brief history of her change of heart, and her new views of
                  baptism, with the consequent union of herself to the Baptists. Hoping for
                  sympathy, she related her husband's cruel treatment, and begged her mother to make
                  her a visit, and endeavor to mollify his continued anger. An answer soon arrived,
                  but it was such as to draw the hot tears from her eyes, and send her to her God as
                  her only friend. It was but a brief note, yet comprised a volume of cruelty:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "HESTER,—
                           
                           "You have ruined yourself, and disgraced your friends by leaving the
                              holy church in which you were born and brought up, and going in with a
                              set of low heretics, whom nobody knows. I renounce you
                              forever.—Henceforth you are no daughter of mine, and I never wish to
                              see your face again. As to
                              your husband, you have no right to complain; you took him 'for better
                              and for worse,' and his treatment is no more than what you might
                              expect from a man, who feels that you have disgraced him; so do not
                              trouble me with any more of your letters.
                           
                              CLARA WARWICK."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               In view of facts like these, and thousands of others in the history of the past,
                  the question arises,—How much greater is the charity and liberality of the church
                  of England than that of Rome? Is not Rome the mother still? and do not her
                  children drink from their infancy the spirit of intolerance and exclusiveness? and
                  when the day of retribution comes, will they not stand side by side, as
                  persecutors of the saints of God?
               Language is powerless to describe the emotions of Mrs. Marchmont, while reading
                  the cruel epistle of her only parent—she felt herself an alien from all who were
                  near and dear to her by the ties of nature, and repairing to her closet, poured
                  out before God strong cries and tears. And when did He violate his promise? "Call
                  upon ME in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee." NEVER! and not long did
                  this afflicted believer plead for deliverance, till it came—a sweet and holy peace
                  filling her soul, and a faith, which enabled her to see beyond this dark and
                  widespread cloud, the glory of the Son of Righteousness, and a crown, such as
                  those wear, who, persevering unto the end, are made royal forever. Girding on
                  strength and patience, she went forth to meet her trials, in His name, whose
                  "strength was made perfect in her weakness."
               Christian friends stepped forth to encourage and cheer one, for whom Satan seemed
                  to struggle so fiercely. Mrs. Marchmont could not conceal the circumstances which
                  environed her, for her husband and her sisters seemed to delight in exposing the
                  hatred they entertained towards one whom they regarded as a "fanatic;" all
                  intercourse between them was cut off entirely—not even admitting the recognition
                  of each other by look or word.
               As the summer advanced, and Mrs. Marchmont knew that her husband would compel her
                  to visit the watering places, she looked forward to still greater trials; but the
                  Son had mingled in her cup of bitterness, one mercy drop—He had sent, in the form
                  of her little daughter, a comforting angel. Remarkably frail from her birth she
                  had been the especial object of her mother's care and solicitude; had shared her
                  hours of closet devotion, and attendance on the means of grace. God seemed to have
                  called this child, at an age so early, that few believed her stay on earth could
                  be prolonged. She had seemed from her infancy to look to heaven, with the words on
                  her lips, "Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth." When this gentle child found all
                  intercourse with grandmother, uncles, aunts and cousins interdicted; when she
                     saw the cruelty, daily practised
                  upon her mother; and learned as well as she could understand, the motives which
                  actuated all these proceedings; her whispers of love, and her overheard
                  supplications to Jesus, in her mother's behalf, were balm indeed to a wounded
                  spirit.
               The time soon came to leave for Margate, and submissively Mrs. Marchmont had made
                  her preparations. The night previous to their departure, she drew her daughter
                  with her into the room occupied by her sleeping little ones, and then and there,
                  with unusual solemnity, committed them and herself to the protection of a Father
                  in Heaven. Lizzie, at the close, crept softly to her mother's side, and tenderly
                  inquired:—
               "What for you looking so sorry? 'Cause we be goin' to-morrow?"
               "Yes, darling," replied the weeping mother.
               "Don't cry, ma; perhaps papa will be kinder there, and if he isn't, ma, haven't
                  you drawn waters out of the wells o' salvation?"
               This she said in allusion to her mother's baptism, giving it a scripture meaning,
                  which surprised even Mrs. Marchmont. How little knew that sympathising child of
                  the warfare raging in her mother's heart.
               Margate had often been the scene of Mrs. Marchmont's triumphs of vanity, and few
                  of the fashionable crowd who thronged its pavilions, knew that she who had been
                  the centre of attraction, and the "bright particular star" of every entertainment,
                  had become "a new creature;" that "old things had passed away," and she was to
                  mingle no more with "the gay, licentious crowd," as one of themselves. Hence Mr.
                  Marchmont availed himself of this ignorance, to open upon his wife the flood-gates
                  of ridicule and scorn, by introducing her as a "fanatic," who had united herself
                  with a set of dippers, and telling his associates in volatility and
                  dissipation, that "she would soon appear in public as a preacher—was
                  only getting ready, &c." When in private with her, the vilest of epithets were
                  applied to her continually, and often blows, which left their mark. Hester's
                  mother and her sisters were among the throng, but shunned her entirely; while her
                  husband would frequently not see her for days together, so that the six weeks of
                  her sojourn in that rendezvous of fashion, was wearisome in the extreme. With not
                  one Christian friend to speak a word of consolation, her time was passed mostly
                  within doors, in attending to her little ones, reading her Bible, praying, and
                  instructing the little daughter, who was her only companion. As often as the
                  crushing sense of her loneliness and persecution would sweep across her spirit,
                  would she retire, and bowing before a throne of grace, find consolation, and
                  gather strength for renewed conflicts.
                  She had found peace in believing, through the medium of prayer, and having been
                  taught in such a school, it became her habit, daily, to lean upon that Arm which
                  had wrought salvation for her, in the midst of those who knew not God.
               Upon their return to London, Mr. Marchmont absented himself from home for more
                  than a week, which afforded his wife a season of quiet. When at last he came, it
                  seemed that he had brought with him ten-fold more of the spirit of hell, and the
                  whole household was kept from morning to night, and frequently whole nights also,
                  in a state of wretchedness and tumult. If Hester was engaged upon a piece of
                  needlework, he would snatch it from her, and throw it into the fire; or, if there
                  was no fire, he would find some other way to destroy it—if she wept, he would kick
                  her until she fainted, and then leave her to the care of the servants, who often
                  wept over her cruel treatment; and not one of them dared appear in his presence,
                  unless it was unavoidable. In his nightly rounds of debauch, he would compel her
                  to sit up for him, and then, stealing upon her before she could be aware, would
                  snatch the Bible from her hands, and throw it into the water, or upon the grate.
                  If he found her kneeling, he would pull her by the hair of her head, and kick her
                  out of the room. In his tyrannical caprice, he would allow no one but herself to
                  prepare his food, and often, when she thought she had exactly succeeded in
                  pleasing his depraved appetite, would he throw both dishes and food out of the
                  window, or into the fire, and compel her to make another effort to satisfy his
                  demands. What, but GRACE, could have sustained the spirit of any woman under such
                  provocations? How hard was it for the high-spirited Hester to repress the angry
                  retort; to control the flashing eye, and glowing cheek, and the agitated heart's
                  quickened pulsations? Ah, there is plenitude in faith, equal to the fullest
                  demands of a fallen nature; and the cruelty and wickedness of Mr. Marchmont is
                  easily accounted for, on the principles of natural depravity. The heart left to
                  act out its native enmity to God, reveals itself in its true character, as being
                  guided by the Prince of Darkness. Long since did our Saviour declare,—"Ye are of
                  your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do,"—and
                  the history of man still attests the truth of this declaration.
               Herbert Marchmont was not naturally of a ferocious temper, but long years of
                  indulgence in sin, and daily and hourly draughts at the wine bottle and the
                  punch-bowl, had heated his blood, and rendered him inflammatory to the slightest
                  cause. His libations had increased greatly since his wife's change of sentiments
                  and conduct, and he seldom entered her presence excepting in a state of
                  excitement. His children and the servants fled from him, and his poor wife was made to experience the full
                  weight of his ungoverned passions.
               But, why did not Hester leave her husband, and with her little ones retire to some
                  shelter from these abuses? Ah! this was a question often presented to her mind,
                  and sometimes even thought of with seriousness; but the honor of her Christian
                  name was at stake. By leaving the Established Church, she had virtually assumed
                  higher ground as a Christian, and her husband and relatives believing the step she
                  had taken to be merely a self-willed whim, thought by ridicule and persecution,
                  she would eventually be driven from her position, and proved to be of the same
                  principles as themselves. Had she manifested impatience or anger, she would have
                  heard loud taunts hurled at her Christian profession, and no credence would have
                  been accorded to after explanations. Had she attempted to obtain a divorce, the
                  hue and cry would every where have been heard,—"These dippers are
                  separaters of man and wife; the most solemn obligations are nothing to them." Mrs.
                  Marchmont was the only representative of "a sect every where spoken against,"
                  despised and misrepresented, to be found in the circles of rank and wealth, which
                  comprised so many of her relatives and acquaintances; and when these witnessed the
                  sufferings caused by the cruelty of her husband, they would repeat to her the
                  comforting assurance that "she had brought all these things upon herself, by
                  uniting with the Methodists." Besides, an application for a divorce
                  is attended, in the courts of England, with the heaviest expenses, sufficient in
                  the tedious formalities of Chancery, to swallow a fortune, and the courts, often,
                  consuming years in the examination of the cases, and in unnecessary delays. No
                  course was left for Hester but submission—no other way, than to bear meekly and
                  bravely the cross laid upon her, and "the discipline of storms." Though much of
                  this discipline was such as the mind turns horror-stricken from contemplating, and
                  the tongue and the pen recoil from describing—the martyr-wife was supported under
                  all—how, the Comforter Himself shall reveal. In reply to the reproaches and taunts
                  of her relatives, frequently conveyed to her ear, she often quoted the words of
                  the Master, "Whoso loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me;"
                  adding, that she "could love the Saviour, and them also, that is, their souls,
                  though not their actions." Mrs. Marchmont seized the first opportunity of release,
                  after each act of persecution, to retire to her closet—there, upon her knees, the
                  stricken believer would wrestle in agony and tears, for the power of God to
                  convert her husband; for grace to drink the cup; for strength to bear the cross.
                  How many such moments, in which hours seemed to be
                  concentrated, did Hester snatch at
                  intervals through each day of her wearisome, painful pilgrimage to Zion; and how
                  indescribable the peace which often filled her soul before she had risen! She
                  believed, she felt, the shadow of the Almighty to be over her, and
                  that in His own good time, He would appear for her relief. Oh! ye unbelievers, ye
                  cold-hearted backsliders, ye lukewarm Christians, who plead ye have no time, no
                  heart for prayer—that your trials are so great you cannot enjoy religion—let the
                  example of this persecuted wife, stimulate you to "feel after the Lord, if haply,
                  ye may find Him."
               When, in after years, Hester related these trials to a friend, and the inquiry was
                  made, "How could you possibly bear so much?" she replied—
               "By the grace of God, I am what I am. I bore them, not in my own
                  strength, but in His who had borne my sins for me. My mind often
                  reverted to the long train of martyrs who had sealed the truth in fire and blood,
                  and sometimes the tempter would whisper the presumptuous thought, that my
                  sufferings were greater than theirs, because my persecutions were not inflicted by
                  strangers or enemies, but by my kindred, and my husband, who had promised before
                  God and man, to "love, cherish, and protect" me, while I lived. Once, in the
                  extremity of my distress, the enemy of souls suggested, "would it not be better to
                  give up serving God outwardly, while matters are thus, and be content
                  to worship Him in thy heart?" But by grace, I was enabled to see the
                  wickedness of the suggestion, to banish it, and to say from my heart, "Blessed be
                  God, who hath delivered his servant!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WORKING FOR THE MASTER.
               THE church with which Mrs. Marchmont had become connected, were well acquainted
                  with her reputation as a member of the Church of England. They had heard of her
                  strict performance of church exercises, her deeds of charity, and had learned her
                  actual and relative position in society. The pastor and deacons knew how painful
                  had been her history, since she had left the circles of fashion, and very wisely
                  concluded, that active usefulness in the cause of Christ, would
                  afford the best outward support to be gained under trials like hers. She was soon
                  requested to become a member of the "visiting committee," whose duty it was to
                  attend to the wants of the poor within the church, collect funds for their use,
                  and provide them with comforts. She was also appointed a tract distributor for two
                  districts. There was work, indeed, for a beginner in the Christian life,
                  especially when it was added to the offices she already filled in the charitable
                  associations of the city, such as the supervision of the hospital for women, in
                  which many of the high-born ladies of London were engaged, and visitor of the
                  poor, in certain parish districts. But Hester shrunk not from the work, nor
                  refused to perform it, but entered into it heartily; remembering how zealous she
                  had been in the pursuit of worldly pleasures, and resolving to consecrate all her
                  powers to the service of Him, who had so signally "called her from darkness unto
                  light."Her family was not large, and her household arrangements on a scale so
                  systematic, that certain portions of each day were always for leisure, while all
                  were in health. Mr. Marchmont was often from home for days together, returning
                  only for a few hours at a time, or in the silence of night; and her little Lizzie
                  was of an age to accompany her, whenever the distance was not too great.
               Behold! the disciple going forth on her mission of love. She has been taught by
                  the Word and the Spirit alone, and by means of the Word, Jesus has been revealed
                  as the only Saviour. Prayer has been her only shelter from the storms of the
                  world, leading her to the Rock of Ages. Will she not all her life long hold up the
                  Word, the Spirit, and the Saviour, to those who know them not? Most certainly she
                  will. Cheerfully Mrs. Marchmont places within her own reticule one parcel of
                  tracts, and another within that of her
                  little daughter—mother and child set forth to seek the residence of an experienced
                  sister in the church, who is to shew her the mode of performing these new duties.
                  She has acquainted no one of her family with the character of her errands,
                  well-knowing that if they came to the knowledge of her husband, an avalanche of
                  wrath would be the consequence, as well as an entire cessation of all future
                  proceedings. Looking upward, as onward she goes, mentally asking wisdom and
                  strength for the undertaking, Hester Marchmont and the good sister are soon
                  threading the alleys and by-places of the great city. Mrs. Marchmont and her child
                  are clothed in attire suitable for such occasions, plain, yet denoting her rank in
                  life—and articles dictated by the usual common sense of the women of England. Here
                  are streets where the poor are congregated by thousands; where the vile and the
                  miserable are the only inhabitants; but unharmed, these holy-hearted women
                  fearlessly enter the dingy abodes, pass up the rickety stairs, and carry the
                  sunlight of Gospel charity into these haunts of darkness and sin. The gentle and
                  delicate child clasps tightly her mother's hand, but she knows the meaning of the
                  pressure, which is returned, for it says, "fear not." With smiles in her eyes, and
                  kind words on her lips, each of the ladies inquires of the wretched objects before
                  them, concerning their temporal wants, bestow stow some little tokens of good, and
                  then Mrs. Marchmont fearlessly avowing her own mode of instruction, takes out her
                  pocket Bible. With a felicity attained by early experience in such exercises, she
                  seems to select the very portion best adapted to the situation of those before
                  her. A few verses only suffice for the present, a very few, they will be more
                  easily remembered—then she adds a few explanatory words if needed, and drops on
                  her knees, on the soiled floor of the dirty apartment. The good sister weeps for
                  joy, that Hester has struck out so straight a path in the road upon which she has
                  entered. The poor outcasts wonder at her, and are no doubt suspicious as to her
                  real motives; but in departing, she slips into the hand of each a small sum of
                  money, and tells them she will come again soon. The signal is given to Lizzie, and
                  her little fingers are quickly in her reticule. Soon, with infantive innocence,
                  but still keeping her mother's hand, she says—
               "Here is a pretty book I give you,—you read it, won't you?"
               The wan faces gleam strangely on the fair child, whose little heart palpitates as
                  she surveys the tangled masses of filthy hair, hanging over the sunken eyes, and
                  the ragged, soiled and indecent garbs of the wretched beings. One such
                  scene—another, and another, yea, many such, transpire ere the mother and the child
                  return to their home. Sometimes, these
                  good sisters and tender missionaries are coarsely repulsed; sometimes insulted in
                  frightful language, but they have expected all this, and even more, remembering
                  "the disciple is not above his Master," "who was despised and rejected of men."
                  But week after week, Mrs. Marchmont, with some friend and her little daughter,
                  continue their ministrations, and succeed in overcoming the ill-will of the
                  wretched beings who are the victims of poverty and vice; they have taught them
                  there is a world where sin cannot enter, but believing, obeying
                     poverty, is not turned away. They have learned to look for her
                  coming—to have regard to a more decent appearance of themselves and their
                  miserable abodes—they learn to pray; and oh! joy to her, some at the last day,
                  will bless God they ever saw her.
               Many, very many, are the scenes of interest which transpired in these visitations.
                  The gathering of families, who had never heard the sound of the Gospel within
                  their own miserable dwellings, or in corners of the street, to listen to the news
                  of salvation from the lips of a missionary—the establishment of Sabbath Schools
                  among themselves—the rescuing from prisons and infamy, and above all, the
                  conversion of sinners, were results which God will one day own.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               INCIDENTS.
               IT is not to be supposed that exercises like these could be performed, without
                  causing both mental and physical fatigue. Mrs. Marchmont often found herself, upon
                  her return from such labors, exceedingly prostrated, though it was her privilege
                  to share the blessing of general good health. The spiritual strength
                  imparted by these visits of mercy, was an ample compensation for all that might be
                  deemed unpleasant. The contrast in her own situation and those whom she visited
                  day by day; the happiness she enjoyed in lighting with Gospel rays their darkened
                  minds, and influencing them to render themselves and their wretched abodes more
                  comfortable, was an equivalent for all the sufferings she endured at home. This
                  inward happiness enabled her always to receive her husband kindly, let his mood be
                  what it might, or his abuse the vilest he could adopt. Hester now looked through
                  the acts of the sinner to the worth of
                  the soul, and saw in his treatment of her, an offence against God and himself, and
                  she believed that sooner or later, he would experience remorse or retribution. So
                  she returned for his abuse, nothing but kindness; smiled while her heart was ready
                  to break, and only fled from his presence, when her life was in peril.
               To all this the inhuman Marchmont was indifferent, and one day, when she had in an
                  especial manner provided for his comfort, insultingly remarked—
               "La! Wide-awake, you're just like a spaniel, the more you are kicked, the more
                  loving you are."
               Nature sent the indignant blood burning in her cheeks and brow, and lighted up the
                  dark eyes with a lightning flash, but grace whispered, "Lean on ME;"
                  and the troubled waves of bitterness were calmed.
               The life thus begun in well-doing, was not wearily thrust aside. Possessing great
                  natural energies, both of body and mind, perseverance was a marked
                  trait in the mental character of Mrs. Marchmont. She not only continued in the
                  course she had commenced, but very soon entered other fields of usefulness. Very
                  early in her Christian life she had been influenced, by reading the sacred Word,
                  to commence a system of economy, which enabled her to give liberally
                  to all benevolent enterprises she wished, without having cause to obtain funds of
                  her husband. It is well known that the purse of an English wife is generally
                  separate and independent from that of her companion ion; and little did Herbert
                  Marchmont know how widely divergent from his were his wife's daily paths.
               And now came trials bearing more directly on the outward existence of Hester
                  Marchmont. The summer of '33, witnessed still deeper plots against her happiness.
                  Mr. Marchmont daily strode, with accelerated steps, the paths of vice; gambling,
                  with the most insane disregard to the amount of stakes, incapacitating himself, by
                  wine and debauchery, from the power of regaining lost sums, and apparently
                  determined to ruin both himself and his family. Mrs. Marchmont possessed as part
                  of her dowry, several sets of jewelry, exceedingly valuable, which her husband had
                  several times staked and lost; but which, valuing as the gifts of her mother and
                  other relatives, she had, on each occasion, herself redeemed. She owned, also, a
                  remarkably handsome and valuable service of plate. These Herbert, her husband,
                  again gambled away, unknown to his wife, and in places which it would sully the
                  pen to describe. So low, so utterly degraded had this gambler and inebriate
                  become, that he would have parted with those, who should have been dearer to him
                  than life, sooner than with the liberty of gaming. As it was, presuming too far
                  upon the Christian meekness of his wife, which had been exhibited
                  towards him as her husband, he scrupled not to sell her to the
                  insults of another. Finding himself
                  deprived of even a pound to stake, and unable to win back the enormous sums he had
                  lost, he listened to a proposal, made by his creditor, that Mrs.
                     Marchmont should redeem the amount due to him. The profane language, the
                  diabolical laughs which followed this disgusting bargain, are not to be portrayed.
                  Yet once, this man, who thus degraded his wife, because she had
                  become a Baptist, would have taken the life of any one, who had
                  spoken of her in other terms than those of the highest respect. What
                  transformations does the Prince of Darkness accomplish by the aid of his prime
                  ministers—alcohol, cards, and the theatre!
               The cowardly debauchee did not, while the affair was pending, resort to his home,
                  and his wife remained unconscious that anything unusual detained him. Engaged in
                  reading, and instructing her children, a ring at the door was followed by the
                  announcement of "Mr. S———," whom Mrs. Marchmont recognized as one of her husband's
                  boon companions, who had often visited the house. Receiving him with a cool
                  dignity and politeness, she secretly wondered what could be his errand. With a low
                  bow, he placed in her hand a note of honor, signed by her husband, which told her
                  at one glance they were ruined. The shock nearly overcame her, and her distress
                  was painfully evident in her countenance. The mean creature before her was
                  secretly gratified, and assuming a tone and manner full of kindness, said—
               "Madam, you need not suffer so much about this matter, it is in your own power
                  most easily to redeem the whole."
               Mrs. Marchmont at first made no reply, but threw upon him a blank stare of
                  amazement; finally, as he seemed waiting for an answer, she inquired—
               "How, sir, can I have anything to do in this affair?"
               "Mr. Marchmont, madam," said he, slowly and with emphasis, "has
                     expressly empowered me to negotiate with you for the
                  concelling of the whole."
               "I do not understand you, sir," said Mrs. M.
               "I have pledged myself, most lovely lady, to Mr. Marchmont himself, to cancel the
                  whole of this debt forever, if you will but grant me one
                     kiss on those fair cheeks of yours."
               The villain advanced towards Mrs. M., intending to accomplish his purpose, when
                  Hester sprang to her feet, and flew to the bell, giving it reiterated and violent
                  jerks, which alarmed the servants, and her own maid rushed in, screaming—
               "Mercy, ma'am, what's the matter?"
               Mrs. Marchmont, with her eyes dilated, her cheeks pallid with anger, and her voice
                  so choked that she could scarcely find utterance, pointed to S——, saying,—
               "Show that villain out,—he has insulted me."
               The faithful defender of her mistress, who had often courageously interfered when Mr. Marchmont
                  had abused his wife, ran up to S——, and giving him a slap on the mouth with her
                  huge, strong hand, seized him by the collar and pushed him through the hall out at
                  the front door, locking it after the stunned and frightened wretch. He went his
                  way, swearing immediate vengeance.
               Like some frightful dream did this work of a few moments seem to the bewildered
                  wife, and under its influence she sank into a swoon. Her faithful Martha watched
                  and nursed her for several hours, interspersing with her attentions ejaculations
                  of sympathy, though the nature of the outrage the intruder had committed had not
                  been explained to her; it was sufficient to know that her "dear, good mistress"
                  had been offended.
               "Poor lady! it's too bad, it is, the way she has to be plagued. If I was you,
                  ma'am, I wouldn't stand it, no how.—Deary me! these troubles 'll be the death o'
                  ye some day.—The good-for-nothin' dog! to come here and scare ye so."
               When Mrs. Marchmont, after a season, was enabled to rally her powers, she sought
                  her favorite retreat from the world and its troubles, and alone with God, she laid
                  the matter before Him, asking for wisdom and strength to bear her through all she
                  might still be called to endure. She saw as in a dismal perspective the results of
                  her late proceedings, and could, in a wordly view, hope for nothing, unless,
                  indeed, God should open a way to avert the calamity; and many were the sad
                  communings she held with her own heart.
               After a few days, Marchmont made his appearance, brazen with wine. Unwilling to
                  believe that he really could have sent the vile S——, on the errand he had
                  performed, Hester informed her husband of the insult which had been offered to
                  her
               "Well, what of that?" was his shameless reply; "it wouldn't have hurt you any, and
                  you might have been glad to have got off that way.—Your d——d foolishness will ruin
                  us."
               What earthly resort had this stricken woman, when her own husband was her worst
                  enemy? Reproaches would have added fuel to the flame, and tears excited only anger
                  and abuse. What a blessing then was her hope in Christ Jesus, and her faith in the
                  promises of Revelation!
               It was not long before an officer, commissioned by S——, entered the residence of
                  Mrs. Marchmont, to take an inventory of goods, jewels, plate, &c. To redeem
                  the note, every thing of value in the house was sacrificed, with the exception of
                  Hester's watch, which having been a wedding gift from her godmother, she insisted
                  upon retaining. She had, in other days, been very proud of her ornaments and
                  plate, and it was not without many a heavy sigh that she saw them sacrificed on the altar of gaming. Had
                  it been to satisfy just and honest claims, or to secure some necessary good, the
                  trial would not have seemed so great. And here, again, PRAYER was her resort, and
                  as usual, it brought deliverance. To whom could she go but unto Jesus?—earth held
                  not one who could interpose in matters like these. She was led to the belief, that
                  He who had enabled her to leave a church, which fostered all the vain pomp and
                  glory of the work, had taken this method of showing her what vain baubles, in His
                  sight, were the gold and gems of earth. The struggle resulted in entire
                  resignation to any events which God should ordain to occur in her future life;
                  were but His promise fulfilled towards her,—"I will never leave thee,
                  nor forsake thee."
               "Ah!" said she, many months afterward, when speaking of the circumstance to a
                  Christian friend, "they went out from me forever—and I trust satan
                  went with them."
               There were moments, intervals in which the effects of dissipation would somewhat
                  subside, when Herbert Marchmont would awake to a sense of the ruin he was bringing
                  upon himself and his family. The vividness of such views, instead of leading him
                  to repentance, produced paroxysms of the most unbounded anger, and insane
                  demonstrations of the bitterness that writhed his soul. He was a terror to all
                  around him, but delighted more especially in directing the missiles of his wrath
                  towards his innocent companion, saying—
               "It is all your fault, because you were such a d——d fool you wouldn't go with me
                  into society."
               In conformity with this wretched excuse, he had long before taken a female
                  companion, upon whom he had lavished immense sums; keeping her in a splendid
                  apartment, and taking her to the theatre, opera, and all other places where she
                  could find admittance. Especially to provoke his wife, and blind the eyes of some
                  of her friends, he had ordered Mrs. Marchmont's own milliner and dress-maker to
                  prepare this woman's clothing of the same material, and in the same style as that
                  of his wife, with a view of deceiving those who should meet him in his rides and
                  promenades, with the impression that he was attending Mrs. Marchmont. It had been
                  only by the allusions of her friends to these supposed attentions, that Hester had
                  learned this greatest of wrongs, for which there was, as she was situated, no
                  possible redress.
               In the fits of anger, to which this wretched man was subject, he would summon his
                  wife from the care of her children, or from her bed at night, to prepare feasts
                  for his sole use, and then wantonly throw the whole out of the window, and saying
                  he would "go where they had things fit to eat," compel her, by main force, to accompany him at the hour of midnight, to
                  some coffee-house. There he would behave so rudely, that the landlord would expel
                  him from the door, with oaths, and they were only prevented from being placed in
                  the lock-up, by being personally known to some one of the police, who from respect
                  to Mrs. Marchmont would attend them to their home. In affairs like these, his
                  compulsion of Mrs. Marchmont was always attended with severe blows, and forcible
                  dragging her from the house, and not one of the servants dared to interfere. The
                  knowledge that his health was rapidly giving way, under the influence
                  of his vicious habits, was an exciting cause of increasing his irritability. With
                  a martyr spirit, Hester Marchmont bore all these sufferings, hourly praying and
                  longing for God to turn the sinner's heart—hourly believing against hope, that her
                  prayers would yet be answered.
               Mr. Marchmont's health in time became so broken, that his physicians declared no
                  power could save him, unless he should leave London and its exciting scenes of
                  dissipation. A legacy of some thousand pounds had recently been paid over to Mr.
                  Marchmont, and those who were really his friends, advised him to seek the
                  restoration of his health, and then to enter some line of business, with a view of
                  retrieving his lost fortune. These causes combined, induced Marchmont to follow
                  the advice of his physicians, and retire into the country for a time. Of course
                  his family were compelled to accompany him. They concluded to visit some friends
                  residing in Chiswell, whose mansion was very near the famed forest in which
                  Charles hid himself in an oak from those who pursued him. The village was one of
                  those peculiarly pleasant, home-like places, of which the English are justly so
                  proud. The scenery, too, was delightful, and for minds at peace, nature's
                  fountains here afforded ample draughts of happiness. But "a wounded spirit, who
                  can bear?" And Mr. Marchmont's disease rapidly advanced, bringing with it a
                  racking cough, from which he could gain no relief. Melancholy now took the place
                  of irritation and anger, and at times his spirits sank to the lowest ebb. His
                  friends spared no pains nor expense to render the visit pleasant; and parties,
                  excursions, and other schemes of amusement were constantly planned. But it was
                  only while amid such scenes that Marchmont seemed to endure life.
               Hester was frequently compelled to attend these excursions and visits, and
                  endeavored to enjoy, as well as she was able all that was really innocent
                  connected with them. But there were occasions, when she was called upon to
                  exercise a Christian decision of conduct, which caused her to be looked upon, by
                  the friends of Mr. Marchmont, as a very singular woman. His apparent politeness to
                  her, and even kindness, assumed while
                  in their presence, led them to blame Mrs. Marchmont for much of the unhappiness
                  which seemed to induce his unusual gloominess, thus adding another drop to her cup
                  of bitterness already full, especially, as while in secret, he continued the old
                  system of abuse. But never were her duties left unperformed, and upon the means of
                  grace which the place afforded, she attended at every favorable opportunity. Each
                  day bore witness to her prayers and tears; her wrestling in agony of supplication
                  for the day of deliverance to draw nigh. But Chiswell and its lovely scenes, and
                  its artificial pleasures, failed to retrieve either body or mind, and the restless
                  spirit of Herbert Marchmont urged his return to London. Hester would have
                  preferred residing in this quiet retreat, but, as usual, the husband ruled all
                  proceedings, and the wife obeyed; endeavoring to say from her heart, "Lord! not my
                  will, but Thine."
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               A SINNER CONVICTED.
               THE whole Christian world has learned the name of AMOS SUTTON, the name of one who
                  has joined the ransomed ones around the throne of God. Many in heathen lands bless
                  that name, many too, in lands called Christian, how many, eternity only can
                  reveal. But of him truly may it be said, "The memory of the just is blessed."
               From Orissa, the scene of long years' toiling in faith and patience, the
                  missionary, with his meek, enduring wife, landed upon the shores of his native
                  England. The Christian world had urged him to return to them and to his home, and
                  with his own lips declare what he had witnessed and heard of the abominations and
                  woes of idolatry. He had obeyed the call, and Exeter Hall was thronged with the
                  thousands who gathered to listen to the missionary of the cross. Breathless with
                  attention they hung upon his words while he presented the claims of the heathen world, and raised to their view
                  the hideous idols of wood and stone, as samples of those to which perishing
                  millions daily bowed down as to gods who could save them from sin and misery. Then
                  came the droppings of the silver and gold into the Lord's treasury; then went up
                  earnest prayers and joyful hymns, and warm English hearts folded the missionary
                  and his wife in embraces of affection and prayer. The city was alive with
                  excitement, and Christians and unbelievers alike flocked in crowds to hear a man
                  who described heathenism and its horrors, on one hand, and upon the other, the
                     far worse condition of the impenitent in gospel lands.
               Using all the eloquence of which she was capable, Mrs. Marchmont allowed no
                  opportunity to pass, in which she could urge upon her husband to go just
                     once to hear the missionary whose earnestness had already caused many
                  sinners to quake for fear of a judgment to come. Joy trembled in her whole frame,
                  as Marchmont one evening very ungraciously declared, he "believed he'd go with her
                  this time, as he didn't know what else to do with himself. He supposed he might as
                  well go just to see the queer images set up for show." The happy wife assumes
                  indifference and calmness in her face, but who can tell how loaded is every breath
                  she draws with prayers for the blessing of the Holy Spirit to go with them. What
                  if he does grip her arm so tightly while pretending to assist her over a gutter,
                  as to draw the blood through the tender skin, and then as she utters a faint cry,
                  he says audibly—
               "Oh, you have that terrible pain again, my dear!"
               She hopes there will be a day when an end will come to all this, and he will see
                  himself as he is. What if he gallantly escorts her into a pew, and then in
                  pretence of placing a rest under her feet, nearly crushes them in his grip, while
                  she turns pale with the pain? She looks to a Helper who is nigh though unseen.
                  Gradually her persecutor is becoming interested in the crowds who surround him,
                  and the praying wife is left to her own meditations. Just before her sits one of
                  the good sisters of her own church, who wonders that the man of fashion has found
                  his way into an assembly he is known to despise. She leans over and whispers to
                  Mrs. Marchmont—
               "I am so glad to see your husband here. I suppose it is him."
               "Yes, sister, it is he, indeed."
               "What an elegant looking gentleman he is; what a pity he is not a Christian!"
               "Well, pray for him, sister, to-night especially, that he may be converted!"
               "I will indeed, that I will," said the good woman, pressing her hand with
                  affection—and Hester and the matron each bowed their heads in silence.
               
               The missionary rose, and with uplifted hands called upon the audience to seek
                  God's blessing. Did Marchmont ever hear the voice of prayer, real,
                     earnest prayer? Yes, he had sometimes heard the low, suppressed tones of
                  his persecuted wife, and knew she was pleading at a throne of mercy. And he has
                  heard his little daughter, in her childlike accents, asking, "Please, Jesus, give
                  my pa a new heart," and her little voice has left an echo in his heart which he
                  has silenced in the roars of the card-room. But this prayer is so
                  strange to him. Does that pale, yet sunburnt missionary, with his aspect of calm,
                  meek dignity, and his earnest eye and tongue, believe really that he is addressing
                  a being who hears him? Most assuredly he does. There is reality in his tones,
                  reality in his uplifted face, reality in the words he utters. He bears a sinning,
                  dying world upon his heart, and is pleading with the great Intercessor in their
                  behalf. And he speaks as friend speaketh to friend, in confidence that he will not
                  be denied. Marchmont listens in wonder, and a strange feeling—is it
                     awe?—pervades his mind—he has forgotten to scoff, he has forgotten
                  his wife.
               Hark—the missionary has read a hymn, but Marchmont hardly knows what has passed,
                  and now the voices of the thousands around him are rising and swelling in a hymn
                  to the Saviour of men. It is strange, though he has heard something like it when
                  he has dropped in at the "Dipper's." But all around him now join in this song of
                  praise, and if he could, he would be tempted to put his fingers into his ears.
               And now all is breathless silence. The missionary opens the book and reads off,
                  "The idols which see not, neither can they hear," &c. Then looking around upon
                  the sea of human faces before him, he selects these memorable words—
               "HE is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is
                  dumb, so He openeth not His mouth."
               The subject so sublimely pathetic, is treated as one like AMOS SUTTON knows how to
                  exhibit its truths, for he has himself been taught of a Teacher divine. It is
                  alike adapted to the martyr-wife and the persecuting husband, and each feels every
                  sentence as it comes thrilling upon their ears, attended with the power of the
                  Holy Spirit.
               Then and there sped an arrow into the heart of Herbert Marchmont. He felt its
                  keenness, but not even to himself would he acknowledge he was wounded. Nay, he
                  scarcely knew the nature of this new sensation. But the watchful wife saw with a
                  joy she could scarcely contain, the unmistakable signs of conviction of sin,
                  resisted though they were. Never had Marchmont been an infidel, but his
                  superlative love of self had led him to hate every thing which interfered with his own depraved will and
                  tastes.
               And now the vast throng rise to their feet. From a little card he holds in his
                  hand, the missionary lines a hymn, which is the emanation of his own
                  earnest spirit. "Auld Lang Syne" floats in its pensive melody through the
                  building, but the words are such as Marchmont cannot sing, much less can he join
                  in the chorus of each verse— 
                     
                        "It is the hope, the blessed hope,
                        Which Jesus' grace has given,—
                        The hope when days and years are fled
                        
                           We all shall meet in Heaven—
                        
                           We all shall meet in Heaven, my friends,
                        We all shall meet in Heaven, &c."
                     
                  
               
               Herbert Marchmont leaves Exeter Hall, with the crowd, giving his wife his arm—he
                  has forgotten this time to grip her hand, and the husband and wife return to their
                  home in silence, for he has not spoken, and she is unwilling to interfere with the
                  workings of his conscience.
               The pride of the convicted sinner renders him unwilling to disclose his feelings
                  to her whom he has so often abused. The retribution of Eternity stares him in the
                  face, and remorse holds up to his view the appalling catalogue of crimes against
                  God and man, which extends far back into the history of his youth. Distressed,
                  alarmed, angry, yet rebellious still, he is a torment to himself and his hopeful,
                  praying wife. She speaks kindly to him, sometimes ventures to read a few words in
                  the Bible; but he snatches it from her and flings it into the fire, from which she
                  rescues it unharmed. She goes to her closet, but he drives her from it with cruel
                  abuse. Oh! wretched man, these are the foamings and ravings of that evil spirit
                  thou hast cherished so long—loth to take its departure from its familiar home. But
                  hope has dawned in the heart of Hester Marchmont, though the morning is shrouded
                  in clouds, and she waits God's time for the rising of the "Son of Righteousness
                  with healing in His wings."
               In her intense anxiety for the salvation of her husband, Hester invited a brother
                  of the good missionary to call at her residence, for the purpose of seeking an
                  opportunity for conversation with Mr. Marchmont. The missionary's own time was so
                  constantly preoccupied, that an attempt to procure an interview would have been
                  unavailing; but his brother was well qualified by disposition and piety, to
                  counsel those who are in trouble of mind. He called, and was introduced to Mr.
                  Marchmont, but a cold, formal politeness was all the encouragement he received,
                  and the proud sinner entrenched himself behind the barriers of an impenetrable
                  silence. When the minister departed, Mr. Marchmont vented his displeasure upon his
                  wife, and she began to fear that every avenue to his heart was closed.
               
               During this state of affairs, Marchmont continued his habits of drinking and
                  gaming, though in a diminished degree, seeking by these means to drown the
                  outcries of the awakened monitor within him. But in the midst of all this, he was
                  one day borne into the presence of his wife, with one arm broken, and a shoulder
                  dislocated, the consequences of a fall while in a state of intoxication. The
                  attending surgeon pronounced many of his injuries internal, and such as would
                  affect him through life, though he would probably be able to go about, after
                  several weeks of quiet. The results proved his opinion correct. But rigid
                  abstinence from all stimulating food and drinks, confinement in one position, and
                  a great amount of pain and suffering, rendered Marchmont intolerably peevish and
                  irritable. The task of nursing devolved solely on Mrs. Marchmont, who was all this
                  time herself in health unusually delicate. With all this, and her little ones to
                  care for, and her household to manage, she must have been more than human if she
                  had not sometimes felt her faith and patience fail, especially when to the fatigue
                  and responsibility of nursing her husband, was added all the abuse of which, in
                  his situation, he was capable—throwing all the blame of his sufferings upon her
                  and his physician. But her cry of "Lord, save, or I perish," was never heard in
                  vain; and grace was still supplied to the weakness of the flesh, and the tempted
                  and tried spirit. Who shall say that the God of the Bible is not the God of
                  truth—that he does not always give unto those who ask?
               Long, wearisome weeks went on their round, bearing to eternity the same sad tale
                  of the Spirit grieved, and the wife troubled. The invalid left his bed and his
                  dwelling to walk abroad in the warm sunlight, and the free air of the God of life;
                  but no song of thanksgiving went up from his rebellious heart. He sought again
                  those enemies of his soul, the card-table and the wine bottle, and the flames they
                  aroused within him, prostrated him again upon his couch, to suffer yet more
                  intensely. Now, he could not but feel, however unwillingly, the world receding
                  from his grasp, and the voice of conscience urged him to repent, but his
                     heart, how it turned away from the light! But a Hand was now upon
                  him, whose pressure he could not resist—a power was resting upon all that was his,
                  whose influence he could not withstand. Then the moral ear began slowly to listen,
                  and the eye to turn its glance inward upon the desolation of heart, and upward,
                  too, but the broad blaze of infinite justice caused it to shrink downward,
                  appalled.
               But she who was commissioned to be as a guardian angel to this wandering spirit,
                  watched the first gleams of relenting, and lifting her heart to the Unseen for
                  strength, she ventured one day to approach her husband with the word of God in her hand,
                  saying—
               "May I read a little to you, my dear? you will feel better, perhaps, to have
                  something to listen to."
               "Well, read, if you want to, I don't care."
               With this ungracious permission the spirit of hope was delighted, and the loving
                  wife seated herself by the couch of her husband, to read in her gentlest tones the
                  messages of Divine Love. She deemed it wisdom to be brief in her readings just
                  then, and very soon left the room to pour out her gratitude and her hopes. That
                  evening, though trembling as she did so, she called her little ones to a corner of
                  his room, and kneeling with them, as usual, assisted their evening devotions. Mr.
                  Marchmont did not deign to notice them, but when their sweet "good night, pa," was
                  lisped into his ear, he responded to it in kinder tones than usual. There was hope
                  in one heart that night, for the lion was seemingly soothed by the voice of the
                  lamb—and into another the light of reason and truth shed some of its holiest
                  beams.
               Once more was the strong man to arise, and for a time, go forth under the blue
                  canopy of heaven. On the first bright Lord's day after he had become able to walk
                  abroad, his wife gave him a most winning invitation to accompany her to
                  church.
               "Well, Wide-awake, I'll go for once, and hear what you dippers have to say. But
                  mind, they'll not proselyte selyte me as they have you;
                  I hope I never shall be such a fool as to disgrace myself in that
                  way."
               "I do not wish you to believe until you can do it with all your
                     heart," was Mrs. Marchmont's reply.
               Those who had seen Mr. Marchmont pale from illness, yet not greatly emaciated,
                  with his air of gentle, manly address, ushering his wife into her seat in the
                  church, placing a footstool for her feet, and presenting her the hymn-book with an
                  expression of tenderness in his manner, would have repulsed the bare suggestion
                  that he was aught else than a husband should be. Much less, that on his return,
                  angry at the truths he had heard, without being able to deny, and bearing within
                  himself a sentence of condemnation, he would assail her ears with the grossest
                  remarks on the manner of worship observed by the Baptists, and torment her by his
                  revilings, until in tears she fled into her closet sanctuary. Where could she find
                  relief from such inquisitorial tortures as had been her portion, during most of
                  her married life, excepting in the study of Revelation and acts of devotion?
               Let it be borne in mind, that Hester Marchmont possessed by nature a proud,
                  high-toned, independent spirit, which could never bow to any other authority than
                  that of her mother, her husband, and her church. She was no lack-a-daisical,
                  weak-minded woman, incapable capable of
                  understanding her rights, or feeling her wrongs; but one, whose every nerve
                  thrilled keenly to the emotions of love, of joy, or of sorrow, and whose intellect
                  could appreciate the loftiest aspirations of mind. And her husband was one of
                  those, who have been styled "nature's noblemen," and whom, in the days of her
                  early espousals, she was proud to call my husband—my
                  Herbert. Education and wealth, as well as nature and rank, had done their best for
                  Herbert Marchmont, yet his native good sense, good humor, and strength of
                  intellect, were all perverted by vice. His first passionate love for his wife had
                  been turned into hatred by his united bigotry and pride. These were the governing
                  motives of all his cruelty. "That his wife should leave the Church of
                  England, that pillar of national glory, to unite herself with a few obscure and
                  ignorant fanatics, whom nobody knew, was too bad to be borne." And so the mistaken
                  man, himself ignorant of what he should have known, with cruel lashings, vented
                  his false pride upon his innocent wife, permitting no mitigations, allowing no
                  hope; and, even now, while the spirit of conviction was laboring to humble this
                  unholy scorn, he gave vent to it in full force upon his unresisting victim.
               But what is there on earth which Faith, Hope and Charity cannot achieve, and
                  cannot bear? Ask the long line of patriarchs, prophets, apostles, and martyrs
                  tyrs, and the thousands of meek and unrecorded men and women, who have gone to
                  wear the white and blood-washed robes, and the crowns of victory! Ask the history
                  of the Crucified! And looking back to all these, and upward with her tear-dimmed
                  eye, the persecuted wife returns from her retreat to make another effort to win
                  over the enemy of her peace.
               "If you will but condescend to read that Book which you acknowledge
                  is the Word of God—if you will but commence the Gospels, and read them through
                  with me, and then can find that I have done anything they have not required of me,
                  I will submit to your anger without a murmur."
               This was a bold challenge, and several times repeated before it was accepted, and
                  then, most evidently, in a spirit of defiance.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               PROGRESS OF TRUTH.—RECONCILIATIONS.
               IT was only in Mr. Marchmont's softest and most gracious moods, that his wife
                  attempted to hold him to his agreement, and of course these did not occur every
                  day. While reading, he often interrupted with arguments, doubts and cavils, but in
                  patience and calmness of manner she endeavored to keep his mind fixed upon the one
                  great truth, "EXCEPT A MAN BE BORN AGAIN, HE CANNOT SEE THE KINGDOM OF GOD." And
                  at other times, she especially directed his attention to those passages which had
                  first arrested her own attention, in the lonely vigils of the past, and had led
                  her to make that decision which had caused her so many days and nights of
                  suffering.—Especially those memorable words, "He that BELIEVETH and is
                     baptized, shall be saved, but he that believeth not, shall be
                  damned." Then, again, she begged him to consider the right interpretation and
                  import of the word baptize. She told him of her own anxious search
                  after the true meaning of the word, and the result of her inquiries in each
                  instance. Mr. Marchmont, at last, seemed as one awaking from a dream, and as his
                  wife continued her revelations day by day, he gazed at her as if she were bringing
                  intelligence from another sphere. He made no concessions nor acknowledgments to
                  her, but his taunts were less frequently thrown out; he became more patient, and
                  on some occasions, there was in his manner an approach to something like
                  tenderness. Could Hester see all this and not be grateful to God! would not praise
                  for the present be mingled with desires and hopes for the future! And Lizzie, her
                  mother's gentle comforter, kneeling by her side, joined in her petitions—
               "Please Jesus, make my father a good man. O Lord, do please give my
                  father a new heart."
               The desertion of her mother and her family had been the twin-trial to the cruelty
                  of her husband. She thought, had her friends stood by her, she could have endured
                  it with greater fortitude. But it had pleased her heavenly Father in His wisdom,
                  to withdraw these earthly friendships, that she "might seek her all in Him," and
                  find how fully HE alone can sustain the trusting soul. "Ah! they do
                  not know what it is to have none but Jesus to go to," was Hester's remark, some
                  years afterwards, when the trials of some individuals were made their excuse for
                  backsliding. "None but Jesus to go to, would show them that He is worth a world of
                  friends."
               
               Mr. Marchmont had in some degree, recovered from his last attack sufficiently to
                  leave his room, and occasionally ride out. Hester had on one day of his absence,
                  been reflecting upon the sad state of affairs between her mother, her sisters and
                  herself, and on the numerous overtures she had made for a reconciliation,
                  especially to her mother, and how heartlessly they had been rejected. While she
                  was thus sadly engaged, a messenger arrived, bringing a request from Mrs. Warwick,
                  that Hester would immediately visit her. Alarmed, she inquired if her mother was
                  ill. The messenger replied, "seriously so." Mrs. Warwick had been troubled for
                  some time with symptoms of apoplexy, and had that morning been walking in her
                  garden, where she had fallen, and was conveyed to her house in an apparently
                  lifeless condition. Her physician being immediately summoned, she was in a few
                  hours restored to consciousness, but her injuries were pronounced to be of an
                  internal and fatal character. Supposing herself to be dying, the image of her
                  discarded and suffering daughter presented itself suddenly to her view. Her other
                  children stood around her bed, but Hester—she was not there. Conscience struggled
                  with pride, and the long smothered maternal love revived in all its strength.
               "Send immediately for Hester," said the apparently dying mother, speaking with a
                  strength which surprised all in the room. "I must see her quick, before it is too
                  late."
               It needed no urging to hasten Mrs. Marchmont to the side of the mother still
                  fondly loved, and as quickly as fleet horses could move, Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont
                  were on their way to the residence of Mrs. Warwick. Hester heeded no one's
                  presence, but with outstretched arms flew to her mother's bed, where, sobbing
                  convulsively, she was held in the embrace of early years.
               "Mother, oh! mother, say that you forgive me; say that you love me once more."
               "Forgive you, yes! child, and I have loved you all along,—it is you who must
                  forgive your cruel mother."
               "Give me your blessing now, mother, I cannot live without it."
               "God bless you forever, my child—and bless the dear children too."
               "Mother, you are killing yourself," said one of her other daughters; "you know
                  that Doctor—said you must be kept very quiet."
               "But I am better now—I shall not die, at least, not now; and, children, forgive
                  your poor sister, and forget all she has done."
               Mrs. Marchmont's sisters gave her their hands, but evidently with reluctance and
                  coldness; yet the warm heart of Hester
                  was thankful even for so much gained.
               Mrs. Warwick grew gradually better from the hour of her reconciliation with her
                  daughter, and finally, recovered her usual health. The intercourse of former days
                  was opened between all members of the different families, but though Mrs. Warwick
                  seldom alluded to Hester's religious views, the sisters still took delight in
                  taunting her with "the disgrace she had brought upon herself and them." But Hester
                  bore all patiently, thankful for the mercies yet left to her lot.
               In former days, when Mrs. Marchmont's sisters had been accustomed to ridicule and
                  asperse her in the presence of her husband, Mr. Marchmont had always joined in the
                  attacks, and assisted them, saying still more cruel words than they. About this
                  time they renewed their attacks in his presence, when he, stopping before them as
                  he paced the room, replied in a very prompt manner, "Let Wide-awake alone, she did
                  no more than her Bible told her to, at least, she thought so." How
                  the heart of the long-tried wife leaped for joy, as she heard this first
                  acknowledgment of her rights as a woman and a Christian! The day was breaking,
                  even if it dawned in sombre and heavy clouds.
               Mr. Marchmont continued an invalid, and his physicians prescribed constant
                  traveling, which advice he was compelled to follow, as no system or regimen he
                  observed while in the city, afforded more than a temporary relief. In his feeble
                  condition he could not travel alone, and his faithful wife made her arrangements
                  to accompany him. Hester's desires for her husband's conversion increased as she
                  saw him slowly but surely descending into the grave without repentance and without
                  hope. She felt that he must be saved, and she wrestled and agonized
                  each day for the boon of his redemption.
               Mrs. Marchmont never neglected morning and evening worship with her children, and
                  now she frequently performed it in the presence of her husband. He had always
                  heard the service read, but Mrs. Marchmont thought she could best
                  express her own desires in her own words. She had taught her children to do the
                  same; and Lizzie, in her innocence, one night, forgetting the presence of her
                  father, uttered the following petition—"Our Father in heaven, I pray—my mother
                  says I must love my poor father and pray for him—please change him, make him good
                  and us happy; forgive us all; me wrong, make me good, good for Jesus'
                  sake, amen." As the child mentioned her father, he started and seemed struggling
                  with emotion. The Holy Spirit can employ even the influence of a child to rouse
                  the callous heart to a sense of its condition, but the father did not disclose his
                  feelings on this occasion—his countenance and movements alone told the tale.
               
               After several months' wanderings in search of health, the season for returning
                  came, but the improvement in Mr. Marchmont was not so great as had been expected.
                  His naturally fine constitution was paying the forfeit of a life spent in vice and
                  dissipation, and the fountains of youth and health could not be renewed.
               "Oh, dear!" said he to his wife, as on one occasion he felt more than usually
                  exhausted, "'tis a hard lot for one so young as I to be thus robbed of health and
                  happiness."
               Mrs. Marchmont never administered false comfort to any one, and
                  therefore replied with Christian sincerity—
               "I think you should rather be thankful to God's mercy that you are not confined
                  entirely to your bed, for He gave you health, strength and beauty, and you have
                  abused them all in a manner which might justly have cost you your life."
               "It is all the doctors' fault," said he, surlily, "they get their pay for
                  nothing."
               "Doctors, my dear, cannot always make whole that which is broken, neither can they
                  give health when nature's laws have so long been violated."
               "I say you lie. I have only lived as a gentleman ought to live who wants to enjoy
                  life."
               "Poor fellow! your enjoyment in this world is near to its end, and without
                  repentance, at an end hereafter," and with a deep sigh Hester left the room, lest
                  his anger should become roused still higher.
               Several days after, Mrs. Marchmont was sewing in her husband's room, while he
                  reclined on the sofa near by, when he addressed her in a tone of apparent
                  kindness—
               "Wide-awake, what do you think you would do if I should die—will you wear mourning
                  for me?"
               "Certainly," was the reply.
               "Yes, yes, I thought you would want to let people know you were single—but,
                  remember, you have a string of young ones, and men don't want other's
                  children."
               "Well, well, don't talk so—if you die, and don't wish me to wear mourning, I can
                  do as you desire."
               "Oh, I thought I would try you. I did not suppose you loved me. I have treated you
                  very badly, I own, but I could not help straying—you know my disposition."
               At another time he inquired, "Do you ever pray to God to take me out of the way? I
                  am sure I am no use to any one, and my money is almost gone, and we shall have to
                  sell our property."
               "Do not trouble yourself about that. You know while my mother lives I shall have
                  an every-day fortune."
               "Ah, but she does not know all—if she did!"
               "Say no more. Have you forgotten our marriage vows? I have tried to remember and keep them
                  through all, and I shall not now be likely to disregard them."
               "Very good, Wide-awake, but you know I have broken them."
               "That is your own fault—if you thought well to put your hand in the fire and get
                  burnt, it was not my wish to do likewise."
               "Oh, you were the wisest after all."
               Such were some of the exhibitions of awakened remorse, unaccompanied by true
                  repentance and humiliation. It required a skilful blending of wisdom and
                  simplicity to deal with a mind thus exercised, to avoid touching the wrong key and
                  calling forth the war tones of rebellion.
               Mrs. Marchmont was, one Sabbath morning, preparing to attend public worship, when
                  she noticed her husband regarding her with more than usual attention. He was
                  considerably better, and had walked some distance the day before, so she ventured
                  to inquire, if he would not accompany her to church.
               "No, indeed," said the unhappy man, "that is no place for me."
               "But it is to such as you the Gospel is sent."
               "How do you know that,—what do you know of the Gospel?"
               "I feel its power, and, therefore, I know it; if you will go, you
                  may, perhaps, feel too that the Gospel is good."
               Hester left him, and took her course, as usual, leisurely through the chief
                  streets, but when she arrived at the chapel door, lo! Marchmont joined her. He had
                  mischievously wound through the near alleys to give his wife a surprise, and
                  seemed to enjoy it greatly, attending her into the pew, and seating himself, as he
                  had done once before. He seemed interested in the services, and several times a
                  shade of emotion passed over his face, causing hope to spring up in the heart of
                  his wife. "What a husband you have," was the remark of a friend, as they were
                  passing out, "he merely wants but the one thing needful." So fallacious is the
                  outward appearance, and so skilfully is the heart deceived.
               Months rolled on, Herbert Marchmont sometimes gaining in health, at others, so
                  prostrated that life seemed rapidly receding. Yet, at no time could he be induced
                  to converse with the Christian friends of Mrs. Marchmont. Again watering places
                  were visited, and remedies applied, but what was gained at home, was lost abroad,
                  for the snares of his associates were spread around him, and he seemed powerless
                  to resist. Winter came, and its chilling influences added much to the strength of
                  his sufferings; oppressed in his breathing, and wearied with nights of relentless
                  coughing; his condition was clouded by
                  sorrow, and hopeless through sin. Pecuniary matters were becoming more straitened
                  also, so that Mrs. Marchmont felt herself obliged to discharge two of her
                  servants, retaining but her own maid and coachman. Upon her devolved the duty of
                  nursing her invalid husband, training her infant children, superintending her
                  household, and performing the engagements she had entered into with church
                  associations. Whether, in her circumstances, it was her duty to attend to these
                  latter, became a question of weight, and a subject of prayer. She one day remarked
                  to her husband, that she "must relinquish visiting the poor as perhaps he needed
                  attentions while she was absent, the servant could not give." He replied—
               "You need not do that.—I have abused you too much ever to expect any attention
                  from you, and if you neglected me entirely, I could not blame you."
               "But I will not neglect you, and I will arrange every thing for your
                  comfort, and give Martha directions, and then, if you will not think hardly of me,
                  I will slip out a little while, and look at my poor families."
               With this, Mr. Marchmont seemed pleased, and Hester resorting to the Fountain of
                  Life, drew fresh supplies of strength, and went forth with quickened steps, on her
                  errands of mercy.
               She bore these poor creatures very near her heart, and having, one day,
                  encountered more than usual suffering, she remembered them that night in family
                  devotions, with many tears. After the season of worship was over, Mr. Marchmont
                  inquired—
               "Why do you feel so much for the troubles of others—haven't you enough of your
                  own?"
               "Being conversant with trouble myself, renders me more sensible of the woes of
                  others.—It is love to Jesus which prompts me to try to serve the afflicted."
               "But you are always going about, and giving away what you may one day want
                  yourself."
               "Oh, no, Herbert; for what we give to the poor willingly, we 'lend to
                  the Lord,' and he has promised to 'repay us again.'"
               The course of daily scripture readings being continued, had reached that portion
                  of Isaiah containing the memorable passage,—"Though your sins be as scarlet, they
                  shall be white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool,"
                  &c. At the verse, "forsaking of sins," &c., Mrs. Marchmont read slowly,
                  and with much emphasis, that her husband's attention might be concentrated upon
                  its great importance.
               "Why!" remarked he, "scarlet, and blood,—they are pretty
                  black—I never killed any one—but I have done bad enough. Perhaps, I may be
                  forgiven."
               "Yes, Herbert, listen,—'There is forgiveness with Thee, that Thou
                  mayest be feared.'
               
               "Where have you learned so much Methodism, Wide-awake?"
               "I am not a Methodist, my husband, you mistake, but a Spirit-taught
                     Baptist, for you know I knew nothing until the Gospel taught
                  me."
               These were among the daily efforts made, in various ways, to bring the truth to
                  bear upon a heart deadened by pride and the love of the world. Seeing the feeble
                  frame grow still more frail as each week advanced, the devoted wife became earnest
                  in her entreaties that her husband should read for himself the
                  Gospels of the Son of God, which point she finally gained. And many times seeing
                  him take up the Bible and recline upon the sofa to read, did she retire to ask a
                  blessing on the perusal. Her earnestness was understood by the angel-child, who
                  shared all her labors of love, and seeing her mother one day retire, she followed
                  and knelt by her side, saying—
               "Let me help you pray for poor father, ma."
               "My dear, how do you know it is for your father I wish to pray?"
               "Because you cry so, ma."
               The next day her father drew her between his knees, and the prattler revealed the
                  secret.
               "I say my prayer for you, father, and mother did too, and mother cry too, pa."
               Mr. Marchmont turned to his wife, saying—
               "Tell me why you think you ought to pray for me; do you think I can't pray for
                  myself if I want to?"
               "It is love for you, for your undying soul, which prompts my prayers, and I
                     did ask that the reading of the Word might be blessed to your
                  salvation."
               Mrs. Marchmont thought it prudent to avoid further questions, and left him with
                  the little girl while she performed some household duties.
               Disease again brought Herbert Marchmont low, and now his heart was so far humbled
                  as to crave the ministry of prayer and the teachings of God's Word. Daily did Mrs.
                  Marchmont sit by the bed of her suffering husband, reading from the Bible such
                  selections as seemed best adapted to his state, sometimes pleading for the visits
                  of the Spirit, at others making acknowledgments of sin in behalf of her guilty but
                  repentant companion, still wresting and struggling in the toils of unbelief.
                  Willingly now Herbert Marchmont consented to receive the visits of some who had
                  been the helpers of his wife in her Christian pilgrimage, and humbly he listened
                  to their counsel, though still in a degree reserved concerning the real depths of
                  his anxiety to be saved. But the man who had first shown him, while describing the
                  meekness of the Crucified, the sinfulness of his past life, was far away on the
                  broad ocean, and nearing the coast of
                  the new world he was about to visit. Little knew the good missionary and his wife,
                  how that praying man and woman blessed the name of SUTTON—how they longed for his
                  presence in that chamber of sickness. But perhaps that history has ere this been
                  revealed to the sainted missionary, for he has laid down his armor and gone to
                  receive his crown. Herbert Marchmont, too, has long since made one in his crown of
                  rejoicing.
               But again was the vigor of a naturally fine constitution partially triumphant for
                  a time: and the restlessness of a mind diseased revealed itself still more with
                  the renewed strength of the frame it inhabited. But the brand was to be plucked
                  from the burning, the power of cleansing and saving grace to be felt and
                  acknowledged.
               The prostration of that soul, when overcome by the view of his exceeding guilt in
                  the sight of God—his astonishment when permitted to perceive the great plan of
                  salvation by Christ—and the meltings of that icy heart in the warm beams of the
                  Sun of Righteousness, cannot be described. The work of the Holy Spirit often
                  surpasses the sublimest conceptions of thought, how much more the power of
                  language. That one solemn moment when the new birth is ushered in, when the soul
                  falls with its load of guilt and misery at the feet of the Infinite compassion
                  passion, and yields itself unconditionally to Him "who purchased it with His own
                  blood—the burst of joy and gratitude—the calm of peace—can be described in
                  appropriate language only in that realm where the body shall not
                  limit the mind.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               BELIEF—BAPTISM—TEMPTATION.
               THE lion turned into a lamb, the persecutor into an humble recipient of the
                  doctrines he had hated, still human nature lingered with its infirmities, its
                  doubts and fears; and unwilling his wife should know all his weakness, Mr.
                  Marchmont privately sought the counsel of the Rev. J. Stephenson, his wife's
                  beloved pastor. With this good man he had many conversations, of which Mrs.
                  Marchmont had no knowledge, and much time was spent in reading the Bible and
                  prayer, when no eye but that of God was upon him. After many weeks trembling and
                  hesitation, a church meeting was appointed, and Mr. Marchmont invited to attend.
                  Of this he said nothing to his wife, and when afterwards asked the reason, he
                  replied—
               "He had so often deceived and so cruelly abused her, he did not think it probable
                  she would believe him, but would imagine he was only tantalizing her with vain
                  hopes."
               The hour for church meeting arrived. Mrs. Marchmont mont arranged her affairs at
                  home, and enjoying much of that gratitude and peace she had experienced since she
                  believed her husband renewed in heart, took her place in the assembly of the
                  beloved in Zion. She had left Mr. Marchmont reclining on the sofa, with his Bible
                  by his side. Who can describe her surprise when she saw him enter that place but
                  half an hour later than herself! The services commenced, and after the singing of
                  a hymn and prayer, a few minutes elapsed, when her already palpitating heart
                  throbbed more violently as she heard her husband called by name, and saw him rise
                  and come forth to "declare what the Lord had done for his soul."—Humbly he spoke,
                  and oh! what sentences of true and heartfelt repentance fell from his lips, as he
                  recounted the history of the past, the struggles and rebellion of his soul—the
                  anxious efforts of his forgiving wife—his earnest search into the Word to learn
                  why she had chosen the Baptist faith—the gradual dawning of light into his mind,
                  and his penitent offering of himself to Christ and to his church.
               Ah! this intense reaction of soul, from the depths of sorrow to the hights of joy,
                  how nearly did it overcome the frame of the wife who sat sobbing almost
                  convulsively, and unable to look about her when those around had heard her
                  husband's story of a love and faith which had been to him almost salvation. An
                  evening to be remembered forever was that, when not a dry eye could be seen in all that
                  company of disciples, from the pastor and the greyheaded deacons to the youngest
                  member of the flock. And did not angels also listen upon that evening, and did not
                  their harps tune forth new strains of joy? "I say unto you, there is joy in the
                  presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth."
               Oh! how the love which had been pledged to Herbert Marchmont at the marriage
                  altar, now flowed from its long pent-up fountains, to pour its gushing tide at his
                  feet; bearing into oblivion the memory of past wrongs—while he, knowing as yet, so
                  little of the pure depths of woman's love, declared, "nature is nature,—how
                     can my wife ever forgive me?—and yet, I think I know
                     something of her forgiving spirit, even now."
               Penitently and humbly, yet with hope in the Son of God, was Herbert Marchmont led
                  into the baptismal waters, by the same hand which had once conducted thither his
                  happy, believing wife. The scene was not, as then, one of triumphant joy; he who
                  took upon him the vows of baptism, felt that he had come, as it were, at the
                  eleventh hour into the Master's field; that his offering was a withered heart, and
                  a frail body. But the finger of faith pointed to Him, who is made for sinners
                  Righteousness, Justification, and Redemption; and wrapping around him the offered
                  robe, he gave himself to Christ, just as he was.
               
               How brightly, now, rose upon Mrs. Marchmont's mental view, the sweet visions of
                  hope! "The future would be to her a foretaste of heaven. If her husband's health
                  should be restored, and he should walk worthy of the name he had professed—surely
                  earth would be all sunlight." Such were some of the whisperings of her heart from
                  the time she saw her once persecuting partner baptized "in the name of the Father,
                  Son, and Holy Spirit." But "the trial of her faith was not yet perfect," for she
                  was yet to feel the "thorn in the flesh." The Prince of Darkness could not
                  relinquish one who had been his faithful servant for so many years, without many
                  fierce contentions for victory. And so, finding his prey had at last escaped, he
                  let loose upon him all the artillery of remorse, unbelief, and almost despair.
                     Why this was permitted must not be asked—but surely, those who
                  spend so many years in rebellion against God, and who sin with such a high hand,
                  lay up for themselves, even in case of a reconciliation with their offended Maker,
                  a store of painful regrets, which must accompany them to the portals of
                  eternity.
               When Mrs. Marchmont witnessed the fiery temptations which assaulted the mind of
                  her husband, a deep shadow passed over her newly-found happiness. He concealed
                  from her, as much as was possible, the state of his feelings, but his restlessness
                  during the hours of night, which he said was not caused by pain, and his melancholy by day, led her to plead for his
                  confidence:—
               "Herbert, my dear husband, will you not tell me what so disturbs you?"
               "Ah! Hester, I have been baptized on a profession of my faith in Christ, and I
                  feel its truth; but oh! I have used you so badly, I never can be
                  forgiven."
               His wife wept at his words and the despairing tone in which they were uttered.
               "Do you think, my dear, that Christ's blood can only cleanse some
                     particular sin, or is it intended to remove all
                  sin?"
               "But consider what a desperate sinner I have been—how
                     can I ever be helped?"
               "Do you remember, Marchmont,—'Though your sins be as SCARLET—though they be
                     red like crimson,'—the power of grace can pardon
                     all!"
               "But my sins are of every kind."
               "It is so,—but yet, 'Christ's blood cleanseth from all sin'—and 'God
                  so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that WHOSOEVER believeth in
                  Him might have eternal life,' are the declarations of that Word which is Divine
                  Truth. Think for a moment of that little word 'all'—of
                  'WHOSOEVER'—how precious!"
               "Well, now," said the tempted man, "all that is true; if I could only think of it
                  when I feel so. Butyou must hate me, and think me a hypocrite—you can
                  have no confidence in me. How many times I promised, if you would forgive me, I
                  would do better! but when I would see M——, and S——, and L——, and all those, and
                  think how much I had lost, it would vex me, and then I flew to the bottle, and to
                  ——, and is there not as much danger now, as before?"
               "No, Herbert, for though these may be your greatest temptations; yet, now you know
                  the way of escape, pray but more earnestly to be delivered, and Jesus will save
                  you from all evil; only keep your heart fixed on him."
               "Ah! but there is the difficulty."
               Finding he could not rest, Mrs. Marchmont suggested prayer, and leaving her bed,
                  she fell on her knees by his side, and broke the silence of the night by her
                  petitions for her weak and tempted husband. After many such scenes, he still
                  lingered on, fearful, yet not wholly unbelieving."
               Very much of this weakness of faith had its source in physical disease. The frame
                  of Herbert Marchmont was sinking under an accumulation of incurable diseases, and
                  he felt most sensibly that all he could offer to the Lord, was but a wreck, a
                  withered sacrifice. Oh! how sweet and beautiful an offering is the first love of
                  the heart; the first fresh energies of youth, and richly is that offering
                  rewarded, by the happiness of an
                  unembittered existence. Though in such offering, the scriptures declare there is
                     no merit; for the sacrifice of a fallen nature, is accepted
                     only through the obedience and intercession of our Great High
                  Priest, Jesus Christ, whose righteousness is imputed to the true
                  believer in heart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               ON THE ATLANTIC.
               THOUGH both Mr. Marchmont and his wife clung to the faintest hopes of his
                  restoration to health, it became every day more evident their hopes were vain. His
                  strength diminished rapidly, and for this, sea-bathing was prescribed, and
                  finally, a voyage to America was recommended as the last hope of saving his life.
                  But how could he go without his wife? And how could she leave her little ones
                  behind? To this it was replied, that as the season was mild, the voyage would
                  prove a decided advantage to Mrs. Marchmont and her children, as she was in an
                  unusually delicate situation, and the little ones were not rugged.
               When the matter became decided that all were to accompany Mr. Marchmont, excepting
                  Lizzie, who had some time before been placed at a boarding school, in the vicinity
                  of her grandmother's residence, Mrs. Marchmont and her husband visited Mrs.
                  Warwick, and also Lizzie, for the purpose of bidding each farewell well. Mrs. Marchmont felt no apprehensions, nor any
                  sadness more than usual, when parting with her beloved child, expecting to
                  accomplish their voyage and return by the close of the midsummer vacation. Lizzie
                  seemed delighted with the prospect of her father's recovery, and shared joyously
                  in her mother's anticipations of a reunion at home.
               "We shall be absent but two or three months, my daughter, and then, you will come
                  home to remain with mother all the time. And we hope father will then be better,
                  and, if the Lord pleases, we shall be very happy."
               "And then, mother, I can assist you in taking care of little Emma, and I can read
                  good books to father, you know."
               But with Mrs. Warwick, the parting was otherwise, for she had arrived at the "sear
                  and yellow" days of Time. More than eighty years she had traveled the journey of
                  life, and the summons to eternity might be daily expected. Since her
                  reconciliation with Hester, and her knowledge of the cruel treatment of her
                  husband, her maternal love had returned, with even more than its former strength;
                  and she had never, since then, regarded her son-in-law with kindness. And now, for
                  the wife whom he had so abused, and whose years he had so inhumanly embittered, to
                  brave the perils of the sea, with four little children, the youngest not five
                  years old, and herself soon to become once more a mother, was wronging both
                  herself and her children. All the motives her maternal love could suggest were
                  urged to dissuade Hester from undertaking the voyage. But Mrs. Marchmont
                  considered it her duty to accompany her husband, and, therefore, all
                  other considerations were laid aside. The mother and daughter folded each other in
                  one long, tender embrace, and then parted—never more to meet on the shores of
                  Time.
               It was on one of the loveliest mornings of rosy June, in the year 1840, that Mr.
                  and Mrs. Marchmont, their children, and the faithful Martha, embarked in the
                  "Diamond," bound to St. John's, New Brunswick. In that place Mr. Marchmont had a
                  relative, who was holding a responsible situation under the British government,
                  and in his family, he expected his wife, children, and himself, to share all the
                  privileges of a home, and to avail themselves of the restoratives so greatly
                  needed for the invigoration of his exhausted health. A throng of Christian friends
                  accompanied the invalid and his family to the place of embarkation. Whatever
                  misgivings many of them felt as to the expediency of such an undertaking for Mr.
                  Marchmont and his wife, only prayers and blessings and tender farewells were
                  allowed to greet their ears. How soothingly upon the mind of Mr. Marchmont and
                  Hester, fell the sweet influences of Chris tian friendship, many tokens of which they had ere
                  this often experienced. As the vessel plowed its trackless way over the blue
                  waves, and the shores of "dear, merrie England" receded from their view, "some
                  natural tears they dropped, but wiped them soon." God, was God of the sea, as well
                  as of the land, and was He not their Redeemer, their Friend?
               Fair skies and favorable breezes rendered seventeen days of the voyage delightful,
                  but on the eighteenth, the wind changed with fearful suddenness. Preparations were
                  made in all haste to avert the coming storm, but ere they were completed, it burst
                  upon them in all its fury. Winds, clouds and waves, seemed commissioned as
                  messengers of wrath; and even the stout heart of the old weather-beaten captain
                  himself quailed before the terrific tempest, as he beheld one portion after
                  another, and others yet, of the doomed vessel, prostrated before its power. Back,
                  back, among icebergs and rocks, was thrust the dismantled bark, farther and
                  farther from her intended course. As the last faint hope of life, the passengers
                  consented to be tied to the pumps to save them from sinking, until some vessel
                  more fortunate than theirs should appear for their relief.
               A storm at sea is one of the most appalling events human nature can witness. It is
                  then it hears more distinctly the voice of the Unseen, and witnesses the evidences
                  of His power. But to this little company, who had embarked on board the Diamond so
                  full of hope, it was peculiarly distressing. From the commencement of the storm,
                  Mrs. Marchmont had been confined to her state-room by sea-sickness, and during a
                  great part of the time was unconscious of the extent of their danger. The
                  children, deprived of their mother's wonted attentions, and affrighted at the
                  scenes which surrounded them, clung with tears and sobs to the kind-hearted
                  servant, even more alarmed than they. Mr. Marchmont, whose disease had become
                  greatly aggravated by the excitement of their situation, was in an agony of mental
                  suffering, hightened by hearing the cries of many around to the Lord to have mercy
                  on them and forgive their sins.
               "It is all owing to me, Hester—let me sink and the rest will be safe;
                  my sins have brought this trouble upon you."
               Then clasping his hands, at other times he would cry—
               "Oh! why was I brought to hope in Jesus and then see my wife and my babes
                  swallowed up in the sea!"
               The few moments of respite which her sufferings from sea-sickness allowed her,
                  Mrs. Marchmont devoted voted to
                  comforting her distressed husband with the promises of the Gospel. The physician
                  on board was devoted in his attentions to the suffering invalid and his wife, and
                  those of the ship's company who could think of any one but themselves, tendered to
                  Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont their kindest sympathies. But Hester felt no alarm; amid
                  the cries and prayers of those who were thus, in the hour of danger, appealing to
                  a hitherto neglected God, she experienced the peace of those who trust in Him at
                  all times. Often in an interval of ease did she endeavor to calm the fears of her
                  husband and children by singing some sweet hymn, and one to her especially
                  precious— 
                     
                        "Begone, unbelief! my Saviour is near,
                        And for my relief will surely appear;
                        In prayer let me wrestle, and He will perform—
                        
                           With Christ in the vessel, I smile at the storm."
                     
                   Particularly emphasizing the lines, 
                     
                        "His love in times past forbids me to think
                        He'll leave me at last in trouble to sink."
                     
                   God was merciful, and after leading all to see how frail is man in the day of
                  His power, He spake to the winds, "Peace, be still! and to the sea, and it was
                  calm!"
               Alas! how soon did too many forget Him, and "blessing their stars for their good
                  luck," insult the Being who had saved them. Among these was the physician, who,
                  addressing Hester, said—
               "I declare, at one time I thought we would have been food for the fishes. But you,
                  madam, have rallied beyond my expectations, and Mr. Marchmont, though now very
                  feeble, may improve rapidly when he gets to land."
               "I am truly thankful," Hester replied, "to our heavenly Father for staying the
                  storm, and giving us all our lives, and I thank the ship's company also for the
                  interest they have manifested in me and mine."
               "Oh, oh!" said the doctor, "you are one of those who first thank God and then man.
                  I guess you would not have been here to thank God if the company had refused to do
                  their duty at the pumps!"
               Feeling pained at the doctor's unbelief and ingratitude, Mrs. Marchmont attempted
                  to direct his mind to God as the mover of men's hearts, strengthening them in
                  duty. But when the soul is hardened in unbelief, it is of little avail to cast the
                  pearls of truth before them.
               The Diamond was six weeks out at sea, and bereft of her masts and sails, a mere
                  wreck, she was finally picked up by the steamer ———, and towed into the harbor of
                  New York. The passengers had lost nearly all their effects by the storm, and Mr.
                  and Mrs. Marchmont shared greatly in the loss. Fortunately, however, their money was saved, and
                  though in a most melancholy plight when they landed, Mr. Marchmont and his wife
                  possessed the means of retrieving the loss of their clothing, though many other
                  invaluable articles had perished, which could never be replaced.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               LAST HOURS.—NEW SORROWS.
               UPON arriving in the city of New York, Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont took lodgings at a
                  hotel, and his extreme exhaustion rendered his situation so critical that his wife
                  could not even lie down to rest her wearied frame; but a night of watching and
                  weeping and prayer, was that which Hester first spent in a land of strangers. But
                  Mr. Marchmont lived to see the light of another day, and revived considerably.
                  Knowing that Doctor L——, a former friend and associate, resided in Troy, he
                  requested his wife to take him there, that he might have the advice and attention
                  of the doctor, and in case of his death, his wife and children would be in the
                  care of friends. Agreeably to his wishes, Mr. Marchmont made arrangements to
                  hasten immediately to Troy, hoping that rest, and the attention and skill she knew
                  would be exerted in his behalf, might obtain for him a least a few months of
                  comfortable existence.
               
               But so it was not to be. A few days of alternating between life and death, and the
                  invalid husband sank too low for human skill, or love to cherish the shadow of a
                  hope. As Mrs. Marchmont was one day bathing his face, and tempting him with a
                  reviving draught, her husband faintly said—
               "It is of no use, Hester—I shall never rise from this bed. And what will you do
                  here? Go immediately home, and do not remain here in your loneliness, for bad as I
                  have been, I do think you will miss me among strangers."
               Oh, the sad solemnity of those past hours! The past haunting the dying man with
                  its painful regrets—the future with its fears for a bereaved wife and her
                  fatherless children, in a strange land. Yet comforted by the Christian fortitude
                  of his heroic wife, his feeble faith endeavored to banish all these gloomy
                  visions, and look upward to the welcome promised even to the very chief of
                     repenting sinners. All that Mrs. Marchmont could do to assure him
                  of her forgiveness and her love, of her trust in God for herself and her children,
                  she did, even upon her knees, and holding his emaciated hand. And as she moistened
                  his dying lips, and wiped the death-damp from his brow, she told him of the love
                  of the Son of God, and pointed to a heaven purchased by the blood of Christ,
                  where, ransomed from sin, he should ever live, pure, holy, and happy. She spoke of
                  the frail, diseased, and dying body changed into an incorruptible and glorious
                  form.
               And thus, on the second week after landing on the shores of a far-off
                  clime—Herbert Marchmont died—penitent, believing, hoping in the all-sufficient
                  Atonement—saved, as "a brand plucked from the burning"—and grace was triumphant
                  over sin.
               
               And thus had Hester Marchmont crossed the ocean amidst terror, storm and sickness,
                  to find, within a few days, herself a widow, and her children fatherless. To lay
                  the remains of him whose name she bore, beneath the sod, far from the graves of
                  his fathers, and among strangers, to find friends true and kind to sympathize with
                  her and uphold her in the true faith. Though strong of nerve and heart, and
                  trusting sincerely in an all-sufficient Saviour, she was yet a
                  woman—a mother. The vigor of her fine constitution was
                  impaired by years of mental toil and bodily suffering, and in her peculiarly
                  trying situation, she must have been more than woman, if nature had not for a time
                  reeled beneath the weight of affliction. She felt her bereavement, she felt keenly
                  her present situation—but she felt them as a Christian—humbled, broken-hearted,
                  but still leaning upon the Arm which alone could sustain.
               The grief of the little fatherless children for the loss of their parent, affected
                  Mrs. Marchmont painfully fully; as she
                  overheard them often in their childish conversations lamenting their loss.
               "Papa is dead—what did he die for, and make poor ma so sorry?"
               "Mamma don't talk, now papa's dead,—poor mamma!"
               "Nobody that dies ever comes back," said the eldest; "but ma told me if we are
                  good we shall all go to see pa again."
               Two weeks of sorrow and gloom, sustained only by communion with Him who is mercy
                  and love, passed away, subsequently to the burial of her husband, and Mrs.
                  Marchmont became once more a mother. The little being who thus drew its first
                  breath in an atmosphere of sorrow, was frail in the extreme, scarcely able to
                  receive the nourishment its nature required. It was a miniature of the father it
                  was never to behold, and many were the tears that mother shed over the tiny bud
                  thus given to her to rear alone, and away from the home of her youth. Prayers also
                  were uttered over it, such as only one who felt that Jesus alone was her
                     all, could pray. In praying, and hoping, and waiting, did Mrs.
                  Marchmont spend six weeks, surrounded, it is true, by those who spared no pains to
                  render her comfortable, and happy as her trials would permit—but still her heart
                  was in the home of her aged mother, and her gentle daughter.
               At last, a letter arrived, bearing the post-mark of dear old England. With
                  trembling eagerness did Hester seize and open it—but, alas! the hand-writing was
                  that of a stranger. It was opened,—but the contents sent rushing across her heart
                  another wave, black with sorrow and affliction. Her mother had died before the
                  arrival of her letter. She sat down, bowed her head and wept, and could she have
                  spoken to the friends who wept with her, the sentiment would have been
                  uttered—"was ever there sorrow like unto my sorrow?" She flew to her wonted
                  refuge—but only those who have sorrowed in like manner, can understand the
                  desolation which pervaded her mind. A few thought her troubles no greater than
                  such as occur every day in a world of misery, but others there were, who wept with
                  her the tears of Christian sympathy, and dearly did she prize their love and their
                  kind counsels
               When the storm of grief had somewhat subsided, Hester read again the letter which
                  had come, bearing such mournful intelligence. In so doing, she found that even
                  this trial was blended with mercy, and the cup of sorrow mixed with joy. It was
                  written by a Baptist sister in the church, of which Mrs. Marchmont was a member.
                  And after giving the tidings of her mother's decease, the letter contained other
                  and more cheering facts—
               
               
                  "You, my dear sister, have not to mourn as those who have no hope. Soon after
                     your departure, which grieved your dear mother exceedingly, she became
                     unusually interested in the perusal of the Scriptures. In reply to the inquiry,
                     why she was thus so constantly engaged, she said,—'I am determined to see, if I
                     can, why my poor Hester renounced her Infant Baptism.'—And some weeks
                     afterwards, on calling to see her, she said, with tears in her eyes,—'I have
                     found it all out—I see Hester could not read her Bible without becoming a
                     Baptist. Poor girl! the Lord forgive me, that I so wronged my dear child. And I
                     am now in my old age, brought to believe in the doctrine I have despised. Yes,'
                     said she, 'I am a Baptist—a believer in the atonement of Jesus, and His baptism
                     also.' I think her mind was fully decided to receive believer's baptism, but
                     perhaps, she waited for a time to read more of her own heart, and then, death
                     came—suddenly, yet peacefully.
                  Your darling Lizzie is well, and improving rapidly. She was greatly grieved at
                     the loss of her grandmother, but by the efforts of her kind teachers and
                     friends, she is now soothed and resigned. She is full of anxiety to hear from
                     you and her dear father, and her little brothers and sisters, in which anxiety
                     we all share. May the Lord bless you and yours, dear sister, and whatever may
                     be your sorrows or your joys, remember, that from your brethren and sisters in
                     Christ, prayers are ascending daily on your behalf."
               
               In reading the epistle of her friend, Mrs. Marchmont experienced a pleasure which
                  greatly softened the intensity of her first grief. She felt that she ought not to
                  repine, but rather to give thanks that God had heard her prayers, and blessed her
                  dear mother ere she had passed away. And so, in these hours of mourning, "the
                  consolations of God were not small" with her, and she was enabled to say from her
                  heart. "Not my will, but Thine." And then, her children, they were yet hers to
                  cheer her with their smiles and caresses, their prattle and their songs. She could
                  lead them abroad in daily walks for health; she could impart lessons of piety, and
                  a joyful reunion with her precious Lizzie, might ere long take place, and so she
                  said, "The Lord is good—I will not murmur."
               Winter came—in this untried climate, with its keen blasts, its sudden changes and
                  severity of cold, and nature seemed wrapped in a shroud of funereal snow. Beneath
                  these adverse influences, Henry, the eldest, and Fanny, the second of the little
                  Marchmonts, seemed to shrink and grow pale together, as if by some hidden
                  sympathy. They were constitutionally frail, and their mother's love took alarm.
                  "Could she but take them back to their native clime, to dear old England, they
                  surely would revive." But vessel after vessel arrived, and still, all was silence
                  concerning her funds, and to return, in the present state of her purse, was
                  impossible. Medical skill was employed day by day—and the most tender care and
                  nursing, but all were of no avail—and the little ones "faded, even as the flowers
                  of the field." They seemed conscious also, that they were dying, and as they lay
                  side by side, their feeble questions whispered ed in the ear of their ever watchful mother, were
                  frequently too touching to admit of replies.
               "Won't I go soon to see papa, and Jesus too—up in Heaven?" said Fanny.
               "I trust you will, my dear, and mother hopes to go there too."
               "And bring the baby, and Rachel too, won't you, mamma?"
               On the day of their death, little Henry seemed to sink faster than his sister, and
                  opening for a moment his weary eyes, said,—
               "Kiss me, ma—I'm going to sleep—a very long sleep."
               And surely that sleep was long, for it knew no waking. And Fanny soon slept also,
                  and the angels carried both dear ones into their Father's bosom.
               Once more did stranger-friends assist Mrs. Marchmont in "burying her dead out of
                  her sight."—These were her lovely dead. She laid them to
                  rest in their early graves, by the side of their father, and weeping fond, sad
                  tears upon their little beds, but still committing them to the care of an Eye that
                  never slumbers, and returned to the abode of her sojourn, to press still the
                  living still more closely to her heart, and school it to such a resignation as
                  became a disciple of the "Man of Sorrows."
               The expenses attendant upon the illness and interment ment of her husband and
                  children, had greatly reduced the sum from which Mrs. Marchmont was drawing the
                  means of her support. Looking with every arrival from England, for remittances to
                  enable her to return, and being anxious to return with her remaining children, she
                  formed no acquaintances beyond the family with whom she resided, and that of the
                  excellent Alderman Mc'K—, whose wife belonged to the Society of Friends. Devoting
                  herself exclusively to her children, and to religious exercises, she secluded
                  herself wholly from the world, attending only upon the Lord's Day worship. The
                  kindness of the friends in Troy, among whom her lot was thus providentially cast,
                  was to her inexpressibly consoling. Their hearts were touched by her
                  lonely and afflicted condition, and her Christian submission, and calmness of
                     demeanor—hers, by their unaffected and tender sympathy; and the
                  spirit often rose in gratitude to God, and daily did she call down blessings upon
                  their heads, in her secret visits to a Mercy Seat; and long lingered the memory of
                  their love.
               Other circumstances, also, occurred to alleviate the sadness of her lot, and to
                  her they were peculiarly cheering. When leaving England, friends in the Baptist
                  communion, learning her contemplated routes of travel through the States, pressed
                  upon her acceptance letters of introduction to their friends, in different places in the Union. These, as they were
                  besides letters of friendship to the individuals themselves, she had, as soon as
                  her circumstances permitted, forwarded to their places of destination. And now,
                  answers were daily arriving, expressing the kindest solicitude for her welfare,
                  and filled with the outpourings of Christian hearts. One of these was from a
                  family, formerly of the Rev. Mr. Mann's Church, Maize-Pond, London. To them, and
                  also a few others, she replied at length, informing them of her bereavements, her
                  loneliness, and her hope of soon returning to England. In return, came pressing
                  invitations to visit them at their residence, in the "Queen City of the West;"
                  suggesting that the change might benefit her both physically and mentally. But
                  their kind invitation she could not accept,—her remaining children were
                  exceedingly delicate, requiring all her care, and her funds were becoming so low
                  as to occasion some anxiety. But this latter circumstance she revealed to none of
                  her friends, hoping daily for a change for the better.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               PERPLEXITIES—SORROWS.
               GREAT anxiety was experienced by the friends of those who had sailed in the
                  Diamond, as week after week of the time appointed for her arrival at St. John's
                  went by, and all was silence concerning her fate. The first intelligence which
                  arrived, announced her to have become hopelessly wrecked, and threw dismay and
                  mourning over many a household, for all on board were reported lost. This news
                  reached also the relatives of Herbert and Hester Marchmont, and their fate was
                  considered as decided. Claims to their property were immediately made, and
                  appropriated as soon as possible. These had hardly become established, when a
                  letter was received from Mrs. Marchmont, detailing her misfortunes, and requesting
                  funds to enable her to return. Accompanying this, was a letter to her daughter,
                  still at school. These fell into the hands of a near relative, and prompted by
                  motives of cupidity, he suppressed, or
                  destroyed them, keeping the other relatives in ignorance of any such
                  communications. Again Mrs. Marchmont wrote, and again, but each letter shared the
                  same fate, until becoming discouraged, she addressed, though very reluctantly, the
                  sister from whom she had endured so much cruel reviling in consequence of
                  religion. It was received about the same time that a vessel from America brought
                  tidings of the safety of the passengers and crew of the Diamond. This altered the
                  state of affairs, but it was thought best to leave them as they were, until Mrs.
                  Marchmont should return, as she had stated in her letter that she was expecting
                  money from the trustees of her property, and had long wondered why it was not
                  remitted. No suspicion of fraud crossed the mind of her sister, and supposing the
                  trustees would attend to their own affairs, she said nothing about it. But she
                  enclosed a draft, which had been placed with her, as due to Mr. Marchmont, from
                  some unknown individual. Hester had related the story of her bereavements, and
                  adverted to her extreme loneliness in consequence, and her anxiety to see her
                  gentle Lizzie. Her sister replied, not in the spirit of condolence or sympathy,
                  but in that of upbraiding. "Had you," wrote she, "continued in the bosom of our
                  Holy Church, instead of running after those low Baptists, your
                  husband never would have gone to the lengths he did, and might have retained his
                  health. It was your stubborn refusal to go with him into company, which drove him
                  to desperation, and ruined his health. The loss of this sent him from home, and
                  found graves for himself and his children in a foreign land. I do not pity you at
                  all, for you have brought it all on yourself, by your despicable fanaticism." Such
                  were the sympathies of a sister, whose nature was perverted by bigotry and the
                  prejudices of ignorance. Such are the lessons imparted by the dignitaries of the
                  Established Church; how far unlike the teachings of those of whom they pretend to
                  be the successors! For it is ever thus, (the case of Mrs. Marchmont not being an
                  isolated instance,) that secession from the Church of England is, with them, the
                  unpardonable sin, and forever cuts off the Dissenter from the sympathies of social
                  and domestic Episcopalianism. Intolerance is the very breath of its life, even
                  with that of Papacy—happy they who are safe from its blighting influences.
               The eldest daughter of Mrs. Marchmont, who had been left at school, being of a
                  remarkably affectionate and sensitive temperament, united to a frame of great
                  delicacy, was nearly prostrated by the supposed loss of both her beloved parents,
                  and remained under the care of her governess, in a very precarious condition of
                  health. Her aunts did not interest themselves in her case, and from malicious
                  desire to aggravate Mrs. Marchmont's troubles, by adding to her suspense and anxiety, said nothing at all of
                  Lizzie, leaving her mother to wonder why even that trifling comfort was
                  withheld.
               When Mrs. Marchmont received the letter from her sister, its cruel revilings and
                  entire silence concerning her precious child, and her pecuniary affairs, added to
                  her weight of trouble that which she had not for a moment anticipated. Hither to
                  her trials had been those of the spirit, now comparative poverty for
                  herself and her children stared her in the face, and how could she meet it all,
                  unprepared as she was by nature, education, and habit, to encounter its ills? Then
                  to resign for a long, long time, the hope of returning to her home, of seeing her
                  dear Lizzie, was harder than all.
               In her sorrow she felt that to lay her sweet children to rest by the side of those
                  gone before, and her own weary head beneath the ground, would be indeed a relief.
                  Earth seemed to present no avenue of escape from a host of ills she knew nothing
                  of by experience, but something by past observation. Could she write again to such
                  a sister as her's, and detail her anxieties and wants? To do so would only expose
                  her to still greater insults and more cruel reproaches, without affording any hope
                  of relief. But no path was open—she knew the way to the mercyseat, and thither she
                  bore her perplexities, and there did she plead for counsel. The true believer who
                  prays in faith, as did Mrs. Marchmont, may not find the desires
                  immediately granted, but the eye of Him who notes the sparrow's fall, is ever upon
                  His children, and He will "lead them by a way they know not," through all the
                  wilderness to the Canaan above. Resolved to bear meekly and bravely all the Lord
                  saw fit to lay upon her, she proceeded promptly to act as her best judgment seemed
                  to direct.
               Her first step was to call to her side her faithful servant who had accompanied
                  her from England, and acquaint her with her inability any longer to employ
                  her.
               "But, madam, I can't bear to go leave you with the care of the dear babies, and
                  you all lone, it'll kill you here. Never mind, ma'am, I don't want no pay, and
                  I'll stay with you for nothing, till you gets the money from dear old England.
                  Bless its name! I wish we's all there to-day."
               "But, Martha, I cannot even pay your board, if I do not pay you wages, and you
                  know the people will not board you free. You are a good girl, Martha, and God will
                  bless you for your kindness to me and the dear children. But now get all ready
                  that you can, and I will inquire for a good home for you, and perhaps you will get
                  back to England long before me."
               "This dre'ful country, it's so damp, so hot, so cold, nobody knows which is
                  which,—I'm sure, ma'am, it'll kill you
                  and the babies too, and I heard the doctors say that too."
               "Well, Martha, you know God can take care of us here as well as in England, and if
                  we die, we will go to a better country than England. But if my money arrives I
                  will return home, and then you can go with me."
               Singularly enough, not very long after, Mrs. M. was informed of a family going to
                  England, who wished a servant woman to accompany them, and in a short time her
                  faithful Martha bade her farewell with many tears, and set sail for "dear old
                  England." To one reared in affluence and ease, the parting with the only domestic
                  was a severe trial, which none but those similarly situated, can fully understand,
                  and it was rendered more bitter by the loneliness of her lot as a stranger. Martha
                  was not the hireling of a day; she had lived with Mrs. Marchmont for many years,
                  had warded off many a blow aimed by an inebriate husband, and had stood by her
                  side through the deepest of her sorrows. She was more to Mrs. Marchmont than a
                  servant—she was a friend, one devoted and tried.
               With three little children, the eldest scarcely four years of age, and a babe
                  sickly from its birth, still in her arms, Mrs. Marchmont looked around for the
                  means of still keeping them and herself in a comfortable home. Stating her
                  difficulties to the benevolent Mrs. McK——, she requested her to obtain some plain
                  sewing, which she might do in the intervals of attending upon her children. This
                  was speedily obtained, and afforded her a temporary relief. As she was one day
                  showing to the same lady some beautiful embroidery, wrought by her own fingers, it
                  was suggested that to teach the art to a class of young ladies would be quite
                  profitable. Although aware of the difficulty of doing so with the care of her
                  little ones devolving solely on herself, she gladly availed herself of the
                  proposal. Mrs. M'K—— volunteered to obtain all the scholars, while the kind friend
                  with whom she boarded, offered her the free use of a room in which to teach. How
                  grateful did the stranger-widow feel to her heavenly Father for thus raising her
                  up friends in the hour of need! Her funds could now be made available for
                  boarding, and clothing was not at that time needed, and then she could still spare
                  a little for charity.
               As soon as possible, Mrs. M. entered upon her new vocation, and notwithstanding
                  the difficulties attending it, was enabled to give entire satisfaction. Her days
                  were spent in unceasing industry, and her nights were sleepless from weariness,
                  yet she tried hard to be cheerful, and hope for the future.
               Mrs. Marchmont still continued her efforts to receive intelligence of her beloved
                  daughter, and also to obtain the funds which were still her's, to defray her expected return to her home. She
                  wrote to a trusted friend in the church of which she was a member, desiring him to
                  call on the trustees, and ascertain why her applications had been disregarded, and
                  commissioned him to convey a letter to her daughter, and to ascertain her
                  situation. This done, she resolved to commit the result to the Lord and live in
                  His presence day by day, assured He would "do all things well."
               The class in embroidery had completed their course of instruction, and a second
                  term was in contemplation. Mrs. Marchmont was one day nursing her babe, when the
                  little one suddenly looked up in her face, gave a quick gasp, and in a moment was
                  gone. The shock deprived Mrs. Marchmont of her consciousness, and the cries of the
                  children brought the family into the room. The mother and her babe were placed on
                  a bed, and a physician quickly summoned. Kindness and skill restored Mrs. M. to
                  life, but the babe had fled to its home in the skies. When the tears of maternal
                  affection had gushed forth, relieving the full heart of its weight, Mrs. Marchmont
                  was enabled to look upon the dead babe with the calmness of a Christian, and even
                  to bless God that He had secured it thus early from the storms of life. Ah! the
                  Christian's hope, the doctrine of the Resurrection, who would exclude
                  it from his belief and his heart?
               The physician who had so often attended upon the widowed mother and her family,
                  felt much sympathy with the afflicted stranger. In a few days after the burial of
                  her babe, he called on a visit of friendship. Closely observing the little ones
                  who were left, he said to Mrs. Marchmont—
               "I trust you will have strength given you to bear much sorrow still, for I fear
                  you will not keep these children long."
               "Why so, sir, do you think they are ill?"
               "I do, madam, but they will not likely be so very long. Their constitutions are
                  very frail, and they seem to have suffered for some time."
               The mother's own fears had long before been excited concerning these children,
                  although she could find no decided symptoms of illness. She begged the doctor to
                  prescribe for them, if he could do so to any present advantage, and added—
               "If it is the Lord's will to bereave me of my children, I will submit—I will not,
                  like one of old, 'refuse to be comforted.' They will be with their best
                  Friend."
               So Mrs. Marchmont reasoned; and very soon was she called upon to act as well as to
                  believe. In a few days, another of her little ones lay prostrate with disease, and
                  before he was laid in the ground, the other became ill. No skill, nor nursing,
                  could stay the coming of death, and swiftly he bore the fair children dren from earth. Two of the most
                  skillful physicians in the place, attended upon the little ones, but could give
                  their disease no especial name. With Mrs. Marchmont's consent, an examination of
                  their bodies was made, and water was discovered on the brain. They declared this
                  to have been produced by their fright, during the storm at sea, and the violent
                  motion of the vessel.
               And now, Mrs. Marchmont was alone in the world. Her language, as she returned from
                  the last resting place of her darlings, was, "Though clouds and darkness are round
                  about Him, yet justice and judgment are the habitation of His throne." She was a
                     mother, one who loved her children with an unselfish love, and she
                  could not but feel, intensely feel, the stroke which had cut them
                  down in the budding of their young life. The necessity for that constant care and
                  attention she had of late daily exercised, having ceased to exist, her own weared
                  powers gave way, and she was now, herself, upon a bed of sickness. Not only was
                  her body stricken low, but her mind also, and reason fled from its throne.
               She was surrounded by friends who pitied and loved her, and their kindness was
                  exerted to its utmost extent in her behalf. But oh! what tales of woe did her
                  unconscious wanderings reveal! and yet, what outpourings of a heart accustomed to
                  go to its God in every hour of sorrow! In her delirium, the scenes of her
                  persecution were acted over again, and secrets were made known, which drew tears
                  from attending friends. Such prayers were uttered as had, ere this, had no
                  listeners but God and the silent watchers from the midnight skies of London. And
                  many a Bible sermon on baptism did the fevered lips and tongue
                  discourse, which might have convinced an unbeliever when a pulpit homily would
                  have failed. And then, anon, her dead children were addressed, as if still with
                  her, and her English home seemed a present reality.
               By the blessing of God upon the means used, Mrs. Marchmont was restored to reason,
                  and a comparative degree of health. But a deeply seated melancholy ensued, which
                  gave the friends around her great anxiety, lest it should permanently affect her
                  intellect. They kindly compelled her to ride out, and to walk abroad in the pure
                  air, and occasionally to mingle in cheerful society. But her best
                  moments were those she spent in reading the Bible and in prayer.
               Her thoughts dwelt much upon her absent child, now doubly dear to her heart, and
                  upon the necessity of exerting herself for her own support, until she should
                  receive the expected remittances. Bewildered and perplexed, to use her own words,
                  she "cried unto the Lord with a strong cry, and He heard, and directed her
                  way."
               
               Memory brought before her the consolations she had enjoyed in the days of her
                  persecution, while engaged in active duties, works of piety and
                  benevolence. It pointed to cases where here and there, some of earth's poor ones,
                  and those in affliction, had been led to the Saviour, lived faithfully and died
                  happily, blessing her with their last breath as the instrument of their salvation.
                  Why should she not now, when wearied with plying the needle, do
                  something for the cause of the Redeemer? Obeying what she deemed the suggestions
                  of the Spirit, she selected a bundle of tracts, and drawing her widow's veil
                  closely around her, secretly sallied forth to seek the resorts of the lowly. That
                  day she distributed but few of her tracts, as finding several who, like herself
                  were in affliction, she conversed with them on the glorious hopes of the Gospel,
                  its power to cheer and sustain under the heaviest woes—briefly alluding to her own
                  sorrows, and the grace which had been granted to her through all. On returning
                  from these scenes, she found they had in a measure rendered her own spirit more
                  cheerful, and resolved to seek them daily. Meanwhile she devoted herself closely
                  to needle-work, that she might not become involved in debt, the thought of it
                  being horror to her mind, the whole of her funds having been exhausted in paying
                  bills incurred by illness and interments.
               It was some time in the course of her daily visits to the poor, that Mrs.
                  Marchmont met with a lady from the west of England, and being engaged in a common
                  cause, the hearts of each became attracted to the other in an unusual degree.
                  Learning the tale of Mrs. Marchmont's affliction, her new friend strongly
                  persuaded her not to think of returning to England, but to remain in America,
                  where the field was larger and laborers more needed. There was but one tie now
                  binding her to England, her darling Elizabeth—the graves of her dead were here—and
                  she listened to the suggestions of her friend as to something of which she had
                  never thought. "If only her Lizzie could be sent to her—she was now at an age to
                  comfort and assist her greatly—and the property which was her's at home, might
                  sustain her abundantly in America." So reflecting and praying to be guided aright,
                  she resolved for the present to relinquish her anxiety to return, and wait the
                  leadings of Providence.
               Making an earnest effort to throw off the melancholy which had pervaded her
                  spirit, she acquainted her friends with her resolution to resume her instructions
                  in embroidery. They heard this announcement with pleasure, and the requisite
                  assistance was speedily offered her. But they did not know that her feet daily
                  crossed the thresholds of the poor and
                  the afflicted, and that from the widow's earnings they were supplied with many a
                  "mite"—and by her counsels and prayers were led to think of a better world.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE FIRE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.
               SOME time passed on in these employments, at the close of which, Mrs. Marchmont
                  found herself raised above debt and want, and possessed of a little surplus
                  besides her clothing. She had received an urgent invitation to visit a dear
                  friend, Mrs. N——, about two miles N. W. from Troy. This lady was one who drank
                  deeply at the fountains of Christian love, and the effect was sweetly exhibited in
                  her daily walk and conversation. Piety and benevolence were her prominent
                  characteristics; of course Mrs. Marchmont could not but feel cheered and
                  strengthened while in her society.
               Two weeks of her visit had passed, and it was the night of the Sabbath. She had
                  not yet closed her eyes, though it was nearly midnight, for wakefulness had become
                  with her a habit, when suddenly she thought she heard a cry of "fire!" Going
                  immediately to her window, she raised it and looked out, when, to her dismay, she
                  saw a long line of flame issuing from
                  the buildings around, and yet the inhabitants seemed buried in sleep, until again
                  the fire-cry broke more loudly upon her ear. Forgetful of herself, and thinking
                  only of her friends, who had several children, one or two in their own room, and
                  the others in the next, she ran to their door, and knocking loudly, called Mr. N——
                  to rouse, for the house was on fire. After ascertaining with certainty they were
                  awakened, she ran to the next door, and then to another and another, alarming the
                  inmates, but forgetting that she was still in her night-dress, and that all she
                  had in the world was in her own room. By this time all was alarm and confusion,
                  the fire had broken out in every part of the block, and the peril of life was
                  becoming every moment greater. Thinking only of the children, while Mr. and Mrs.
                  N—— were endeavoring to save their goods, Mrs. Marchmont snatched up two of the
                  smallest and carried them safely out at the door, and then returning, made her way
                  up to seize two others, calling the rest to follow her amidst the smoke rising all
                  around. Mrs. N—— and herself were descending with the remaining little ones, when
                  a strong arm snatched them from the flames just as the burning stairs gave way.
                  Mrs. Marchmont knew nothing more until she found herself and Mrs. N—— sitting upon
                  some embers, the heat of which aroused them to consciousness. All was ruin around
                  them, but the children and the family were safe. Her destitute condition now, for
                  the first time, flashed upon her mind, and the words of Job seemed to accompany
                  it, "Naked came I hither—naked shall I return—the Lord gave, and He hath taken
                  away;" and yet, she thought, "blessed be the name of the Lord." In a land of
                  strangers, in the dead hours of the night, with no shelter for her head, no
                  clothing for her body—alone—and all around her the sounds of crying, and moans of
                  despair, from those who had lost their all—she stood lost and bewildered, gazing
                  vacantly around.
               Mrs. Marchmont was roused from this sad stupor, by a grasp on her arm, and a face
                  of most singular expression, peering into her own, with a pair of eyes whose
                  lustre seemed, in the light of the moon, almost unearthly. The sweet low voice of
                  the lady addressed her, as she half urged her along with her friendly hand,—
               "Come with me, my dear sister, for the Lord has sent me to you."
               So absorbed was Mrs. Marchmont in gazing on the face which was before her, that
                  she thought not of replying to the kind entreaty. There was in its expression an
                  approach to wildness, which seemed accompanied by the purely spiritual, and at the
                  first view, completely fascinated the beholder. Again the lady spake—
               "When I saw the flames to-night, dear sister, I went into my closet, and thinking the whole town
                  was on fire, I prayed the Lord to direct me to one or more of His dear children,
                  if He had any who were sufferers in this calamity, and though I never saw you but
                  once, that once assured me you were a Christian, and to-night the Lord brought no
                  one before me but you,—so come along, my sister."
               Astonishment at this wonderful token of the Lord's goodness, so overpowered Mrs.
                  Marchmont that she fainted at the feet of her rescuing angel, and when she
                  recovered, the scene was changed. She opened her eyes to see loving and anxious
                  faces bending over her; to hear eager, happy whispers of, "She lives!"—"She is
                  better!"—to find herself on a bed of comfort, within a spacious and elegantly
                  furnished room. The lady, whose friendly hand had urged her from a scene of ruin,
                  embraced her lovingly, and bade her in kind tones—
               "Be quiet, now, dear; take your rest; there are none here but friends."
               A gush of tears, and sobs succeeded the severe tension which Hester's nerves had
                  so long endured, and knowing she needed this relief, her kind hostess allowed her
                  to weep freely, unrestrained, until the power to speak should return.
               Mrs. Marchmont's first feeble words were utterances of the most heartfelt
                  gratitude and humility; and "truly," said she, "language is powerless to describe
                  scribe my emotions." By her side, knelt the sweet lady of the house, with all in
                  the room, and aspirations of gratitude to God for His goodness, rose in the
                  stillness of that early morn.
               And thus, for the first time, had Hester Marchmont become a dependent upon the
                  bounty of another—she upon whom the good things of this life had, from her
                  earliest memory, been poured in profusion. Nature would have rebelled, pride rose
                  up in arms, and independence would have fought with circumstances, but grace
                  whispered,—"IT IS THE LORD, let Him do as seemeth good."
               "Give yourself no anxiety, you shall be most welcome to my house, its comforts
                  shall be yours, and your clothing will soon be made up;" was the kind language of
                  her new friend, Miss A——.
               Could a believer, thus situated, do aught than trust in a God who had
                  opportunely appeared for her relief? Though to human eye the future was enveloped
                  in clouds and mist, the rainbow of hope spanned the darkest of them all—and by
                  faith she heard the covenant-promise, "I will never leave thee, nor forsake
                  thee."
               There were some things which, at times, weighed heavily upon her spirit, such as
                  the loss of her diary and the letters of friends; relics of her departed husband
                  and children, and some valuable jewelry she had reserved for a time of need; all
                  these were far more precious than her
                  clothing, though that was elegant and costly, a small part of it having been
                  recovered from the wreck, and the remainder purchased after her arrival at New
                  York and Troy. It required all her Bible-taught spirit of submission to bear with
                  composure the thought that she had nothing now remaining of the loved and gone
                  before.
               A day and a night subsequent to the eventful morning which had first found her
                  beneath the hospitable roof of Miss A——, had passed, and Hester was sitting alone
                  at a window, reflecting on the past, its long series of trials and mercies also. A
                  cloud was resting upon her spirit, from which the faces of the loved in her dear
                  native land seemed to look out and beckon her to return. Tears flowed and a
                  choking grief was tugging at her heart at thoughts of the distance between herself
                  and the cherished daughter who had ever been to her as an angel of peace. The vast
                  ocean now seemed interminable—when should she cross it again! Thus had she sat,
                  lonely in her sorrow, for her benefactress was out on some errand of mercy, when a
                  young lady passed the window, who seemed looking for the house. She was followed
                  by a boy carrying a large basket. The lady knocked at the door, and then opened
                  it, the boy sat down the basket within and immediately left. As Mrs. Marchmont
                  advanced to inquire her errand, the lady met her, saying—
               "Please to examine this basket and accept its contents for your own use;" and
                  without giving Mrs. Marchmont time to reply, closed the door and walked rapidly
                  away. Mrs. Marchmont stood for a moment astonished, but then proceeded to examine
                  the basket. She found it contained garments of every description needed to form an
                  entire and comfortable outfit for herself, and beneath these, packages containing
                  tea, coffee, sugar, bread, &c. At the bottom lay one paper, carefully tied,
                  which she paused to look at, wondering what else could have been sent, for it
                  seemed that nothing was wanting. Opening the paper, she found it contained
                     salt. "Oh!" said Mrs. Marchmont, when afterwards relating the
                  circumstance, "what a lesson was concealed in that paper! As I looked at it, the
                  words 'Remember Lot's wife' darted into my mind. 'Look not behind thee!'" Pressing
                  the package to her lips, she dropped on her knees and thanked God for the lesson,
                  and for the blessings so unexpectedly granted. She resolved no more to look back
                  upon the past, but go forward, trusting in her heavenly Father. She from that hour
                  committed herself unreservedly into his keeping, to his guidance into such paths
                  as he pleased, and to be employed in his service alone. Sweet indeed was this
                  season of consecration, and long did its influence remain.
               Mrs. Marchmont had received these anonymous gifts as indications that she could commence again
                  a life of independence, though that life might require extreme exertion. She named
                  these half-formed intentions to her hostess, when recounting the strange visit
                  during her absence.
               Miss A——, the lady who had drawn Mrs. Marchmont from the ruins of the fire, to
                  take shelter within her dwelling, was possessed of great piety, benevolence and
                  wealth—the latter had become her's at the death of her parents. The house in which
                  she resided had been theirs just as it was, and a married sister having died some
                  months before, she had taken charge of her three motherless children. She also
                  devoted a part of every day to visiting and instructing the poor and the ignorant.
                  Her dress was singularly plain; her deportment and her habits indicated peculiar
                  self-denial. She lived in daily communion with God, and worldly affairs received
                  but a secondary attention. How much did Mrs. Marchmont feel strengthened in her
                  Christian life! how much did she learn by intercourse with this disciple of
                  Christ!
               Upon Mrs. Marchmont's announcing her intention to make an effort to provide for
                  herself, Miss A——, with much earnestness, desired Mrs. Marchmont to make her house
                  her permanent home until she should see a way opened to return to her native
                  clime. Mrs. Marchmont replied, that to such an engagement she could not pledge
                  herself, as she had made a vow to the Lord to follow the leadings of His
                  providence wherever they might tend. But in gratitude to her kind hostess, she
                  agreed to remain with her and take charge of her three interesting children until
                  Miss A—— should return from a journey she had long held in contemplation. This
                  matter being decided, a few days sufficed for the requisite preparations. Miss A——
                  requested Mrs. Marchmont to go daily during her absence to a certain room at a
                  certain hour, to pray for the salvation of these three orphans, and wherever she
                  herself might be, she would meet her in spirit at that hour for the same purpose.
                  In about a month Miss A—— returned, and her first words on meeting Mrs. Marchmont
                  were—
               "I know you have kept your promise, for the Lord assured me so."
               Hester remained with this remarkable woman until her death, which occurred not
                  very long afterwards, and was the result of a slow but sure disease, which had
                  affected her for many years. Upon her death-bed she gave Mrs. Marchmont solemn and
                  tender injunctions which were never forgotten.
               "Work always for God, my dear friend, but take particular care of
                  your body, for, remember, it is the temple of the Holy Ghost, and if
                  you injure it, you displease your Maker. God has much for you to do in America,
                  and He will soon show you what it is."
               
               Mrs. Marchmont tendered her dying friend all the soothing attentions in her power,
                  feeling it a privilege to minister to one who was so truly a child of God. She
                  enjoyed the pleasure of knowing that her presence was among the friends who
                  thronged around the rich Miss A——, the most desired of any. She received her last
                  directions concerning her affairs, and those of the orphan children, in charge for
                  a relative at a distance, who would, in time, attend to their arrangement.
               Miss A—— did not leave the world without giving an unmistakable evidence of her
                  friendship for the widow whom she had sought out, thus rendering her comfortable
                  for a time in the future. With a smile upon her lips, the Christian woman fell
                  asleep in Jesus, and thus was another beloved friend added to the long list of
                  Hester's bereavements. She closed the lids of those once speaking eyes, while her
                  own were dim with tears, but she sorrowed not as those who have no hope, and the
                  beautiful memories of the lovely Miss A—— were a joy to her through life.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               CHANGING SCENES—CHARACTERISTICS.
               ONCE more did Hester Marchmont find herself alone upon the broad ocean of life,
                  yet not alone, the Pilot who was to guide her frail bark was divine, and she felt
                  no fear. She might wander the wide earth over, but her soul would one day find
                  rest in the bosom of its God. Perplexity and foreboding sought entrance into the
                  sanctuary of her heart, pointing with their gaunt fingers at the storm-clouds
                  lowering in the distance; but turning from them with averted eyes, she bade them
                  "begone," and clinging to the almighty Arm, she said, "I will fear no evil."
               The kind invitations of Mrs. Marchmont's Baptist friends in the city of C——, which
                  had formerly been extended to her, recurred to her mind, and it seemed impressed
                  upon her now to accept of them. After a long and tearful visit to the graves of
                  her beloved dead, and sad and tender farewells to those dear friends, who had
                  aided and cheered her in affliction,
                  Mrs. Marchmont departed for her expected destination. Among the passengers on the
                  boat, were some warm-hearted Baptists, who became interested in her appearance,
                  and drew from her some of the outlines of her history. Among the topics of
                  conversation in which the passengers engaged, was that of religion. Its truths
                  were zealously advocated by some, and ridiculed by others. Fresh in the memory of
                  Hester rose the scene of the storm at sea, and with modesty, yet with heartfelt
                  earnestness, she spoke of the power of Him who was mighty to save the body as well
                  as the soul. A gentleman standing by, inquired of her, "where she was going?" Mrs.
                  Marchmont, though not yet accustomed to the American usages of inquiry, replied,
                  that her destination was C——.
               "I am very happy to meet you, madam, as I may, perhaps, be of some slight service
                  to you. Here is my card."
               Mrs. Marchmont took the card and read upon it, "Rev. E—— P——."
               "Of what denomination, sir?" Mrs. Marchmont inquired in turn.
               "The Regular Baptist."
               "Ah, indeed!" was the happy exclamation.
               The lone woman again found herself among friends. Mr. P—— wrote her a note of
                  introduction to a brother minister, of the Baptist church, in C——, which Hester
                  thankfully accepted. The other friends invited her to accompany them to their
                  home, and remain until she could ascertain the residence of her friends. Mrs.
                  Marchmont did so, but oh! how the homesick, weary woman sighed for her own English
                  home! The green lawns and parks of her native land; the crowded city, where she
                  had borne so much of heart-suffering, yet had realized so many Christian joys; the
                  sweet face and form of her darling Lizzie; the church where she had so often sat
                  in the assembly of the saints, pastor, and friends beloved; all came trooping by,
                  pleading at her heart's shrine, "Return, return!" Sadness rested on her
                  countenance, and chained her tongue, even though as Christians, these stranger
                  friends strove to cheer the bereaved. They were happy—they could not read her
                  sorrows, yet the lone widow thanked and blessed them for their kindness, though it
                  availed not.
               A day passed, and Mrs. Marchmont was pressed in the warm embrace of her English
                  friends. The reception she enjoyed was worthy of the hostess and her guest. How
                  pre-eminent should Christians be in the practice of hospitality, so nobly urged
                  upon them by the Master and His disciples of old. True hospitality, is not
                  feasting nor putting our guests into splendidly furnished, but cold rooms, nor
                  inviting a crowd to visit them. It is surrounding them with an atmosphere of
                     home comfort, unostentatious in its preparations, undisturbed in its quiet, and
                  affording time for thought and conversation upon the things of a higher life.
               Some weeks passed away, in resting from the fatigues of the past, and of her
                  recent journey, and in recounting, at her friend's request, the history of her
                  trials and mercies. But Mrs. Marchmont was not one to remain long inert, or
                  dependent in any degree upon the bounty of others. The friends with whom she was
                  residing, would not listen to any proposals for her personal exertion, knowing
                  well, that when her situation should be made known to her London friends, the
                  necessity for such exertion would cease to exist. Without acquainting them with
                  her intentions, she sought counsel of some whose acquaintance she had formed, and
                  who would not look upon her wishes in an unfavorable light. They referred her to
                  the Rev. ——, one of the most prominent Baptist ministers in the city, who would be
                  sure to sympathise with her, and knew better how to advise than any one else. As
                  the friend was prevented from accompanying her, he gave her an additional letter
                  of introduction, but advising her to present also those she already possessed.
                  With a palpitating heart Mrs. Marchmont set out on her strange errand, in a
                  strange city, and often did she lift her heart to God for strength to bear her
                  through an undertaking so humiliating to her native pride. The house was found;
                  its marble steps and elegant front, reminded her of the time, not long since, when
                  she was mistress of a mansion in Regent's Park, even more elegant than the one
                  before her. Oh! how busy then was the adversary! With trembling fingers she drew
                  the bell, and requesting to see the Rev. ——, was ushered into his presence.
                  Without power to speak, she handed him the letter. Hastily supposing it some
                  appeal to charity, as to such he was daily subject, he threw it on the table, and
                  casting a cold glance at the veiled form before him, said—
               "Haven't time to attend to it now—am just going with my family for a drive—call
                  again."
               With a formal bow he opened the door, out of which retreated the heart-stricken
                  stranger, ready to sink with the weight of her emotion. An elegant carriage, with
                  a pair of splendid horses, stood at the door,—the minister, his lady, and their
                  beautifully dressed children, entered, and were whirled away, while the weary
                  widow sought alone and on foot, the residence of her friend.
               How looked the MASTER on a scene like this! and how often do such occur beneath
                  His all-seeing eye! How often do Christians forget to be humble, kind and
                  thoughtful, passing too coldly by those who are the Lord's own children, "dear to
                  Him as the apple of His eye!" And did not the heart of the Rev. —— smite him often in after days when he learned
                     who was the woman veiled in black, to whom he had not offered the
                  civility of a chair! And even had she been the poorest or the vilest upon God's
                  earth, as a disciple of the "meek and lowly in heart," he should have awarded her
                  kind tones and words—and a listening ear—for these cost nothing, while they add
                  much to the treasury of happiness—to the sunlight of the suffering.
               It was not easy for one reared from infancy among the proudest of her native land,
                  accustomed to intercourse with the nobility of the realm, and descended from the
                  peerage, so suddenly to bring herself down to the common walks of life. Those born
                  in a republican land cannot share the feelings of one like Mrs. Marchmont, who had
                  drawn in with her daily breath the spirit of conventionalism and rank. She knew
                  that all this "pride of the flesh" must be subdued, and she petitioned earnestly
                  for grace to give her the victory, and reconcile her to any circumstances which
                  might fall to her lot. There was that in her finely chiselled features, her
                  delicate complexion, her dark eyes often flashing with the light of other days,
                  her carriage, remarkably erect and graceful, which rendered her an object of
                  notice wherever she might be seen. All this had been hidden from the view of Rev.
                  ——, when she stood bowed before him, and struggling to hide her emotion; but on a
                  subsequent acquaintance he recognized one who had frequently passed him in the
                  streets without deigning a look. Ah! even true believers are inheritors of a
                  nature aspiring "to be as gods," and sometimes "forget the pit whence they were
                  digged."
               Mrs. Marchmont's peculiar education and finer habits also unfitted her for such
                  employments as would have presented themselves to others without causing a pang in
                  the acceptance. But that Book which was "the man of her counsel," and which she
                  still consulted daily, pointed now to the grace of humility, as that
                  which she most needed. Grace had supported her amidst the deep waters of
                  affliction, it must now be exercised in bringing down every high thought, and
                  transforming her whole nature into the likeness of Christ.
               While Mrs. Marchmont was in this state of uncertainty concerning her worldly
                  prospects, she met with a lady whose husband was editor of a public journal, and
                  who furnished much of the matter for his colums from her own pen. This lady became
                  greatly interested in Mrs. M., and finding she had traveled extensively in various
                  parts of Europe, requested her to furnish sketches of various kinds, that she
                  might insert them in the columns of her husband's paper. Mrs. Marchmont cheerfully
                  consented, at which the lady professed herself so gratified that she invited Hester to accompany her on an excursion
                  to Lower Virginia, offering to bear all the expenses of the trip.
               Pleased at an opportunity thus afforded her to visit a portion of the United
                  States, of which she had heard so much, and willing to engage in any thing which
                  could prevent her from grieving over the past, the invitation was accepted. Mrs.
                  Marchmont saw around her now an entirely new phase of life, and from it she drew
                  her own conclusions, though she never obtruded her sentiments. She found herself
                  an object of much interest and attention, but in proportion as the hospitality and
                  kindness of the Southerners were extended, the friendship of her new acquaintance
                  diminished, and it became quite evident that the motives in desiring Mrs.
                  Marchmont to accompany her, were preëminently selfish. This was proved, when upon
                  their return, she presented Hester with a bill of all her expenses during the
                  journey. This was a serious drawback in the present reduced state of her funds,
                  but an honorable pride led her immediately to pay the bill, though it left her
                  once more with scarcely a resource. Disgusted with the falsity of such pretended
                  friendship, Mrs. Marchmont from that time discontinued all intercourse with her
                  late acquaintance.
               Some time elapsed subsequent to Mrs. Marchmont's return, when she was one day
                  accosted in the street by a lady, whose appearance was very prepossessing
                  possessing. Introducing herself to Mrs. M., she said, "Excuse me, madam, but your
                  appearance answers the description given me of a stranger in our city, who is
                  visiting a distressed family on —— street."
               "I have done so on several occasions," was the reply.
               "Allow me to inquire how, being a stranger, you could hear of the case?"
               "It is my delight to find out the destitute, for unless they are
                     sought, one-half their sorrows are not known. I thought by the
                  description given me of yourself you must be an English lady, and as I, myself,
                  are from North Wales, I felt anxious to make your acquaintance. Do accompany me to
                  my home, that we may talk over old and new times, and learn to love each other, as
                  I know we shall."
               A stranger and a pilgrim as Mrs. Marchmont was in reality, and pledged to follow
                  the leadings of Providence, she felt no hesitation in accepting the kind
                  invitation, and was thus for a few days delivered from the necessity of boarding
                  expenses, at liberty to visit the poor and the afflicted, and ever after retained
                  the wealthy and warm-hearted Mrs. ——— as an invaluable friend.
               This lady and Mrs. Marchmont, in a few days, were on their way to the Post-office,
                  Hester still looking anxiously for intelligence from her daughter, and the missing
                  remittances. In passing, they met one
                  of the millionaires of the city, a rich merchant from Gloucester, England. An
                  introduction took place, when in a very few words, her new friend alluded to Mrs.
                  M.'s remarkable bereavements, losses by fire, &c., and added that they were
                  then on their way to the Post-office, where she hoped to obtain funds from
                  England. Upon extending his hand at parting, the merchant left in that of Mrs.
                  Marchmont a something, which surprise prevented her from observing, but when he
                  had left, she found it was a five dollar gold piece. Not understanding what it
                  meant, she showed it to Mrs. ———, who told her the gentleman intended it as a
                  present in case of necessity. Mrs. Marchmont begged her to allow her little son,
                  who was with them, to return it immediately, but her friend fearing that her funds
                  were lower than she had acknowledged, remonstrated with her on the expediency of
                  retaining it.
               "Ah!" replied Mrs. Marchmont, "have I then sunk so low as to receive a
                     present from a gentleman? What would my dear mother say!—indeed I
                     cannot keep it—God will provide."
               Seeing that Mrs. M.'s feelings were so deeply wounded, the lady sent her son to
                  Mr. ——— with the money, and "Mrs. Marchmont's thanks—but declines accepting
                  it."
               The merchant was very angry, and loudly declaimed against "pride and poverty going
                  together. It was easy to see what blood that woman had boiling in her veins—she'd
                  sooner die from want than let a man know she was poor."
               But he was mistaken; had the donor of the gold piece been a woman, it
                  would have been, in her circumstances, gratefully accepted.
               There was one circumstance connected with Mrs. Marchmont's appearance, which very
                  much contributed to attract attention; it was the peculiarity of her garb.
                  Following the custom of her native land, she wore "the widow's band," differing so
                  much from the American style of mourning dress, that persons from England
                  immediately recognized her as a Londoner. But she had worn it in expectation of
                  soon returning to England, not to elicit observation.
               Two weeks were spent with this lady in the most agreeable manner, in spiritual
                  conversation, calls of benevolence, and visits of instruction, her kind friend
                  compelling Mrs. M. to remain with her until she could hear from England or be led
                  into some new path of action. At the end of this time, a lady who was herself one
                  of the managers of the Orphan's Asylum, and who had become acquainted with Mrs.
                  Marchmont by means of her hostess, inquired of her in a very delicate manner, if
                  she would be willing to attend on her grand-daughter, who was very ill.
               "Her mother," said the lady, "has like yourself suffered much, but Amelia is very
                  low in spirits, and as you have no
                  particular home, I thought you might be willing to go."
               Little thought the lady what daggers the words "you have no particular
                     home," became to the heart of the widowed stranger. After a few hours
                  spent in prayer and in debating the matter with her own mind, Mrs. M. consented to
                  attend on the young lady. For such an office how well had personal afflictions
                  prepared her!
               Six weeks were passed by the bedside of the patient, attending to her wants,
                  reading to her from the Bible and works adapted to interest her in the great
                  truths of religion, conversing with her in Christian faithfulness, and praying for
                  the health of her soul as well as her body. Both were granted to Mrs. Marchmont as
                  seals of her labors in the Lord. Amelia rose from her sick bed to go forth in
                  health and strength, and soon after gave herself to the Saviour in a public
                  convenant of faith. She became warmly attached to her kind nurse, seeming always
                  to regard her as a spiritual mother.
               Mrs. Marchmont's success in being the instrument of restoring this young lady,
                  opened the door for other and similar requests. She did not refuse, for, to use
                  her own words, "I felt as if the Lord was leading me by a way which I knew not to
                  labor in His cause, for these employments were among the last I should have
                  selected for myself." Mrs. Marchmont mont always caused it to be understood that
                  when definite intelligence should reach her, she expected, if it was the Lord's
                  will, to return to England. But whenever the subject was mentioned, her friends
                  assured her she never would go, for it was evident the Lord had work for her in
                  America.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               TIDINGS FROM HOME.
               WAITING, still waiting for tidings from home, yet resolved to do her duty by the
                  day and by the hour, Mrs. Marchmont was at the house of a dear friend, whom she
                  was assisting in the care of a sick relative, when a letter arrived—the long
                  anxiously expected letter. Trembling with eagerness she opened it, read a few
                  lines, written in a stranger's hand, and giving a deep groan of anguish, fainted
                  in her chair. The last link was broken which bound her to earth. Lizzie, the
                  gentle child who had shared her sorrows and her Christian joys, the idol of her
                  heart, was laid low beneath the green sod of her childhood's home. As the letter
                  fell from Mrs. Marchmont's hand, her friends flew to her assistance, and after
                  some time, were enabled to restore her to a consciousness of her renewed
                  afflictions. When she became sufficiently composed to read the remainder of the
                  letter, she raised her hands, exclaiming—
               "My trouble is greater than I can bear. Oh! how the Lord has punished me for my
                  rebellion of heart."
               Soothing words were spoken by those who wept with the stricken woman, but they
                  fell almost unheeded upon her ear, and she gave them the letter which contained
                  the death-blow to her long cherished hopes.
               
                  "The letter you wrote to your dear Lizzie, I soon hastened to convey to her,
                     but alas! I found it was too late. She had gradually declined from the time,
                     when the vessel was reported to be lost, and had just sunk to rest, with your
                     name on her dying lips—'I am going to meet my mother.' I have been
                     assured by many that the tenderest care was constantly awarded her, for she was
                     greatly beloved for her sweet and amiable qualities. Nothing was wanting,
                     excepting your presence, to cheer and console her, and she had not pursued her
                     studies, since the sorrowful news of your supposed death. Be assured, my dear
                     afflicted sister, that as regards your child, all has been just as you would
                     yourself have wished it. And then, you have the inexpressible consolation of
                     knowing that she 'sleeps in Jesus,' and you know the promise—'God will bring
                     her with Him.' She was buried as one whom many loved and mourned, and she lies
                     by the side of your dear mother.
                  "From all that I can learn concerning the state of your funds, (and I have, for
                     your sake, made very especial inquiries,) your presence here will be necessary
                     to substantiate your claims. You know, as a Baptist, I am not
                     permitted access to your sisters, but from what I can learn, their feelings
                     towards you are unchanged. So that all that remains for you, now, is to
                        return, and confront those who
                     have tried to defraud you of your property. * * * *
                  "Of course you must enter upon a law-suit, and no doubt your claims will be
                     warmly contested, but the requisite funds will, I presume, bring all right
                     again." * * * *
               
               For the time, it seemed to Mrs. Marchmont that all her former troubles, and her
                  previous bereavements, were light in comparison with the loss of her "gentle
                  Lizzie." To lose such a daughter, just at an age to be peculiarly a comfort; to
                  lose her too, without having been permitted to stand by her side in her illness,
                  or to have heard one word from her sweet voice,—seemed too much. Nature rose
                  within, and in the bitterness of its sorrow cried out, "Why am I thus
                  afflicted?" She prayed, but her prayers were those of one plunged in the depths of
                  woe. She felt her faith sinking—she flew to her Bible, and lifted her heart to
                  Jesus, saying, "Lord, save, or I perish." Oh! it was a long struggle with her
                  heart, and with sorrow, that Hester Marchmont endured; but finally it passed, and
                  there came to her a vision of One like unto the Son of God, enduring a
                     life of sorrow, persecution, and death, not for Himself, but for
                  such as her. Then there were words which He had uttered, "Through much tribulation
                  ye must enter the kingdom."
               "Has He borne all this for me, and shall the disciple be above the
                  Master?" was the humbled inquiry of the sorrowing believer.
               "The Bible! the Bible! Oh, what should I have done if it had not been for the
                  Bible—what should I do now, if it were not for that blessed book!"
                  exclaimed the weeping Hester, clasping the word affectionately to her heart.
               It was through the Bible and prayer, through grace thus given, Mrs. Marchmont was
                  enabled to conquer her grief. While yet the spirit was willing, the flesh was
                  weak, and the same melancholy which had preyed upon her before, now pervaded her
                  mind. For many days she was incapable of attending to any thing around her; she
                  scarcely partook of her food, and sleep was a stranger to her eyes. Pious friends
                  came to sympathise, to pray with, and to counsel her, but to all she replied—
               "God has punished me because of my rebellion of heart—just as He did the
                  Israelites of old,—'He has taken away the desire of mine eyes, and I am left
                  alone.'"
               But after a time, she was brought to trust in the Lord, for the promise was
                  whispered to her,—"Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain thee," and
                  was blessed to her spirit. She remembered the vow she had made, when in her past
                  desolation she had read the message in the paper of salt, and felt
                  that now her promise must be fulfilled. She must be the Lord's entirely—she must
                  remain in America, and do His work, until it pleased Him to call her home.
               
               Now, must the strength of Christ be made perfect in the weakness of the Christian.
                  Hester Marchmont had passed through the fire seven times tried. She stood
                     alone upon earth; among all its crowds there were none to claim her by
                  the ties of kindred, excepting her sister, and her avaricious cousin. They had
                  discarded her, cast her out, she was no more of them; and now, she felt called
                  upon to present herself to God, a willing sacrifice—to devote body and soul to
                  works of piety and benevolence. Her means were not wholly gone,—perhaps another
                  remittance from some source would arrive, and she would follow wherever Providence
                  led the way.
               From this time, she resolved to abandon all claims to her property in England, and
                  content herself with receiving such remittances as she could obtain, without
                  involving herself in the expenses of a suit at law. She left the whole matter in
                  the hands of God, believing that He would do far better for her than she could for
                  herself.
               Mrs. Marchmont could not of course wholly resign her English home and friends. A
                  correspondence with the Baptist brother and sister who had proved themselves her
                  best friends, were still maintained, and she requested them to acquaint her with
                  any thing concerning her sister which might interest her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               NEW PHASES OF LIFE.
               HESTER Marchmont is a widow. Fourteen times has she been a mother, and of the five
                  who have lived to call her by that sweet name, all are in heaven. She is a
                  stranger, in a strange land. Her purse holds but sufficient for the decencies and
                  necessaries of life. She is all alone in the world. Yet she does not fold her
                  hands, and sit down to pine away the life which is still hers. True, she is very
                  sad, and her pale, thin face, tells its own tale of suffering, but still it is
                  calm; and there are moments when her dark eyes brighten as she listens to some
                  word of sympathy, or to the ministrations of the pulpit. She is a Christian, and
                  as such will bear a Christian's cross.
               She seeks a home, one which will be her own, in which she may enjoy the liberty of
                  being alone with God, and her comforting, counseling Bible, just when she
                  pleases—in which she can live economically on the moderate sum she possesses, and
                     live retired from the world. Such an
                  one is offered her in the house of a very respectable family, and to pay the rent,
                  and provide herself with food, she resorts to her old employment of sewing. Many,
                  very many in the crowded cities of this new world, live in this way, just as does
                  Mrs. Marchmont, but few of them have known such homes as once were hers. The taste
                  and refinement of her early days are displayed even here, in this one room, and
                  though it is kitchen, bedroom, and parlor, every thing in, and around it, shows
                  the neatness and order of a well-trained house-keeper. She sits plying her needle,
                  and thoughts of her English home by the Thames, where in childhood she roamed over
                  the lawns,—of her elegant home in the crowded metropolis of the British empire,
                  come thronging into her brain, until her head swims, and her eyes are dim. Does
                  she lay down her work to weep? Oh! no—her little Bible is open by her side, and
                  she remembers that it tells her of "a city built without hands,"—of "a home
                  eternal in the heavens," where "the streets are of gold," and where there is "no
                  night, no sin, no sorrow, no crying, and where God himself shall wipe away all
                  tears." She rises, and kneeling for a moment before God, wraps herself in her
                  street attire, and goes forth to seek the abodes of those whose lot is poverty,
                  ignorance, and distress. Compared with these, how blest is she, and how much
                  brighter looks her lonely room.
               Twice in the week, at a certain hour in the afternoon, fifteen or twenty poor
                  women are seated in the widow's room. She teaches them to read, counsels them for
                  their worldly good, labors for their souls, and kneels with them to plead for
                  their salvation. Time rolls on—these poor women have learned to read, slowly, it
                  is true, but surely, the words of Life. From the "Young Men's Bible Society" the
                  widow has obtained a donation as a reward for these poor women, and each departs,
                  the happy owner of a Bible and a hymn book. Such deeds of mercy are the best
                  antidotes for sorrows of the heart. And in their daily performance Mrs. Marchmont
                  found her resignation to the chastisements of love, with which her heavenly Father
                  had afflicted her, greatly strengthened. Each day the prayer, "Thy will be done,"
                  was uttered with more of the heart's consent, and in firmer, clearer tones.
               Many weeks thus passed. The teacher of a small private school was laid low by
                  illness, and having heard of Mrs. Marchmont's gratuitous instructions to the poor,
                  sent her a request to take charge of her school until she should recover. Mrs.
                  Marchmont hesitated some time, from a feeling of incompetency for the work. Her's
                  had been but a fashionable education, only suited to the life of folly and fashion
                  she had lived in her earlier years. Such light accomplishments, she thought, were
                  out of place in a school where the
                  elements of a solid education were required. But the persuasions of her friends
                  prevailed, and Mrs. M. took charge of the school. She had no confidence in
                  herself, yet endeavoring faithfully to discharge her duty, her success was
                  surprising. The young lady who had been the teacher, remained ill a long time, and
                  when she recovered, finding both parents and children much gratified with Mrs.
                  M.'s mode of teaching, she proposed to her to continue the school on her own
                  responsibility, as she intended in a short time to remove from the city. Regarding
                  this proposal as an indication of God's will concerning the path of duty, and
                  having become greatly interested in her new avocation, after some deliberation and
                  prayer she consented to enter on the work as a permanent professor. Often when she
                  considered the unfitness of her boarding-school education for the occupation in
                  which she was engaged, and how naturally she had fallen into a methed of teaching
                  so acceptable to her pupils and their parents, it being peculiarly her own,
                  seemingly taught her by the Spirit of all good, she exclaimed, in wonder and
                  gratitude, "What hath God wrought?"
               The number of her pupils increased daily, and her school acquired such a
                  reputation for success, that the officers of the public schools wished to secure
                  her services in their department. But she preferred to instruct in her own way,
                  and to be responsible to parents only, and now surely was she blest. Her school
                  afforded her a handsome income, enabling her to enjoy all the comforts and
                  privileges she desired, and to spare to the needy, the cause of the church, and of
                  missions; it diverted her thoughts from the past, by keeping them constantly
                  exercised for others, and more than all, she had the happiness of doing good to
                  the souls of many, as well as promoting their improvement in secular
                  knowledge.
               From the time that Mrs. Marchmont found herself blessed with a daily competency,
                  she vowed to the Lord as He saw fit to prosper her, so to devote a certain portion
                  to His cause. Her liberality soon became known, and extensive draughts were made
                  upon it, quite too frequently, her friends thought, for her personal comfort. But
                  remonstrances were useless when duty was the motive to action. "God will provide,"
                  was her daily motto.
               During one week, especially, an unusual number of calls had been made upon her
                  generosity, to all of which she had cheerfully responded, until Saturday evening
                  came and found her with but five cents in her purse. That evening a poor woman
                  requesting to see her, was shown into her room. Mrs. Marchmont inquired her
                  wishes, and the woman replied—
               "I heard you was good to the poor, and I come to you for help."
               
               "And what do you most need?" inquired Mrs. Marchmont."
               "Why, ma'am, I've no victuals, nor a bit o' fire wood, nor a mite o' light."
               What was to be done? Mrs. M. felt that she could not send her away empty, and yet
                  she had but five cents and her Lord's day dinner. Calling a domestic of the house
                  in which she resided, she requested him to follow the woman with fuel enough to
                  last until Monday; then slipped her five cents into her hand, and wrapping up her
                  Sunday's provision, gave it to her likewise. When the servant came home, he told
                  his mistress, Mrs. B——, of the occurrence, and she went immediately to Mrs.
                  Marchmont with,
               "My dear lady, do forgive me—but you are too liberal, you will
                     ruin yourself, and you will never find those who will do as much
                  for you."
               Mrs. Marchmont smiled, saying, "You know my motto—'The Lord will provide.'"
               Mrs. B—— little thought Mrs. Marchmont had robbed herself of her dinner.
                  Sustaining herself with what light food she could gather on Lord's day, she went
                  to her school on Monday morning penniless, but during the forenoon received five
                  invitations to dinner from the parents of different pupils. Fearing to accept of
                  one, lest the others should feel offended, she declined all, and resolved to
                  devote the dinner hour to visiting the sick, but had scarcely got to the door to
                  leave for the purpose, when one after another messengers arrived, bringing her the
                  dinners she had declined.
               "Look here," said she to Mrs. B——, pointing to the provisions upon the table, "see
                  how the Lord has repaid me! Is it not more blessed to give than to receive?"
               Mrs. Marchmont was one Lord's day evening sitting in church, just before the
                  commencement of the services, when a person came to her seat and whispered that a
                  dying man wished to see her immediately. She arose, and asking a lady friend to
                  accompany her, followed the messenger, the sick man being one whom she had
                  frequently visited, directing him to seek pardon from the Redeemer of sinners. He
                  seemed to be sinking very rapidly, but glad to see Mrs. Marchmont. She conversed a
                  little with him, and then at his request, offered prayer for his salvation. After
                  a few moments he revived, and surprised her greatly by saying—
               "Madam, I have sent for you to make my will."
               Utterly astonished, and there being no time to remonstrate or send for a lawyer,
                  she proceeded, with her friend remaining as a witness, to draw up a will according
                  to his directions, in the best manner she could. Among the bequests was a very
                  handsome one to herself. After saying a few words of comfort and counsel, she left
                  him, hoping he might survive till
                  morning. The man was an eccentric individual who lived almost alone—had been ill a
                  long time, and with a mutual friend Mrs. Marchmont had been induced to visit him,
                  and had succeeded in leading him to think of his soul, when the conversation of
                  others had been in vain.
               The next morning she requested a lawyer to accompany her to the sick man's
                  residence, to ascertain if the will was correctly drawn. The man was still living,
                  and during the process of rewriting the document, Mrs. Marchmont inquired if he
                  was willing she should make a transfer of the legacy he had given her! He
                  consented, and she requested the lawyer to place instead of her name those of two
                  benevolent institutions in the city, to which she had long intended to contribute,
                  but had not thought her means sufficient to do so. Her wishes were now
                  accomplished by a very remarkable providence.
               During her past residence in the city, Mrs. Marchmont had, in the company of
                  friends, attended upon the worship of the different evangelical churches, but had
                  never thought of uniting with those of her own faith, on account of her purpose to
                  return to England when the way should be opened. Although she had decided to
                  remain in America until such should be the case, her heart still cherished a
                  secret hope that some unexpected event would recall her to her native land.
               Mrs. Marchmont had from her first entering upon the work of an instructress,
                  considered it her duty to open her school each morning with reading from the Bible
                  and prayer. She was thus engaged one morning when a deacon of a Baptist church in
                  the city, having a message for one of her pupils, came to the door of her
                  school-room. He was about to knock, when his ear was arrested by the voice of
                  prayer. Quietly he listened until all was over, and then, having been invited to
                  enter, he at once expressed to Mrs. Marchmont his gratification at what he had
                  unintentionally overheard.
               "I suppose, madam," said he, "you are in connection with some church?"
               "Not in this country, but in England I am a member."
               "Will you favor me with your name?"
               "Mrs. Marchmont."
               "Why, you are the strange lady who is going about doing good!"
               "I do not know that I can do any good, but I love to visit the abodes
                  of distress."
               "Excuse me, madam, may I further inquire of what church in England you are a
                  member?"
               "Of Rev. Mr. Stephenson's—Baptist."
               "Indeed! is it possible? I too am a Baptist. But I will not now detain you longer.
                  God bless you, Mrs. Marchmont, and
                  speed the work in which you are engaged. Good morning."
               This unexpected interview left a pleasant impression on the mind of the widow, and
                  she went through her routine of duties cheered by the voice of Christian
                  fellowship still leaving its music in her ears.
               At noon she was surprised by a call from a gentleman who introduced himself as Mr.
                  ———, pastor of the ——— street church. He said he called at the request of deacon
                  ———, whom he had seen that morning, and to know why, as a Baptist, she had not
                  cast in her lot with some sister church?
               Mrs. Marchmont replied, "It is with sorrow that I say it, but my reception has not
                  been such as a widow in a strange land might have hoped to meet from fellow
                  Christians."
               "How so, my sister?" inquired the pastor.
               Mrs. Marchmont then related the tale of her visit to the residence of the Rev.
                  ———, and his cold and contemptuous treatment, which had disheartened her from
                  again seeking to become acquainted with the Baptists of C——.
               "Well, sister, that is a sad tale, truly; but now, supposing you come and cast in
                  your lot with us. Your character has long been known to us, though not your name,
                  and the letters which you have are sufficient."
               "I will attend upon your worship gladly, but it seems as if I should return to
                  England—it is almost useless to enter into any new connection."
               "Have you any immediate prospect of returning to England?"
               "No, sir,—I cannot go until further remittances arrive."
               "But are you not willing to labor while here—and do you not think it is required
                  of you to throw your influence and exertion into the church, while you remain?
                  Suppose you come to the Hall, on ——— street, to-night; I do not think you will
                  find the brethren and sisters will slight you. They will gladly welcome an
                  European sister, and besides, we have some excellent members from England."
               "Very well, sir, I will meet with you to-night, and here are the letters of
                  introduction. You know that by fire I lost all which I brought with me from
                  England, but here is one I have received from a Baptist brother in England, since
                  I have been here."
               Evening came, and Mrs. Marchmont went as directed, to the Hall, on ——— street. She
                  found the meeting was of the church for prayer and conference. Several prayers had
                  been offered, and it was near the usual time for closing the services, when the
                  pastor rose and stated, that there was present a sister from England, whose
                  Christian experience, no doubt, all the brethren and sisters would be glad to
                     hear.— "Sister Marchmont," he said,
                  "will you tell us how you came to love the Lord Jesus?"
               Thus addressed, the long pent up fountains of her soul opened anew, and with much
                  emotion, Mrs. Marchmont related the story of the teachings of the Bible convicting
                  her of sin, and of her long search after the meaning of the Saviour's command,
                  "believe and be baptized." A very brief outline of her trials and bereavements,
                  completed her narrative. Flowing tears attested the sympathy of those who heard
                  it. Again the pastor spoke,—
               "Sister Marchmont, you are alone in our land, and our city; will you not become
                  one of us as a church, give us your prayers and your labors, and receive our
                  Christian fellowship and watch-care, so long as you shall remain here?"
               Mrs. Marchmont, in a voice trembling with emotion, replied—
               "Most gladly, if you will receive me."
               "Now, brethren and sisters, you who are in favor of receiving Mrs. Marchmont into
                  our communion and fellowship, may signify it by raising your hands."
               The right hand of every member there was raised, and so ready and unanimous was
                  the vote, that Mrs. Marchmont was astonished. After prayer and singing "From
                  whence does this reunion arise," the meeting closed, and Mrs. Marchmont was
                  surrounded by a throng of brethren and sisters who grasped her hands, and most
                  affectionately bade her welcome to the church. A joy, to which she had for a long
                  time been a stranger, was her's that evening, and she returned to her room to give
                  thanks to God for shedding this new ray of light upon her hitherto lonely path.
                  Upon the next Lord's day, the pastor publicly presented her with the right hand of
                  fellowship, and Mrs. Marchmont once more partook of the Lord's Supper with those
                  who like herself had followed him in baptism. Does not the scriptural simplicity
                  of the Baptist church commend itself to the heart of a true believer, when
                  contrasted with modes and forms, and innumerable ceremonies which fetter the
                  spirit, and leave it too little of that liberty wherewith Christ makes free? And
                  yet there is in this very simplicity, a surer safeguard to the purity of the
                  church, than in all the "Prayer-Books" and "Disciplines" which man can invent.
               Mrs. Marchmont, for some time kept on the even tenor of her way, cheered now by
                  the new associations and Christian friendships she had formed. Upon visiting the
                  post-office, one Saturday afternoon, a package was handed her—the post-mark was
                  "London, Eng." How wildly did her heart throb—and her limbs trembled as she
                  hurriedly sought the seclusion of her little home to learn its contents. The first object which met her eyes, was a
                  remittance of a sum sufficient to render her circumstances easy for some time, or
                  if she wished, to return to England. Accompanying this, was a letter from her
                  sister Hannah, full of affection, and expressions of regret for the past.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "HESTER—
                           
                           Do you remember when Mary and I made so much fun of you for being a
                              Baptist, and your husband stopped us, and said, 'Let Wide-awake alone,
                              she did no more than her Bible told her to?' You remember it well, we
                              looked into the New Testament the next Sunday, just to see if we could
                              not make out you had not read it right, but we found there the very
                              words, 'He that believeth, and is baptized,'—you know the rest. We
                              were mad, though convicted, and so we went on as we had done,
                              determined not to let in the light. Then our mother died, and you know
                              she declared, after you had left England, that you had done just
                              right, and that the Baptists were the only persons who read the Bible
                              understandingly. Then came word of your troubles, and I was so angry
                              that I wrote that dreadful letter. But you will forgive me, I know,
                              for though I can never forgive myself, yet I trust God has long since
                              forgiven me. But after your little Lizzie died, I could hold out no
                              longer, and then Mary and I went to the Baptist church, and what we
                              heard there convinced us of our lost condition. Oh! Hester, what a
                              terrible thing is a guilty conscience! what a blessed thing is saving
                              grace! Mary and I read our Bibles daily; we tried to pray; we went to
                              see your friends, and took counsel with them. At last, Hester, my dear
                              sister, my much-abused, persecuted, patient sister, we both found the
                              Saviour—and we have both been baptized into the image of His death and
                              resurrection. And the remembrance of your forbearance, your
                              faithfulness, and your Christian walk, was the main instrument in
                              leading us to our Bibles and to repentance. I say this for your
                              comfort and encouragement, though I cannot write fully concerning our
                              Christian experience, for my hands are full with my family cares and
                              religious duties. Oh! how much time I have lost in the service of the
                              world! I have united with the Baptist church in the City-Roads, where
                              Rev. Mr. Swan is pastor; Mary has joined that at Maize Pond; the
                              pastor is Rev. Mr. Denham. Mary unites with me in asking your
                              forgiveness and love, and sends you, she says, a heart full of
                              love—but she never writes, you know, it is a task she always disliked.
                              Anything that we can do for you, dear Hester, we will with pleasure,
                              and now you must write often. We send you a remittance, hoping soon to
                              see your face once more in our own dear England. The money in Chancery
                              is stopt by G—— R——, until his youngest child comes of age, so that
                              unless you come, I fear you will be robbed of your rights
                              irrecoverably. * * *"
                        
                     
                  
               
               Much more did the letter contain, and accompanying it was a letter from a Baptist
                  friend, which told of the joy she experienced in the conversion of Mrs.
                  Marchmont's sisters to the true faith. Ah! what a feast of joy was contained in
                  that package, and what tears of happiness did the widowed stranger shed. How
                  bright now looked her English home! yet there were shadows there too—the shadows
                  of the grave are upon the greenest soils.
               Mrs. Marchmont had now in her possession sufficient to enable her to return to
                  England, but her school had just commenced a new term, and she could not break so suddenly away from her
                  interesting charge. And then, too, her new church associations had wound
                  themselves very closely around her heart, so that the ties that bound her to
                  America seemed stronger now than those of her native land. So she laid the matter
                  to rest for a time, determined to be guided in her course by the leadings of duty
                  and Providence.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE SECOND MARRIAGE.—CHOLERA SCENES.
               IT was in a pleasant circle of friends gathered within the parlor of a good
                  Baptist sister, that the Rev. Evan Llewellyn first met Mrs. Marchmont. He was
                  pastor of a Welsh Baptist church, a well-educated, deeply pious man, and one
                  greatly beloved by his church and fellow-Christians. His wife had long since slept
                  in her grave, and he was childless also, and like Mrs. Marchmont, he had none in
                  America to claim as kindred. Her story was known to him by means of a mutual
                  friend, and of her character he had often heard. A desire for her acquaintance was
                  gratified by a preconcerted introduction, quite unknown to Mrs. Marchmont, who was
                  well acquainted with his character as a man, and had frequently heard him preach.
                  The acquaintance commenced was very pleasantly continued. Similarity of
                  circumstances, tastes and sentiments, formed a bond of union between these two
                  hearts, and Mrs. Marchmont mont was
                  urged to relinquish her school, and become once more a wife. After suitable
                  reflection, and seeking to learn the will of God, she consented, and those who had
                  for many years traveled as pilgrims amid the paths of sorrow, joined their hands
                  and hearts to descend together the vale of life, and together pass the evening of
                  their days. What a contrast did busy memory draw before the vision of the
                  widow-bride on the evening when she assumed a new name, and new relations in life.
                  The first who called her wife—how had he strewed thorns in her path to eternal
                  life—the second, how would he urge her up the shining path, and support her over
                  the rough way of the Christian's life-journey. Mentally she prayed, "God grant we
                  may help each other to serve the Lord more faithfully."
               The situation upon which Mrs. Llewellyn had entered, was one which required all
                  her energies, physical and mental, and her husband soon found her a help-meet
                  indeed. As the pastor of a large church he had greatly needed a companion, and one
                  more suitable, or more efficient he could not have selected. She became his
                  confidant, his adviser, his nurse, and his housekeeper. One great use of adversity
                  had been the lessons of economy it had taught—a virtue truly indispensable in a
                  minister's wife. Whenever she could save his funds, or his personal labors and
                  assume them herself, she cheerfully did so, that he might give himself wholly to
                  the ministry. But her old haunts of labor were not relinquished. She still visited
                  where as an unknown stranger she had often crossed their thresholds with messages
                  of love, and works of mercy. She was happy because she was active, for activity is
                  the health of the soul, as it is that of the body.
               There are few who do not remember the terrible scourge, of the year 'FORTY-TWO.
                  Cholera raged in every part of the city of C——, and its victims were found in
                  every age and condition of life. Mrs. Marchmont was one among the many Christians
                  of C——, who braving the fear of death, devoted themselves to the care of the sick
                  and dying. Day after day, and night after night, found her in the midst of the
                  plague, engaged in the most mournful and revolting duties. Many a poor victim,
                  deserted by friends and neighbors, found the minister's wife by her side
                  administering the remedies, and praying for the soul while she attended to the
                  body. Many were the eyes she closed in their last long sleep, and many were the
                  bodies she prepared for hasty burial—and many too under her care recovered, to
                  bless God they ever saw her. The most thrilling scenes were daily witnessed, and
                  occurrences too heart-rending to describe.
               Mr. Llewellyn and his wife were returning, early one morning, from a scene of
                  suffering and death, when on passing
                  the residence of a family they had well known, they heard a deep groan, the nature
                  of which they too well foreboded.
               "Oh! dear, our friends here must have been seized," said Mrs. Llewellyn—"we must
                  certainly go in."
               They rang at the front door,—no one came—they tried the lock, it was fastened—they
                  descended to the basement, it could not be opened—all was silence, except at
                  intervals that sickening groan. They went round to the back door, but could hear
                  nothing, neither could find entrance.
               "I cannot go away—I will get in," said Mrs. L. "Now, my husband, you raise this
                  window; I am light, and you can lift me up to it."
               This was done, and then Mrs. L. opened the door, and admitted her husband—all was
                  vacancy, the furniture was gone, and through the empty house again sounded that
                  hollow groan. Swiftly finding their way whence it proceeded, they found in the
                  second-story, a man alone upon a bed—and in the last stage of cholera.
               "Oh! this is poor brother B——," exclaimed Mr. L.
               "Yes, I am he,"—was the sad, faint reply of the wretched sufferer.
               There was no time to ask how he came there, or why he was alone, but each
                  addressed themselves to the work of saving him. He was a young Baptist preacher,
                  who had visited the city, expecting to receive a call from some church. There
                  being no one in the house of Mr. C——, who had left for the country, he had
                  concluded to remain, and occupy his room still, trusting to escape the dreaded
                  pestilence. But he had been seized at day-light, and but for the providence of God
                  in sending Mr. and Mrs. L. he might have died alone, his body unburied by
                  Christians, and his grave unknown. Mr. and Mrs. Llewellyn exerted all their
                  energies to save this Christian brother's life, but in vain, and he was taken to a
                  better world. A Christian burial was given him, though hastily performed, and
                  attended by few. Thus speedily closed the labors of one just entered on his
                  Master's work.
               No rest was allowed to Mrs. L. during the six weeks prevalence of this terrible
                  plague. So repeated were the calls made upon her, that she could neither eat,
                  sleep, or find time to change her clothing. Often when she had laid down, hoping
                  to obtain a brief repose, some urgent message would arrive from the dying.
               "My dear Hester, you cannot go, you will die yourself," on such occasions
                  remonstrated her husband.
               "I must go; I could not die in peace if I refused to do my duty;" and so day after day she still
                  labored on.
               At last these scenes of sorrow subsided, and health came once more to the city of
                  C——. But she who had passed unharmed through the pestilence now experienced a
                  reaction, and the consequence of such long-continued excitement was an attack of
                  nervous fever, which continued for many weeks, and brought her close to the verge
                  of the grave. By the blessing of God upon the care and attention of her devoted
                  husband and friends, she was finally enabled to rise from her bed, but it was with
                  the loss of an eye, which the physician ascribed to her long-continued
                  night-watches and absence of sleep. The eye was exquisitely painful, and had wept
                  itself away—but during most of her illness she had been mercifully unconscious,
                  but now in her convalescence she was keenly alive to this new agony. The best
                  medical skill in the city was employed, but not the slightest alleviation could be
                  obtained. She was informed that not until the eye itself was wholly destroyed
                  could she expect to be free from daily anguish. To add to this affliction, her
                  native strength of constitution seemed to have deserted her entirely, so that she
                  remained unable to walk abroad even for the shortest distance.
               "Ah! Hester," said her husband to her one day, "you forgot the dying injunction of
                  your friend, Miss A——, for in your earnestness to do good, you have nearly
                  destroyed your earthly temple."
               "But, my dear husband, I do not regret it—I should not have dared to
                  do otherwise. How could I have gone to the Judgment seat with their reproaches
                  ringing in my ears—'No man cared for my soul!' This life will soon end, and I
                  shall have rest forever in that world where there is no night and no
                  sickness."
               Finding that Mrs. L. did not recover her strength under the usual remedies, the
                  physicians gave it as their opinion that unless she was removed to the country,
                  and would reside there permanently, her days on earth would be few. Mr. L. himself
                  had long coveted the quiet and seclusion of a country pastor's life, and most
                  cheerfully acceded to the advice, provided his church in the city could obtain
                  another pastor. With many regrets they accepted his resignation, and a situation
                  in a small village was obtained until matters could be more permanently arranged.
                  Mrs. L.'s health slowly but surely improved by the change, and her husband was
                  soon enabled to look about him for a field of continuous labor and a home.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               REMOVAL.—CORRESPONDENCE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              March 23, 18—.
                              'MY VERY DEAR SISTER—
                           
                           As well as my poor eye will allow me, I will write you a few words. My
                              indisposition returned last week, and I could do very little but lie
                              on my bed, and pray to the Lord to give me grace to suffer all His
                              will. I am now better, and we leave here to-morrow, to visit a church
                              to which Mr. L. has been invited. It appears to us the call is of the
                              Lord, for we know not the people nor the place, but like one of old,
                              we go out not knowing whither. May the Spirit of our Divine Master go
                              with us, and then all will be well. We shall probably be absent three
                              weeks.
                           
                              HESTER L."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              May 24, 18—.
                           
                           "This is the very first day that I possibly could take to tell you our
                              whereabouts and say 'How do you do.' After a very pleasant visit with
                              our friends, and the dear church in A——, we arrived here on last
                              Thursday week, but owing to the delay of our letters to the brethren
                              here, our goods had not arrived, consequently we could do nothing
                              until this day week, when we commenced unpacking. I found the labor
                              very severe, but we are now, through mercy, again at
                                 home, and hope to remain so as long as Mr. L. shall
                              feel that his work is here. We are in the country, and our nearest
                              neighbor lives at the distance of three fields from us. The country is
                              at this time delightfully pleasant, and we enjoy the change. The
                              church with which we are connected, and who are mostly our neighbors,
                              are simple-hearted, kind people, but the best trait in their character
                              is, they read their Bibles, and people that read God's
                              word, cannot help praying. This must be a short note. My dear husband
                              sends his best wishes, and says 'Raise your standard high,' and the
                              Lord bless you all.
                           
                              H. M. L."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              July 13,—.
                           
                           "I assure you I have felt the heat of the weather in its greatest
                              degree, for our house is not, as you suppose, embowered in trees, but
                              we live in the sun from its rising to its setting. We are situated on
                              a hill, with about an acre cleared all around it, and not so much as
                              one tree to shade our dwelling; nor even the spring-house at the foot
                              of the hill. Otherwise this is a very rocky and woody country. This
                              house was the only one we could obtain at present. My dear husband's
                              field of labor is very large, and for miles we have to travel through
                              the woods, and over rocks, where in some parts there has never been a
                              vehicle before our own, for men and women ride on horseback. The
                              country is pleasant, and the society of my dear husband is doubly
                              precious, for I assure you I have no other. The families in connection
                              with the church are very large, but the wives and daughters work very
                              hard, indeed harder than the men, for they all assist more or less in
                              the field, and every house has its spinning-wheels and looms, so that
                              from shearing the sheep, which many of the women here do, until the
                              wool is in the form of clothing, they have to see to it. They are very
                              hospitable, and give us great welcomes, and they deem it a favor for
                              us to visit them. I take my
                              knitting and sewing wherever I go, as there are none to converse with
                              me, for I do not think I have met with half a dozen who ever read six
                              pages of a book in their lives. The Bible is read morning and evening,
                              and on the Lord's day, but they know nothing of any publications
                              whatever. I have endeavored to convince some of them of the necessity
                              of improving their minds, but without effect. Their answers are—'What
                              time have we for reading?' 'All we can get time to read is the Bible,
                              and hardly that.' And yet their reading of the good book does not seem
                              to quicken them to a zealous spirit, like unto their Divine
                              Master.
                           We have two families within a mile and a quarter of us, who are very
                              wealthy, but to see them on a week day, you would not think them worth
                              a dime. Picture to yourself wealthy men in ———, walking with one leg
                              of their pantaloons in the boot, and the other carelessly pushed in
                              one side at the top; the boots themselves have perhaps never been
                              blackened since they were new. The wives go with handkerchiefs tied
                              around their heads, like the colored women of the South and the
                              cities; wear neither shoes nor stockings, a quilted skirt, and an old
                              night-gown. Their homes are comfortable and substantial, and their
                              tables are always furnished with a profusion of the bounties of the
                              field and the store-room, to which they welcome whoever may happen to
                              turn in. Now just fancy these women appearing at church
                              in a gold watch and chain, and a silk dress, (I mean these two wealthy
                              families;) the effect on my mind is bad, to me it looks out of
                              place."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              August 6th, 18—.
                           
                           "This is the first day of our quarterly meeting. We have just returned
                              from the services, and I am glad to say, we have one candidate for
                              baptism to-morrow, and others are inquiring the way. May the Lord
                              smile on His word in these parts, and I hope there will be 'a shaking
                              among the dry bones;' when the Lord says 'Live!' then our hearts will
                              rejoice. You are aware that Mr. L. has charge of the church in this
                              neighborhood, and of that at H——, eight miles distant, preaching to
                              each on alternate sabbaths. Last night our quarterly meeting closed.
                              We have had additions to each church, baptisms at half-past nine in
                              the morning, and preaching at eleven. Coming so great a distance,
                              there were about five hundred persons in each house to preach to, and
                              administer the Supper also. Several others are very serious in respect
                              to divine things—no doubt one and all felt it good to be there. My
                              dear sister, continue to pray for us, that the work may go on. I trust
                              we feel humbly thankful that the labors of my dear L. have not been in
                              vain in the Lord.
                           
                              HESTER."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              August 15th,—.
                           
                           "It seems a long time since I was able to write to you. My eyes have
                              been so bad that I was obliged to keep them bandaged much of the time.
                              My dear husband has been so much engaged at the meeting of the
                              association, that he could not find quiet long enough to write. It was
                              a precious meeting he says."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              August 30th, —.
                           
                           "I am sorry to say that my dear L. is quite sick with dysentery, and
                              is under medical treatment. I trust in the Almighty for the medicine
                              to be blest. I do wish to bow in submission to the will of my God, and
                              it is with trembling I approach the mercy-seat, to ask my God and
                              Saviour to spare his life. I do not want to be selfish, but I fear
                              there is selfishness at the bottom of my earnest cry, 'oh! spare his
                              life!' I trust I have committed his case into the hands of the Great
                              Physician, assured that he will do all things well. * * *
                           "I do, with yourself, most earnestly desire the conversion of your
                              dear husband and children. I have thought, many times, of the great
                              sin your husband is committing, after Christ has given him evidence
                              that he has found favor in His sight, that he will not submit to
                              baptism, and so fulfill the commands of Christ, by showing forth His
                              death until He comes. Let us take care lest we should deny Christ, and
                              He should be ashamed of us when He comes to make up His jewels.
                           "I will write soon to your dear children.—May your faith strengthen
                              daily—God bless you all.
                           "P. S. My dear L. is a little better this afternoon."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              September 16th, —.
                           
                           "I know you have been very anxious to hear from us—as my last was
                              written when we were in affliction—I am thankful we are better, though
                              not in health. One cause of my own infirmity is this—It was generally
                              known that my dear L. was ill of that direful disease which has swept
                              multitudes, in these parts, away, and that I administered to him the
                              Homœpathic treatment, (he could never be prevailed upon to have any
                              other,) and through the blessing of God he was cured. The disease
                              spread in the neighborhood with such violence, and death after death
                              often ensued; I was requested to visit and treat several serious
                              cases, where the doctors in Allopathy had given them up. I felt the
                              weight of responsibility there was resting upon me, as some were so
                              low it seemed impossible to raise them, but it was the Lord called me
                              to it, and He stood by me and blessed the means to sixteen precious
                              souls. All have done well, and are on their feet again, while the
                              doctors, for want of experience, have lost twelve, and not one of
                              these had so lived on earth as to secure life everlasting lasting. My
                              past experiences in illness have been many, and sad, but the Lord can
                              bring good out of evil."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              November 21st, —.
                           
                           "Once more we have to rejoice in the Lord. The labors of my dear
                              husband have been owned, and two souls given him, one in each
                              church—Our meetings were solemn, but no excitement. The blessed Spirit
                              moved the hearts of the hearers peaceably—'not by might or by power,
                              but by my Spirit, saith the Lord.' We had a remarkably solemn day
                              yesterday—Dear L. improved the death of two young men, first cousins
                              on the mother's side. One left his home with his brother, a Baptist
                              minister, in Alabama, about nine months ago; the other was in
                              California only six months—and both have died—both youths beloved by
                              all who knew them. Their mothers are daughters of the first settlers
                              in this section, and sisters in the same church. Mr. L. addressed the
                              young, especially, from 'Seek first the kingdom of God, &c.' He
                              felt his subject deeply, and was very earnest, and home-spoken in his
                              remarks. God hear our prayers, and water the word with the dews of
                              Heaven, then we shall have a glorious harvest.
                           "I am sorry that you are suffering so long, and so severely with
                              disease—but, my dear sister, it is from the Lord, and I believe you
                              can say, 'Let Him do what seemeth Him good.' I do wish, my dear, you
                              would try to see the hand of the Lord in staying you in C—depend upon
                              it you are just where the good Being would have you to be, and much of
                              your pain is aggravated by grieving on account of your location.
                           "Let us pray earnestly for grace to be conformed to our lot. I am not,
                              my sister, without the thorn, and have felt much the want
                              of congenial spirits, other than my husband; but I am sure the Lord
                              places his children just where He would have them. I fear were you to remove to S—,
                              your dear husband would soon be a widower, and his children
                              motherless. Bear with what I have written, for it is all in love for
                              you in this life, as well as that to come. It has been said, if I
                              would lean to the ways of the people, I should please very well; but I
                              was early taught to buy the truth and sell it not, and I assure you I
                              would never forfeit truth to please any one, especially those who have
                              two sides to their professions.
                           "We leave home to-day, for a journey of thirty-six miles, to try to
                              gather a scattered church."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Jan. 28, —.
                           
                           "Your letters are always welcome visitors to me. You complain for want
                              of news, but yours are always filled with interest, and the
                                 every-day news, I trust, does not suit you or me. You wish
                              to know how we are and how we spend our time. Through great mercy we
                              enjoy health at present. Our time is spent thus—some days of every
                              week in visiting members of our church and congregation, for prayer
                              and conversation; and the days I am at home, I set apart a portion of
                              time for self-examination and communion with God and my own heart. I
                              sometimes enjoy such soul-reviving times that I feel what the poet
                              meant when he wrote—
                           'I could sit and sing myself away to everlasting bliss.' But still the
                              nearer I try to live to my Redeemer the more I tremble at my depravity
                              of heart.
                           As a church and a people we have peace and love among us. There is no
                              very great evidence of an outpouring, but there is a good state of
                              feeling in our midst. I trust as God's dependent creatures, we are
                              contented with our lot, though far inferior to many we know, who are
                              always wanting more. I have not read the book you speak of. I do not
                              myself approve of works of fiction to enforce truth. I always thought
                              the blessed Gospel was so plain on the subject of baptism, that if
                              people would only read it, they could not believe in any thing but
                                 believer's baptism by immersion. I had no trouble on
                              the subject of close-communion, having never heard it discussed. We
                              have open communion churches in England, but I knew of none in
                              London—we looked more to doctrine. I am astonished that any one in
                              America should know so little as to think that Baptists are any more
                              close-communion than others. Ask any other denomination if they ever
                              partake with any body besides their own, and they will tell you No.'
                              It is close Baptism, I allow. Ask our Pedobaptist friends
                              if they would admit any person to sit down to the Lord's table with
                              them unless they had administered baptism to them according to their
                              mode—they will tell you 'No.' Turn to the fourth chapter of Leviticus,
                              by reading the sixth and seventh verses you will find the three words
                              'dip,' 'sprinkle,' and 'pour'—then do as I did—go to a Hebrew scholar,
                              and he will give you the English of them to your full satisfaction. We
                              have, through the mercy of God, obtained another house and lot, a very
                              convenient little home. When we commenced to build it, all hands
                              turned out to help—of other denominations too, so that our house was
                              soon on the way. When finished so as to move into it, the neighbors
                              brought us of their substance from thirty-five to forty dollars worth,
                              and we had as many as eighty-three calls, welcoming us into our new
                              habitation. Mr. L. has decided to ask them no salary for his services,
                              but to accept whatever they choose to bring. If it had not been for
                              our own private means, we could not have built a home, but now that
                              anxiety is removed. Then we have bought twenty acres of the land
                              around it. There are shade trees about the house, and there are fields
                              of corn and wheat, sugar-trees, and a little orchard, and an excellent
                              spring. Then we have our horse, our cow, pigs, chickens,
                              &c., quite a family you know This is our American home. Come and
                              see us—I long to bid you welcome."
                        
                     
                  
               
               When Hester Llewellyn and her much valued husband shall have joined the company of
                  the redeemed, and the songs of the ransomed shall be theirs in heaven—then perhaps
                  we may hear from them again—and may learn of the evening of their earthly days—and
                  whether their lamps went out in joy or in sorrow.
            
         
      
      
         
            A CATALOGUE OF POPULAR BOOKS, SOLD BY TRAVELING AGENTS.
            New-York: H. DAYTON, PUBLISHER, 107 NASSAU STREET. 1859.
            J. J. Reed, Printer & Stereotyper, 43 Centre-St., N.Y.
            
               
               THE PRINCE OF THE HOUSE OF DAVID;
               OR, THREE YEARS IN JERUSALEM,
               IN THE DAYS OF PONTIUS PILATE,
               60,000 SOLD, AND THE DEMAND CONSTANTLY INCREASING.
               The book is a large 12mo. vol., of 500 pages, and is embellished with a steel
                  plate Portrait of the BEAUTIFUL JEWISH MAIDEN, An Engraved Title Page, and seven
                  large, splendid Engravings, from entire new designs, and executed by the first
                  artists in the country, making altogether one of the most beautiful and
                  interesting books ever offered to the American public.
               The Author and Publishers being anxious to place the book in the hands of every
                  person that is able to read, have fixed the price at THE LOW SUM OF $1 25.
               
                  From the Christian Advocate and Journal. This is certainly among the
                  most delightful volumes we have ever read. It is very ably and most eloquently
                  written. No novel or romance could be more efficient in its effect on the
                  imagination or the affections of the heart; while its facts and incidents are in
                  keeping with the evangelical records. It is a book which one would read again and
                  again, for the delightful and sanctifying emotions it awakens in one who feels and
                  realizes his personal interest in the "story of the cross."
               
                  From the Dispatch, Richmond, Va. Jesus was man, as well
                  as God! In this book He is seen, conversed with, eaten with as a man! The book
                  presents him in the social and moral relations of life, with exemplary fidelity to
                  the Scripture narrative, and yet with a freshness which falls upon the mind like a
                  new and thrilling narrative, and a life-likeness in every lineament which we feel
                  must be true to the original. In truth, the reader, no matter how conversant with
                  the sacred writings, is drawn along with breathless interest, and the very depths
                  of his heart reached and stirred into uncontrollable emotion. Outside of the Holy
                  Gospels themselves, we have never seen so moving a picture of the life of the Man
                  of Sorrow, nor any representation of the wondrous beauty of the Divine character,
                  so touching and so true.
               THE PRINCE OF THE HOUSE OF DAVID WILL BE SENT BY MAIL, POSTAGE PAID, TO ANY PART
                  OF THE UNITED STATES, OF RECEIPT OF THE PRICE, $1 25.
               AGENTS WANTED in all parts of the country to engage in its sale.
            
            
               
               THE HEAVENLY TOKEN;
               A GIFT BOOK FOR CHRISTIANS.
               A NEW RELIGIOUS GIFT BOOK.
               1 Vol. 12mo. 500 pages. PRICE $1 25.
               The Publishers take great pleasure in presenting this volume to the Christian
                  public, as one eminently calculated to do good.
               In his preface, the author informs us that the work "is not designed as a
                  systematic treatise, but as an humble essay on the great, the inexhaustible
                  subject of the love of Christ, as manifested to a lost world." It is divided into
                  four parts, under the following general heads: "The Love of Christ;" "Christ and
                  Him Crucified;" "Wanderings of a Pilgrim;" "Immanuel's Land." These are subdivided
                  into some eight or ten chapters each.
               
                  From the New-York Chronicle. In coming to the pages of this good
                  book, after noticing so many of quite a different character, we feel our souls
                  refreshed like a man who reaches a green, beautiful rivulet—irrigated oasis in a
                  land where no water is, a land which is as the shadow of death. It is much in the
                  strain of Doddridge's "Rise and Progress of Religion in the Soul," or Baxter's
                  "Saint's Rest," and like the latter book "was composed during a long period of
                  recovery from a chronic disease, which brought the author to the gates of death,
                  and well nigh terminated his life." It offers Christianity to the reader, not in
                  any controversial aspect, not in any acute, metaphysical or philosophical form,
                  not as gratifying curiosity by new revelations in reference to departed spirits or
                  their abode, not in any of the phases of it in which so many are solely absorbed,
                  but Christianity as embraced by one who has been slain by the law and made alive
                  by Christ, as the balm of a wounded heart, as salvation for the lost, as life for
                  the dead. And as the matter of this work is thus purely evangelical, so its style
                  is eminently simple, direct, appropriate. It is made to bear with great force
                  directly upon the conscience, and hence is hortatory, pungent and powerful,
                  stirring up the spiritual affections from their deepest fountains. We could wish
                  that whatever books are given on the holidays, this one may accompany them as the
                  crowning gift of all.
               THE HEAVENLY TOKEN will be sent by mail to any part of the United States, on
                  receipt of the price, ($1 25.)
               500 AGENTS WANTED IMMEDIATELY to engage in the sale of the above work. One of our
                  Agents has sold 500 copies in two months. For terms address, H. DAYTON, Publisher,
                  107 NASSAU-STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               KINCAID: THE HERO MISSIONARY.
               A History of the Labors of REV. EUGENIO KINCAID.
               BY ALFRED S. PATTON,
               NOW READY AND SELLING RAPIDLY.
               Author of "Light in the Valley," "My Joy and Crown," etc., etc. A book full of
                  Thrilling incident and interest, Embellished with
               A Highly Finished Portrait on Steel, And two Elegantly Tinted Illustrations, one
                  Representing Mr. Kincaid's Capture by the Robbers, and the other, his Memorable
                  Visit to the Mountain Chief.
               12mo., 320 pages. Price, $100.
               The life of no modern missionary has exhibited more remarkable chapters than are
                  found in the course of the subject of this book, and the wonderful history of his
                  labors for the evangelization of Burmah, are presented in this volume in a style
                  of unusual beauty. The book does not claim to be a biography, but aims to present
                  a graphic view of the successive and wonderful features of his eventful life.
               
                  THE CONTENTS OF THE WORK ARE AS FOLLOWS:
                  CHAPTER 1st—Life's Beginnings.
                  CHAPTER 2d—Elements of Character.
                  CHAPTER 3d—The Foreign Missionary.
                  CHAPTER 4th—Entering the Foreign Field.
                  CHAPTER 5th—A Year in Rangoon.
                  CHAPTER 6th—Up the Irrawaddy.
                  CHAPTER 7th—Opposition at Ava.
                  CHAPTER 8th The Gospel in the Golden City
                  CHAPTER 9th—In the Shadow of the Himmale Mountains.
                  CHAPTER 10th—In Perils among Robbers.
                  CHAPTER 11th—Danger and Deliverance.
                  CHAPTER 12th—Labors in Tennasserim.
                  CHAPTER 13th—A great Work in Arracan.
                  CHAPTER 14th—Visit to the Mountain Chief.
                  CHAPTER 15th—Visit to America.
                  CHAPTER 16th—Re-opening of Burmah.
                  CHAPTER 17th—Off again for Burmah.
                  CHAPTER 18th—Resuming Labors.
                  CHAPTER 19th—Having Favor with the People.
                  CHAPTER 20th—Labors Interrupted by War.
                  CHAPTER 21st—Setting up the Standard at Prome.
                  CHAPTER 22d—In Favor with the King.
                  CHAPTER 23d—On the King's Business.
                  CHAPTER 24th—The Overland Route to Burmah
                  CHAPTER 25th—Retrospect and Prospect.
               
               Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price. Address H. DAYTON, Publisher,
                  107 NASSAU-STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               
               FIFTY YEARS IN CHAINS;
               OR, THE LIFE OF AN AMERICAN SLAVE.
               WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
               "TRUTH IS STRANGER THAN FICTION."
               
                  
                     
                        "My God! can such things be!
                        Hast thou not said that whatso'er is done,
                        Unto thy weakest and thy humblest one,
                        Is even done to thee?"
                     
                  
                  WHITTIER.
               
               430 PAGES, CLOTH, GILT BACK, PRICE $1.
               This is the title of one of the simplest, yet most intensely interesting
                  biographies of the day. It is the plain, homely history of an American slave in
                  the far South, who, after two or three escapes and recaptures, finally, an old
                  man, found freedom and rest in one of the Northern States.
               "The story," says the Preface, "is TRUE in every particular. Responsible citizens
                  of a neighboring State can youch for the reality of the narrative. The language of
                  the slave has not at all times been strictly adhered to, as a half century of
                  bondage unfitted him for literary work. The subject of the story is still a slave
                  by the laws of this country, and it would not be wise to reveal his name."
               
                  OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                  Few works are better calculated than that now before us to spread sound views
                     on the subject of slavery, as it deals directly with the fortunes of
                     individuals, always more attractive themes with the mass of mankind than the
                     ablest arguments that can be directed against the evils of a
                        system.—Boston Traveler.
                  
                  The story is told with great simplicity, but with much power and pathos.
                     Whoever takes it up will find it difficult to lay it down until it is finished.
                     The merit of the work lies in its narration of personal experience. The writer
                     does not stop to argue about slavery, and rarely to exclaim against it as a
                     gigantic system of wrong, but contents himself with narrating his own
                     experience while a slave, and the reader can make his own deductions. This is
                     the way in which all such books should be written. Leave the reader to reason,
                     to moralize; 1st the writer, the sufferer, tell his story! As a very
                     interesting piece of self-history, this work has high merit, and as a picture
                     of American Slavery, higher still.—National Era, Washington, D.
                        C.
                  
                  This is an autobiography, written in an earnest, simple, and touching style. It
                     will be read with deep interest by very many, and will make no converts to
                        slavery.—Christian Chronicle, Philadelphia, Pa.
                  
                  The narrative will be found deeply interesting to all who sympathize with the
                     oppressed and down-trodden slave.—Christian Secretary, Hartford,
                        Ct.
                  
                  Sample Copies sent by mail, postage paid, to any part of the U. States, on
                     receipt of the price. Address H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU-STREET, N.
                     Y.
               
            
            
               MADELON HAWLEY;
               OR, THE JESUIT AND HIS VICTIM.
               A Revelation of Romanism.
               BY WILLIAM EARLE BINDER.
               A WORK OF INTENSE INTEREST.
               JUST PUBLISHED.
               
                  
                     
                        "Would you pass within
                        The chamber of this mystery—and bow
                        Before the awful knowledge that is there!"
                     
                  
                  —MELLEN.
               
               This is one of the most Thrilling Revelations ever published, and one that will
                  have an enormous sale. Our arrangements are such as will enable us to supply at
                  least 2,000 COPIES PER WEEK, and we hope thus to be able to meet the demand.
               The book contains nearly 300 12mo. pages, with several fine illustrations, and
                  sells at $1 00 in cloth, full gilt back.
               
                  From the Sentinel, Lawrence, Mass. This story, revealing, as it does,
                  many of the dark spots upon the history of Papacy in America, will be sought after
                  and widely read by those who desire to behold the system of Romanism unmasked, and
                  standing forth in all its hideous deformity. The author states, in his preface,
                  the incidents leading to his being put in possession of the facts, from the mouth
                  of one of the principal actors in the sketch, a former Roman Catholic Priest.
               
                  From the Journal, Clinton, Mass. This work has for its object the
                  keeping in perpetual remembrance the monstrous evils of that system of theology
                  that binds down the conscience, and lays claim to implicit obedience on the part
                  of all its followers. The plot of the tale is deeply laid, and purports to have
                  its foundation in truth. The incidents are of that startling character, that
                  whoever commences the reading will continue to the terrible denouement, the
                  violent death of Madelon, and the speedy retribution that followed the crimes of
                  the infamous Father Heustace.
               
                  From the Am. Presbyterian, Philadelphia, Pa. This, as its title page
                  denotes, is a tale of horrors. Its scene is laid in Philadelphia, its chief actor
                  being a Jesuit Priest, under whose sacred exterior lie hid murder and all
                  wickedness. The writer is evidently fully convinced of the vileness of the Romish
                  priesthoood, and gives his imagination full play in depicting it.
               For terms to Agents, (or a sample copy, if you wish it, for which $1 00 must be
                  enclosed,) address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU-STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               
               THE LIFE OF CHAS. SUMNER!
               WITH CHOICE SPECIMENS OF Eloquence, a Delineation of his Oratorical
                  Character,
               AND HIS GREAT SPEECH ON KANSAS.
               BY D. A. HARSHA, Author of "Eminent Orators and Statesmen," etc., etc.
               A BOOK FOR THE TIMES, JUST PUBLISHED.
               WITH A FINE PORTRAIT OF MR. SUMNER,
               AND AN ENGRAVING RBPRESENTING THE ASSAULT IN THE SENATE CHAMBER.
               12mo. 350 pages. Price One Dollar.
               
                  From the New England Farmer, Boston, Mass. This tribute to our noble
                  and eloquent Senator is very neatly executed, and will gratify the wishes of
                  thousands, who desire to know more of the personal history of the man who has made
                  so bold a mark upon his age. It is not a romantic or eventful life that is here
                  recorded; but it is one full of instruction for the young, full of encouragement
                  to the timid, and full of interest to all.
               
                  From the Salem Observer, Mass. This is an excellent and timely book.
                  It will find a host of readers. It is embellished with a portrait of Sumner, and a
                  view of the assault upon him in the Senate Chamber. Mr. Harsha is well known as
                  the author of "Eminent Orators and Statesmen."
               
                  From the Worcester Daily Spy, Mass. The reader cannot rise from a
                  perusal of this volume without feelings of admiration for Charles Sumner, the ripe
                  scholar, the able lawyer, the eloquent orator, the accomplished statesman, and the
                  noble champion of freedom.
               
                  From the N. Y. Chronicle. We are glad to meet with a work like this
                  before us, which presents Mr. Sumner as he is and sets before its readers some of
                  the gems of thought which have fallen from his lips and pen.
               
                  From the Boston Herald. Mr. Harsha is an ardent admirer of Mr.
                  Sumner. He has given a neatly written sketch of the life of this hero, with choice
                  specimens of his eloquence, a delineation of his oratorical character, and his
                  great speech on Kansas. The volume has attractions for, and will be appreciated
                  by, the friends of the Massachusetts Senator.
               
                  From the American, Lawrence, Mass. Every lover of the chivalrous
                  Sumner, and every admirer of his matchless eloquence, should provide himself with
                  this volume.
               SENT BY MAIL, POSTAGE PAID, ON RECEIPT OF THE PRICE.
               AGENTS WANTED. Address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU-STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               FIFTEEN YEARS WITH THE MORMONS.
               A FULL AND AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF THEIR SOCIAL CONDITION, THEIR
                  RELIGIOUS DOCTRINES & POLITICAL GOVERNMENT.
               FROM Fifteen Years' Experience.
               JUST PUBLISHED.
               
                  Being the Narrative of MRS. MARY ETTIE V. SMITH, a
                  sister of one of the Mormon high priests, and long in the confidence of "Prophet"
                  Brigham Young.
               EDITED BY N. W. GREEN.
               1 Vol., 12mo. Price $1.00.
               This volume is the narrative of the painful Fifteen Years' Experience of one whose
                  lot in early childhood was cast among the Mormons, and who enjoyed peculiar
                  opportunities to observe, unprejudiced, the working of the system. Such a
                  disclosure of the corruptions of human nature, nursed and developed by a Satanic
                  delusion in the full blaze of Christian civilization, is unparalleled in the
                  history of the world. The vilest and most corrupt forms of Paganism in ancient or
                  modern times never witnessed more iniquitous rites or engendered a more degraded
                  state of society. The truth and accuracy of the statements is not only attested by
                  the names, locality, dates, circumstances—incidental references to persons and
                  places—facts given, and all in perfect keeping with facts previously known—but the
                  author challenges the severest criticism, and is prepared by incontestble
                  ievidence to substantiate the truth of her statements. The work should be read and
                  circulated by every one interested in the prevalence of sound morals, and every
                  patriot who would have his nation and government purged of a great national curse
                  and crime.
               
                  TO AGENTS.
                  "FIFTEEN YEARS AMONG THE MORMONS" will be sold by agents, and we wish to secure
                     a thorough man in each county to engage in its sale. We shall not give out
                     counties for the sale of this book to any but active, energetic men, who will
                     have the county or counties they take thoroughly canvassed. Persons wishing to
                     engage in the sale of this book should make immediate application (stating the
                     county or counties they wish) for our private circular, with terms, &c.
                  A sample copy of the book will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of $1.
                     Address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK.
               
            
            
               
               VIOLA: OR THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE AND FAITH.
               By WM. EARLE BINDER, Author of Madelon Hawley, &c., &c.
               A BOOK THAT WILL SUIT YOU.
               JUST PUBLISHED.
               12mo., beautifully Illustrated from designs by Orr, executed in the highest style
                  of the art. Price $1.
               The author of Madelon Hawley is too well known in literary circles to require an
                  introduction to the reading public: the happy effort of his pen, widely circulated
                  and as generally perused throughout our land, have been crowned with flattering
                  approval and success.
               VIOLA is not merely a work of fiction for which we claim the attention of the
                  public, nor do its highest merits rest in creating a sensation. The high moral
                  tone infused throughout its pages, sustained by irresistible logic, without
                  detracting from its interest, claim for it a place by every fireside. VIOLA, the
                  high minded girl, who turns instinctively to the right path, as unerringly as the
                  needle to the pole, though means are brought to bear against, and weigh down the
                  strongest soul, claims our warmest sympathy.
               Sophistry, deceit, fraud or violence allied cannot shake her exalted faith and
                  womanly love. The manly and generous Kenneth, whose energetic heart knows no such
                  word as fail; "Seip," the faithful black; and on the other hand the plotting
                  Torillo and his reckless son, with their unscrupulous assistants, all crowd up
                  before the enchained reader with the distinctness of reality, until one seems to
                  live and move with the beings of imagination. Let every one read it, and gain
                  instruction as well as delight from its pages.
               The sensation seeker, and intellectual epicure will read it—the one for its
                  startling plot, and inexpressible interest, the other for its constant warnings to
                  the right path, and beautiful delineation of every-day life. Nothing has been
                  spared to render this book attractive in every form. The illustrations presenting
                  some of the most thrilling scenes to the eye of the reader, and executed in
                  effective style from designs by Orr, the well known artist.
               H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               THE CITIZENS' MANUAL OF GOVERNMENT AND LAW:
               Comprising the Elementary Principles of Civil Government; a practical View of the
                  State Governments, and of the Government of the United States; a Digest of Common
                  and Statutory Law, and of the Law of Nations; and a Summary of Parliamentary Rules
                  for the Practice of Deliberative Assemblies:
               BY ANDREW W. YOUNG,
               
                  Author of "Science of Government," "American Statesman," &c.
               JUST PUBLISHED,
               This work contains— 
                     1 A familiar illustration of the principles of civil government;
                        including the Nature and Necessity of Civil Government and Laws; a
                        definition of rights and Liberty; the general Division and Distribution of
                        Power in the government of the United States, and the principal governments
                        of Europe; and the origin and nature of Constitutional Government in the
                        United States.
                     2. A view of the State Governments, showing the manner in which power is
                        exercised in the Legislative, Executive and Judicial Departments, and in the
                        County and Town Administrations; with a Synopsis of the Constitutions of all
                        the States, and some of the most important special laws of each
                        State.
                     3. The Government of the United States—in this part is shown the nature
                        of the old Confederation adopted during the war; a history of the causes and
                        the successive steps which led to the formation of the Constitution; with a
                        brief commentary and sketches of debates in the Convention of framers on
                        some of the most important provisions of the Constitution, especially those
                        known as the "Great Compromises."
                     4. Common and Statutory Law—embracing a great variety of subjects; among
                        which are the rights of Husband and Wife, Minors, Masters, Apprentices and
                        Servants; laws relating to the Descent of Property, Wills and Testaments,
                        Deeds and Mortgages, Contracts, Partnerships, Promissory Notes, Bills of
                        Exchange, &c., &c.
                     
                     5. A Digest of the Law of Nations, showing the mutual Rights and
                        Obligations of Nations, and the customs and usages which constitute the laws
                        by which the intercourse of Nations is regulated, the Just Causes of War,
                        the Rights and Duties of Neutrals, Blockade, Right of Search, &c.
                     6. Parliamentary Rules, for the Government of Public Meetings,
                        Conventions and other Deliberative Bodies.
                  
               
               A knowledge of the principles and structure of our Government is of vast
                  importance in this country, where every citizen is, or may become, an elector; yet
                  a large portion of those who are invested with the rights of freemen, are sadly
                  deficient in their knowledge of the duties which, as a citizen, every man owes to
                  his country. Questions of the greatest moment are often decided at the ballot box
                  by the votes of those who have never devoted a day to the study of the principles
                  of our free institutions.
               To bring this information within the reach of the mass of our citizens, this work
                  has been prepared; and it is confidently believed that no other work containing so
                  much valuable information on the rights, duties and responsibilities of citizens,
                  and relating to the common concerns of life, and withal condenced within so small
                  a compass, has never issued from the American Press.
               To young men upon whom the government of this great and growing republic will soon
                  devolve, this work is earnestly commended; as also to the more adult class of our
                  citizens who have not had access to those voluminous works in which this
                  information has so long been concealed from the great body of our citizens.
               This work contains about 450 pages duodecimo, is to be furnished to subscribers,
                  in cloth at $1,00 per copy, and in leather backs and corners at $1,25.
               
                  TO AGENTS.
                  "THE CITIZENS' MANUAL"
                  will be sold exclusively to agents, and we wish to secure a thorough man in
                     each county to engage in its sale. It will be one of the best books ever
                     published for agents to sell, because it is a book that every intelligent
                     family in the land will want. We shall not give out counties for the sale of
                     this book to any but active, energetic men, who will have the county or
                     counties they take thoroughly canvassed.
                  Persons wishing to engage in the sale of this book should make immediate
                     application (stating the county or counties they wish) for our private circular
                     with terms, &c.
                  A sample copy of the books in cloth binding will be sent by mail, postage paid,
                     on receipt of $1,00, or in leather backs and corners for $1,25. Address, H.
                     DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
               
            
            
               NEW ENGLAND'S CHATTELS,
               OR, LIFE IN THE NORTHERN POOR-HOUSE.
               JUST PUBLISHED.
               12mo. ILLUSTRATED. Price $1.25.
               This story of NEW ENGLAND'S CHATTELS presents an interesting, though unexpected,
                  nay, sad, if not revolting picture of New England's society and custom. It will
                  strike the reader with astonishment that in this highly refined, educated, pious
                  and free society, there are degraded, public human chattels—bone of their bone,
                  flesh of their flesh,—men, women and children, held in the bands of the town and
                  sold to be supported, often on the block, to the lowest bidder—who are kept on the
                  poorest food, and in abject, comfortless condition, miserably housed, clad in
                  rags, denied many a privilege that other men claim and practice as their
                  incontrovertible right.
               The paupers of New England represent fallen, broken fortunes, character and
                  health. Often there are found in the damp and cold rooms of the poor houses, those
                  who have professed the religion of Jesus Christ, and have been accepted
                  Communicants at his own table.
               The public will read these pages with the deepest interest. At the South they will
                  be received with astonishment, revealing as they do, a condition of society, that,
                  in as far as it goes, can scarcely have a rival, and can hardly bear the exposure which so
                  much vice, neglect and barbarity loudly demands. Here is revealed a system of
                  supporting the poor of the New England Parishes, or Towns, which, as it belongs to
                  New England, the free and glorious North, outrivals, we had almost said, the
                  slavery of the South in its meaner aspects.
               This book must startle the North. We mistake, if it be not regarded as containing
                  a most terrible censure of our own Northern ways, expedients and subterfuges.
               It is a genial story with all its frankness, and mournful truths. We laugh with
                  Mag Davis, while we shrink from her polluting presence. We pity James, and tremble
                  at his youthful vice, while we are proud of his long tangled locks and coarse
                  raiment, and bold defiant temper and words.
               The reader sees here the selfishness of society, and he makes up his
                  mind that there is nothing meaner, nothing more reprehensible than the pauper
                  system, laws, and practices of New England.
               The cuts are descriptive of character, as the book brings it out, diffusing from
                  first to last, and are intensely gratifying. They make the work attractive and
                  more highly effective.
               We hope it will inaugurate a new system in regard to the thousands of wretched
                  paupers in the towns of the North, whose principal crime seems to be their
                  poverty.
               Agents wanted in all parts of the Country to engage in the sale of this Book. A
                  sample copy will be sent by mail (post paid) on receipt of the price. Address, H.
                  DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               THE Ladies' Indispensable Companion AND HOUSEKEEPERS' GUIDE.
               NEW WORK!!
               8vo., Paper. Price 50 Cents.
               We believe that no one can read the contents of this work, without being convinced
                  of its great cheapness and utility.
               Here will be found about 500 recipes, embracing the very best directions for the
                  Behavior and Etiquette of Ladies and Gentlemen; Ladies' Toilette Table; Safe
                  Directions for the Management of Children; and a large variety of plain common
                  sense Recipes on Cookery, &c., &c., &c.
               
                  TABLE OF CONTENTS.
                  PART I.
                  Ague: Air: Asiatic Cholera: Asthma, Cure of Billious Cholic; Billious
                     Complaints: Bite of Poisonous Creatures: Bleeding at the Lungs, Stomach, and
                     from the Nose: Bloody Urine: Boils: Bowel Complaints in Children: Burn or
                     Scald: Burns: Cancer: Callus: Catarrh: Certain Cure for a Cold: Chilblain:
                     Cholera Morbus: Consumption, No. 1: Consumptive Cough: Continued Fever:
                     Convulsion Fits: Corns: Costiveness in Children: Coughs and Colds in Children:
                     Cough: Cough, Recipe for: Courses, painful: Cow-pox: Cramp in the Stomach:
                     Croup, No. 1: Croup, No. 2: Cutting Teeth: Deafness: Delirium Tremens:
                     Diabetes: Diarrhœa: Distress after Eating: Dropsy: Dropsy of the Head:
                     Drowning, recovery from: Dysentery; Dyspepsia: Earache, No. 1: Earache, No. 2:
                     Elecampaign for a Cough: Epeleptic Fits; Eyes, Inflammation of: Eyes, Sore and
                     Weak: Eyes, Weeping: Falling of the Bowels in Children: Felon in the Eye: Felon
                     on the Hand: Female Obstructions: Fever and Ague: Fever Sore; Fits or
                     Convulsions in Children: Flaxseed Tea: Fluor Albus: Food for Children: Food for
                     Infants brought up by hand: Frost Bite: Gleets: Good Remedy for Fits: Gout:
                     Gravel or Stone No. 1: Gravel or Stone No. 2: Headache, Sick: Hiccough:
                     Hoarseness: Humors, No. 1: Humors, No. 2: Hysterics; Inflammatory Fever: Itch;
                     Jaundice: Joints, Stiffened: Keeping Children clean: King's Evil: Lame Feet:
                     Liver Complaint, No. 1: Lock Jaw: Measles: Medicine for Children: Menstrual
                     Discharges: Mortification: Mumps: Nervous Affections: Nipples, Sore: Numb
                     Palsey: Old and Inveterate Sores: Old Sores, to Cure: Pains: Painter's Cholic:
                     Palpitation of the Heart: Pectoral Syrup for Coughs: Piles: Piles, Bleeding:
                     Phthisic: Pimples: Poisons, taking, Tartar Emetic: Poisons, Saltpetre,
                     Laudanum, Lunar Caustic, Corros. Sublimate: Polypus: Raising Blood: Rattlesnake
                     Bite: Rattles in Children: Recipes for Rheumatism: Remedy for Dropsy in the
                     Head: Rheumatic Plaster: Rickets, Symptoms of: Rickets, Remedy for: Ring Worms:
                     Rupture: Salt Rheum: Scarlet Fever: Scrofula, Humor: Scrofula: Scrofula, Remedy
                     for: Scurvey; Sleep, to procure it; Smallpox: Sore Throat, Putrid: Sore Legs:
                     Sore Lips: Spine Complaints: Sprains; St. Anthony's Fire: Stomach Sickness;
                     Strengthening Plaster; Strained Stomach: St. Vitus' Dance: Sweat: Swellings, to
                     reduce them; Swellings, No. 2; Tape Worm; Teething and Diarrhœa in Children;
                     Tic Doloreaux
                     reaux; Toothache, No. 1, No. 2, No. 3; Treatment of children; Typhus Fever;
                     Ulcer; Ulcer Inward; Universal Cure all; Urinary Discharges, too free; Urinary
                     Obstructions; Varioloid; Volatile Liniment; Vomiting prevented; Warts, No. 1;
                     Warts, No. 2; Weak Eyes; Weak Limbs; Weak Stomach; Wen; White Mixture, for a
                     Cough, No. 1, No. 2; Whites; White Swelling; Whooping Cough, No. 1; Whooping
                     Cough, No. 2; Windy Stomach; Worms.
               
               
                  PART II.
                  
                     CAKES, BREAD, YEAST, &c.
                     Apple Snow: Baker's Ginger Bread: Best Cup Cake: Breakfast Butter Cakes:
                        Brown or Dyspepsia Bread: Buckwheat Cakes: Butter Cakes for Tea: Cake
                        without Eggs: Common Plum Cake: Composition Cake: Cream Cup Cake: Cream
                        Cake: Cream Cake, No. 2: Cake, Rich Small: Dyspepsia Cake: Dough Nuts:
                        Dyspepsia Bread: Ginger Bread: Ginger Nuts: Ginger Snaps: Good Family Cake:
                        Green Corn Cake: Hard Wafers: Hoe Cake; Icing for Cakes; Indian Cakes;
                        Indian Corn Cakes; Indian Griddle Cakes; Jelly Cake; Jumbles; Lemon Cake;
                        Light Cake to be Baked in Cups; Loaf Cake; Lemon Pie; Measure Cake; Molasses
                        Dough Cake; Muffins; New York Cup Cake; Plain Indian Cakes; Plum Cake; Pound
                        Cake; Rich Jumbles; Rolls; Rye and Indian Bread; Rice Waffles; Seed Cakes;
                        Savor Cakes; Sugar Ginger Bread; Symbals; Tea Cake, No. 1; Yeast—to make it
                        good; do. Milk, do. of Cream Tartar and Saleratus.
                  
                  
                     PIES, PRESERVES, JELLIES, SAUCE, &c.
                     Apple Sauce; Arrow Root Custard; Barberries, to Preserve; Black Currant
                        Jelly; BlancMange; Calf's Foot Jelly; Conserve Roses; Currant Jelly;
                        Curries; Curry Powder; Damsons, to Preserve; Family Mince Pie; Peach Jam;
                        Pumpkin Pie; Raspberry Jam; Rice Jelly; Squash Pie; Strawberry Jam; Spruce
                        Beer; Tomato Catsup; Tomato Sauce.
                  
                  
                     PUDDINGS.
                     Arrow Root Pudding; Boiled Indian Pudding; Bird's Nest Pudding; Christmas
                        Plum Pudding; Damson Pudding; Indian Fruit Pudding; Orange Pudding; Plum
                        Pudding; Rice Pudding, Baked or Boiled; Rich Apple Pudding; Sago Pudding;
                        Sauce for Pudding; Tapioca Pudding.
                  
                  
                     MEAT, FISH, GRAVIES, &C.
                     Boiled Beef; Beef Balls; Beef, Cold Tenderloin; Beef, Cold Steaks, to warm;
                        Beef, Minced; Beef Steaks Broiled; Boiled Ham; Boiled Salmon; Bread Sauce;
                        Broiled Cod; Broiled Ham; Broiled Salmon; Broiled Salmon, Dried, Cabbage
                        Soup; Caper Sauce; Chicken, good way to prepare; Chicken Pie; Chicken Pot
                        Pie; Chicken Salad, Chicken Soup; Chicken Soup, No. 2; Chowder, how to make;
                        Codfish, salt, Stewed; Codfish, Salt, Cod, or other Fish, to Fry; Codfish
                        Cakes; Cold Boiled Cod, to make a dish; Cold Slaw: Dried Codfish; Dried Cod,
                        a small dish, Dried Salmon; Egg Sauce; Fried Cod; Fresh Mackerel Soused:
                        Fried Sausages; Fried Soup; Haddock; Lobster Soup; Mackerel, Salt; Melted
                        Butter; Minced Meat; Mock Turtle Soup; Mutton Broths; Mutton, to boil Leg
                        of; Mutton Chops; Mutton, to stew shoulder of; Oyster Mouth Soup; Oysters,
                        to Fry; Oyster Sauce; Parsley and Butter; Pig, to Roast; Pork Steak; Roast
                        Pork; Sandwiches; Sausage Meat; Sausages; Sweet Bread, Liver, and Heart;
                        Salmon; Salmon to Broil; Savoy Soup; Shad, to broil; Shad; Shell Fish; Spare
                        Rib; Stewed Lobster; Stewed Oysters; Stock for Gravy Soup or soup: Turtle
                        Soup: Tripe; White Sauce for Boiled Fowl.
                  
                  
                     VEGETABLES, &c.
                     Cabbage: Coffee, how to Make: Green Peas: Mashed Potatoes; Onions, Potatoes,
                        to Boil; Turnips.
                  
               
               
                  PART III.
                  
                     MISCELLANEOUS.
                     Apples, Preserved; Blacking, to make; Britannia Ware, to Clean; Cucumbers,
                        to Pickle; Ice Cream; Keep out Red Ants; Oysters, to Pickle; Take Ink from
                        Floors; Washing Recipe, celebrated.
                  
                  
                     LADIES' TOILETTE TABLE.
                     Dress; Evening Dresses; Flounces; High-necked Dresses; Lotion for Promoting
                        the Growth of the Hair, and Preventing it from turning Grey; Style of
                        Bonnet; Short Cloak; to prevent Loosening of the Hair: to Cure Ringworm.
                     The way to get a copy of the LADIES' INDISPENSABLE COMPANION, is to send us
                        50 cents in postage stamps, and we will send you a copy by return of mail,
                        postage paid, Address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
                  
               
            
            
               ARTS REVEALED, AND UNIVERSAL GUIDE,
               A BOOK FOR EVERY FAMILY.
               8vo., Paper. Price 50 cents.
               This Book makes known some of the most remarkable discoveries in Household
                  Affairs. Many of these Recipes have never before been published, and actually cost
                  from $20 to $50 each; and we believe that the Contents below will strongly commend
                  the Work to the Patronage of every Family in the land. Here will be found ample
                  information upon a variety of important subjects, from the best authorities.
               
                  TABLE OF CONTENTS.
                  PART I.—The Arts Revealed, or, Secrets made Known.—The
                     Celebrated Chinese Cement, for Mending Glass, Marble, China, Earthenware,
                     &c.; The Magic Copying Press or Manifold Writer, Recipe for the Colors
                     used; to make a Powder by which you Write with Water; Powder for Removing
                     Superfluous Hair; Imperial Ginger Pop; Volatile Soap for removing Paint, Grease
                     spots, &c.; White Spruce Beer; Cheap and Excellent Blue Color for Ceilings,
                     &c.; Unsurpassed Blacking; Ink Powder for Immediate Use; to make Ink for
                     marking Linen with Type; For Indelible Ink; Common Small Beer; Root Beer; to
                     make Cologne Water; to take off instantly the Copy of a Print; to Prepare a
                     Transparent Paper for Drawing; to make Water Oil for Painters; to make Paint
                     without White Lead and Oil; to Prepare Gun Cotton; to Remove Writing Ink from a
                     Printed Pages, Composition for Lucifer Matches; Lemon Syrup; To make
                     Sarsaparilla Mead; Essences; A Waterproof Glue; Celebrated Recipe for Silver
                     Wash; Remarkable Chemical. Erasive Compound; Gold and Silver Coin Detector;
                     Iron Cement; Wood Cement; Infallible Cure for Cancer.
                  PART II.—Invaluable Recipes for Families.—To setColors Fast in
                     Calicoes and other Goods; to take Stains out of Mahogany; to Restore Colors
                     taken out by Acids; to take Mildew out of Linen; to Clean badly soiled Bed
                     ticks; to Destroy Red Ants; to Cleanse Black Veils; to Clean Britannia or
                     Silver; Cure for Bleeding at the Stomach; Hard Soap; Method of Cleaning China;
                     to Cleanse Foul Casks; to Destroy Bed bugs; To Preserve Hams; Labor saving
                     Soap; To Clean Light Kid Gloves; to Clean Stoves and Stone Hearths; to Clean
                     Mahogany and Marble Furniture; to Restore Rusty Italian Crape; to Clean Phials
                     and Pie Plates; to Cleanse Feather Reds and Mattresses; to Remove Paint and
                     Putty from Window Glass; to extract Stains from White Cotton Goods and Colored
                     Silks; to Extract Grease from Silks, Paper, Woolen Goods, and Floors, to Remove
                     Black Stains on Scarlet Woolen Goods; to Remove Stains from Broadcloth; to
                     Extract Ink from Floors; on the Mixture of Colors; Names of Principal Dyeing
                     Drugs; Causes for the Holding of Colors; Lime Water; of Blue, Black; to make
                     Chemic Blue and Green; on Dyeing Silks in the Small or False Dye; for
                     Discharging Colors; Light Blue Silks, Green Silks; A very pretty Hair Brown;
                     for Slate colored Silks; for a Stone colored Silk; to Make Half Violet or
                     Lilac; to Dye a Shawl Crimson; to make Flesh Colors; for a Common Shawl; for
                     Dyeing Straw and Chip Bonnets; for Dyeing Silk Stocking Black; on Dyeing Blacks
                     and Browns; to take Stain of Dye from Hands; for Bleaching Cotton; for
                     Slate-colored Cotton; for an Olive Green; for a Full Yellow; to Dye a Pelisse
                     Black; to Dye Woolen Stuffs Black; A Pretty Red Brown, very bright, the Dye
                     costing but sixpence; for Dyeing Black Cloth a Dark Green; Directions for
                     Washing Calicoes; for Cleaning Silk Goods; for Washing White Cotton Cloths; for
                     Washing Woolens; to Clean Woolen and Silk Shawls.
                  PART IV—Important Instructions to Young Ladies and Young
                     Gentlemen in Respect to Dress, Cleanliness, &c.—The Dress, Evening Dresses;
                     the Hat, High-neck Dresses; Flounces, Tucks; Short Cloaks, Dressing the Hair;
                     Caps, Purity of Breath; Important Hints to Young Men; Style and Dress of
                     Gentlemen; Choice of a Wife; How to Treat a Wife; A Guide in all Things.
                  
                  PART V.—Needlework for Young Ladies, embracing Instructions in
                     Embroidery on Muslin, Silk Velvet, &c.,—Embroidery with Floss, three-corded
                     Silk, Chenille, Worsted, &c.; Raised Embroidery; Stitches in Embroidery on
                     Muslin and Lace Work; Double Button hole Stitch; Glover's Stitch, Eyelet Holes;
                     Embroidery, Feather Stitch; Formation of Bars; Button-hole Stitch, Darning;
                     Eyelet holes in Lace-work; Interior Stitch, Chain Stitch; Veining Open Hem;
                     Pearling, Lines; Straight Open Hem; Half Herring bone Stitch; Tambour Stitch,
                     Spots on Net; Embroidery on Muslin; Embroidery in Gold Thread; Instructions in
                     Lace-work; Embroidery for Insertion; Things to be Remembered.
                  PART VI.—Rules of Politeness for Ladies and Gentlemen.—Rules
                     of Politeness; Models of Invitation Cards; How to Address a Lady; Language of
                     the Finger Ring; Rules of Conversation; Young People's Primary Instruction in
                     the Art of Drawing.
                  PART VII.—Miscellaneous Recipes.—To, keep the Hair from
                     falling off; Oil for the Hair, to make it Curl; to Cure Freckles, Shaving Soap;
                     Tincture for Diseased Gums; Red Bottle Wax; Whitewash that will not Rub off; to
                     make Cloth wind and rain proof; Feathers, Icy Steps; to Polish Stoves, Black
                     Ball; Inflamed Eyes; to Blacken the Eyelashes, to Perfume Clothes; Certain Cure
                     for Eruptions, Pimples, &c.; Cheap, white House Paint; Confectionery;
                     Ornamental Frosting; to Clarify Sugar for Candies; Fine Peppermint Lozenges;
                     Icing for Cakes; Saffron Lozenges; Strawberry Ice Cream.
                  PART VIII.—The Doctor at Home.—New Cure for Consumption,
                     Scrofula, Rickets, Diarrhœa, &c.; Cure for a Nail Run into the Foot; Fever
                     and Ague; Cure for the Toothache; A very Strengthening Drink; Cure for
                     Rheumatism; Very Valuable Remedy for Rheumatism; Cure for Hydrophobia; Tonic
                     Bitters, Bowel Complaints; Inflammation of the Bowels; Common Canker, Gravel;
                     Prevention of Billous Fever; Consumption; Hypochondria, or Hysteric Passion;
                     Rabes, or Hydrophobia; Incubus, or Nightmare; Cough Compound, Canker Cure;
                     Piles, Dysentery; Pain in the Breast or Side; Convulsion Fits, Inward Ulcers;
                     Sore Eyes, Numb Palsy; Flying Rheumatism; Rheumatic Oil, Soothing Lotion;
                     Dysentery Specific, particularly for Bloody Dysentery; Invalid Cordial; Balm of
                     Life, Headache Drops; for Cleansing and Purifying the Blood; for Strengthening
                     and Invigorating the Nerves; A Shrunk Sinew or Stiff Joint; Cancer of the
                     Breast; Remedy for Cancer.
                  PART IX.—Medical Qualities of Roots and Herbs.—Black Alder;
                     Alum Root—Angelica: Thorn Apple; Arrow-Root—Avens Root: Asarum, or Swamp
                     Asarabacca: Agalmony: Beech Drops: Bearberry: Five Fingers, or Cinquefoil:
                     Crawley, or Fever Root: Comfrey, Feather-few: Blackberry: Dandelion—Wild
                     Turnip: Blood Root—Thoroughwork: Indian Tobacco: Wintergreen: Burdock—Pleurisy
                     Root; Queen of the Meadow: Cicuta, or Poison Hemlock: Broad Leaved Laurel:
                     Sweet Flag, Rose Willow: Dogwood, Dwarf Elder: American Gentian: Sampson
                     Snakeroot: Foxglove, Tobacco: Mustard, Mallows: Oak Bark, Deadly Nightshade:
                     American Ipecac, or Indian Physic: Camomile: Rhubarb Root: Mandrake, or May
                     Apple; Colt's Foot, Litter: sweet: Pokeweed: Shumach, or Shoemake: Slippery
                     Elra. Poplar: Samcle, Black Snake root: Skunk Cabbage: Tansy: Wormwood, Horse
                     Radish: King's Evil Weed: Oak of Jerusalem, o: Wormseed: American Senna: Yellow
                     Dock, Gravel Weed: Sarsaparilla, Beth Root: Tag Alder: Langworth, Ladies;
                     Slipper: Rattlesnake's Plantain, Blue Flag: Sassafras, River Willow: Milkweed:
                     Peach Tree, Valerian: Butternut Tree, Ground Pine: Blue Kohosh: White Poppy:
                     Peppermint, Charcoal of Wood: Ergot, Smut Rye, or Spurred Rye: Hops: Sweet
                     Fern: Meadow Saffron: Witch Hazel Prickly Ash: Directions for Collecting and
                     Preserving Vegetables: Roots, Seeds and Fruits: Leaves and Flowers.
                  PART X.—Diseases of Children.—Treatment of Infants; Infant's
                     Syrup; Cholera Infantum, Hiccups; Griping and Flatulency; the Thrush, Diarrbœa;
                     Cutaneous Eruptions; Falling down of the Fundament; Dentition or Cutting Teeth;
                     Convulsions, the Rickets; Inward Fits; Distortion of the Spine; Dropsy on the
                     Brain, or Hydrocephalus, Causes, Treatment: Inflammation of the Trachea, Hives,
                     Rattles, or Croup; Croup, Symptoms, Causes, Treatment: the Sleep of Infants:
                     the Yellow Gum: Aphthæ or Thrush, Acidities: Galling and Excoriation:
                     Vomiting.
                  PART XII.—Accidents or Emergencies.—How to be Prepared for
                     Accidents and Emergencies; Remedies for Poisons; for Corrosive Sublimate; Sugar
                     of Lead; for Opium, Laudanum, Hemlock, and other Vegetable Poisons; for Tartar
                     Emetic; Bite of a Rattlesnake; for Oil of Vitriol, Tartaric or Prussie Acid, or
                     any other Acid; for Potash or other Alkalies; for Arsenic, Drowned Persons;
                     Cautions in Visiting Sick Rooms; Security against Lightning; The Tongue; to
                     make Leeches Take Hold; Castor Oil made Palatable; Poultices; to Purify the
                     Atmosphere of a Sick Room; Importance of Well-Ventilated Apartments; Three
                     Rules for Preserving Good Health; Consumption; Codfish Liver Oil for
                     Consumption; Rules for Diet and Digestion; General Rules for Preserving Life
                     and Health; Sir R. Philip's Rules; Dr Boerhaave's Rules.
               
               The way to get a copy of ARTS REVEALED, is to send us 50 cents in postage stamps,
                  and we will send you a copy by return of mail, postage paid. Address, H. DAYTON,
                  Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               THE FARMER'S HAND BOOK;
               OR, Chemistry Applied to Agriculture,
               THE ONLY PROFITABLE METHOD OF TILLING THE SOIL.
               Every farmer should have a Copy.
               BY J. E. KENT, A. M., M. D.
               18mo., Cloth, Price 25 Cents.
               We begin to find that the great question of the day in all our large commercial
                  cities, is not so much upon stocks in exchange, as upon the probable state of the
                  crops this season. Therefore it may well be said, he who makes two blades of grass
                  to grow where but one blade grew before, is a benefactor to mankind. This is the
                  work of agricultural chemistry to perform; and without this chemical knowledge,
                  the lands of the farmer will soon become unproductive, notwithstanding it may be
                  highly manured and laboriously worked. Still, in addition to being a practical
                  man, in order to be a successful farmer he must understand, in a measure, the
                  nature of the crops he raises, the character and constituents of the soil on which
                  they are grown, and the different kinds of manures and compost most suitable to
                  prevent exhaustion of different kinds of land; thereby, with the aid of
                  agricultural chemistry, the wealth of the United States could be doubled in one
                  year, were all that saved which is now lost by bad management. In short, the
                  wealth of all nations depends upon the rising generation of practical, chemical
                  farmers, who will till the soil as much by the laws of chemistry as by the sweat
                  of the brow; and the simple facts and information contained in this little volume,
                  for ONLY TWENTY-FIVE CENTS, Cannot be estimated in dollars and cents, and should
                  be in the hands of every man in this country as a book of reference, even if he
                  improves nothing more than a garden spot of twenty-five feet square.
               Send us twenty-five cents in a letter, and we will send you a copy by return of
                  mail, post-paid. Address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               
               Merry's Book of Puzzles;
               A COLLECTION OF HIEROGLYPHICAL REBUSES, PUZZLES, RIDDLES,
                  CONUNDRUMS, ENIGMAS and QUESTIONS for the CURIOUS,
               SELECTED FROM MERRY'S MUSEUM & PARLEY'S MAGAZINE WITH LARGE
                  ORIGINAL ADDITIONS.
               A BOOK THAT WILL PLEASE THE CHILDREN.
               By ROBERT MERRY & HIRAM HATCHET.
               PRICE 25 CENTS.
               
                  Robert Merry to his friends
                  A kindly greeting sends,
                  With a general assortment of Questions,
                  Conundrums, Charades,
                  Puzzles, Riddles of all shades,
                  And Rebuses, as aids
                  To intellectual and social digestion.
               
               
                  Now, if any of you wish
                  For a real spicy dish,
                  That will tickle your palate like nectar—
                  That will serve for nuts and wine
                  When you sup, or lunch, or dine,
                  And your inner man refine—
                  Make "Merry's Book of Puzzles" your reflector.
               
               Every collection of children will want one—and some of the older folks will be
                  likely to glance at the curious pictures.—[Journal, Portsmouth, N.
                     H.
               
               It will furnish amusement for the young folks during a whole winter of evenings at
                     home.—[Whig, Bangor, Me.
               
               There is no pleasanter and safer amusement for young people than the exercise of
                  their wits on Conundrums, Charades, Puzzles, &c., and many a little coterie,
                  to say nothing of the papas and mammas, will thank Mr. Merry for this abundant
                  contribution to their festivities, which are an ever renewing pleasure, as they
                  will never wear out, while the memory serves to return and reproduce them for
                  successive audiences.—[Inquirer, Nantucket, Mass.
               
               Merry's Book of Puzzles will cause a wreath of smiles on the face of any juvenile
                  that may be the fortunate recipient. Such a fund of instruction and amusement for
                  the juvenile community was never published before. It will please alike the old
                  folks and the young ones,—and no one should be without such a cheap and pleasant
                  source of amusement.
               The way to get "Merry's Book of Puzzles," is to send us twenty-five cents, in a
                  letter, and we will send a copy by return of mail. Postage
                  paid.—Address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               Uncle Frank's PLEASANT PAGES, FOR THE FIRESIDE.
               A MISCELLANY OF Tales, Sketches, Travels, Biography, History,
                  FABLES, ANECDOTES, DIALOGUES, POETRY, ETC.
               BY FRANCIS C. WOODWORTH.
               12mo., cloth, beautifully illustrated 75 cts.
               Mr. Woodworth has long been known to the juvenile world, and children will find
                  their anticipations of a delightful treat realized in the above volume. It is
                  filled with choice anecdotes, stories, instructive articles, poetry, &c., and
                  we think is one of the most entertaining children's books that have been published
                  for many a day. Parents will find it a most capital book for a present.
               
                  From the New York Chronicle. This is a book of all kinds of short
                  articles and stories, illustrated by wood-cuts, for the instruction and
                  entertainment of children and youth. Even men and women would no doubt feel as
                  much interested in it as the younger members of their family, as it is full of
                  information about a thousand things of which they probably never before heard. It
                  is a 12mo., of 314 pp.
               
                  From the News, Lowell, Mass. The matter embraced in the book before
                  us is chaste and instructive, and of the right kind to be laid before young people
                  by their parents.
               
                  From the Transcript, Boston, Mass. This is a capital work for
                  juvenile readers. The author possesses the rare gift of writing so as to secure
                  the attention of young people. He is a genial and much loved "Uncle" to a wide
                  circle of readers.
               Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of 75 cents in postage stamps. Address, H.
                  DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               
               The Pilgrim's Progress
               FROM THIS WORLD TO THAT WHICH IS TO COME.
               Delivered under the Similitude of a Dream.
               BY JOHN BUNYAN.
               With Original Notes by THOMAS SCOTT, Chaplain to the Lock Hospital.
               One beautiful 12mo. Volume, with fine illustrations. Price $1.
            
            
               THE SAINT'S EVERLASTING REST.
               BY RICHARD BAXTER.
               With Extracts from an Introductory Essay, by THOMAS ERSKINE.
               Large 12mo., on fine paper. Price $1.
            
            
               A Call to the Unconverted,
               WITH THE ORIGINAL PREFACE.
               BY RICHARD BAXTER.
               Also an Introductory Essay, by THOMAS CHALMERS.
               12mo. Price 75 cts.
            
            
               THE CHRISTIAN SOUVENIR.
               AN ILLUSTRATED ANNUAL FOR ALL SEASONS.
               With thirteen fine Steel Engravings.
               Large octavo, on fine calendered paper. Cloth, gilt sides, $2; cloth, full gilt,
                  $2 50; English morocco, gilt, $3; Turkish morocco, super extra, $4.
            
            
               THE LIFE & ADVENTURES OF CAPT. JOHN SMITH.
               Comprising an account of his Travels in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America.—Also
                  the Early History of Virginia and New England, including sketches of Pocahontas
                  and Powhattan, Opechanconough, and other distinguished characters.
               Compiled from his own works. 12mo. Price $1.
               Either of the above Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the
                  Price. Address, H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               THE WORD AND WORKS OF GOD.
               BY REV. JOHN GILL, D.D.
               500 Pages, 12mo. Price $1.25.
               The republication of Dr. Gill's writings, in a neat, cheap and portable form, has
                  long been called for, and the publisher believes that Christians, of all
                  denominations will lend a ready patronage to the enterprise.
               Among the scholars of the past century (and there were giants in those days,) Dr.
                  Gill holds a high rank. The University at Aberdeen awarded him the diploma of
                  Doctor of Divinity, "on account of his knowledge of the Scriptures, of the
                  Oriental Languages, and of Jewish Antiquities; of his learned defence of the
                  Scriptures against deists and infidels, and the reputation gained by his other
                  works."
               
                  From Rev. Pharcellus Church, of New York. "Though the doctrines of
                  that work may be thought ultra Calvinistic, yet they accord to every Christian's
                  experience of the sovereignty of the grace that wrought in his conversion. He
                  feels that the work is all of God, and done in pursuance of the eternal purpose
                  which he purposed in himself. It is not from our own spiritual history, nor from
                  the text of scripture, that we are led to question the doctrine of divine decree,
                  sovereign grace, effectual vocation, and kindred truths, but from unauthorized
                  reasoning, as to what is consistent with our ideas of the moral character of God,
                  or the free agency of man, subjects too profound to be fully explored and
                  reconciled with each other by our feeble and encumbered faculties. 'Who art thou,
                  Oh man! that repliest against God?'"
               
                  From the Christian Chronicle. "This work by Gill is of great value
                  and interest. Dr. Gill was one of the clearest, soundest, and ablest writers on
                  the character of the Bible and its teachings, the church has ever produced. In
                  this compendious work we have spread before us, by this master in Israel, the
                  attributes of God, and the doctrines of the gospel, in a manner such as we seldom
                  find. He lays hold of the deep things of God with such a firm grasp, and presents
                  them before us with such clearness, that we understand him at once, and become
                  acquainted with the teaching and spirit of the Bible in a wonderful manner. Dr.
                  Gill is a Theologian of the Old School, but his Theology scents so strongly of the
                  Bible, that it is difficult for mere popular, philosophising, and refining divines
                  to overthrow it. We commend this work with great earnestness to our young and
                  rising ministry, as eminently adapted to their wants."
               
                  From Rev. William Crowell, of Missouri. "This republication in this
                  country, at the present time, is an object, in my opinion, greatly to be desired.
                  The works of that great and good man have not been properly appreciated of late
                  years, on account of the author's unattractive style of language. Could his
                  massive thoughts be set forth in proper dress, they could not fail to be highly
                  valued."
               Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price. H. DAYTON, Publisher, 107
                  NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
         
      
   
