
    ----CITATION----
        Dayton, A. C. (1813-1865). Theodosia Ernest, or, The Heroine of Faith, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6233 wright2-0704v2
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
                  COURTNEY.
                  THE BAPTIST SCHOOLMASTER
                  Eng'd by Capewell & Kimmel, N. York.
               
            
         
         
            
               THEODOSIA ERNEST.
               VOLUME II.;
               OR, Ten Days' Travel in Search of the Church.
            
            TWENTY-FIFTH EDITION.
            
               Nashville, Tenn.:
               SOUTH-WESTERN BAPTIST PUBLISHING HOUSE;
               GRAVES, MARKS, & CO.,
               NEW YORK:
               SHELDON, BLAKEMAN & CO
            
            1858.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, by GRAVES, MARKS
                  & RUTLAND, In the District Court of the United States for the Middle District
                  of Tennessee.
               STEREOTYPED BY A. A. STITT, NASHVILLE, TENN.
            
         
         
            Contents.
            
               
                  FIRST DAY'S TRAVEL. The converted infidel—The authority of the
                  Scriptures—The object of our investigation — Is the Church one, or many? — Has the
                  Church any branches?—Difficulties increasing—A mystery developed 11-25
               
               
                  SECOND DAY'S TRAVEL. The meaning of certain words and phrases used
                  in Scripture to designate the institutions set up by Christ, such as the kingdom
                  of God, etc., examined and settled — Mr. Percy's call to the ministry 26-67
               
               
                  THIRD DAY'S TRAVEL. The difference between the Kingdom and the
                  Church, and some other remarkable things concerning the Church brought to light —
                  No Church universal 68-130
               
               
                  FOURTH DAY'S TRAVEL. In which we come upon some marks by which to
                  know a true Church of Christ, whenever and wherever we may find it 131-165
               
               
                  FIFTH DAY'S TRAVEL. More marks of a true Church found — The tablet
                  of marks completed 166-182
               
               
                  SIXTH DAY'S TRAVEL. The Church of Rome tried by the marks or
                  Scripture tests—Introduction of episcopacy—Episcopacy unscriptural—Rome apostate,
                  and the consequences to Protestants 183-256
               
               
               
                  SEVENTH DAY'S TRAVEL. Digression on the introduction of Infant
                  Baptism—The trial of the Church of England begun 268-288
               
               
                  EIGHTH DAY'S TRAVEL. The trial of the Church of England
                  completed—The trial of the Methodist Episcopal Church begun 288-311
               
               
                  NINTH DAY'S TRAVEL. The trial of the Methodist Episcopal Church
                  continued and concluded — Presbyterian, Lutheran, and Congregational Churches
                  tried 314-444
               
               
                  TENTH DAY'S TRAVEL. In which the Church is found and identified
                     444-483
               
            
         
         
            Introduction.
            OUR blessed Saviour, when he was upon the earth, knowing how very difficult it is to
               engage the attention and open the heart to the reception of religious truth, when
               presented abstractly, and in a didactic manner, was accustomed to connect his
               enunciation of the most important doctrines with a narrative suited to
               illustrate and enforce the teachings, while it gained the attention and secured the
               reception of his doctrine. We have every reason to believe that these narratives were
               most of them fictitious. The persons introduced did not actually exist,
               and the incidents related had not really occurred. He was pleased to
                  invent the narrative, to suppose the events to have
               happened, in order that he might by them illustrate and enforce the great lessons
               which he came to teach. We do not imagine that there was really "A certain rich man
               who had two sons," to whom it happened as he related in that most beautiful parable
               of the Prodigal Son. We do not suppose that he had in his mind any particular person
               whom he called the "Unjust judge, who feared not God nor regarded man," and yet was
               moved by the poor widow's "importunity" to do her justice. His hearers understood perfectly well that these were
                  fictitious narratives, employed to gain attention to a
               real truth. Such fiction is no falsehood. It is not intended to deceive,
               and it does not deceive. Its object is accomplished when it has won the attention to
               the truth of which it is made the vehicle.
            What the prophets often did, and what Jesus habitually did, has been done by good men
               in every age. They have invented narratives, sometimes brief, and
               designed to enforce and illustrate a single thought, and sometimes continued and
               connected, in order to convey a system of doctrine or a series of truths. These are
               fables, or parables, poems or allegories, or simple stories, as may best suit the
               objects which the speaker or writer has in view. If Bunyan had merely told in plain,
               didactic language, the fears, the hindrances, the doubts, the sorrows, the hopes and
               labors and final triumphs of the Christian, he would have taught just what his
               Pilgrim's Progress was designed to teach; but he would not have taught it so
               effectually, nor indeed so truthfully, as he has done by means of his
               inimitable work of fiction, in which the truth is not only told to the
               ear, but shown, as it were, to the eye of the mind, acting
               itself out in its natural and necessary results.
            The numerous writers who have labored so sedulously and so successfully to make
               religious truth attractive and familiar to the minds of children and young people,
               and whose works constitute the bulk of our Sunday-school libraries, have not
               neglected to employ the narrative as the chief means of
               gaining attention and reaching the heart. And just so far as such narratives are
               fitted and designed, not merely to
               interest the reader, not merely to excite his sympathy or arouse his
                  feelings, but to convey important information, to teach some practical
               lesson in morals or religion, to illustrate or enforce some great religious truth, so
               far they have the sanction of the example of the best of men in other days, and even
               of the Lord himself.
            And what if it be true that wicked men have made fiction the instrument of most
               terrific evil? What if they have used it to pander to the vilest passions of depraved
               humanity? What if they have employed it as the vehicle of false philosophy and false
               religion? What if they have prostituted it to minister to a morbid and mawkish
               sensibility? What if they have flooded the land with the filthy outpourings of the
               vilest and most loathsome stews of profligacy and impiety? What if the infidel has
               seized on it and wielded it as his most powerful weapon against Christianity? Shall
               we leave it to the exclusive possession of the enemies of God and man? True, they
               have degraded and polluted it, but it is still a weapon of tremendous power. We will
               wrest it from their grasp. We will sanctify, by consecrating it to God and souls. We
               will increase its energies by earnest prayer for Heaven's blessing. And we will turn
               it against vice and infidelity. We will use it against error. We will make it the
               exponent and defender of the truth as it is in Jesus. Why should we not? Do we
               hesitate to make poetry the medium of truth, because the vicious and the
               dissolute have sometimes stolen her beautiful garments to cover up the most
               licentious conceptions of the veriest profligates that have ever been blessed with
               intellect? Do we cast aside our sacred songs because the lyre has been degraded, and made to sing what
               modesty would not dare to speak in simple prose? No such thing. If others deface her
               beauty, misconceive her purpose, and misapply her power, we will weep over the
               perversion of so glorious a gift, but we will not refuse to employ the mighty
               energies of poetry and song in the soul-elevating work for which they were intended.
               Nor will we, for a similar cause, abandon to the vicious the exclusive use of the
               fictitious narrative. We cannot conscientiously refuse to employ a weapon at
                  once so effective and so necessary to the present condition of the reading
                  world.
            In the first volume of Theodosia Ernest, we have endeavored to make it the medium of
               instruction to a class of minds which would, we thought, be more easily reached by
               this than any other means in regard to certain subjects which we consider as of vast
               importance to the true interests of the religion of Jesus. We intended, when we began
               that work, to condense into a single volume such arguments and facts as should appear
               to us essential to the right understanding of the main points of difference between
               the Baptists and other denominations of Christian people. But we found that we could
               not do justice to the argument, and bring it all into the compass of a single volume.
               We were therefore obliged, contrary to our wishes and our first intentions, to
               continue the discussion into the present volume.
            In the first, we confined our investigations to those topics which are embraced in
               what is commonly called the "baptismal controversy," to wit, the
                  act of baptism, the subjects of baptism, and
                  communion. We did not say all we desired to say, nor all
               that we intend to say, upon these subjects; but we have been assured, by those whose
               opinions we value more than our own, that on each of these points the argument is
               satisfactory and unanswerable. If there is in the manner of presenting
               it any thing unkind or disrespectful to those who have conscientiously
               come to different conclusions from the author and his brethren, we sincerely regret
               it. We would not willingly grieve any lover of our Saviour, or cause the weakest of
               his little ones to stumble. If we are not self-deceived, we seek to know, and do, and
               teach the simple truth as we find it recorded in the Sacred Word; and to do this
               kindly and tenderly, but yet as one who feels that he must give account if he should
               "handle the Word of God deceitfully."
            In this volume we have presented the subject of Church polity. We are
               sure that Baptists themselves (we mean the masses, and not the educated few) have
               very much to learn in regard to the true nature and constitution of a scriptural
               Church of Jesus Christ. This has been less frequently than baptism the topic of
               pulpit instruction or newspaper discussion. What has been written upon it has, until
               recently, been mostly inaccessible to the common people; and much of it, we humbly
               conceive, has not been suited to give them entirely correct impressions
               even if they had seen it. We hail, however, with great pleasure, the recent
               appearance of several most valuable works upon this subject; and if we chance in some
               things to differ from the authors of these works, or others who have attempted to
               develop the true idea of the Church of Christ, we trust that our teachings will be tried, not by the common opinion
               of modern Christians, on ancient Christians, not by the theories or the
               practice of Pedobaptists, or of Baptists, but simply and solely by the Word of God.
               To this the author has endeavored to bring every position, and examine it carefully
               by its sacred light. To this he appeals. By this, and this alone, will he be
               judged.
            
               NASHVILLE, July 22d, 185
            
         
      
      
         
            Theodosia Ernest, or, The heroine of faith
            Ten Days' Travel
            IN SEARCH OF THE CHURCH.
            
               FIRST DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  The converted infidel—The authority of the Scriptures—The object of our
                     investigation—Is the Church one or many?—Has the Church any
                     branches?—Difficulties increasing—A mystery developed.
               
               IN the ladies' cabin of one of those magnificent steamboats which ply upon the
                  Mississippi, was a mixed company, consisting of persons brought together from
                  various portions of our own and other lands. Some lounged lazily on the rich
                  sofas; some walked uneasily up and down the room; some talked apart, in groups of
                  two or three; some read the morning papers, which the obliging clerk had obtained
                  at the last landing; others were intent upon the "latest novel," or other trashy
                  literature, which may always be procured about the wharf from which a boat is
                  starting. Every thing readable had been seized upon by some one of the passengers,
                  to while away the tedium of the monotonous voyage, with one exception. THE LARGE
                  BIBLE, which some generous-hearted people had presented to the boat, lay unopened
                  upon the centre-table. Seeing this, a gentleman who had been walking up and down
                  in the dining-saloon, came in through the open door, sat down by the table, opened the book with an air of
                  uncommon reverence, and silently read several chapters in succession.
               There was something in the appearance and the manners of the man that attracted
                  the special attention of a lady remarkable for the tasteful neatness of her plain
                  apparel, and the extraordinary beauty and expressiveness of her face, who was
                  sitting on the left of the table, engaged in conversation with a matronly
                  personage, who, with quite a patronizing air, was expounding to the newly married
                  pastor's wife the mystery of making a certain variety of bread.
               The Bible reader had, on sitting down, taken his pencil from his pocket, as though
                  it had been his habit to read with it in his hand; and once he had placed it on
                  the margin of the page, seemingly with the design to make some mark, or note,
                  when, recollecting that it was not his own Bible, he laid it aside.
                  When he had done reading, however, he turned to the fly-leaf opposite the
                  title-page, and wrote slowly and carefully these lines: 
                     
                        The Book of God! let man beware,
                        And note the words with earnest care;
                        Heedful to learn what God will say,
                        And not to cavil, but obey.
                     
                   After which, he reverently closed the book, and returned to the other cabin.
                  As soon as he was gone, the young lady reached the Bible, and, with true womanly
                  curiosity, hastened to examine the writing. When she had read it, she found her
                  husband, (a noble-looking man in the early prime of life, dressed, like herself,
                  with great simplicity, yet with most perfect taste,) and brought him to look at
                  it; remarking, as he was reading it, "That man is a Christian, my dear, and, it
                  may be, a minister. We must become acquainted with him."
               "That is not unlikely. Show me which he is, and I will get the captain to
                  introduce me to him."
               She pointed him out, and her husband went to seek the wished-for introduction.
               "Captain, do you know that tall, dark gentleman yonder?"
               "Certainly, sir. That is Dr. Thinkwell, formerly a practitioner of medicine, but
                  now a wealthy planter. His summer residence is not many miles from Nashville. He
                  will make the whole trip with us."
               "Will you have the kindness to make me acquainted with him?"
               "Certainly; but you may not find his company so pleasant as you think; though, for
                  that matter, he is a perfect gentleman. But you know you clergymen have your own
                  opinions about some things; and the Doctor is said by some to have very different
                  ones. In fact," and the captain dropped his voice to a whisper, "he is said to be
                  a Universalist, or an infidel, or something of that sort—I do n't know exactly
                  what."
               "I am all the more anxious to know him, then."
               "Well, I only thought best to put you on your guard. He is coming this way: I will
                  introduce you now.—Dr. Thinkwell, let me make you acquainted with the Rev. Mr.
                  Percy, a young clergyman, who, with his lady, will travel with us as far as
                  Nashville."
               "I am most happy to meet with you, Mr. Percy. There are but few of our present
                  company who will make the whole trip, and I shall enjoy the voyage more for having
                  some acquaintance in the ladies' cabin."
               "Come with me, then, and let me introduce you to Mrs. Percy."
               They walked to the other apartment, and Mr. Percy introduced him to the lady as
                  Dr. Thinkwell; and, to correct her conjecture that he might be a clergyman, added
                  that he believed he was not a doctor of divinity, but of
                  medicine.
               "I had fancied, sir," said she, "that you must be a minister of the gospel."
               
               "Why did you think so, Mrs. Percy?"
               "From the reverent manner of your reading that book, and the lines you left upon
                  the blank leaf at its beginning."
               "I have good reason, Madam, to love and reverence that book, although I am
                  entirely unfit to become the expounder of its glorious truths. It is true I once
                  despised it. I will not say I hated it: I scarcely thought it worthy of more than
                  quiet contempt. Now I feel that it deserves far more grateful consideration at the
                  hand of all men than it is accustomed to receive even from Christians. I cannot
                  open it but with a sense of amazement at the goodness and the wisdom of the God
                  who gave it."
               "Then you were once an infidel?"
               "If by an infidel, Madam, you mean one who does not believe that the book called
                  the Bible was a revelation from the Deity, I was an infidel. But I was also
                  more."
               "Surely you were not an atheist! I have been accustomed to think that no person of
                  ordinary intelligence and a sane mind could be an
                  atheist."
               "If by an atheist you mean one who is fully satisfied that there is no God, I was
                  not one. But if you mean one who very seriously doubts the being of a
                  God; one who believes that there is not in nature, so far as known to us,
                  sufficient and satisfactory proof to show that there is a God; then I was an
                  atheist. He must be a bold man, indeed, who would under take to say that there is
                  certainly not a God; for although there might be no evidence of God
                  within his sphere of observation; nothing within him, nothing around him, nothing
                  in the earth beneath or in the sky above him to show that God exists, he could not
                  determine that there might not be such evidence somewhere else.
                  Unless he had ranged through all the immensity of the universe, and perfectly
                  mastered all the facts which it presents, that one world where he had not been
                  might be the very world where God might be distinctly known; or that one fact
                  which he did not know might be the very fact which, if known, would prove the
                  existence of a God. If any man be mad enough to take such ground, you may well
                  call him a fool. He has said in his heart not merely that there is not evidence
                  enough to prove that God is—so leaving his existence in doubt—but plainly and
                  positively that there is no God. Such a man is not properly an atheist, but an
                  anti-theist—not only without God, but against God. I was
                  an atheist, but not an anti-theist."
               "Pray, Doctor, sit down and tell us, (that is, if you have no objection to speak
                  of these things,) how it was that you were brought out of this darkness of
                  unbelief into the light of faith."
               "When I was an unbeliever, I did not hesitate to express my doubts, and the
                  reasons why I doubted. I took pleasure in encountering in argument those who were
                  silly enough, as I then considered them, to believe such incredible things as the
                  doctrines of the Christian religion; and why should I now hesitate to avow my
                  faith in God and in his word, and, more than all, in Jesus Christ, my blessed
                  Saviour? I will take pleasure, therefore, in relating to you the process of
                  reasoning by which I have been led to the reception of the truth. But the story is
                  a long one: the arguments are various, and may, to you, seem complicated, and will
                  require our careful and undivided attention. This we can hardly give during our
                  stay upon the boat; but I trust there will be some favorable opportunity before we
                     part.*
                   Meantime, let me have some conversation with you upon another subject, in
                  regard to which you are probably better informed than I am, and
                  
                     
                     *If my reader desires to see the argument on this subject, he can find it in
                        a delightful work soon to be published, styled "The Infidel's Daughter."
                  
                   about which I am just now in a state of distressing
                  uncertainty.
               "It is not very long since I was led, in God's great mercy, to take Jesus Christ
                  for my Saviour. In doing so, I took him for my Lord and King, I feel that to him
                  alone I owe allegiance in all matters of religion; and, if I am not self-deceived,
                  I sincerely desire and intend to know and do his will. I am aware that he requires
                  of those who believe in him, that they shall make a public profession of their
                  faith in him, and unite themselves with his visible people. This I should have
                  done ere now, but for a single difficulty, which is not yet removed, and in the
                  removal of which you possibly may aid me."
               "And what is that great difficulty?"
               "Simply this: there are so many different organizations, each claiming to be the
                  Church of Christ, that I do not know which to receive and unite with as his."
               "Permit me to suggest," replied Mr. Percy, "that you have probably not made a
                  careful examination of the subject in the light of the Scriptures
                     alone; but have permitted the cross-lights of tradition and of
                  prejudice, or at least of early impressions, to confuse your vision, and so divert
                  your attention from the real object of your search; for, had this not been the
                  case, I do not understand how you could find reason for even a moment's
                  hesitation."
               "Do you think, then, that the peculiar characteristics of The Visible Church of
                  Christ are so plainly and definitely set forth in the Scriptures, that it is not
                  easy to mistake on this point?"
               "Surely they are, my dear sir; so that it is not only easy not to mistake, but, I
                  had almost said, so that no man of common sense, who will be guided by
                     Scripture alone, casting aside the influence of all human teachings, can
                     possibly mistake Why, sir, after the revelation of Christ himself, the
                  great object of the New Testament Scriptures—the very purpose for which they were
                  intended—is, to give the constitution, the laws, and the history of the kingdom
                  which Christ came to establish upon the earth; and it would be strange, indeed, if
                  they have given them in language so ambiguous that no one could understand it, or
                  that any candid inquirer should have any sort of difficulty in knowing what this
                  kingdom in its essential features is."
               "How, then, does it happen, sir, that there exists such a wide diversity of
                  opinion among the good and pious? If the thing is so plainly set forth, why do not
                  all see it, and see it all alike? How is it that we have Episcopalians, and
                  Presbyterians, and Lutherans, and Congregationalists, and Methodists, and I can't
                  say how many others, all claiming, each for themselves, that they are the true
                  Church of Christ?"
               "Excuse me, gentlemen," said a middle-aged man, who looked up suddenly from the
                  newspaper which he had apparently been reading; "I do not conceive of these
                  various Churches that each claims for itself that it is the Church,
                  but only that it is a branch of the Church of Christ. I
                  am a minister of the Methodist Connection, and I am sure that, while we claim for
                  ourselves to be a part of the Church of Christ, we do not deny that Episcopalians,
                  provided they are good and pious, and Presbyterians, and Lutherans, and Baptists,
                  and, in fact, all evangelical Christians, are just as much branches of Christ's
                  Church as we are ourselves."
               "You would remove my difficulty, then," replied the Doctor, "by showing that it is
                  a matter of no consequence at all with which of these various organizations I
                  shall unite, since all are equally Churches of Christ, and I would obey him
                  equally whether I attach myself to one or to another. Do I understand you
                  rightly?"
               "O, of course I think my own denomination more nearly right than any other, or I
                  would not belong to it; and if I should
                  give you any advice, I would say, sir, by all meant unite with the Methodists. But
                  still, we hold that every man should be fully persuaded in his own mind, and that
                  every Christian, therefore, should belong to that connection where he can best
                  enjoy himself."
               "Your suggestion, then, does not quite meet my case. I am not seeking to secure
                     my own enjoyment, but to obey Christ's requirements.
                  I am willing to deny myself to do his will. I only ask to know which (if any) of
                  these various organizations was that which he established, and into which,
                  therefore, he requires me to be incorporated. They are certainly very different in
                  doctrine, different in practice, and different in the character of their
                  membership. They cannot all be right. They cannot be each the Church
                  of Christ, unless Christ established several distinct Churches. They cannot be
                     branches of his Church, unless he established a Church with
                  several different branches. This is self-evident. But if he did, there is, of
                  course, some record of it in this book;" (laying his hand reverently on the
                  Bible;) "and if you will do me the kindness to point it out, I shall certainly
                  avail myself of your suggestion, and unite with that body in which I think I will
                  best enjoy my religion."
               Saying this, he pushed the Bible across the table, so that it lay directly before
                  the stranger, who mechanically opened it, but without looking into it, as he
                  replied, "You would not, of course, expect to find the Methodist, or Episcopal, or
                  Lutheran, or Presbyterian Churches described by name in the Word of God, for none
                  of them existed, or were known by name, in the days when the Scriptures were
                  written; but we hold that it is all-sufficient, if the essential doctrines
                     and practices of each or any of them can be established by Scripture
                     proof. If the doctrine and practice of any of them, or all of them, are
                  scriptural, then they are scriptural Churches."
               "But do you not see, my dear sir, that while they differ in doctrine
                  and practice, they cannot be all scriptural, unless the
                  Scriptures teach as many different and opposing systems of doctrine and practice
                  as there are Churches. If any one of them is in accordance with Scripture, it
                  follows, of necessity, that just so far as the others differ from it,
                  they differ from the Scripture. There can be only one scriptural
                  Church of Christ, unless Christ founded more than one, and gave them different
                  laws. This, I am sure, needs no proof: it is self-evident. And what I ask, and
                  must require, before I can avail myself of your kind suggestion, that I may unite
                  with any one of these organizations, and feel that I am obeying him, is, that you
                  show me some shadow of proof, some faint intimation at least, that his Church was
                     not one and undivided, but that he gave different constitutions,
                  laws, and doctrines to different classes of people, or, at least, that he
                  authorized the one Church to divide itself into what you call
                  branches. So far as my investigations have gone, I find his kingdom spoken of as
                  an undivided kingdom. His people are said to be one. There is one
                  fold and one shepherd: there were to be no divisions among them. They were all to
                  speak the same thing. We read, indeed, of different individual Churches, as the
                  Church of the Corinthians, and of the Church of Ephesus, and the like—separate,
                  and distinct, and independent organizations—but they were one in doctrine, one in
                  practice. They all walked, or were required 'to walk, by the same rule.' They had
                  all 'one Lord, one Faith, and one Baptism.' It is thus that I read; but if I read
                  amiss, I will be thankful to him who will show me my error. You say, sir, that
                  these modern sects are branches of the Church: if so, where or which
                  is the main and parent stock planted by Christ and cultivated by the apostles,
                  from which these branches grow? If that is still alive, I will be 
                     engraffed
                     engrafted
                   into it. If it is dead, what keeps alive the branches? If
                  the original stock is so cut up into branches that it cannot be found, show me
                  some scriptural tural authority for the
                  cutting up, and some command requiring me to add my name to any of them as I may
                  think most proper. I read, indeed, of Christ as the vine, and of individual
                     Christians as branches growing out of him, and living by his life; but
                  nowhere of a parent stock of churches, with branches growing out of
                     it. Can you point me to any such a passage?"
               "Indeed, sir," replied the preacher, "I do not deny, and I suppose that no one can
                  deny, that there ought to be general unity among Christians, and that the
                  divisions and dissensions which have separated the professed followers of Christ
                  are greatly to be deplored; but, at the same time, sir, human nature is imperfect:
                  men will not all see alike, and hence there always have been, and always will be,
                  differences of opinion, and, consequently, of practice."
               "Very true, my dear sir, but this does not affect the point about which we are
                  conversing in the slightest degree. The question which I ask is this: What or
                  which is that organization which was established by Christ, and called his Church
                  or kingdom? I feel that it is my duty to join myself to it. You reply that human
                  nature is imperfect, and men will differ from each other, so that some think this
                  and some think that is it. One says, here, in the Roman Catholic hierarchy;
                  another says, there, in the Episcopal; another, in the Lutheran; another, in the
                  Presbyterian; and so on, through the catalogue. You have your private opinion that
                  it is in the Methodist Connection, but assure me that any of them
                  will do. Now, to me it seems evident that, although human nature is
                  imperfect, God's revelation cannot be. In that revelation (it is
                  admitted by all) is revealed and described a visible organization, which was
                  devised and established by Jesus Christ, and is called his Church. Whatever that
                  may be, it is some one thing, and not a dozen different things; for a
                  kingdom divided against itself, said Jesus, cannot stand. It is, what it is there
                  represented to be, just that, and nothing else. It must be still in existence,
                  because he foretold that it should never fail; that the gates of hell should not
                  prevail against it. Now, my object is to find it; and, having found it, to become
                  a part of it."
               "I do not conceive, sir," said Mr. Percy, "that you will meet with any serious
                  difficulty in making the discovery, when you once begin at the right
                     place and look in the right direction."
               "I must have started wrong then, for, up to this time, I confess there is an
                  impenetrable obscurity hangs over the whole subject."
               "Will you permit me to ask," said Mrs. Percy, "of what denomination were your
                  parents?"
               "They belonged to the Church of England, madam."
               "Then you were sprinkled in your infancy."
               "So I have been told. And I remember that, when I was about twelve years old, the
                  bishop put his hands upon my head, and said some words, which they informed me
                  confirmed my baptism, and completed the process of making me a Christian."
               "Then," said she, "you have some predilections for the organization which you were
                  taught in childhood to regard as the only Church of Christ."
               "It may be so, madam; but I do not think you apprehend the exact nature and extent
                  of the difficulties which embarrass and distress me. My mother was a good and
                  pious Christian. In most things she was right; and I grant that I cannot help
                  feeling a smothered conviction that she must have been right in
                  whatever pertained to her religion. But, at the same time, I am quite ready, upon
                  sufficient evidence, to admit that she was wrong. My parents did not make religion
                  the special study of their lives. They received their religious
                  opinions from others, in their childhood, as I did mine, so far as I had any, until recently; they
                  never made them the object of any careful examination, but took it for granted
                  that what 'the Church' believed must be the truth. So, if what is called the
                  Church was wrong, they were wrong, of course. But here is the trouble:
                     I have not made religion the study of my life any
                  more than they did; my judgment, therefore, is worth no
                  more than theirs. And when I turn to those who have
                  given the labor of their lives to this very thing, I find that they have come to
                  such various and contradictory conclusions, that I am ready to despair of the
                  possibility of ever knowing certainly what is the truth.
               "I fix my attention upon one man. I see that he has an intellect superior to my
                  own; that he has piety which I never expect to equal; that he has stores of
                  learning such as I never can obtain. He is honest; he is earnest; he is studious
                  and prayerful. He has spent a long life in the almost exclusive study of this very
                  subject, and he is a Presbyterian. I turn to another, and he is a Methodist; to
                  another of the same class, and he is a Lutheran, a Congregationalist, a Baptist,
                  or possibly, like Fénélon, a Catholic.
               "Now, what am I to do? How can I decide who of them all is right? How venture in
                  my ignorance to determine what all the wisdom of pious sages leaves open to
                  dispute?"
               "That is just what I said," replied the Methodist. "The whole matter is involved
                  in so much uncertainty, and each of the Churches can present so many good and
                  valid reasons in its favor, that every one must consult his own inclinations, and
                  join that which is most congenial to his feelings."
               "I cannot think so, sir," resumed the Doctor; "for when, on the other hand, I turn
                  my attention to God, instead of man—when I look into the Holy Word, I find a
                     positive duty is imperatively enjoined. This duty—that of uniting
                  with the Church of God by a public profession of faith in Christ—supposes a
                  previous decision of the question, who and what that Church is And the Scriptures
                     must, therefore, (if I only knew how to find it,) contain such a
                  specific description of the nature and peculiar characteristics of that Church as
                  to enable me to decide which it is for myself, and that without any danger of
                  mistake. Still, I confess that I have not yet found any such description in the
                  book, or, if I have, I have not yet found the corresponding organization in this
                  country."
               "If you will pardon me for saying so, Doctor," replied Mr. Percy, "I think I can
                  easily convince you that your difficulties are much more fanciful than real; or
                  rather that they are much more theoretical than practical. The simple truth is
                  this: You have nothing to do with other men's decisions. It is nothing at all to
                  your or to me what this good man or that great man may think. Religion is a
                     personal matter; its faith is personal faith; its
                  duties are personal duties. It rests upon a personal
                     recognition of the teachings of God's Word. You are personally
                  responsible to God for your own individual faith and practice. You must therefore
                  examine for yourself, and not leave others to decide these questions
                  for you.
               "You may investigate the subject just as though no one else had ever thought of
                  it. You should regard no other man's decision as of authority to you. You do not
                  hesitate to treat a case of fever, because Hippocrates and Galen, Boerhave or
                  Sydenham, Cullen or Bronsais, chanced to disagree either in theory or
                  practice?"
               "No, sir. I examine for myself, decide for myself, and act upon my own decision.
                  If I should wait for the doctors to agree, I should never make a
                  prescription."
               "Just so let it be in regard to this matter. I discover that you are in earnest.
                  You desire to know the truth. You recognize God's Word as the only standard of
                  truth. By that, and that alone, we are to try our faith and practice, You have truly stated that this word teaches that
                  the visible kingdom of Christ is not many, but one; and it must be
                     now just what it was in the apostles' days: I have my
                  own opinion upon this question, but I will not intrude it upon you as an argument.
                  If you will consent, we will together, during our voyage, make a careful,
                  thorough, and systematic examination of the Scriptures in regard to
                  their teachings on this subject. And when we have finished, if you have any shadow
                  of a doubt remaining, it will be more than I expect. My friend, Mr. Courtney, who
                  will join us at our next landing, has given more attention to these subjects than
                  I have, and will doubtless take pleasure in giving us his assistance, as will
                  also, I trust, our Methodist friend."
               "Please then," said Mrs. Percy, "postpone this matter till to-morrow, and, for our
                  mutual advantage, make the investigation so thorough and extensive as to leave no
                  room for doubt in any mind."
               "But, madam, you do not reflect that this would require all the leisure which we
                  will have during the next two weeks."
               "Suppose it should: it will be time well spent. But we shall get on faster than
                  you imagine. Mr. Courtney is a sort of walking-library upon these subjects, and
                  Mr. Percy has had some personal experience in such investigations."
               "Very good," replied the Doctor; "we will at least do what we can towards a
                  complete examination of the whole subject, and should we not finish it during our
                  voyage, you and Mr. Percy will, I trust, do me the favor to continue it at my
                  house, after our arrival in Nashville; for you are then to be my guests. Nay! no
                  excuses. I have claims upon you both, of which you are yet quite ignorant; and, in
                  due time, I am very anxious to learn how and when you chanced to become Mrs.
                  Percy; for when I saw you last, you were Miss Theodosia Ernest; and how and when
                  Mr. Percy became a minister of the gospel; for when I last saw him, he was
                  regarded only as a very promising young lawyer."
               "Then, sir, you are not the utter stranger that we supposed you to be!"
               "So far from it, madam, I am, in one sense, indebted to you, under God, for the
                  greatest blessing of my life."
               "Indeed, sir, this is all a mystery to me. I am not aware that I ever saw you
                  before to-day."
               "That may well be; yet I have seen you very frequently. Some other time I will
                  explain: I have now been shut up here so long, that I must take a turn on deck,
                  and get some fresh air."
            
            
               
               SECOND DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  In which little more is done than to settle the exact meaning of the words and
                     phrases used in the Scriptures to designate the new institution which was
                     established by Christ, and which people commonly call his Church, but which the
                     Scriptures call his kingdom.
               
               IF the reader has never seen the work to which this is the sequel,*
                   he will do well to lay this down until he can obtain and read Theodosia
                  Ernest, for there is much in this which no one can fully understand without some
                  acquaintance with the history which that book records. If he has seen and read
                  that work, he will probably feel some faint desire at least to know in what way
                  good Doctor Thinkwell had ever been associated with Theodosia, and by what means
                  he knew any thing of herself or her husband; and will excuse the curiosity, which
                  led to much conversation and many conjectures between herself and Mr. Percy, as to
                  who this stranger could possibly be, and what could have been the nature of that
                  favor for which he acknowledged his indebtedness to her. I do not say that it was
                  owing entirely to this that she passed a sleepless night, for there was the heavy
                  tread of passers to and fro upon the deck; the creaking of the tiller-ropes and
                  rudder; the frequent ringing of the pilot's bells, as signals to the engineers;
                  the occasional tolling of the great bell, as a signal to other boats; the constant
                  rattling and jarring of the ponderous machinery; and the splash of the mighty
                  wheels by which they were driven along the surface of the stream: all these
                  combined to hold her waking; and, being awake, she could not help awakening her
                  husband every hour, to tell him of some new conceit concerning the mysterious
                  Doctor; and I trust the reader will excuse her, if she left her stateroom more
                  anxious to solve this riddle than to study the peculiar characteristics of a
                  Christian Church.
               
                  
                  *Theodosia, vol. i., published by Graves, Marks & Co., Nashville, Tenn.
                     Price, $1.
               
               Scarcely were the breakfast things removed, before she desired Mr. Percy to secure
                  an opportunity to renew their conversation. He went out to look for the Doctor,
                  and reported that he was smoking his cigar upon the upper deck. As the night had
                  been sultry and the morning was calm, Mrs. Percy soon persuaded two or three
                  ladies, with whom she had established a travelling acquaintance, that it would be
                  delightful to enjoy the fresh air above. It was not long before Mr. Percy was
                  walking the deck with two young ladies, and his wife was walking with Dr.
                  Thinkwell, deeply engaged in earnest conversation.
               "I must say, Dr. Thinkwell, it was too provoking in you to excite my curiosity as
                  you did, and leave it all night unsatisfied. Mr. Percy and I could not sleep for
                  anxiety to learn in what way you became acquainted with a portion of our history,
                  and how it was possible that either of us could ever unconsciously have done you
                  so great a kindness as you intimated yesterday. Now please explain yourself."
               "With the greatest pleasure, Madam; but only on the condition that you repay my
                  story by your own; for I suppose I am almost as curious to learn your history,
                  from the time I saw you last, as you are to hear mine."
               "Let it be so understood, then. I am ready to promise almost any thing reasonable;
                  only tell me how you came to know us, and what the favor was of which you spoke,
                  and which you were pleased to call the greatest blessing of your life."
               
               "It was, in part, through your instrumentality, Madam, that I was recovered from
                  the distractions of infidelity to the peace of faith. But not to keep you longer
                  in suspense, I will tell you how it was. I have an estate in the country, a few
                  miles from your native town, on which I was spending a few months during the
                  summer that you were baptized One Sabbath morning, as I was riding into town, I
                  noticed a crowd gathering about the old schoolhouse on the common, and, moved only
                  by an idle curiosity, I went up and joined it. I soon discovered that it was a
                  religious meeting, but knew that it must be something uncommon, and therefore
                  dismounted and went in.
               "It had been many years since I had been present at any religious
                  services; and it was the first time I was ever present at a Baptist
                  meeting. The whole scene interested me greatly, from its mere novelty. When the
                  sermon was finished, and you presented yourself so calmly, and related your
                  Christian experience, I will not distress you by saying how much I pitied your
                  enthusiasm, and wondered at your folly. I was, however, greatly interested. I
                  followed you to the river: I felt an involuntary shudder when you were plunged
                  into the water: I gazed upon your face as you came out; and, strange as it may
                  seem to you, I wept with those who wept that day. I was ashamed of it; I saw no
                  reason for it; I chided myself, and called myself a fool for weeping; but I could
                  not restrain my tears.
               "I forgot the business for which I had come to town, and returned home sad and
                  thoughtful. I began to ask myself, What if this be not all an
                  illusion? what if religion be, after all, a stern reality? what if there be a God?
                  what if the Bible should be true? what if there be a heaven and a hell? Was it not
                  at least possible that I might be wrong, and the
                  thousands whom I had pitied or despised as dupes, or as impostors, might be right?
                  True, I had often looked over the argument, and found it all correct; but was it
                  not possible that, at some point, my logic had been at fault? Could
                  it do any harm to go over the ground once more? I determined to do so, carefully,
                  step by step; but, in the meantime, I was uneasy; I was distressed; I could think
                  of nothing else. Day after day, and night after night, I returned to the meetings,
                  which you remember were held, first in the schoolhouse, and afterwards in the
                  courthouse. I witnessed all the professions of faith, and all the seventy
                  baptisms; and, though not yet convinced that the Bible was more than a mass of
                  fable and imposture, I spent many hours in its careful study.
               "At length it became necessary for me to leave that part of the country. I had but
                  few personal acquaintances, and to none of these did I mention my distress, which
                  continued and increased until it had sensibly undermined my health. I felt that,
                  one way or another, the question must be decided; and, slowly and
                  painfully, step by step, my reason struggled back from the dark abyss of atheism,
                  to a firm belief in a glorious, spiritual, intelligent, and efficient First Cause,
                  which men call God; and then, more slowly and laboriously still, to the
                  recognition of the Bible as a revelation from that God to me.
               "I will not now even allude to the nature of that process of reasoning by which
                  this work was done. Some time or other we will, should Providence permit, go over
                  all that ground.*
                   What sleepless nights and days of anguish wore away, through the long and
                  dreary months, while this re-investigation was in progress, I almost shudder to
                  remember. And when this work was done—when had I found that there was a God, and
                  that the Scriptures were his message to our race—there came a time of still
                  greater darkness, and more oppressive
                  
                     
                     *See the argument in "The Infidel's Daughter," which may, in some sort, be
                        regarded as a continuation of the present work, by the same author.
                  
                  sive agony of soul. Reason could show me that there was a God; but reason could
                  not tell me what that God requires of him who has broken his laws, and rebelled
                  against his government. This I felt that I had done. I was a sinner. The God of
                  the Bible was a God I had not loved or honored. My very heart revolted against his
                  right to rule me. Yet I tried to conform my life, and even my desires, to the
                  requirements of his Word. The trial was a vain one: I offended every day, and
                  every day was more and more oppressed with a sense of guilt. I needed pardon for
                  the past, and I needed aid in the present. I cannot say that I had any
                  considerable fear of punishment. I did not think of this; but I was a
                  sinner, and needed deliverance. I prayed—O! how intense, how earnest, how
                  agonizing was my prayer!—'Lord, save me; I cannot save myself!' Like David, I
                  cried, 'I am distressed: O Lord, undertake for me!' and, little by little, the
                  light of his love shone into my soul. I began to study more and more the character
                  of Jesus as a Saviour. This removed the cloud from much of what had
                  seemed mysterious in the sacred record. 'He was exalted to be a
                     Saviour:' he was 'Christ the Lord, a Saviour: 'he
                  came to save his people from their sins.' He could save
                  me: why should he not? 'Whosoever will, let him come;' and 'come' especially he
                  says to the 'weary and heavy laden.' And, 'he that cometh, I will in no wise cast
                  out.' I took him at his word: I asked him to save me; I believe he
                  will—he has—he does; and I delight to meet with one who loves him as I do, and
                  tell what great things he has done for my soul.
               "Now you have my history, and I shall expect you to tell me yours, beginning from
                  the time of your baptism; and so much of Mr. Percy's (if he will not tell it
                  himself) as will explain the mystery of his appearing as a clergyman rather than a
                  lawyer."
               "I will keep my promise, Doctor; but you know that when a lady gets to talking,
                  especially about herself, she never knows when to leave off. And my husband told
                  Mr. Courtney that we would all assemble in the cabin about this time, to renew our
                  investigation of the nature and characteristics of a Church of Christ; and, till I
                  have learned why it is that you could not recognize the body of Christians into
                  whose number you saw me baptized as one, I shall feel as though your history is
                  not quite complete. So let us go down. I hope that Methodist minister will be
                  there, for I am anxious for a full examination of the whole question."
               "You cannot be as much so as I am. And with the understanding that you will
                  remember your promise at the first convenient time, we will now go below."
               On entering the cabin, they found Mr. Courtney already there, with the Bible open
                  before him, in which he had placed a number of little slips of paper, with a
                  pencil-mark on each, to designate some particular passage which he desired to
                  refer to.
               The party were soon seated in order around the table. Some of the other passengers
                  drew near enough to hear, without seeming to take part in the discussion; while
                  others, aware that it would be upon a subject connected with
                  religion, quietly drew farther off, that they might not be
                     annoyed with any thing so distasteful and unfashionable.
               "You understand, I presume," said the Doctor to Mr. Courtney, "that the object
                  which we have in view is simply to ascertain which (if any) of
                     those organizations which now claim to be Churches of Jesus Christ, is that
                     which was established by HIM; and which is recognized in the
                     Scriptures as HIS CHURCH? Or, to be more specific and practical, is it
                  the Roman Catholic, the Greek Church, the Episcopal, the Methodist, the
                  Presbyterian, the Lutheran, the Congregationalist, the Baptist, the Cumberland
                  Presbyterian; or is it all of these, or none of these?"
               "Certainly, sir. Mr. Percy explained your object to me soon after I came on board yesterday evening; and I
                  have been considering a little how we could reach it by the most direct and
                  plainest route. It seems to me that it will be important, if not essential, for us
                  first to determine definitely what we mean by The Church of Christ. Let us be sure
                  we know what we are looking for, and then we shall be able to recognize it when we
                  find it. I suppose we may take it for granted that the Lord Jesus Christ has,
                  somewhere in this world, a visible organization of his people, called his
                     Church. The very fact that we are looking for it, is evidence that we
                  admit its existence. We need not, therefore, refer to the Scriptures to prove that
                  they speak of it as a perpetual institution, which must continue till the end of
                  time; that is, till Christ shall come again. If proof were needed, however, we
                  have it in the act of institution of one of the ordinances of that organization,
                  in which Christ says, 'As often as ye do it, ye do show forth the Lord's death
                     until he come.' And again, in the commission to establish and
                  extend that organization among all nations, 'Go ye, therefore, and teach all
                  nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
                  Ghost: teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you; and I
                  am with you always, even unto the end of the world.'"
               "Of course, Mr. Courtney, no professed Christians doubt that such an organization
                  as the Church of Christ exists, since they all claim that they are members of
                  it."
               "Then we may take another step. It is essential to our purpose to know what the
                  Scriptures say about this organization; and, for this end, we must know by
                     what names they call it, otherwise we might not be able to tell when
                  they are speaking of it."
               "That is well thought of," said the Doctor, "and may save us a great deal of
                  trouble. Much of the controversy which distracts the religious world, I am
                  persuaded, has grown out of a loose and careless manner of employing words and
                  phrases. Let us be sure to get started right, and then the whole journey will be
                  easy, and pleasant, and safe; and we will be much more likely to arrive at right
                  conclusions."
               "The Church of Christ is, in common language," resumed Mr. Courtney, "continually
                  confounded with the kingdom of Christ. Yet it is in fact, and according to
                  Scripture usage, a very different thing. It is not the kingdom, but an institution
                  within the kingdom; just as our courts of law are not the State, but a requisite
                  and essential part of the machinery of the State. Let us first get some definite
                  idea of The Kingdom.
               "One of the best expositions of this subject which I have seen, is given by Dr.
                  George Campbell, a Scotch Presbyterian, and one of the most candid and erudite
                  writers of the present age. He says, (page 132,) 'The religious institution of
                  which the Lord Jesus is the author, is distinguished in the New Testament by
                  particular names and phrases, with the true import of which it is of very great
                  consequence that we be acquainted, in order to form a distinct apprehension of it,
                  and the nature of the whole. . . . The most common appellation given to this
                  institution, or religious dispensation, in the New Testament, is "the kingdom of
                  God," or "the kingdom of heaven;" and the title given to the
                     manifestation of this new state is most frequently "the gospel of
                  the kingdom," and, when considered under a somewhat different aspect, "the new
                  covenant."
               "'The Great Personage himself, to whose administration the whole is intrusted, is,
                  in contradistinction from all others, denominated "The Christ." . . . In the
                  phrase, the kingdom of God, or of heaven, there is manifest allusion to the
                  predictions in which this economy was revealed by the prophets in the Old
                  Testament, particularly by the Prophet Daniel, who mentions it in one place as the
                  kingdom which the God of heaven would set
                  up, and which should never be destroyed; in another, as a kingdom to be given with
                  glory and dominion over all people, nations, and languages, to one like unto the
                  Son of Man.'
               "This opinion of the Scotch divine is substantially the same as that given by Mr.
                  Robinson in his Lexicon of the Greek Testament, where he says, 'These phrases'
                  [the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven, and the kingdom of Christ] 'are
                  synonymous, and signify the Divine spiritual kingdom, the glorious reign of the
                  Messias. The idea of this kingdom has its basis in the prophecies of the Old
                  Testament, where the coming of Messias and his triumphs are foretold.'
               "It is certain the prophets had foretold Messias as a king: it is certain that
                  Jesus claimed to be that King. 'Thou sayest it'—I am a king. 'For this end I came
                  into the world.' When John, who came to prepare a people, made ready for this new
                  Sovereign, and preached, 'Repent, for the reign of Heaven has come
                     near,' (this is a literal translation of Matthew iii. 2, rendered in our
                  version, 'Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand,') he doubtless referred to
                  those prophecies, and the people must have so understood him. So when Jesus
                  preached, Matthew iv. 17, saying the same thing; and so when the twelve apostles
                  were sent out to proclaim every where in Israel the same notable words. All who
                  heard them would understand them to mean that the Christ, the Messias of prophecy,
                  had come and had set up, or was about to set up, his long-predicted
                     kingdom.
               "After John's ministry had ceased, and he was confined in prison, Jesus
                  proclaimed, (Mark i. 15,) 'The time is fulfilled—the kingdom of God is at hand,'
                  or, literally, 'the kingdom has come,' for the Greek word (Engiken) is in the perfect and not the present tense.
                  The time is fulfilled. What time? The answer is plain: that designated by the
                  prophets. The time when the new kingdom should be set up, which should ultimately
                  fill the earth; and which should be given to one like unto the Son of Man.
               "The old dispensation, with its rites and ceremonies, and complicated types and
                  deep-meaning symbols, was now superseded. The law and the prophets were until
                  John, said the Saviour, but since that time the kingdom of God is
                  proclaimed, and every man presseth into it. From the days of John the
                  Baptist until now the kingdom of Heaven suffereth violence, and the
                  violent take it by force. And to the proud, self-righteous Pharisees and skeptical
                  Sadducees, he said, The publicans and harlots enter into the kingdom of
                     God before you. This could not be if the kingdom had not already
                  come.
               "That the Jews were actually expecting this kingdom, is evident from the song of
                  Zacharias; from the happy exclamation of good old Simeon; and from the confidence
                  with which Anna, the aged prophetess, spake of the child Jesus to all those who
                  looked for redemption in Jerusalem. Luke i. 67, ii. 25, 36. So also we read that
                  Joseph of Arimathea, a good man and just, and one of the Sanhedrim, was of those
                  who waited for the kingdom of God; and the two disciples that walked
                  towards Emmaus, talking so sadly of his death, declared that they had
                  trusted that it was he who should have redeemed Israel.
               "May we not then consider thus much as settled: 1st. That the prophets, and
                  especially Daniel, had foretold the setting up of the Christian institution as the
                  kingdom of God. 2d. That the Jews were looking for and expecting it when Jesus
                  came. And 3d. That John first, and Jesus afterwards, declared that the
                  organization which Christ was about to establish, and did establish, was this
                  kingdom?"
               "I do not see why you need to have taken so much trouble to prove this," replied
                  the Doctor, "as I cannot suppose any one ever doubted it. It is no more than this,
                  after all, to wit: that the kingdom of Christ was that organization which Christ established; and this was a
                  self-evident proposition which needed no proof."
               "I trust, then, you will remember this; and if you find yourself or anybody else
                  trying to show that something or other which was in existence before
                  the time of John and Christ, or something that originated a thousand years
                     after that time, is this Christian kingdom, you will rebuke them
                  for their folly. We have here the first criterion of the Christian institution:
                  that is, that it was organized and had its beginning in the time or about the time
                  that Christ was on the earth. It was not in being before, for the prophets
                  foretold that it should be established then. And John and Jesus said
                  that then the time was fulfilled. Then it was preached.
                     Then men pressed into it. Then its laws were made.
                     Then its ordinances were established. Then the
                  character of its members, the mode of initiation, the method of discipline, and
                  whatever else was needful to its organization and perpetuity, were ordained by the
                  Great Personage to whom its administration was intrusted.
               "If you will now turn to the prophecy in Daniel xi. 44, you will see that this
                  kingdom, thus established, was to be a perpetual kingdom, and that it
                  was at length to destroy all other kingdoms, and to fill the whole earth. Yet it
                  was not to be set up, like other kingdoms, by the instrumentality of
                     men. The stone that became a great mountain and filled the whole
                  earth, was cut out without hands—it was GOD's work. So Christ said,
                  his kingdom was not of this world; his servants did not fight. It had no human
                  sovereign—it owned no human laws. God set up the kingdom, and Christ, the
                  ever-living, was to be its King for ever. For the prophet mentions, as two
                  characteristics of this kingdom, that 'it should never be destroyed,'
                  and 'the dominion should not be left to other people.' Christ, in his
                  kingdom, reigns alone and reigns for ever. He will not give his honor to another
                  and if we find any kingdom called by his name, which he did not establish, and
                  which is ruled by other Lords or other laws than his, we may be sure that it is
                  falsely named; for, in Christ's kingdom, Christ alone is king. You see, therefore,
                  that we have already at least two signs or marks by which to recognize this
                  kingdom when we find it; namely: It began with Christ and was established by him,
                  and in it he is not only the supreme, but only Lord and King. Its
                  subjects or members are such, and only such, as HE has designated: its laws are
                  such, and only such, as HE has enacted. Its officers are such, and only such, as
                  HE appointed. Its ordinances are such, and only such, as HE has instituted. And,
                  unless the Scriptures are unintelligible on the very subject which, of all others,
                  we would expect them to make plain, we can have no serious difficulty in finding
                  out what the constitution of his kingdom was. Let us take the New Testament,
                  therefore, and examine for ourselves.
               "And first, let us examine such passages as designate the nature of
                  this kingdom. Christ says, (John xviii. 36,) when Pilate was questioning him
                  concerning the accusation which the Jews had made against him, 'My kingdom
                     is not of this world.' It was in the world, but not
                     of the world. He had no earthly throne. He wore no jewelled crown.
                  He held no regal sceptre. He claimed no worldly power. No marshalled armies fought
                  at his command; nor was he in any respect a worldly king. And yet he was a king;
                  for this end he was born, and for this very object he came into the world. And not
                  to leave the governor entirely in the dark, he adds, the subjects of
                  his kingdom are those that believe and obey the truth. 'Every one that is of
                     the truth heareth my voice.'
               'Again, he said to the Pharisees, (Luke xvii. 20,) when they demanded to know of
                  him when the kingdom of God would come, 'The kingdom of God cometh not with
                     observation
                  
                  tion.' There is nothing about it to excite the attention and
                  admiration of the uninitiated beholder. No one will exclaim, look there, or see
                  here. But the kingdom of God is within you. It is an interior
                     soul kingdom; and its reign is not one of outward pomp and power,
                  but one of inward love and heart-yielding obedience. There was about
                  it nothing to attract the gaze of the wondering world; but yet it was, a
                     visible kingdom. Jesus said there were some standing there who
                  should not die till they had seen it come with power. And this they
                  did upon the day of Pentecost, and during the few days which followed, when over
                  eight thousand were added to its ranks.
               "The subjects of this kingdom were visible subjects, men and women
                  who could repent, believe, and be baptized.
               "The ordinances of the kingdom were visible ordinances, symbolizing
                  to the eye as well as the heart the believer's death to sin, and the Saviour's
                  death for him.
               "The laws of the kingdom were visible laws, recorded, under the
                  direction of the Holy Spirit, for the instruction and control of its subjects.
               "The Executive of the kingdom, to which was intrusted the enforcement
                  of those laws, was a visible organization, with a fixed and settled
                  constitution, having the extent of its powers, and the manner and occasions of
                  their exercise, clearly pointed out and carefully defined."
               "O yes, Mr. Courtney!" exclaimed the Doctor, rather impatiently; "I grant all
                  that. I suppose no one has ever denied that this kingdom was set up by Christ, and
                  that it is a visible kingdom. But what I want to know is this: Who
                  were the subjects of it? of what sort of people did it consist? and
                  how did they become incorporated into it?"
               "Your question is a double one, and must have a double answer. What sort of people
                  were admitted to membership in this kingdom? Ask John. He came to prepare the
                  people ple made ready for the organization of the kingdom. He rejected the
                  self-righteous Pharisees and unbelieving Sadducees, and all who claimed admittance
                  for their parentage; and received only the personally
                     penitent who believed on him who should come after him. Ask Jesus. He
                  says, 'Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of
                  God.' So it seems they are the lowly-minded and humble-hearted. 'Blessed are those
                  who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom
                  of God.' So they are such as are ready to suffer for the cause of
                  Christ. Moreover, they must be obedient to Christ, for he says,
                  'Whosoever shall break one of the least of these commandments, and shall teach men
                  so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but whosoever shall do
                     and teach them, shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.' But
                  this obedience must not be one of mere form. It must not be a mere
                  observance of rites, and ordinances, and ceremonies; for he says, 'Except your
                  righteousness exceed that of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case
                     enter into the kingdom of God.'
               "And these requisitions of humility and obedience are further insisted on in
                  several other passages besides those parallel with these.
               "When the disciples asked him who should be the greatest in the
                  kingdom, he took a little child and set before them, and assured them that except
                  one were converted, and made like such a child, he could not enter
                  the kingdom at all, and that he in it who humbled himself the most,
                  should be the greatest. So also he taught that mere profession was no
                  passport to admittance, but only actual obedience. 'Not every one
                  that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he
                  that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.'
               "External morality should afford no claim, for he assured the Pharisees and
                  Sadducees that the publicans and harlots,
                  who repented at the preaching of John, were going into the kingdom of
                  God before them, and that they not only would not go in themselves, but hindered
                  others from entering.
               "A faint resolution and temporary reformation were not sufficient qualifications;
                  for he says, 'No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking
                     back, is fit for the kingdom of God.'
               "The subjects of this kingdom, we learn from Matt. vi. 33, are
                     willing or voluntary subjects. They come into it, not
                  by compulsion—not by the act of their parents, or
                     guardians, or sponsors, but of their own
                     accord, and they are not only willing, but
                     desirous to enter it. 'Seek ye first the kingdom of
                  God, and his righteousness.' This language could only be addressed to voluntary
                  agents. And Matthew (ix. 12) seems to convey the idea that they were not only
                  desirous, but exceedingly anxious to enter. 'The kingdom of heaven
                  suffereth violence, and the violent (that is, the earnest, energetic)
                  take it by force. It is not enough to seek to enter in, but they must
                     strive, must struggle, must agonize to enter in; 'for many shall
                     seek to enter in, and shall not be able.'
               "But the decisive and all-including passage is John iii. 3, 5, in which the King
                  is explaining to Nicodemus the nature of membership in his kingdom. 'Except a man
                  be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Except a man be born of water,
                  and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.'
               "These are the principal, if not the only passages, in which the
                     qualifications for membership in the kingdom are expressly
                  described in connection with the phrases, 'kingdom of God,' or 'kingdom of
                  heaven.' And this much, at least, is certain: none are, or can be,
                  REAL members of this dominion, except they have been converted, have
                  become humble, penitent, believing, and obedient to Christ, and have
                     sought for citizenship with earnest, heartfelt desire. Christ's
                  kingdom is not one of mere outward forms. He reigns in the
                     hearts of his people. His subjects obey him because
                  they love him, and no individual who does not sincerely and
                     heartily LOVE him; who does not humbly, and yet
                  confidently, TRUST in him; and who does not truly, and resolutely,
                     and perseveringly endeavor in all things to OBEY him, is a fit
                     subject for his kingdom. He must, in his heart, recognize Christ as his
                  Lord and King, and seek to do his will, before Christ can own him for a subject,
                  and treat him as a son."
               "I think that I now begin to understand you," said the Doctor. "You regard
                     all those who love Christ as equally the subjects of this visible
                     kingdom."
               "Not at all, sir. You mistake me altogether. I have been trying to answer your
                     first question, which related to the kind of people who compose
                  the kingdom. I have not yet approached the second, which asked how they
                     became incorporated into it. The penitent, the believing, the humble,
                  the loving, and obedient, are fit subjects, and the only fit subjects
                     for the kingdom. They are members of Christ's
                  invisible kingdom. Christ reigns in their hearts: Christ
                  rules in their lives. They are his by redemption, and will reign with
                  him in glory. But something more is needful, to make them members of his
                     visible kingdom, which is that for which we now are looking. They
                  are such as he has recognized as having a right to membership, but
                  they are not yet members of it. Abel and Abraham, David and Daniel, Job and
                  Joshua, and all the mighty host of the ancient saints, possessed this character.
                  They were the children of God. They trusted him and loved him. They were the
                  obedient upon the earth, and now rejoice with him in heaven. But they were not the
                  subjects of that kingdom which Jesus Christ set up in the days of Pontius Pilate,
                  for it was not yet in being. It had not been established. They foresaw it: they
                  foretold it: they rejoiced that it was coming, but they could not be members of it till it came. If they had lived in
                  the days of its existence, they would have possessed all the qualifications for
                  membership, and would, doubtless, have become members. But something more
                     than their piety of heart would have been needful to make them
                  members.
               "Christ, as King has appointed a visible door of entrance into his visible
                  kingdom. Those who would be subjects of it must first 'be made such
                  in their hearts;' and then, when they have been thus 'duly and truly
                  prepared,' they may be and must be initiated by the ceremony which HE
                  has appointed. They have ceased to love the world in their hearts,
                  and now they must openly come out from the world, and acknowledge
                  subjection to him in that form and manner which HE has prescribed. Until they have
                  done this, they may be his subjects in fact, but they are not his in
                     proper form. They may be his in heart, but they do
                  not belong to his organized and visible kingdom."
               "I think," said Mrs. Percy, "I can illustrate what you mean:
               "A king has set up his throne in the midst of a rebellious population, who have
                  refused to obey him, and say, in heart and practice both, 'We will not have this
                  man to reign over us.'
               "He surrounds himself with a few faithful subjects. He gives them a code of laws;
                  and, among others, presents a certain form which shall be used in the
                  case of every rebel who shall change his mind and join their ranks.
               "This code of laws is made public both in the kingdom and out of it; so that all
                  of both parties may know what is required of him who comes into the ranks of the
                  faithful.
               "Now, when any of the rebels has grown weary of rebellion, and laid down his arms,
                  and has determined in his heart to serve the King, he may be
                     called a subject. He is no longer a rebel. He has in heart become
                  obedient to the King. He recognizes his authority. He intends and tries to do his
                  will; but he is not legally and visibly a subject till
                     he has gone through the form of reception prescribed by the King.
                  And if he were in fact obedient, and knew of the requirement, he
                  would of himself seek at once for such a regular and legal admission; he would not
                  continue to live among the rebels and be counted of their number. This was the
                  first act of obedience: the test appointed by the King to try if he
                  were in fact obedient. And so long as he neglected or refused to obey
                  in this particular, so long he would not be counted among the
                  faithful."
               "But what," said Mr. Percy, "if some who professed to be the officers of the
                  kingdom and expounders of the law, should assure him that some other
                  test was that which was required; or that no test at all was needful
                  in his case?"
               "Then I would say that these wicked men falsely and wrongfully hindered him from
                  entering in, and that if all the circumstances were known to the King, he would
                  love him, and reward his good intentions as though they had been carried into
                  effect. But yet he could not, without repudiating his own law,
                     and abrogating the form of admission which he had himself enacted,
                  consider him as an actual member of his kingdom."
               "I thank you, Mrs. Percy," exclaimed the Doctor. "Your beautiful comparison has
                  made the whole matter perfectly plain. Christ is the King. He set up his kingdom
                  in the midst of rebels. He sends his messengers to tell them of his goodness, and
                  strive to win their hearts; for his reign is one of love. When any one is
                  convinced of wrong, and converted to the right, he is a fit subject
                  FOR his kingdom; but he is yet only prospectively and not actually IN
                  his kingdom. To enter it in person, as he has in heart, bodily and visibly, as he
                  has in spirit and in purpose, he must take the oath of allegiance, by
                  submitting to baptism, the initiatory riteprescribed
                  scribed by the King. Till this is done, he may be a
                     friend to the King, but he lives among his enemies. He may be
                  subject to the King in feeling, but he has not put on his livery and joined his
                  ranks. And fearful must be the responsibility of those who venture, in the face of
                  CHRIST'S express command, to assure him that if the heart is
                     right, the King requires no more; or to mislead him into the belief that
                  he requires something else, instead of that which HE commanded. But
                  when one expounder of the law says one thing, and another something else, how is
                  the new-born subject to know what to do?"
               "He must examine the law for himself, sir," replied Mr. Courtney;
                  "and he will not find it double-tongued. The King made his commandment very
                     plain, and none misunderstood it until the wicked had perverted it. But
                  let us not wander from the point before us. You see that if we will embrace all
                  the fit subjects for the kingdom, all the humble, penitent, believing, and
                  obedient, we must have an invisible kingdom, the limits of which are
                  only known to Him who searches all hearts and knows all thoughts.
               "I am very willing to recognize such a kingdom. It includes hundreds and thousands
                  of most excellent and heavenly-minded children of God, who are not in the visible
                  kingdom: some who, though converted, have never yet publicly professed their faith
                  in any form. They may have had no opportunity; they may not have felt sufficient
                  confidence in their love for the King; or, like yourself, Doctor, they may be yet
                  in doubt about what the real visible kingdom is, and where it may be found, and
                  how it must be entered. It includes thousands who have been imposed upon by their
                  spiritual guides, and taught to believe that they are already in Christ's
                     kingdom, while they are in some other organization, as
                  unlike it as possible, in every thing but name. They are good and pious children
                  of God. They love the Saviour, and Christ reigns in their hearts on the earth, and
                  they will reign with Christ in heaven. They are his, and he knows
                  them to be his: they are in his invisible spiritual kingdom, but they
                  are not in his visible kingdom; nor can they be until
                  they have entered it by that visible and significant ordinance which the King
                  appointed for this purpose. To illustrate what I mean, what writer has ever
                  exhibited a deeper and more spiritual knowledge of the work of grace in the
                  believer's heart than Thomas à Kempis? What minister of Christ has ever shown more
                  evidence of love to Christ, and love to souls, than Fénélon? What woman has ever
                  done and suffered more for the cause of the Redeemer than did Madame Guyon? Yet
                  none of these were in the visible kingdom of Christ, unless the Church of Rome is
                  the kingdom of Christ, and not of Antichrist. And as there are many in the
                  invisible kingdom who are not in the visible, so there are many in the visible who
                  have no right there, and never will be recognized by the King. The rite of
                  initiation confers no moral qualities; and without penitence and
                  faith preceding, it is of no avail. Simon the sorcerer was baptized and regularly
                  initiated into Christ's visible kingdom, but he had neither part nor
                  lot in the matter. He was as deeply steeped in the gall of bitterness, and as
                  strongly bound with the chains of iniquity, after his baptism as he was before;
                  while the poor thief who died upon the cross was not baptized and never initiated,
                  and yet he entered the Paradise of God in company with his Redeemer.
               "It was, sir," addressing the Methodist, "precisely this error (confounding the
                  visible with the invisible kingdom) that first led to the introduction of infant
                  baptism. The Saviour said, 'Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he
                  cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven;' meaning thereby (if he referred to water
                  baptism) his visible kingdom on the earth, that about which we have
                  been talking; but men understood it of the invisible kingdom, or
                  kingdom of glory in heaven, and so
                  determined that as baptism was the only door of entrance into heaven, it should be
                  denied to none, not even to new-born babes."
               "Pardon me, Mr. Courtney," said the Doctor, "but we are wandering from our
                  subject. We were examining the nature of the visible kingdom of
                  Christ as it was established by him when he was here, and is destined to continue
                  till he shall come again. We have ascertained that it was to consist of
                  humble-minded penitents, who were obedient to the laws of Christ, and trusted in
                  him for their salvation; and that when thus qualified for it, they
                  were to be introduced into it by the rite of baptism. And although
                  some of different character might be initiated, they were but enemies and rebels
                  still, though bearing the name of friends and subjects; and though some having
                  this character had been prevented from initiation, and so could not be counted as
                  actual members, yet they were not thereby divested of their title to those
                  spiritual and eternal blessings which are promised to those possessing the
                  character of subjects. I think we may now conclude that we understand the nature
                  of this kingdom in its relation to individuals. Considered as
                     purely spiritual, or as the invisible kingdom, it
                  includes all who in their hearts have taken Christ to be their King, and in their
                  lives are yielding him (so far as they know his requirements) a prompt and sincere
                  obedience. Considered as his visible kingdom, as an organized
                     institution, it includes those of this character who have come out
                     from the world and separated themselves to him by an open profession of
                  their allegiance, and have been regularly initiated by the rite of
                     baptism, as the King ordained.
               "But now I am as far as ever from the object which I had in view when I entered on
                  this investigation. I want to know where and which this kingdom is, and how
                     I can be incorporated into it I trust I am a member of what we have
                  called the invisible kingdom. I am a subject of the King at heart. He
                  has in his mercy given me a desire to obey him; and he requires me to
                     profess him before men, and visibly unite with
                     his people. Can you tell me where they are, and
                     how I am to get among them? There are at least a
                     dozen different organizations, each claiming to consist of genuine
                  believers, who have been baptized. I know them, for the most part, to be good and
                  pious people, and am not yet entirely convinced that their sprinkling is not valid
                  baptism. So far as we have yet advanced, therefore, they all have equal claims
                  upon me; yet I know they cannot all be right, or else they would all
                  agree. Christ's kingdom cannot be divided against itself, for Christ himself
                  declared that if it were so it must fall. 'A house divided against itself is
                  brought to desolation; and a kingdom divided against itself cannot stand.' I know,
                  therefore, that all these separate and
                     rival organizations, with their various forms of government,
                  opposite systems of faith, and clashing interests, cannot be his kingdom; but you
                  have yet shown me no sign by which to distinguish which of them all is really
                  his."
               "Have a little patience, Doctor. We have not yet finished our survey of the
                  kingdom. We have ascertained, indeed, that it consists of professed
                     believers who have been baptized; and this clue, if you would follow it
                  out, would lead you to the truth. But we will not abandon our main subject yet in
                  order to follow it. It remains now to consider the kingdom in regard to its
                     organization. You have ascertained its membership: now let
                  us look at its government, or polity. This kingdom not only has
                     members, or citizens, but it has a King, and a
                     code of laws, and an executive body by which, in the
                  King's name and by his authority, they are administered. To this executive
                     body, and to it alone, the King intrusts the visible administration of
                  his government. Now if we find any organization claiming to be
                  this kingdom, or a part of this kingdom, the members of which have not been
                     baptized, you must set them
                  aside on the ground already settled, viz. that Christ's visible
                  kingdom consists not of believers merely, but of baptized believers;
                  and if we find any organization which has rejected Christ from being King (not
                  formally, but actually) by acknowledging subjection to another ruler,
                  or to other laws than his, we may at once reject its claims upon this ground. It
                     cannot be the kingdom of Christ unless it is ruled by his
                     laws, administered by his executive, and enforced by
                     his authority."
               "That is self-evident, sir. But where and what is this executive of
                  which you speak?"
               "It is that organization called in the New Testament 'the
                  Church.'"
               "I had thought, sir, that the Church and the kingdom were the same thing—merely
                  different names for the same object."
               "Not at all, sir. The Church is a local organization, charged by the
                  King with the execution of his laws. It is in the kingdom: it makes
                     a part of the kingdom: it is subject to the laws of
                  the kingdom; but it is not the kingdom, any more than the courts of
                  law and the executive of any state are themselves the state."
               "My dear sir, you astonish me. Is not the term Church in the Scriptures
                  continually and almost invariably used as synonymous with the kingdom? Does it not
                  comprise all the visible body of professing Christians? I am sure such is the
                  general impression. How else should we read of the Church universal, of the
                  ancient Church, of the Church militant, and the Church triumphant?"
               "You do not read thus in the Scriptures, sir. The Holy
                  Catholic, or universal Church, is a figment of men. The Scriptures commonly employ
                  the word to signify only a local assembly of Christian people, who
                  meet together in one place to observe Christ's ordinances, and to transact the
                  business relating to his kingdom. In the few places where it has a more extended
                  meaning, it is used metaphorically, by virtue of that very common and natural
                  figure of speech in which the name of a part is applied to the whole. It is
                     never used in Scripture to designate such an ecclesiastical
                  establishment as that which you call the Church of England, the Church of Rome,
                  the Presbyterian Church, the Methodist Church, and the like. But the elaboration
                  of this point will require no little time, and I fear some of our company may even
                  now be weary of this dry discussion. We have seen what Christ's
                     kingdom is, and let that suffice us for to-day. To-morrow we will
                  try to get some definite conception of the nature of his Church."
               "I am content," replied the Doctor; "for, to own the truth, these things are so
                  new to me that I feel I need time to review the ground we have gone over, and make
                  myself sure that we have not travelled out of the record. Let me take
                  my Bible, and examine again all these passages which speak of this kingdom; and
                  when we meet here in the morning, I may be ready to take the other step in this
                  investigation. And Mr. Percy, with your consent I shall invite your good lady to
                  take a walk with me on deck, and fulfil a promise which she made yesterday."
               "I surely will not object, sir, provided I can make an arrangement for myself as
                  agreeable as that of yesterday."
               The company disappeared from the ladies' cabin, and were soon talking of other
                  matters.
               The Doctor claimed of Theodosia that she should, according to her promise, relate
                  her own and Mr. Percy's history from the time of her baptism. She told him much,
                  but she did not tell him all; and we feel that it is due to the
                  reader of these pages that he should be made particularly acquainted with some
                  facts to which she scarcely alluded; and moreover, there were some things which
                  she told which are already known to him who has perused the first volume of this
                     work. We think it best, therefore, to
                  resume the narrative where we left off; and go on to tell it in our own way.
               The reader will remember that Mr. Percy had been converted to Christ on his way
                  home—had gone into the meeting at the Court-house, related his experience of
                  grace, and been received as one proper to be baptized. Before he had been
                  baptized, however, he was stricken down suddenly by the hand of disease. Long time
                  the balance wavered between death and life. By his avowal of his faith, and
                  application for baptism, Theodosia felt that the only barrier to their
                  contemplated union had been removed—he was her own betrothed again. She longed to
                  tell him how her heart had poured its very life out in that sad and almost fatal
                  letter which she felt had caused his sickness.
               Called to his bedside by his mother and his physician, (as we have seen in the
                  other volume,) she became to him not only the angel of his dreams, but the
                  ministering angel of his waking hours. When he was strong enough to talk, he told
                  her how bitterly his heart had wept at the remembrance of his vain attempt to
                  persuade her to deny her Lord for him—to refuse obedience to Christ's plain and
                  imperative command, in order that she might not grieve or offend him whom she
                  loved more than all else but Christ. He told her how he had wished to recall that
                  rashly-written letter; how he had hoped it would have no effect upon her conduct;
                  how happy he was to find that she had done her duty, without regarding it; how
                  much more firmly he could trust her now—how much more tenderly he loved her
                  now—since he had realized that nothing could turn her from the path of right.
               And did she tell him how that letter of his had rent and crushed her heart? Did
                  she tell him how it had for the time almost dethroned her reason? Did she tell him
                  with what agony she slowly and mournfully came to her decision to
                  give up all—to give up even him—for Christ?
               She only told him how she had reproached herself for writing an answer which had
                  caused him so much suffering.
               "What!" exclaimed he, "did you send an answer to my letter? I never saw it—I did
                  not know that you had written one!"
               This suggested a new thought. She knew from the doctor that he had
                  seen it. She knew that it had driven him to the very door of death. The doctor had
                  taken it from the hand that grasped it, even as he lay senseless upon his
                  office-floor. She had it now in her possession. But Mr. Percy had no remembrance
                  of it: the hand that struck him was so heavy that it stunned the brain; and he had
                  never realized from what source the blow had come. She turned the conversation to
                  another theme.
               "You are rapidly getting your strength again. The doctor says that you are now out
                  of danger. I must leave you, and return home."
               "Not to-day, I hope."
               "No; but if you continue to improve, I must to-morrow. There is no longer any
                     necessity for my presence."
               "I see how it is," he replied. "You came when they told you I was like to die; and
                  now your delicacy suggests that you ought not to stay. Well! be it so; but let me
                  tell you, dearest, that your coming saved my life. My mind, I know, has sometimes
                  wandered; and I am conscious now of a strange fancy—I know not whence it came—that
                  you had utterly disowned and cast me off. This fancy preyed upon my heart, and
                  gnawed away my life. Sometimes, in my dreams—it may have been in my delirium—I saw
                  your image hovering about the room, looking so tenderly and pitifully into my eyes
                  that I began to doubt if it were not my Theodosia; and when I found that you were
                  really here—that it was your kind hand that prepared my food—your hand that gave
                  me drink—your voice that answered my feeblest call, and your presence that calmed my distracted mind, I at
                  once grew strong—I had something to live for; and now I feel that I shall live to
                  make you at least some return of love for all your care."
               "There, hush now, Mr. Percy; you are talking too long, and will bring back your
                  fever. Try to compose yourself to sleep. Your mother will stay with you till I
                  return;" and she stole away to pour out her heart in thanksgiving to that Redeemer
                  who was giving back to her, one after another, all the treasures which she had
                  given up, in her purpose that she might keep his commandment.
               She returned to her mother's; and it was not many days before the conversation was
                  renewed in the little parlor of Mrs. Ernest's cottage.
               Several weeks had passed. Mr. Percy was well and strong again: he had returned to
                  his office, and was earnestly engaged in closing up his business. He had
                  determined to abandon his profession, and engage in the work to which he felt the
                  Lord had called him; but of this he had as yet said nothing, except to his friend
                  and confidant, Dr. Woodruff.
               "What," asked the Doctor, "will Theodosia say to this? You may abandon your
                  business, in which you could soon realize a fortune, and devote
                     yourself to a life of hardship and poverty; but have you a right
                  to entail poverty upon her? Are you willing to see her
                  lead the life of a poor pensioner on the reluctant alms of Baptist
                  churches?"
               "O no, my friend, nothing of that sort will be necessary The ministers of Christ
                  are worthy of their hire. They earn their support. It is not alms,
                  but wages they receive."
               "Yes, yes, you may well say they earn it. They earn
                  vastly more than they get; but though they earn it, those who receive the benefit
                  of their labors usually understand that they are under no obligation
                  to pay for them; and that the preacher should be very thankful if they condescend
                     togive him the means of a bare subsistence. Look at the facts, Mr.
                  Percy. Here are some twenty Baptist churches in this county: is there any one of
                  them that gives its pastor even a bare support? I know these people better than
                  you do. They will pay their doctors, and pay their lawyers, and pay their
                  mechanics and their merchants; but they seem to me to have deliberately made a
                  calculation to ascertain just how little a preacher can barely
                  subsist upon, and that little they promise to pay him,
                  but feel that it is only a gift—a mere matter of alms — which he cannot
                     legally collect; and therefore they forget it and
                     neglect it, until he becomes disheartened, and removes to another
                  church, to be deluded again by similar promises. Some of the members are always
                  glad when this occurs; for from that moment they feel released from all obligation
                  ever to pay what they had promised him."
               "Surely," said Mr. Percy, "this must be an exaggeration. No Christian people could
                  so disregard not merely the demands of common honesty, but also the express
                  injunction of the Saviour, that 'They who preach the gospel shall live of the
                  gospel.'"
               "I think so too," replied his friend; "and for this very reason I am disposed
                  greatly to doubt whether these Baptists are Christian people. As you have not
                  joined them yet, I hope you wont get angry at my saying so."
               "If I had joined them, I should be very silly to be angry at the
                  truth; but I can't believe that this is truth."
               "Let me convince you, then. There is old Mr. Doe: I know his history. He entered
                  the ministry after he had a family, and he gave up a profitable employment to do
                  so. He has been the pastor of half the churches in the county. Everybody has
                  confidence in him—everybody esteems him a good minister; but he was never
                  eloquent, and now he is old, and in absolute want. He told me himself that three
                  hundred dollars was the most that he had ever received in one year for preaching; and to get that he had to serve
                  four churches, two of them over thirty miles from his residence Several years he
                  has realized less than half that sum; and never has he been able to provide for
                  his family as well as a common mechanic, or even a day-laborer. Then there is the
                  minister by whom Miss Ernest was immersed. He has talents which, at the bar or in
                  the forum, would place him among the first men of the State. Few speakers can
                  equal his persuasive eloquence. He is popular as a preacher, and beloved as a man.
                  He is the pastor of a church which has in its membership several who could each
                  pay him five hundred dollars a year, and never feel it; but they give him four
                  hundred to preach to them twice a month, and he gets about a hundred and fifty
                  more from two other churches. Before he entered the ministry, he had some
                  property. He is a man of cultivated taste; and his family have been accustomed to
                  genteel society, and feel that it is necessary to their happiness to have about
                  them not merely the bare necessaries, but some of the comforts, not to say the
                  luxuries of life. The consequence is, that he is every year drawing upon and
                  rapidly exhausting his patrimony; and should he live ten years, is likely to be
                  reduced to the same poverty with Mr. Doe; and these are but instances of what is
                  common, almost universal."
               "It may be, my friend, that you are correct in regard to this. I know that the
                  Baptists are a poor and obscure people, and I suppose they have not the ability to
                  provide very bountifully for their ministers."
               "It is not their poverty, my dear sir, but their parsimony. You will find them
                     rich enough, but too stingy—that is the word, sir—too
                     stingy, too niggardly, too avaricious, too covetous, too selfish,
                  to provide for anybody but themselves. They must have preaching, and
                  they think they can't do well without at least one sermon a month. So they
                  contrive to get that much for the least possible sum—usually not over one cent a
                  week for each church member; and then they call themselves generous,
                  and think they have conferred a great favor on the preacher when they have doled
                  out to him this pitiful sum.
               "Now, Mr. Percy, if you are willing to live such a life yourself, and subject Miss
                  Ernest to all the sufferings and sorrows of disappointed hope, degraded social
                  position, and absolute penury, then marry her, give up your lucrative profession,
                  and become a Baptist preacher."
               "You make the picture dark indeed," said Mr. Percy; "but I trust there is some
                  brighter view of it. I must talk with Mr. Courtney about this subject—not that I
                  have any hesitation about what I must do, but that I may understand how it has
                  come to pass that these disciples of Jesus are so disregardful of his laws. As for
                  myself, I shall preach Christ's gospel, whether I am fed or starved.
                  I must preach. I feel that God has called me to this work; and woe is
                  me if I draw back. I am not now prepared to preach; but after my baptism I intend
                  to devote my time to such studies as will prepare me for it. And I do not feel
                  that it can be any halfway devotion that I must give to the ministry of salvation.
                  I will, God helping me, give it all my life, and all the
                     energies of all my life. I can endure poverty, I can endure hardships, I
                  can—"
               "Just stop one moment," interrupted his friend. "Can you give up Miss Ernest, or,
                  what will to you seem worse, can you subject her to poverty,
                  hardships, and contempt, when it is in your power to set her among the highest?
                  Answer this question to yourself before you act."
               Mr. Percy's countenance fell. He had not seen the matter in this light. He sat
                  down by his table with a heavy heart, and began to calculate how much he was
                  already worth, and how long it would take him to realize a sum which would secure
                  the future Mrs. Percy a respectable income, independent of what he might receive
                  for his preaching
               
               The conclusion did not seem quite satisfactory, for he sighed deeply as he looked
                  up from the figures, and then slowly and abstractedly walked over to Mrs. Ernest's
                  cottage.
               Theodosia read in his face as he came in that there was something heavy on his
                  heart, and was not slow to find a way to induce him to tell her what it was.
               "You know, Theo., that I am to be baptized to-morrow, and that the coming Thursday
                  is our anticipated wedding-day."
               "Certainly; and though that might make a sensible man look serious, I don't see
                  why it should make you sad."
               "When you agreed to be my wife, I was a lawyer. I had a lucrative business, which
                  promised yearly still increasing returns. I did not solicit your hand until I felt
                  that I should have it in my power to place you in that position in society which
                  your accomplishments so fit you to adorn. I loved you too well to desire that you
                  should be a poor man's wife, though that poor man had been myself."
               "Well, Mr. Percy, I am very much obliged to you; and let me say that I loved you
                  too well to be anybody's wife but yours, though he had been as rich as Girard, and
                  you as poor as Job, when he had lost every thing but life. Is there any thing in
                  that to make you sad?"
               "But, my dear Theodosia, I have been led to feel that I must abandon my
                  profession, and with it all my hopes of wealth, or even of a comfortable
                  subsistence. I can easily submit to this for myself, but I have no right to
                  subject you to want and obscurity."
               "Then I suppose you have, with many others, come to the conclusion that no
                  strictly honest Christian man can be successful as a lawyer?"
               "No, no: the law, indeed, presents great temptations; but I know many an honest
                  lawyer. It is not because I have any objection to my present profession, but
                  because I am drawn so forcibly towards another, that I feel compelled to give it
                  up."
               "It is true, then," said she, while a gleam of hope and joy flashed from her eyes,
                  and she leaned towards him as she spoke: "it is true that my prayer is heard, and
                  God has called you to become a minister of his Word."
               "I have indeed been led to determine, as God shall open up the way for me, to
                  spend my life in preaching Jesus to the lost."
               "And did you fancy this would be sad news to me, that you came with such a
                  sorrowful face to tell me of it? It has been for weeks the great desire of my
                  heart, and the chief burden of my prayers."
               "But, my dear Theo., you do not consider that to be a Baptist minister is to be
                     poor—to spend a life of hardship and toil without reward—almost,
                  as I am told, without the means of comfortable subsistence. I have lived long
                  enough to know that the wants of life are stern realities: they must be provided
                  for. We have both of us been accustomed to the enjoyment of some of even the
                  elegances of social life. It will be scarcely possible for us to live in comfort
                  upon such a sum as Baptist churches are accustomed to pay their ministers, even if
                  I should realize as much as the best of them, and that I cannot look for. What I
                  have been thinking of is this: if I could give some five years to the law, I might
                  secure a sum sufficient for our comfort; and then I could give myself
                  entirely to the work of the Master."
               "And if in those five years souls should perish that you might have been the
                  instrument to save—what then?"
               "It is that which perplexes me."
               "Will you permit me," inquired she, "to advise you? I know that I have no
                  acquaintance with business; but one thing I am sure of, and that is,
                  duty must be done, let consequences be what they may."
               
               "But have not consequences something to do in determining what is
                  duty?"
               "Surely they have; and if the loss of never-dying souls is likely to be the
                  consequence of your taking time to make a little fortune, it seems to me you will
                  not hesitate. As for me, I am not desirous to be rich. I find more promises to the
                  poor than to the wealthy, and great promises to those who have abandoned houses
                  and lands for Christ."
               "But Dr. Woodruff assures me that the Baptist churches do so little for their
                  ministers, that it is impossible for a family to live comfortably upon the scanty
                  pittance which they reluctantly give, rather as charity than wages, for his
                  self-denying labor."
               "What if the Doctor does say this? Jesus Christ says, Lay not up for
                  yourself treasure upon earth. He says, Take no thought what you shall eat or what
                  you shall drink, for our Heavenly Father knoweth that we have need of these
                  things; and He who feeds the sparrows, and clothes the lilies, will also care for
                  us."
               "But I don't feel as though I can trust myself, and especially yourself, to the
                  tender mercies of these Baptist churches; though I am sure the facts can't be
                  quite so bad as my friend represented them."
               "But don't you see, Mr. Percy, that we don't have to trust to THE
                  CHURCHES, but to our Father in heaven, who holds the hearts of all
                  men in his hands? The silver is his, and the gold also; and the cattle upon a
                  thousand hills. Let us humbly try to do his will, and HE will see to
                  it that we have all we need."
               "So you are willing to risk all, and really think I ought to enter at once upon
                  this work?"
               "Why no, Mr. Percy, I am not willing to risk any thing. I have
                     God's promise that we shall be provided for; and it is not
                     risking any thing to believe that God tells the truth, and to take
                  him at his word. We will do what he requires, and he will do what he has promised.
                  It can't be otherwise."
               "But see how the churches have left good old Mr. Doe to pine in poverty, after he
                  has given his life to their service."
               "Yes, I have heard of that. It may be that the churches have done wrong; but if
                  old Brother Doe has trusted in God, he is not the loser by his poverty. All things
                  are working together for his good. We may be left to suffer poverty also. It was
                  no more than Jesus did for us; and if it should be so, we may rejoice, even in our
                  poverty, that we are permitted to suffer for his sake; for the
                  apostle says, if we suffer with him, we shall also be
                     glorified with him."
               "May God bless you, my angel of hope and love! Would that I had your faith! But it
                  shall be as you suggest. I will give up all—I will proclaim
                     Christ's gospel, and trust Christ for the results. It
                  was not for myself, but on your account that I hesitated; but you are the helper
                  of my weakness. I will try to trust in God, as you do. But there is one thing yet
                  which troubles me. The facts related to me by Dr. Woodruff in regard to the
                  parsimony of these Baptist churches in the support of their ministry, have raised
                  in my mind a doubt—in fact, a serious doubt—whether they
                     are, after all, the churches of Jesus Christ."
               "How so?"
               "The Lord Jesus, both by his personal teachings and by the teachings of his
                  Spirit, inculcated liberality. His people must be a
                     liberal people. He charged them again and again to
                     give; instructed them to labor, working with their hands; not that
                  they might lay up wealth, but that they might have something to give
                  to him that needeth. He warned them not to lay up their treasures on the earth,
                  and assured them that they could not serve God and money, (for that is the meaning
                  of 'Mammon.') He told them that it was more blessed to give than to
                  receive; that the ministers of his gospel were worthy of their hire; that those who
                  preached the gospel, should live of the gospel; that those who ministered in
                  spiritual things should be ministered unto in carnal things; and now, in view of
                  all this, when I find a church that is willing to enjoy the labors and
                  instructions of a minister of Jesus without return, or one so avaricious as to
                  give only the very smallest pittance that will secure a sermon once a
                  month, while they are abundantly able to provide comfortably for a pastor's
                  support, I can't help thinking it is not his church; and I would not
                  like to be connected with it, either as a member or a minister."
               "It is probable that you do not yet know all the facts in regard to
                  this matter. You have heard one side; Mr. Courtney, or some other Baptist of
                  experience and observation, could tell you the other. As for our
                  little church, it has but just now been organized; and you know very well it is
                     unable to do much, and so it may be with many others. Let this
                  thought pass till you get more accurate information; and now tell me by what means
                  you have been led to feel that you must give yourself to the ministry."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The reader will find the best apology which Mr. Courtney knew how to make
                     for the parsimony of the Baptist churches farther on It must be admitted
                     that there is a most deplorable amount of truth in the allegations of Dr.
                     Woodruff; and Mr. Percy's fears of what would probably be the treatment of
                     the churches to himself and family were not only natural, but more than
                     justified by the facts which must have stared him in the face had he been at
                     all familiar with the relationship which very generally in this country
                     exists between the pastors and their people. It is a mournful truth that the
                     churches do not give their ministers a reasonable support. It is lamentable
                     to see how many of the best and noblest minds are driven out of the pulpit
                     into the schoolroom, or the workshop, or other place of secular business, by
                     the apprehension of absolute want. It is sad to think how many who would
                     probably be most useful and efficient ministers are prevented by such fears
                     from ever entering the ministry Few have the utter self-consecration of Mr.
                     Percy, and scarcely any such a comforter to speak words of hope and trust to
                     their doubting hearts. There is a fearful, an awful weight of responsibility
                     resting upon our churches in regard to this subject. Let them look to it
                     that God does not require at their hands the price of souls. Are there not
                     some of them who have good reason to fear that by their
                     parsimony they have forfeited the right to be regarded as the true churches
                     of Him who has expressly provided that they who preach the gospel shall live
                     of the gospel?
               
               "I hardly know when or how this conviction came into my mind; but from the time I
                  found myself trusting in Jesus as a lost and helpless sinner, and felt that I was
                  saved by his abounding goodness and almighty power, I gave myself to him. Since
                  then I have felt that I am not my own, but His who died to save me; I must live,
                  not for myself, but for him; I must not do what is desirable to myself, but what
                  is pleasing to him. When I was beginning to recover from that sickness which
                  prostrated me so suddenly, I became conscious of an impression upon my mind that
                  if I recovered I must give myself to the work of the ministry. At first I cast
                  aside the thought as utterly preposterous. I had spent my youth and early manhood
                  in preparing for another occupation, with which I had no reason to be
                  dissatisfied, and upon which I had already entered: why should I now change all my
                  plans? But the impression continually returned: it came with greater and greater
                  power. I tried to reason it away, but still I felt that I must
                  preach; and at length, since I have been entirely restored, I find my highest
                  reason taking sides with the feeling. Souls are perishing; God has instituted the
                  ministry as one means—perhaps the chief means—of bringing them to salvation; I
                  have the capacity to study and to teach; I can preach, and if I can I
                     must preach, and thus do what I can to make known to the lost the
                  glorious gospel of the Son of God.
               
               "But I had never thought until to-day of all the difficulties in the
                  way of doing so. I did not realize till now that to become a minister of the
                  gospel was to place my ear to the door-post, and have it bored, in token of
                  perpetual servitude. I never felt till to-day that by determining to be a minister
                  among the Baptists I resigned all hope not only of preferment and honor—not only
                  of wealth and ease, but of even what will to us be the comforts, almost the
                  necessaries, of life. I never felt till to-day that to be a minister was not only
                  to be poor, but to be dependent; to be regarded by the
                  churches and my brethren not as a laborer worthy of his hire, but as
                  a needy pensioner, not upon their bounty, but upon their parsimony; to feel that
                  when I had abandoned wealth and fame and ease and comfort for their sake and the
                  gospel's, that they would but regard me as an object of their
                  charity—a fit subject for their alms. But even this I
                  did not shrink from till I thought of you. I could endure it for myself; but how
                  can I see you subjected to such things?"
               "O, don't be troubled about me: our Heavenly Father will see to it that I have no
                  sorrow to endure, no hardship to bear, that is not for my good. Does he not say
                  that all things shall work together for the good of them that love
                  him? And what if we should suffer all these things? Has he not bidden us, having
                  merely food and raiment, therewith to be content; and told us that these light
                  afflictions, which are but for a moment, shall work out for us a far more
                  exceeding and eternal weight of glory? We do not need the comforts of
                  the world when we have the joys of his salvation. We do not need the honors of the
                  world when we have that honor which cometh from God only."
               "Well, my darling comforter, let it be so. We will enter upon this work of saving
                  souls together: together we will labor, together we will study, together we will
                  pray, and you shall teach me how to walk by faith and not by sight, and to endure
                  as seeing HIM who is invisible."
               The evening of the next Sabbath had been appointed for his baptism. The crowd that
                  gathered on the river-bank would probably have been larger than had ever assembled
                  there on a similar occasion, but that a sudden shower of rain shut many up at
                  home, and scattered most of those who had come out. He walked firmly and calmly
                  into the water, was baptized, and came up out of the water, but gave no expression
                  to his thoughts or feelings. Except the simple baptismal hymn which the brethren
                  and sisters sang as they were going down the bank, all was silence. Some hard
                  hands grasped his most heartily as he came up; but his formal recognition as a
                  church member was postponed until the regular prayer-meeting on Tuesday night.
               At that time, after the ordinary exercises of singing and prayer, Mr. Courtney,
                  who had been created one of the deacons of the church when it was organized a few
                  weeks before, requested the brethren to resolve themselves into a church
                     meeting for the transaction of certain business. This was done by
                  calling one of the deacons to preside, (there being no pastor,) singing a verse or
                  two of a familiar hymn, and invoking the presence and sanction of the Master of
                  assemblies.
               Mr. Courtney then suggested that Brother Percy should now be formally recognized
                  as a member of that church by extending to him the right hand of fellowship, which
                  they had no good opportunity to give him at the water's side.
               Mr. Percy took his stand in a convenient place, and the deacons first, and then
                  the brethren and the sisters, passed by in regular order, and each gave to him the
                  hand of fellowship. Nor was this a mere form. He saw tears in many eyes. He saw
                  deep feeling upon almost every face, and could not help realizing that with their
                  hands they gave their hearts in Christian tian love. When this was done, Mr. Courtney arose
                  and spoke somewhat as follows:
               "Brethren and sisters:—I have learned that our young brother whom we have just
                  received has felt himself called to the work of the ministry. It is proper for the
                  church to give her sanction to that call, if she should think it in fact the call
                  of God. In order that we may have an opportunity to judge in reference to this
                  point, and learn for ourselves concerning his aptness to teach, I move you that
                  our brother Percy be requested to exercise his gifts among us. Though but recently
                  made one of our company, we have long known him as an upright and moral man. Some
                  of us know that like Timothy, he has been taught the Scriptures from a child, and
                  now that he has been taught of the Spirit, we may reasonably expect that he may be
                  able to teach others. He is not like the 'novice,' newly converted
                  from heathenism, for he has been thoroughly instructed in the doctrines and
                  precepts of our holy religion; and though it will be proper for him to make
                  further proof of his call before he can be ordained to the ministry,
                  yet I conceive there will be no impropriety in his entering at once upon the work
                  of calling sinners to repentance. Shall we invite him to proclaim the gospel in
                  our hearing on next Sabbath, that we may have an opportunity to understand the
                  nature of his gifts?"
               As the vote was about to be taken, Mr. Percy arose and said, "Excuse me, brethren:
                  I have indeed felt that it is my duty to preach Christ's gospel. Nay, I feel that
                  'woe is me if I preach not the gospel;' and in my purpose I have already given
                  myself up solely to this work. But I am not ready to enter upon those
                  duties now. I need a course of careful study. I must read some system of divinity.
                  I acknowledge to you that, so far as I can now remember, I have never read a
                  strictly theological book. I am, therefore, utterly unprepared at this
                     time to preach the glorious gospel of our blessed Lord. But by God's
                  mercy I hope soon to obtain the needful qualifications, if intense study and an
                  earnest desire for knowledge can secure them."
               "Our brother," replied Mr. Courtney, "mistakes our purpose We do not propose now
                  to ordain him an elder, or, what is the same thing, a
                     bishop. We need some proof of his call of God before we can do
                  that. But we propose merely to ask and authorize him to show, by teaching us, his
                  capacity to teach, and his qualifications for the work to which he thinks that God
                  has called him. Let him study as diligently as he will, it will not hinder his
                  studies to tell us from week to week what he has learned. But we trust that he
                  will remember that our book of divinity is the Bible,
                  and our theology is all to be found in that one comprehensive work.
                  Our gospel is Christ, and him crucified, with those doctrines and precepts which
                  gather of necessity around this one great centre of our faith and hope. Let him
                  take the New Testament, and study (not merely read) the teachings of
                  Christ and the apostles, until his very soul is imbued with their meaning, and
                  baptized in their spirit, and then come and tell to us what they have taught to
                  him, and he will be just such a teacher as many of us are just now needing."
               The church invited him to speak to them on the next Sabbath; and after his
                  previous convictions of duty, he did not dare to refuse.
               This was on Tuesday night. On Thursday there was a little company of friends
                  gathered in Mrs. Ernest's little parlor, and Miss Theodosia Ernest became Mrs.
                  Percy.
               On Sabbath morning, with many fears, and a heart crying within him, "Who is
                  sufficient for these things?" Mr. Percy preached his first sermon. His mind was
                  strong, and had been thoroughly trained to close investigation and independent
                  thought. His mother had in his childhood made him familiar with the letter of the Scriptures. And now that the
                  Master himself had in his experience taught him their spirit and their power, it
                  is not to be wondered at that from the very first he proved a most acceptable
                  expounder of Christian truth to the earnest-hearted but mostly uneducated people
                  who composed his congregations. They were without a pastor; and, by a sort of
                  unexpressed but mutual understanding, he became from that time forth their
                  minister, until the time had passed which was required to close up his legal
                  business. Meantime he had been a diligent student of the mysteries of the gospel.
                  He felt that he had not time to read through the ponderous tomes of what are
                  called systems of divinity. By the advice of Mr. Courtney, he took a shorter, if
                  not a surer way to learn the truth. He knew that he was to teach the things which
                  were contained in one Book. He made that Book his daily
                     study. He not merely read, but searched the
                  Scriptures daily. He selected subjects instead of texts as the basis
                  of his discourses; and when he had chosen his subject, he took his concordance and
                  gathered all the passages which were fitted to throw any light upon it. These
                  texts he copied out upon a sheet of paper, so that he might have them all before
                  him at a glance. He analyzed and classified them to get the distinctive meaning of
                  each. Then he referred to several of the best commentators, and made his mind
                  familiar with their exposition and criticisms, not on the single verse which was
                  to be nominally the text of his discourse, but upon all the sometimes
                  numerous passages connected with his subject. And when he felt that he had thus
                  learned the teachings of the Holy Word, he was prepared to bring forth his
                  treasures from an abundant storehouse, not crammed with "learned
                     lumber of the brain," but full of things useful to the edifying of
                  those who wished to know what the Master teaches in his Word. Thus he studied, and
                  thus he preached; and God was pleased to bless his ministry, from the very first,
                  to the conviction and conversion of sinners, and the comforting and building up of
                  the saints.
               About the time he closed his business, and was prepared to give himself
                     entirely to the work of the gospel, he received a call from a
                  church in one of the growing little cities of the South-west, and was ordained as
                  their elder, or bishop, and pastor. In the intensity of his early zeal, he had
                  overtasked his powers and undermined his health; and, at the earnest solicitation
                  of his people, had left them for a few weeks, to recuperate his failing strength
                  by a visit to the hill country of Tennessee.
            
            
               
               THIRD DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  In which the precise difference which exists between the kingdom of Christ and
                     the Church of Christ is still further developed, and some other remarkable
                     things concerning the Church are brought to light.
               
               WHEN the company had assembled the next morning, the Doctor introduced the
                  conversation thus:
               "I think, sir, that you made a distinction yesterday between the
                     Church of Christ and the kingdom of Christ, in such a
                  way that you considered the Church as a local organization,
                  established for a particular purpose within the kingdom—a part of the
                  apparatus or machinery of the kingdom, if I may speak so."
               "You did not far mistake my meaning," replied Mr. Courtney; "but as this idea is
                  fundamental to the object which we have before us to-day, let me explain a little
                  more particularly.
               "We have seen that 'The kingdom of Christ,' 'The kingdom of God,' and 'The kingdom
                  of Heaven,' as employed in the New Testament, are synonymous terms, and are used
                  to designate that institution which was set up by Christ while he was upon the
                  earth. It was not the Jewish kingdom, for the Jewish prophets told of it as
                  something yet to come. It was not in being yet when Christ appeared, for he dated
                  it from the preaching of John. It was then that the time was
                  fulfilled, and the kingdom of God was set up. This kingdom was that economy
                     of separation or assortment into which the penitent and the believing who
                     trusted in Jesus as Messias the Saviour were introduced by baptism according to
                     Christ's appointment.
               "Those coming out from the mass, (whether Jews or Gentiles,) and openly, by their
                  own act, acknowledging him before the world in that significant rite which he had
                  instituted for the purpose, became his visible people. They put on
                  his livery; were called by his name; became obedient to his laws; and he was thus,
                  in sight of all the world, their Lord and King. Now this kingdom was to continue
                  to the end of time, and to extend to all the world. Whenever and wherever any one
                  should be found repenting of sin, and trusting in Christ for salvation, he was
                  prepared to become a subject of this kingdom. It was proper that he should be
                  baptized, and thus become formally united with those of whom the kingdom should
                  consist. He was already a subject in his heart, and was prepared to become one, at
                  his own request, in fact and in form. But without some such a formal recognition
                  of the incoming members, there would be no visible distinction
                  between his people and the people of the world. Some
                  form was needful, and the King appointed this. BAPTISM IS, THEREFORE,
                  THE DOOR OF ENTRANCE INTO HIS VISIBLE KINGDOM. Those who have not entered
                     by THIS door are not members of it. They may be
                     pious: they may be penitent: they may be
                     believers: they may be the friends of the King: they may even be
                  favorites of the King; but until they have openly put on Christ, and
                     acknowledged him before the world, (not in such a way as
                     they may think proper, but in the way of HIS appointment,) they
                  are not and should not be regarded as belonging to his VISIBLE
                     kingdom. To be a member of the Jewish kingdom, one must not only
                  be a man free from certain defects and blemishes, and a worshipper of Israel's God, but he must also be circumcised; so,
                  to be a member of this new kingdom, one must not only repent and believe, but he
                  must also be baptized. The condition is imperative and unconditional. There is no
                  exception, and no room for evasion. Don't misunderstand me. I don't say that
                  baptism is essential to salvation: THAT depends on penitence and
                  faith but baptism is essential to membership in Christ's
                     visible kingdom upon the earth.
               "The visible kingdom of Christ, therefore, (which is that we have been talking
                  of,) consists of all those who have openly professed their penitence for sin
                     and faith in Christ, and have then been baptized into his name, in accordance
                     with his appointment. It is composed of these; and it contains no
                     others, simply because, according to the laws of the King, these are
                     the indispensable requisites for membership.
               "We now, I trust, understand what is meant by the kingdom, when spoken of as a
                     visible organization; and if so, we are prepared to take another
                  step, and learn what is meant, in the Scriptures, by the 'Church of
                  Christ.'
               "Let me premise, however, that our English word church is a term of such various
                  and doubtful meaning, as it is commonly employed, that we must define it before we
                  use it, or else we shall soon find ourselves embarrassed and confused by it. You
                  know that it sometimes means the house where people worship, and
                  sometimes the people who worship in the house. Sometimes it is applied to a
                  particular congregation of professed Christians, and sometimes to all who hold to
                  a particular set of doctrines. Sometimes it applies to all of some particular
                  persuasion in some designated country, as the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, or
                  of the United States. Some writers use it to signify all those of every name or
                  order who profess to believe in Christ; others limit it to the
                  special organization in connection with which they happen to be living. It is
                  therefore necessary for us, if we would ascertain what the Scriptures
                  mean when they use the word church, to go to them for
                  its definition. Their use of it is definite, and easily understood: they clearly
                  explain themselves. The Greek word is ekklesia.
                  It occurs in the singular or plural number one hundred and fifteen times in the
                  New Testament; and is translated 'church,' in our version, in every place but
                  three. To obtain a correct conception of its scriptural meaning, we must examine
                  the passages where it occurs; but in doing this, we must not forget that it
                     had a meaning, as distinct and as well settled as any other Greek
                  word, before it was employed by Christ and his apostles; and, consequently, they
                  must have had regard to its original signification when they employed and
                  appropriated it. This is as true of ekklesia as
                  it is of baptisma; and we must go to Greece for
                  the fundamental idea which both the words contain. They were both purely Greek
                  words; they originated among the Greeks, and their meaning was fixed by the usage
                  of the Greek language."
               "Please then tell us, Mr. Courtney, what was the Grecian usage in reference to
                  this word. What did it mean as a Greek would have employed it, in speaking or
                  writing to the Grecians?"
               "You will understand it better," said he, "if I tell you first its origin. It was
                  derived originally from another Greek word, 'ekkalein,' which signified to call out from. Now, you
                  know the government of the ancient cities of Greece was democratic; that is, it
                  was exercised by the qualified citizens assembled in a lawful meeting, for the
                  transaction of business. The meetings were called together by the town-crier, and
                  hence were named 'ekklesia,' the 'called
                     out;' that is, the assembly of qualified citizens called out from the
                  mass of the population. The same idea, or one very similar to it, is contained in
                  our English word convocation, when applied to an assembly called
                  together for some specific purpose. The
                  Greek 'ekklesia' consisted of certain
                  individuals, who, when assembled and organized, constituted an official body for
                  the transaction of such business as might come before them. It was not merely an
                  assembly, but an official assembly, consisting of persons
                  specifically qualified, and who had each his specific rights and duties as a
                  member of the ekklesia. It was not every
                  resident in the city who was, strictly speaking, a citizen; nor was it every
                  citizen who was a member of the ekklesia to
                  which was intrusted the management of public business; but the ekklesia were called out from the mass. The word was
                  perhaps sometimes, though rarely, applied to ordinary and unofficial meetings. It
                  seems to be so used in one case by Luke, (Acts xix. 32,) to designate the
                     irregular and riotous assembly which rushed into the public hall
                  called, in the Greek, the 'theatron;' and the most part of whom knew not why they
                  had come together. But a careful and critical examination of the whole context in
                  the original, shows that here, as elsewhere, its common and restricted meaning is
                  preserved; for the word ekklesia, rendered
                  assembly in the thirty-second verse, is not the same that is rendered
                     'people,' in the twenty-sixth verse, nor that rendered 'the
                     people,' in the thirtieth; nor did it apply to the noisy rabble whom the
                  town clerk (the recorder or presiding officer of the ekklesia) at last succeeded in appeasing, after they had been for
                  two long hours screeching the praises of Diana. But when the riot began, and the
                  city was aroused, the 'ekklesia' probably rushed
                  in haste, and in an irregular manner, to their place of meeting, the
                     theatron. The populace entered with them; and
                  the tumult was so great, that the ekklesia could
                  not be properly organized: it was therefore confused and illegal. Hence the
                  recorder says, in the thirty-ninth verse, after explaining that the
                     present business belonged rather to the bench of Roman deputies
                  than to them—'But if ye inquire concerning other matters, it shall be
                  determined in alawful (ekklesia)
                  assembly;' that is, in a regularly adjourned or regularly called meeting of the
                     ekklesia; and then, in the fortieth verse,
                  when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the ekklesia.
               "These three are the only places in which the word, as used in the New Testament,
                  is not translated church. Here it is rendered assembly; and commonly, at that
                  time, it signified an official and organized
                  assembly.
               "It would have been better translated by assembly than by church, in
                  Acts vii. 38, when Stephen is speaking of the rebellious Jews who rejected Moses
                  and thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back to Egypt. It was 'an
                  assembly in the wilderness'—perhaps an organized, official
                  assembly—called together to transact the public business, or deliberate on the
                  affairs of the nation; but it was no Church of Christ. Every assembly
                  was not an ekklesia, nor was every ekklesia an ekklesia
                  of Christ."
               "I was just going to ask," said Mrs. Percy, "whether every religious assembly
                  would not, according to your account of the matter, be called a Christian
                  Church?"
               "Have a little patience, madam. We have now seen the origin of the word, and the
                  meaning which it had when Christ adopted it and applied it to his institution. It
                  yet remains to see to what sort of an institution it was that he applied
                     it. It must have been an assembly; and this assembly must
                  have consisted of those chosen or called to a participation in its
                  privileges, otherwise there would be an inappropriateness in the name, which
                  signified the called assembly. The literal meaning,
                  therefore, of the 'ekklesia of Christ,' rendered
                  in our Bible the 'Church of Christ,' could be no other than the official, or
                  called assembly of Jesus Christ. It was an assembly of
                  HIS people, meeting in HIS name, and transacting business by HIS
                  authority. Not some invisible abstraction, but an actual business-doing
                     assembly, to whom an injured brother might go and tell his grievance; and whose decision
                  in the case should be final and conclusive. (Matt. xviii. 15-18.)
               "Now, if you want to know the character and qualifications of the members of this
                  official assembly of Jesus Christ: if you want to know whether they were converted
                  or unconverted, baptized or unbaptized: whether they were men and women grown, or
                  little puling babes, you have only to look at the pattern which was
                  modelled by Christ himself; and of which we have a description in the Acts of the
                  Apostles, which, though brief, is so minute and comprehensive as not to leave any
                  essential feature out of view."
               "Please show us that description, Mr. Courtney. It is just what I have been
                  looking for," said Dr. Thinkwell.
               "Here is the most of it, sir, in the first few chapters. Luke begins this history
                  by reminding his friend Theophilus that he had previously written to him, giving
                  an account of all that Jesus did while he remained upon the earth. He
                  tells him that Christ, after his resurrection, spent some forty days with the
                  apostles, instructing them in the things pertaining to the kingdom of God; and
                  then, having charged them to remain together in Jerusalem till they should receive
                  the promised influences of the Holy Spirit, he ascended up to heaven. After this,
                  some ten days, until the feast of Pentecost, were spent in prayer by them, and the
                  women and the brethren of the Lord, in a large upper-room, somewhere in the city.
                  Some time during these ten days Peter stood up in the midst of the assembly and
                  suggested an item of business. It seems that this assembly consisted of certain
                  specified and recognized persons, who were known by name, and, most
                  probably, regularly enrolled; for 'the number of the names together
                  was about one hundred and twenty.' (15th verse.) These hundred and twenty, you
                  will observe, were all disciples: 'Peter stood up in the midst of the
                     disciples.' They had, therefore, been taught; and they were also
                     prayinging people. They were men and women. They had all an equal
                  voice in the business, for 'they' (not Peter) nominated
                  the candidates; and, after prayer for heavenly guidance, they cast their 'lots,'
                  and Matthias was elected.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *During the lifetime of Christ the kingdom was established, but
                     the Church, as the executive of the kingdom,
                     was not needful, for the King himself was present, and acted as his
                     own executive. The apostles who were with him, receiving
                     instructions, may be regarded as in some sort his ekklesia. They were an assembly of his people,
                     and were engaged in the preparatory business pertaining to the
                     kingdom. We may, without impropriety, therefore, consider the meetings of
                     the apostles to receive the ordinances and laws of the kingdom from the
                     mouth of Christ, as meetings of his ekklesia. We may consider the apostles as constituting a
                     Church when they, after the passover, received the ordinance of the supper
                     with instructions for its continuance; and so we may consider that as a
                     Church meeting in which Thomas saw and believed; and that in which Peter was
                     restored to favor and specially charged to feed Christ's sheep. And so each
                     of those assemblies which gathered around the Saviour during the forty days
                     that he remained upon the earth to receive instruction in the things
                     pertaining to the kingdom, may be regarded as a Church meeting. We may
                     consider the Church as organized from the time that Christ
                     called the twelve to be with him; but it was not till he was about to ascend
                     that it received authority to transact the business of the
                     kingdom, as his judiciary and executive.
               
               "Here we have the first account of one of these chosen assemblies regularly
                  organized and doing business in the name of Christ. To these
                  disciples, after the Spirit was poured out upon the day of Pentecost, three
                  thousand more were added. How were they added? 'They gladly received the
                     word, AND WERE BAPTIZED.' After their baptism, 'they continued
                  steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread and
                  in prayers;' 'and the Lord added daily to the ekklesia such as should be saved.' In the fifth chapter we read that
                  at the death of Ananias and Sapphira great fear came upon all the ekklesia. It was this
                  ekklesia
                   that from their own number chose the
                  deacons to attend to the distribution of the provisions for the poor. It was this
                     ekklesia in which prayer was made for Peter
                  without ceasing when he was thrown into the prison. This ekklesia, in Acts viii. 1, is more specifically designated as the
                     'ekklesia which was at Jerusalem.' It was,
                  therefore, a local and limited organization. It was one
                  assembly, and no more. It was the first and oldest of the many Churches which were
                  formed during the lifetime of the apostles. It was the Church in which they had
                  their membership; and on these accounts its advice was sought, and its decisions
                  regarded as of peculiar value, but it never claimed any superiority
                  over the other Churches which were organized upon the same model and by the same
                  authority.
               "Here, then, is the embodiment of the scriptural idea of a Church of Jesus Christ.
                  It is an assembly of those who have repented of sin, believed on Christ, and then
                  have been baptized: who meet together in regular order to break the bread and
                  drink the wine in his remembrance, and to transact business in his name.
               "The Church at Jerusalem was no more a Church than was 'the Church at Antioch,' or
                  'the Church in Ephesus,' or 'the Church of God in Corinth,' or 'the Church of the
                  Laodiceans.' Each of these was a separate, distinct, and independent organization.
                  We find no record of such an 'establishment' as the Church of Judea; but we read
                  of the 'Churches throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria:' so we read of 'the
                  Churches of Macedonia,' 'the Churches of Galatia,' and 'the Churches of Asia.'
                  There are no national Churches. There are no provincial
                  Churches. There are no branches of the Church at Jerusalem, or any
                  other Church. No Church is ever called a part of any other Church.
                  Each ekklesia was complete in itself. It was the
                     assembly which Christ had called out from the world, in the place
                  where it was located. It was, therefore, called the 'ekklesia'—the assembly of Jesus Christ in such or such a place. It
                  is this, and nothing more."
               "I wish it were possible for us," said Mrs. Percy, "to turn at once to each place
                  where the word is found and read it in its connection. I always feel more certain
                  that I know the truth when I have examined into the matter for
                  myself."
               "It is not only possible, but very easy to gratify your desire, madam. I have a
                  Greek concordance in my trunk, and we can in a few minutes find every single
                  passage in which the word ekklesia occurs."
               He went to his state-room, and presently returned with the convenient volume.
               "Now," said he, "take the Bible, and find the places as I point them out. But
                  first, I will remark that I have been over this ground more than once before this,
                  and can, therefore, suggest a classification of these passages which will assist
                  us in our endeavor to arrive at the strict and actual signification of the word,
                  as it is used by the New Testament writers. For instance, it is used three times,
                  Acts xix. 32, 39, 41, in reference to the assembly which gathered in
                  the city of Ephesus, about the matter of Demetrius and his fellow-craftsmen. These
                  places we have already seen. It means here simply a secular assembly, and has no
                  sort of reference to a religious institution. Then it occurs twice where it refers
                  to a Jewish assembly—first in Acts vii. 38, where Stephen informs the
                  Jews that Moses was in the 'ekklesia' in the
                  wilderness with the angel that spake unto him in the Mount Sinai, and with our
                  fathers, who received the lively oracles to give unto us. That
                     'ekklesia,' however, was not
                     Christ's
                  ekklesia. It was composed of those 'who would
                  not obey:' (verse 39:) who 'made a calf and worshipped it:' (verse 41:) whom 'God
                  turned from and gave them up to worship the hosts of heaven;' (verse 42;) and who
                  were just such rebels as the persecutors
                  whom Stephen was then addressing; for, in verse 51, he says; 'Ye stiff-necked and
                  uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost: as your
                     fathers did, so do ye.' The other passage in which it refers to a Jewish
                  assembly is Hebrews ii. 12: 'In the midst of the church will I sing praise of
                  thee.' This is merely a quotation from Psalm xxii. 22, where it is rendered
                     congregation. 'In the midst of the congregation will I praise
                  thee.'
               "We have now one hundred and ten places remaining in which the word refers in some
                  sense to the Christian institution. In most of these you will find it signifies
                  literally and unequivocally a local assembly of Christ's disciples,
                  such as we have seen exemplified in the 'Church which was at Jerusalem.' The first
                  two of these are in Matthew xviii. 17: 'If he shall neglect to hear them, tell it
                  unto the Church; but if he neglect to hear the Church,
                  let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican.' This was a local body. If
                  it had not been, the aggrieved disciple could not know where to find it, or how to
                  address it. The offender was a brother, and the two or three whom he should take
                  for witnesses were also brethren in this Church. Here is the first and fundamental
                  law of Church authority and discipline. The brethren were to live together in love
                  and harmony; but if one felt himself aggrieved, he should first go and try the
                  effect of a personal interview: if this should fail to restore a right state of
                  feeling, take two or three of the brethren and talk the matter over in their
                  presence. If this should fail, then he should call the matter up before the
                     ekklesia—the body of disciples
                     assembled in their official capacity, to transact business in the
                  name of Christ—and from their decision there should be no appeal. That such was
                  the understanding of the apostles, and such the practice of the Churches founded
                  by them, we will see before we have gone through with all these texts. It will be
                  manifest that it was the Church, ('theekklesia,') the local society of Christians
                     assembled for business, not a 'session,' or 'consistory,' or
                  'presbytery,' or 'synod,' or 'conference,' much less a 'class-leader,' or
                  'preacher,' 'deacon,' 'elder,' 'priest,' or 'bishop,' to whom this power was
                  intrusted, and by whom it was exercised. But let us go on. You will find in the
                  next place Acts ii. 47, that the first Church was already organized, and 'the Lord
                  was adding to it daily such as should be saved.' This was the local body, the
                  number of the names in which was, a few days before, about one hundred and twenty;
                  but to which three thousand had been added on the day of Pentecost, and which
                  continued to hold daily meetings in the temple, and from house to house, praising
                  God, and having favor with all the people.
               "In the next place, Acts v. 11, we read that when Peter had so signally punished
                  the wicked covetousness and falsehood of Ananias and his wife, 'Great fear came
                  upon all the Church, and upon as many as heard these things.' And the
                  next time it is mentioned, Acts viii. 1, even before any other similar society is
                  organized, as if to show at once and for ever that each ekklesia was to be separate and distinct from every other as being
                  complete within itself, this Church is specifically designated as the 'Church
                  which was at Jerusalem.' At that time there was a great persecution against the
                  'Church which was at Jerusalem.' And then in the third verse, 'As for
                  Saul, he made havoc of the Church:' that is, the Church at Jerusalem, for he had
                  not yet gone to Damascus, or left the city of Jerusalem.
               "Now turn to the next chapter, Acts ix. 31, and you will see this idea further
                  developed. The 'Church which was at Jerusalem' no longer stood alone. It was no
                  longer the Church. It was the first Church. It was the
                     model Church. It was that in which the idea of Christ, when he
                  spake of his Church, was first actually embodied and exemplified. It was the pattern after which other churches
                  were to be fashioned and to which in every essential particular they must conform
                  But it was not the only Church: it was one of a multitude, for here
                  we read, 'Then had the Churches rest throughout all Judea, and
                  Galilee, and Samaria, and were edified; and walking in the fear of the Lord, and
                  in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.'
               "This is remarkable. We do not read that the Church of Jerusalem had extended
                  herself, and had become the Church of Judea, or the Church of
                     Galilee, or the Church of Samaria. Neither here nor
                  anywhere do we read of a territorial or a provincial
                  Church. Nowhere is there a word about any great 'establishment,' comprising in its
                  limits a multitude of local societies, and called 'the Church,' like
                  the Episcopal Church, the Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church, the Lutheran
                  Church, etc. Each local organization was a Church complete within itself. Each was
                  as much a Church as any other. Each was independent of all others. But this fact
                  will be still more manifest as we proceed. The next place is Acts xi. 22, where
                  the Church in Jerusalem is again specially designated: When tidings of these
                  things came to the ears of the Church which was in Jerusalem, they
                  sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch.
               "Barnabas went first to Tarsus, Paul's native city; and when he had found the new
                  disciple, he brought him on to Antioch; and for a whole year you read (verse 26)
                  that these two men 'assembled with the Church in that city, and
                  taught much people.' This Church appears to have been a missionary Church as well
                  as that at Jerusalem; for after Paul and Barnabas had preached to them a year or
                  so, they sent them away to found new churches in other places, as you may see in
                  the thirteenth chapter. But the next place where the word Church (ekklesia) occurs is the first verse of the twelfth
                  chapter, where the history returns to the 'Church which was at Jerusalem,' and
                  informs us that Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of
                     the Church, and killed James and imprisoned Peter; and in the
                  fifth verse, that 'Prayer was made without ceasing in the Church unto
                  God for him.' This does not mean in the building or edifice in which
                  they met for worship, for history informs us that the Christians had no such
                     buildings for some two hundred years after this, but continued to meet
                  from house to house, or in the Jewish synagogues, or wherever they might. And the
                  word (ekklesia) is never used in
                  the New Testament, or any other Greek book written before or during the time of
                  the apostles, to signify a house or building. Prayer was made in the
                     assembly of the disciples. This was Christ's Church which was at
                  Jerusalem.
               "The history then goes back to Antioch, and we read of 'the Church that was
                     in Antioch,' as we have several times read of 'the Church that was in
                  Jerusalem.' There were prophets in this Church, and the Church recognized their
                  authority, and acted in accordance with their instructions, and sent out Paul and
                  Barnabas on a missionary tour. They went as far as Derbe, and then returned over
                  the ground they had passed, 'confirming the souls of the disciples' they had made,
                  'exhorting them to continue in the faith;' 'and when they had ordained them elders
                  (Acts xiv. 23) in every Church, and had prayed with fasting, they
                  commended them to the Lord on whom they believed.' Then after a time they came
                  again to Antioch, and reported their work. They gathered the Church
                  together (verse 27) and rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had
                  opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles.
               "But when certain Jews came to Antioch and taught that the Gentile brethren must
                  be circumcised and keep the law of Moses, Paul and Barnabas had much controversy
                  with them, and it was determined to have the opinion of the apostles and elders, who, having the spirit of
                  inspiration, were able to decide the question authoritatively, and that for this
                  purpose Paul and Barnabas should go up to Jerusalem. They were brought on their
                  way by the Church at Antioch, (verse 3,) and were joyfully received
                  by the Church at Jerusalem, (verse 4,) and by the apostles and
                  elders. When the apostles and elders came together to consider of the business, it
                  seems that it was in a great Church meeting, for (verse 12) all the
                     multitude kept silence and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring
                  what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them. And when
                  they had finished their narrative, James made a short speech about the business in
                  hand, and then (verse 22) we read that it pleased the apostles and elders, with
                     the whole (ekklesia)
                     Church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with
                  Paul and Barnabas.
               "That was a wise precaution; for as Paul and Barnabas were known to be bitter
                  opponents of the Judaizing teachers, those men might say, in the absence of such
                  witnesses, that they had perverted or misrepresented the decision of the apostles
                  and elders."
               "But, my dear sir," said Dr. Thinkwell, "do you not see in the very fact that
                  Antioch sent to Jerusalem about this matter, a recognition of the superior
                  authority of the Church at Jerusalem? This fact alone must for ever set aside your
                  theory of Church independence. Antioch brethren disagree: the contention grows so
                  strong that it is like to distract and divide the Church. They do not decide for
                  themselves, but send to a distant city to another Church, and ask it
                  to determine for them. Now what possible necessity for this if the Church at
                  Antioch was entirely the equal of the Church at Jerusalem, and just as competent
                  to decide upon any question of faith or practice?"
               "Read the twenty-fourth verse, Doctor, and you will see one reason, if not the
                  only reason, why Antioch asked or why Jerusalem gave the advice: 'Forasmuch as we
                  have heard that certain who went out from us have troubled you with
                  words, subverting your souls, and saying that ye must be circumcised and keep the
                  law; to whom WE gave no such commandment.' These
                  teachers had come from Jerusalem. They had been members of the
                     Jerusalem Church. They claimed to speak by the authority of
                     the apostles, and doubtless to conform to the practice of that
                     Church, which, as we have already seen, was the model by
                  which others were to be fashioned.
               "Nothing could be more natural and proper, therefore, than to send to Jerusalem to
                  inquire if these things were so? had the apostles so decreed?
                     was this the custom of that Church? But besides this, you will
                  observe that although the apostles and elders associated the whole Church which
                  was at Jerusalem with them in their consultations and in their letter, yet the
                  Church at Antioch did not send to the Church at
                  Jerusalem, but to the 'apostles and elders,' (verse 2.) The apostles
                  were everywhere recognized as speaking by Divine authority, and as fully
                  authorized by Christ to set in order all things relating to his kingdom. The
                     apostles had the power without the elders and without the Church.
                  Any one of them had the power without the advice or authority of the
                  others to decide such questions as these, and it was their decision
                  that was asked for. But to show how little they were like modern
                     bishops—how careful they were to shun even the appearance of lording it
                  over God's heritage—they called the brethren of their own Church into their
                  council, and issued their decision not only in their own name, but in that of the
                  brethren, taking care, however, to rest its binding force upon the
                  fact that it seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us (verse 28) to
                  lay on you no greater burden than these necessary things, etc."
               
               "I see, sir, that you are correct. Go on with the texts."
               "You will find the next one, Mrs. Percy, in the last verse (41st) of this same
                  chapter: 'He went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the
                  Churches.' In the 4th verse of the next chapter, (xvi.,) you have
                  some further light upon this decision of the apostles. It is there distinctly
                  recognized, not as the decrees of the Church at Jerusalem, but of the
                     apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem. In the 5th, you learn
                  that the Churches were established in the faith, and increased in
                  number daily.
               "From Acts xviii. 22, we learn that there was a Church at Cæsarea.
                  Paul landed there, went up and saluted the Church, and then went on
                  to Antioch. From Acts xx. 17, we learn that Paul sent to Ephesus while he was at
                  Miletus, and called together the elders of the Church, whom he
                  addressed in that most pathetic and sublime speech of which the 28th verse is a
                  part: 'Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over which the
                  Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, (literally bishops,) to feed
                     the Church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.'
                  This Church must have been the Church at Ephesus, as that was the only flock of
                  which they could be considered as the shepherds or overseers. There is no other
                  place where the word occurs in the Acts of the Apostles; so you may now turn to
                  Romans xvi., where, in the 1st verse, Phœbe is called a sister, and the servant of
                     the Church which is at Cenchrea. In the 4th verse, Paul speaks of
                     'all the Churches of the Gentiles.' In the 5th, of the
                     Church that is in the house of Aquila and Priscilla. In the 16th, he
                  says the Churches of Christ give salutation to the Roman Christians;
                  and in the 22d, he calls Gaius not only his host, but that of the
                     whole Church, by which I suppose he means either that his house
                  was open to every Church member who would visit him; or, more probably, that the
                     'ekklesia' met at his house for worship and
                  business."
               "Dear me!" exclaimed a lady, with a sigh, "I hope you are nearly through with this
                  long catalogue of texts. I am getting heartily tired of hearing the same thing
                  over and over again; and I am sure, if your object was to show that a scriptural
                  Church was a local and independent corporation, you have proved it
                  more than twenty times. Why shall we not take that point as fixed and settled, and
                  go on to something else?"
               "O no," replied Mrs. Percy, "I am greatly interested in this. I have never before
                  made a careful examination of what really is the scriptural idea contained in this
                  word; and as a consequence, my mind has been confused when thinking or speaking or
                  reading about it. It is true, we have now one of the ideas; but it
                  yet remains to be seen if we have them all. The word is used in
                     many places in this sense; but is it not used in some
                  places in some other sense? I cannot be certain about it
                  till we have examined every place; and I am sure it will save time
                  and trouble in our future study to get this lesson perfectly while it is before
                  us. So, Mr. Courtney, please tell us the next place."
               "It is in the 1st verse of the first chapter of First Corinthians; and as your
                  friend seems anxious to get through with this dry business as fast as possible, we
                  may group with this a number of others of the same sort. It is the address or
                  direction, so to speak, of this letter to the Corinthians: 'To the Church
                     (ekklesia) of God which is at Corinth.' The
                  address of the second letter is in the same style. That to the Galatians is
                  addressed to the Churches of Galatia; and those to the Thessalonians
                  are addressed to the Church of the Thessalonians. This, you see,
                  disposes of five places at a word. In the fourth chapter of First Corinthians,
                  17th verse, Paul says he has sent Timothy to bring to their remembrance his ways
                  which are in Christ, as he teaches everywhere in every ('ekklesia') Church. In the sixth chapter,
                  4th verse, he tells them that it would be
                  better to set the least esteemed members of the Church to arbitrate
                  worldly matters, than to go to law before unbelievers: seventh chapter, 17th
                  verse, is the conclusion of his directions about living with unbelieving consorts,
                  at the close of which he says that this is what he ordains in all the
                     Churches: tenth chapter, 32d verse, 'Give no offence to the Jews or to
                  the Gentiles, or to the Church of God:' eleventh chapter, 16th verse,
                  'We have no such custom, neither the Churches of God;' 18th verse,
                  'When ye come together in the Church (ekklesia) there be divisions among you;' 22d verse, 'What? have ye
                  not houses to eat and drink in? or despise ye the ekklesia of God, and shame them that have not?' twelfth chapter,
                  28th verse, 'God hath set in the ekklesia,
                  first, apostles; secondarily, prophets,' etc.: fourteenth chapter, 4th and 5th
                  verses, 'He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifieth himself, but
                  he that prophesieth edifieth the Church (ekklesia). Greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh with
                  tongues, except he interpret that the Church may receive edifying;'
                  12th verse, 'Seek ye that ye may excel, to the edifying of the
                     Church;' 19th verse, 'In the Church I had rather speak five
                  words with my understanding, that with my voice I might teach others also, than
                  ten thousand words in an unknown tongue;' 23d verse, 'If therefore the whole
                     Church come together, and all speak with tongues, and there come in the
                  unlearned or unbelievers, will they not say that ye are mad?' 28th verse, 'If
                  there be no interpreter, let him (the speaker in an unknown tongue) keep silence
                  in the ekklesia; but let him speak to himself
                  and to God;' 33d verse, 'For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as
                  in all Churches of the saints;' 35th verse, 'If they (the women) will
                  learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home; for it is a shame for women
                  to speak in the (ekklesia) Church.'
                  In the sixteenth chapter, 1st verse, Paul mentions the Churches of
                  Galatia; and in the nineteenth, the Churches of Asia, and the
                     Church in the house of Aquila and Priscilla, before alluded
                  to.
               "Now, passing over the address of the Second Epistle, turn to the eighth chapter,
                  where, after mention of the Churches of Macedonia in the first verse,
                  we read, in the 18th and 19th verses, of one whose praise was in all the
                     Churches, and who was chosen by the Churches to travel with
                  Paul; and in the 23d verse, of 'our brethren the messengers of the
                     Churches,' before whom and the Churches the Corinthians are
                  exhorted, in the 24th verse, to show evidence of their love. In the 8th verse of
                  the eleventh chapter, the apostle says, 'I robbed other Churches,
                  taking wages of them to do you service;' and after enumerating some
                  of his trials, afflictions, persecutions, and troubles, he adds, in the 28th
                  verse, 'and besides all this, there cometh upon me the care (not of the
                     whole Church, you will observe, but) of all the
                     Churches.' In the next chapter, 13th verse, he asks the Corinthians
                  wherein they were inferior to other Churches, except in this, that he
                  was not burdensome to them. In Gal. i. 22, mention is made again of the
                     Churches which were in Judea. He tells the Philippians, iv. 15,
                  that no Church, on a certain occasion, communicated with him in
                  giving and receiving but themselves; and in Col. iv. 15, 16, we read of the
                     Church in the house of Nymphas, and the Church of the
                  Laodiceans. In Thess. ii. 14, mention is made again of the Churches
                  of God in Judea. In 2 Thess. iv. 4, Paul declares that he glories or boasts of the
                  Thessalonians in the Churches of God.
               "You see, madam," addressing the unknown lady, "we are getting through with them
                  very rapidly now, and will soon complete the list."
               "O, sir, I am not at all impatient; and indeed, since Mrs. Percy's explanation of
                  the object in view, I am as deeply interested as any of you can be; so pray do not
                  omit a single place on my account, nor
                  pass by any carelessly. Let us be sure that we know not only the common meaning,
                  but all the meanings which the word has in the Scriptures, whatever
                  time and trouble may be needful for that purpose."
               "Turn, then, to 1 Tim. iii. 5, where Paul is describing the character of a bishop
                  or pastor as one who rules well in his own house; 'for if a man know not how to
                  rule his own house, how shall he take care of the ekklesia of God?' If he could not govern his own family, it might be
                  taken for granted that he would be unfit to preside in the ekklesia, and take the care of souls."
               "Excuse me," said the Doctor; "I thought a bishop was one who had the
                  care of a diocese including a number of churches."
               "That is the case with modern bishops; but when we come to examine
                  into the nature of the offices established in the first Churches by
                  Christ and the apostles, we will find no such bishops as you are thinking of. A
                  New Testament bishop was simply and only the pastor of a single
                     church. But let that pass for the present; we will bring it up
                  again.
               "The next place is in 1 Tim. iii. 15: 'That thou mayest know how thou oughtest to
                  behave thyself in the house of God, which is the Church of the living
                  God.' The word here rendered house does not mean a building, but it
                  is the same which in 1 Cor. i. 16 is translated household or
                     family: 'I baptized also the household of Stephanas,' etc. The
                  brethren and sisters in each Church are spoken of as a family, of whom God is the
                  Father and the Head. In the fifth chapter and 16th verse, Paul charges that Church
                  members having widows dependent on them should take care of them, and not throw
                  them upon the Church for support.
               "In the next passage, second verse of Philemon, we read of the Church that was in
                  this beloved brother's house. James, in his Epistle, v. 14, says: 'If any is sick,
                  let him call for the elders of the Church.' And John, in the third
                  Epistle, addressed to the well-beloved Gaius, probably the same of whom Paul
                  speaks as his host, and that of the church, says that brethren and strangers have
                  borne witness of his charity before the church; (verse 6;) and
                  informs him that he (John) had written a letter to the church, but
                  that a certain Diotrephes prevented it from being received, and (verse 10) cast
                  certain out of the church, who would receive the brethren by whom he sent it.
               "We come now to the last book of the record; and, on some accounts, the most
                  important one in regard to its testimony on this subject, as it shows what the
                  churches were in the last days of which we have any inspired history,
                  and foretells what should befall them in the ages that should follow.
               "In Revelation i. 4, 11, 20, you find that they were not yet combined into a
                  diocese, or any ecclesiastical 'establishment.' It was not to the Church in
                  general, nor to the Church of Asia, but to 'the seven Churches which are in Asia,'
                  that he addressed his words. In the second and third chapters he addresses
                  successively each of these seven Churches by name, and again and again calls upon
                  those who have ears, to hear what the Spirit saith unto the Churches.
                  Rev. ii. 1, 7, 8, 11, 12, 17, 18, 23, 29. In the twenty-third verse he says, 'And
                     all the Churches shall know that I am he that searches the reins,'
                  etc. The third chapter, 1, 6, 7, 13, 14, 22, are, like those passages in the
                  second, all mere forms of address—to the angel of the Church in
                  Sardis, and the like, and repetitions of the phrase, 'He that hath an ear, let him
                  hear what the Spirit saith unto the Churches.' And then, to crown the
                  whole, in the last chapter (verse 16) you may read, 'I, Jesus, have sent my angel
                  to testify these things unto you in the Churches.'
               "We have now seen and examined near a hundred of the hundred and fifteen places
                  where the word ekklesia occurs In all these I think it is very generally conceded
                  that it is employed (where it refers to the Christian institution at all) in a
                  limited and specific sense to denote one local and independent organized
                     body or assembly of Christian people. We will now look at some in which
                  it has commonly been thought to have reference to the whole multitude of the
                  Churches viewed collectively, as though they were a single Church, which might
                  with propriety be called the universal Church, or, in the language of
                  the creed, 'the holy Catholic Church;' and we will see, by a careful examination
                  of them, passage by passage, that there is no such idea contained in
                  any one of them. The writers had in their minds no such conception, and their
                  words mean nothing of the sort."
               "Surely, my dear sir," said Mr. Percy, "you must labor under some mistake in
                  regard to this; for, if I am not misinformed, it has been almost universally
                  conceded by Baptists as well as others, that in some few places 'the
                  Church' is certainly employed as synonymous with 'the kingdom,' and refers to
                     all the Churches of Christ, in every age and nation, considered as
                  one vast united organization: that body of which Christ was the head: that great
                  assembly for which he gave himself, to redeem it unto God. Do not even our own
                  best scholars and critics take this for granted?"
               "What if they do, my friend? It does not follow that we must take it
                  for granted too. We are making an independent examination for
                     ourselves, in order to learn what is the scriptural meaning of the
                  word ekklesia, rendered in our version
                     Church. We do not ask what this man or that man has thought it to
                  mean: we go for ourselves to the fountainhead. We travel back to
                  Greece, before our Saviour's day, and see in what sense the word was used in the
                  language to which it belonged before it was taken up by the Master and
                  appropriated to his institution. We turn to the Septuagint to see in what sense it
                  was used by the Jews. We have found that the Greeks used it to signify a select or
                  called assembly: perhaps we may admit that they sometimes used it to designate
                     any kind of an assembly. So in those places where the Jews
                  employed it in their Septuagint, we find the same sense: Deut. xviii. 16, 'In the
                  day of the assembly,' and Ps. xxii. 22, 'In the midst of the
                     congregation.' We must consequently bring this sense with us
                     when we come to the New Testament. The ekklesia of Christ is the
                     select and called assembly, or, at least, it is
                     the assembly of Christ—that assembly which was authorized and
                  organized by him for certain purposes, which he has specifically set forth in his
                  instructions to his people of whom it should be composed. Christ found the word
                  with its meaning already fixed. The meaning was suited to his purpose, and he
                  therefore took it and appropriated it to his institution. By the
                  appropriation it did not lose its original signification: its meaning was not
                  changed. It was because it had that very meaning that Christ selected
                  it and applied it to his organization. It meant an assembly before he appropriated
                  it, and it meant an assembly afterwards; but then it was a peculiar
                  assembly—it was his assembly—the assembly of Christ and of God; and
                  now after it was thus applied—after it had been thus appropriated by
                  Christ, it would, when used by him, or in reference to his kingdom, have this new
                  and appropriated meaning. The ekklesia would be the sacred assembly of Jesus
                  Christ: it would be no common convocation, but only that official
                  assembly which was convened by his authority, organized according to
                     his plan, for such objects as he had designated, and
                  transacting business in his name. That he did authorize
                  and organize a religious institution, (either by himself or his apostles,) that he
                  gave to it a constitution and laws, that he charged it with the duty of making
                  known his gospel, that he left to it the administration of his ordinances and the
                  execution of his laws, is universally admitted. This institution tion he called his
                  ekklesia—his Church. You ask me what this
                  institution was—of what did it consist? How can I answer your
                  question so clearly, so easily, and so satisfactorily as to point you to the
                  institution itself as it actually existed after it had been organized and was in
                  the full tide of successful operation under the very eyes of those whom he had
                     personally instructed and divinely inspired to
                  superintend its workings. I carry you to Jerusalem. I show you the institution as
                  there exemplified and illustrated by the actual organization. I introduce you into
                  "the Church" as it was first established in the city where Christ was crucified,
                  and from the suburbs of which he ascended to glory. The apostles and the elders
                  whom he had instructed with his own mouth are members of it; and upon them there
                  he first sends down his Holy Spirit to bring to their remembrance all that he has
                  taught them. This organization was his ekklesia This was
                  of necessity the visible embodiment of his idea This must have been
                  just what he meant and all that he meant by his ekklesia. Christ in
                  his lifetime had more than once spoken of his Church; and when this
                  body was fairly organized, Luke, speaking by inspiration, says it was the
                     Church.
               "Now, if this Church had, under the direction of Christ or his apostles, spread
                  itself out and embraced within its limits other local organizations or religious
                  societies, and made them subordinate to and dependent
                     upon itself, we must have recognized Christ's ekklesia as some great
                  central establishment like the Church of Rome, holding the multitude of the local
                  congregations in a state of dependence and subjection. If this Church, under the
                  direction of Christ or the apostles, had included within its jurisdiction all the
                  Christians in Judea, we might have regarded the ekklesia of Christ as a national
                  establishment. If it had subjected itself to the control of any other or to all
                  the other local organizations in such a way as to secure mutual
                  dependence, and a subordination of one to the whole, or to a majority of the
                  whole, we might have fancied that the Church of Christ consisted of
                     all the local societies thus mutually subordinated. But we find
                  nothing of the kind. This Church never subjected any other to itself,
                  and never subjected itself to any other. It never included any other within its
                  limits, nor became included in the limits of any other. It was 'the Church which
                  was at Jerusalem,' and nothing more or less. It never became the Church of Judea.
                  But it was surrounded by 'the Churches which were in Judea,' each of
                  them as independent, each of them as much a Church, as it was itself.
                  It stood isolated and independent, acknowledging subjection to none but Christ, as
                  he had spoken in his word, or might speak through his Spirit. When other Churches
                  were formed at Antioch, Corinth, Ephesus, and Colosse, each of them was as
                  independent and complete within itself as this one was. This was the model after
                  which they all were fashioned. What, then, do we find the Church of Christ
                  actually to have been? Simply a local assembly of baptized believers,
                     meeting by his authority to administer his ordinances, and transact the
                     business of his kingdom in his name. This we have ascertained, not from
                  any chance allusions, not from any dark and metaphorical expressions.
                  We have not been left to infer it from some figure of
                     speech, but have seen it as an actual and working
                  existence. And now, I say, what has been thus settled by facts cannot
                  be unsettled by fancies. And so even if we should find
                  some faint allusion, or some metaphorical expression which seems to refer to
                  something else than this, and altogether different from this as though it were the
                  ekklesia of Christ, we shall not abandon the open sunlight and the solid ground of
                  inspired and undisputed historical facts, to follow off some ignis fatuus into the quagmires of metaphors, and
                  similes, and figures of speech I say,
                  there was no such thing intended by Christ as a provincial Church, or a national
                  Church, or a Church universal, simply because I cannot find any
                     history of such a Church in the Bible. I read of 'the
                     Churches of Judea,' and of 'the Churches of Galilee,'
                  and of 'the Churches of Samaria,' and of 'the Churches
                  of Galatia,' and of 'the Churches of Asia,' but not one word about
                  the establishment which embraced them all, or any number of them all.
                  I say, therefore, that no such establishment existed. If anybody says it
                     did, it devolves on him to prove it, and that not from
                  tradition—(we all know tradition is a gray-headed liar; and for myself, I wont
                  believe a word he says, unless sustained by other testimony)—let him prove it from
                     this book, which we all agree contains all that is needful for our
                  religious faith and practice. I will be guided by and governed by the Bible. I am
                  willing to take the Bible, and the whole Bible, with every word truly and
                     fairly translated; but I will have nothing but the Bible. Christ is my
                  only lawgiver in religion; and what law he did not make I am under no religious
                  obligation to obey."
               "But, Mr. Courtney," said the strange lady, "let me ask you if the advocates of
                  provincial, and national, and other associated Churches do not present some texts
                  of Scripture on which they rest their claim. I have heard so often of the Holy
                  Catholic Church, Church militant and the Church triumphant, of the Church on earth
                  and the Church in glory, of the ancient Church, of the apostolic Church, and of
                  the Church universal, that I am sure there must be some Scripture for
                  such phrases."
               "You have heard many things for Scripture, madam, which nobody can find in the
                  Bible. Not one of these phrases is there. They are all mere human fancies—very
                  pretty, and in a certain sense sufficiently true; but in the strict and literal
                     Bible sense of the word 'Church,' there is no such thing as a
                  Church, except it be a simple local assembly or congregation of believers,
                  organized according to Christ's requirements, and for the specific purposes which
                  he intended. The Church of Christ is simply the visible judiciary and
                     executive in his visible kingdom."
               "But you don't deny that there is such a thing as the Church invisible, as well as
                  the Church visible."
               "You can conceive, madam, of a great ideal invisible REPUBLIC
                  embracing all those who in every age and country have hated kings and kingcraft,
                  and have longed for freedom. It is not a thing that exists. It never
                     has existed. Yet you can think about it; you can
                     talk about it; orators can make speeches about it; poets can write
                  songs about it; and it might come to occupy a place in our minds and in our
                  language, as though it were an actual reality. So I can conceive of an invisible
                  'assembly' of Jesus Christ, comprising all who in their hearts have loved him, and
                  obeyed him in their lives, so far as they could understand his will. We can talk
                  of such an assembly, and sing what a glorious and happy convocation it would be,
                  but here upon the earth no such assembly has ever existed, or ever
                  will exist. What may take place in heaven is another matter. Our friend, the
                  Doctor, is looking for the Church of Christ on earth. He wants to
                     join it. And this Church is a visible
                  assembly. Our question is, whether it is a local independent
                  assembly, containing within itself all that is requisite to constitute it a
                  complete Church of Jesus Christ, or whether it is a part of some
                  great visible organization to which it is subordinate and accountable. If it
                     be a local independent body, then it must follow, of course, that
                  those extensive combinations which are called Churches, such as the
                  Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church, the Episcopal Church, the Lutheran
                  Church, and the like, are not and cannot be Churches of Jesus Christ;
                  for they are not such local and independent organizations, but vast combinations
                  of mutually dependent and subordinate
                  societies. I say the Church of Christ is not any such combination,
                  whether that combination includes a part, or whether it includes
                     the whole of the professed disciples of Christ that are in any
                  country, or that are in all the world, because the Church as we find it in
                     this book was not a combination of any Churches, either more or less,
                  but each Church was complete in itself, and independent of all
                  others."
               "I know very well," said Mr. Percy, "that no partial combinations are
                  recognized as Churches in the Word; that there is, for instance, no such thing as
                  the union of all the religious societies in any country, or province, or empire;
                  nor any union of all holding a particular set of doctrines, as the Methodist or
                  Presbyterian Churches; but is it equally certain that there is no such union
                  spoken of as existing between all the Churches, and binding them into
                  one great UNIVERSAL CHURCH! I had regarded it as a fact conceded by all the
                  authorities that there was such a Church, commonly called the
                     'Church universal.'"
               "I recognize no authorities," said Mr. Courtney, "but the writers of the New
                  Testament, and I know of no place where they have conceded any thing of the kind.
                  It may be that there are some metaphorical allusions to such an
                     imaginary or ideal Church. As the believers in any
                  one place assemble and constitute an actual and visible Church, so we can well
                  conceive of all the believers in the world as though they were
                     assembled in one immense congregation, and might very properly call this
                  ideal assembly the universal Church; but though we can conceive of it, and speak
                  of it thus, no such universal assembly exists, or has existed, or ever will exist
                  upon the earth. So that however numerous and plain such allusions might be, they
                  could have no possible bearing upon the actual organization of the
                  real and visible Church. That is no universal Church. It cannot
                     be. Let us for a moment suppose this universal Church to be an actual
                  existence ence. It is. Where is it? What is it? If it
                  exist at all, it is the Church of Rome. She is the only body that
                     claims to be in herself the Holy Catholic or universal Church, and
                  to include, within herself alone, all the redeemed. The Church of
                  England makes no such claim outside her queen's dominions. The Methodist Church
                  North or the Methodist Church South makes no such claim. The Presbyterian Old
                  School or New School makes no such claim. They only plead that they are
                     parts of it, branches of it. But where and what is the
                     whole? As I said before, it is something which can be
                     conceived of, can be talked about, and
                     quarrelled over, but it has only an ideal, that is,
                  an imaginary existence. As a real and actual visible organization,
                  there is not now, and since the disciples were scattered from Jerusalem, and went
                  everywhere preaching the word and founding Churches in every place, there never
                  has been any thing of the sort; and if we suppose any passages of Scripture to
                  refer to any such thing, we must suppose them to refer to a nonentity."
               "But why not let us have the passages at once, that we may judge for ourselves?"
                  asked the Doctor.
               "Certainly, sir, I ask pardon, I know I have talked too long. Mr. Percy seems to
                  think that he can find this 'Church universal:' perhaps he will do us the kindness
                  to point us to the texts which he thinks teach its existence."
               "I acknowledge, sir," said Mr. Percy, "that I have not investigated this point. I
                  had taken it for granted. I was not aware that anybody questioned it. But suppose
                  we turn to Matthew xvi. 18: 'On this rock will I build my Church, and the gates of
                  hell shall not prevail against it.'"
               "This is the first place," said Mr. Courtney, "in which the word ekklesia occurs
                  in the New Testament. The question before us is, What did Christ mean by it? What
                     was it that he said he would build? How can we ascertain?"
               
               "Very easily, I should think," said Theodosia; "we have only to look when he
                     had done it, and see what he did build. That we have done
                  already, in almost a hundred of the different places where it is referred to, and
                  have found it invariably to mean a local and independent
                  assembly."
               "It does not seem so easy to me," returned Mr. Percy, "for there are to my mind at
                  least two very serious difficulties in the way of that interpretation. One is,
                  that Christ uses the term my Church in such a general way that it can hardly be
                  limited to any particular individual body. He does not say, I will build my
                  Churches each one by itself, but my Church in general. The other is, that this
                  Church, whatever it might be, was to be perpetual. The gates of hell
                  should not prevail against it. But this could not be true of any one local
                  organization. They are continually falling. The first Churches have
                  long ago vanished from the earth, and Satan has reigned with undisputed sway in
                  the very cities where the apostles themselves were instruments to build them.
                  Christ must, therefore, have designed to speak of some more extensive and more
                  permanent organization."
               "Very good," replied Mr. Courtney, "I love to meet objections, and will examine
                  your last one first. You say that this Church must have been a perpetual
                  organization, since the gates of hell should not prevail against it. But no local
                  organization has been perpetual; therefore, it could not have been any local
                  organization, but something more permanent, that Christ intended. Your logic is
                  good, and you have, of course, some knowledge of the more permanent organization
                  to which he must have referred. Can you tell me what it was? It was a
                     visible organization founded by Christ, and which
                     has continued to the present time. It is not the Methodist Church,
                  for that was founded by John Wesley. It is not the Presbyterian, for that was
                  founded by John Calvin. It was not the modern English, for that began gan with
                  King Henry the Eighth. It was not the Roman Catholic, for that is Antichrist."
               "Of course," replied Mr. Percy, "no Baptist pretends that it was any of these. It
                  was the 'Church universal.' It consisted of all the true
                  Churches of Christ, viewed collectively as one great united organization."
               "If the thing you are speaking of, Mr. Percy, was a mere ideal
                  organization, something conceivable, but not existing as a
                     reality, we have nothing to do with it; but if you mean that there
                  was an actual and visible organization established by
                  Christ, and which included in one Church all the members of all his
                  Churches, you can doubtless produce some record of its sayings or doings. We have
                  very particular accounts of the acts of the Church at Jerusalem, and of that at
                  Antioch, and of some others, and surely we must have some history of this general
                  Church. When did it meet? What were its powers? What business came before it? We
                  have searched carefully, and have found nothing of it. It surely did not exist in
                  the lifetime of the apostles. The Churches which they founded
                  continued separate and independent. They were never amalgamated into one great
                  central organization; or if they were, not only has the organization been
                  destroyed, but even the record of it has perished."
               "I confess, sir, that I had no very clear conception in my mind as to what it was
                  that the Saviour said he would build, and since he did not build any universal
                     visible Church, I suppose it must have been his
                     invisible Church that he referred to."
               "But the language will hardly apply to any thing invisible and ideal. A building
                  is a visible and tangible object, and the reference must
                  have been to some actual and visible organization."
               "How, then, do you get round the difficulty, Mr. Courtney?"
               
               "I don't go round it at all. I simply set it out of my way, thus: Christ did
                     not refer to any particular individual local organization when he
                  said 'my Church.' He did not mean the Church at Jerusalem or the Church at
                  Corinth. Much less did he refer to all the Churches combined in
                     one great Church. But he simply used the word as the name of
                     his institution. And what that institution was we have already
                  seen."
               "I am not sure that I quite understand you."
               "Then, let me illustrate. You are a lawyer. A client comes to you for legal
                  information. You tell him that the law is thus or so; and so 'the
                     court' will instruct 'the jury.' What do you mean by
                     the court? and what do you mean by the jury? Not any
                  particular individual judge whom you may have in mind, much less all
                  the judges in the world comprised in one gigantic 'universal' judge;
                  but you mean any one of all the judges before whom the suit might be
                  tried; and not any particular set of jurymen, much less all the
                  jurymen in the world united in one vast conglomerate 'universal' jury; but simply
                  that jury, whichever or wherever it may be, who may chance to be empanelled on the
                  case. 'The court' is the name or title given to a
                  certain official personage, when engaged in the performance of certain official
                  duties. 'The jury' is the name or title given to a certain official
                  body or assembly, when employed in a certain official capacity Now, as the courts
                  and juries in the British empire transact business and administer justice by the
                  authority of Queen Victoria, and in her name, they may very properly be called
                     her court, and her jury, meaning thereby simply
                     her institutions, organized by her authority for the transaction
                  of this specific business, in her name. The first courts and juries which were
                  organized may have been dissolved; others may have followed, and, like them, have
                  disappeared; but still the institution continues: the
                     jury is still an essential part of the apparatus for the administration
                  of justice. A thousand juries are every year empanelled and dismissed, but still
                     the jury (using the word as the name of the institution) is
                  perpetual. It has continued since the right of trial by a jury of their equals was
                  first conceded to his subjects by the reluctant king. It will continue so long as
                  the constitution of the English or the American government shall endure. And if I
                  should say that the jury is 'built' upon the 'rock' of
                  the constitution, and that the councils of tyrants can never 'prevail
                     against' or overthrow it, I should speak of it just as Christ did about
                  his Church; but you would not, in that case, insist that the jury must be
                  something much more extensive and permanent than the little company or assembly of
                  twelve chosen men, properly qualified and authorized to transact certain specific
                  business, which everybody knows the jury to be.
               "So, you see, Mr. Percy, both your difficulties are removed by the
                  same process."
               "I give it up, sir. But if it will not at all divert us from our object, I would
                  like to hear Mr. Courtney's exposition of this whole passage. I know that it has
                  given rise to much diversity of opinion; and my own mind is not quite settled in
                  regard to it. I am now perfectly satisfied about what is meant by the
                     Church; but what was the rock on which Christ said that he
                  would build it? Was that rock Peter? or was it Christ? or was it something Peter
                  had said?"
               "If wise men had not disagreed about it," replied Mr. Courtney, "I am sure I
                  should never have felt that there was any mystery in the text. To me it has always
                  seemed as plain and easy to comprehend as any other figurative
                  language.
               "Christ had been asking his apostles what was said about him in the world. 'Whom
                  do men say that I am?' They answered, 'Some say John the Baptist, some Elias, some
                  Jeremias, or one of the prophets.' 'But what,' said he, 'is your
                  opinion? Whom do you say that I am?' Peter, with his characteristic promptness, answered for them
                  all: 'Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God.' This was what
                  they believed. This was the confession of their faith. They held him
                  to be Messiah. They believed he came from God. They took him for their Lord. They
                  trusted in him as He who should redeem Israel.
               "Jesus replies, that such faith has come from God alone. Blessed, or happy, art
                  thou, Simon, son of Jonas; for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee;
                  but my Father, who is in heaven. And I say likewise unto thee, thou art called
                     'petros,' (the masculine form of the Greek
                  word signifying rock,) and then, (changing the gender to that form
                  which signified a literal rock,) on this 'petra'
                  I will erect or build 'my
                  ekklesia.' This faith in me, as the Messiah, the
                  Son of God, shall be the basis of my institution called 'the Church.'
                  The comparison seems to have been suggested by Peter's name. Your name is Rock;
                  and as rocks are used for the foundation of buildings, so on this metaphorical, or
                  figurative rock, he would, metaphorically speaking, erect his building. If he had
                  meant that he would build it on Peter himself, he would not have
                  changed the gender of the word. Peter, as an individual man, was petros, and not petra, but it was on this
                     petra that he was about to build.
               "But now, let us see more particularly wherein the force of the comparison
                  consists. In what particular way did this confession of Peter's bear the same
                  relation to Christ's ekklesia that the
                  foundation does to the building? Simply thus: the foundation of a building is
                     first laid down, and the superstructure is then reared upon it.
                  The foundation is the necessary prerequisite for a 
                     permament
                     permanent
                   edifice. So this confession, this profession of faith in
                  Christ, as the Messiah of God, was to be an essential prerequisite to
                  the organization of his Church. This faith in Christ lies at the base of this
                  metaphorical building The Church consists of individuals; but before
                  these individuals can be erected into a Church, the foundation must be laid
                     by a profession on their part of faith in Christ. The Church erected on
                  this basis will stand for ever. On any other it will be like the house which a man
                  built on the sand: the winds and storms of adversity and persecution and
                  temptation will soon cause its utter overthrow. Christ says to every one who seeks
                  to be built into this holy temple, as Philip to the Ethiopian officer, 'If thou
                  believest with all thy heart, thou mayest.' No other condition will suffice. And
                  just as the jury, which, if not composed of persons properly
                  qualified and duly sworn, is no jury in law or in fact, though it may
                  be in appearance and in name; so that Church which consists of those who have not
                  in form or in fact made a personal confession of faith in Christ, is not a real
                  Church of Christ. It may be one in appearance and in name, but it is not built
                  upon this rock; and according to the constitution and laws of his kingdom, it is
                  not a legal Church, and has no authority to transact his
                  business."
               "If I do not mistake," said Theodosia, "this comparison of the Church to a
                  building is not uncommon in the Scriptures. I have an indistinct remembrance of
                  having seen it in several other places."
               "Certainly, madam. It is employed several times by Paul," replied Mr. Courtney,
                  "and that in such a connection as to remove every shadow of a doubt, if we have
                  one remaining, as to its applicability to a local Church. To the
                  Church at Corinth he declares, (1 Cor. iii. 9,) 'Ye are God's
                  building.' To the Ephesians he says, (Eph. iii. 23,) 'In whom ye also
                  are builded together for an habitation [not the
                  habitation] of God through the Spirit.' To the Colossians he says, (Col. ii. 6,
                  7,) 'As ye have received Christ Jesus, the Lord, so walk ye in him,
                  rooted [founded] and built up in him, and established in the faith
                  that ye have been taught.' So, (Jude
                  20,) 'But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your
                     most holy faith,' etc.
               "What we learn from this text, then, is simply this: Christ was about to set up an
                  institution which should be called 'his
                  ekklesia,' or his assembly, now commonly in
                  English called 'his Church.' But this Church could not be built
                  before its foundation had been laid in an open profession of faith in
                  him as the Messiah of God. His ekklesia should
                  rest upon this basis. Its members must be believers in Christ. This is the
                  necessary and indispensable prerequisite; and that institution which
                     he erected on this foundation shall never be
                  overthrown. It is an institution of Christ. He calls it
                     'my
                  ekklesia.' It rests on the rock of
                     faith, and not on external forms. It, therefore, consists of
                     believers, and not of believers and their baptized children. It is
                  a perpetual institution, and has continued from the time that he
                  established it till now, and will continue till he comes again. 'The gates of hell
                  shall not prevail against it.' It can, therefore, never become
                     apostate, and needs never to be reformed; for it will ever
                  continue in its pristine purity and simplicity. Just such an institution now
                  exists; and I trust before we have travelled many days longer in search of it, we
                  may come upon it.
               "But, now, lest you may have some lingering doubt whether this
                     Church, which Christ and Paul so beautifully compare to a building, may
                  not after all be some vast centralization of ecclesiastical authority—some
                  multitude in one—something, the parts of which were 'Churches,' and the whole
                  combined 'the Church'—let us spend a few minutes on the next place, which is,
                  indeed, the only other place in which Christ used the word. That will dissolve the
                  last remaining shadow of uncertainty."
               "I am sure," said Mr. Percy, "I do not see how the case can well be made any
                  plainer than it appears to me already. The momentary doubts which came up in my
                  mind arose from the fact that I did not look at the term 'the Church'
                  as the general title or name of the Christian institution, but was
                  trying to apply it to some individual example of the institution.
                  With your explanation the difficulty vanished. I only wonder that I could not see
                  the truth as easily as my wife, before it was pointed out to me."
               "You know, my dear," said she, "that we ladies have a way of jumping at our
                  conclusions, while you gentlemen must take time to reason up to the same point. We
                  get there first; but you have this advantage, that you can look back and see the
                  road you came, while we only know that we are there. But now, since Mr. Courtney
                  and you have discovered the principle on which the text is to be interpreted, I
                  have thought of another illustration of it."
               "Pray madam," said the Doctor, "do let us have it, for I confess these views of
                  the Church are so new to me, and so different from all my preconceptions, that I
                  am somewhat bewildered, and need all the light which can be thrown on
                  the subject."
               "The principle," said she, "is the same as that on which the name of an individual
                  is every day applied to the species, genus, or family, to which it belongs. As
                  when we say of the oak that it is the most majestic of forest trees,
                  we do not mean any one oak, nor do we mean all the oaks in the world comprised in
                  one 'universal' oak. Each oak is still a separate and individual tree; but we
                  apply the name of the individual to all the species—not considered
                  collectively, as one great oak, but separately, as hundreds and
                  thousands of trees, each having the same name. But I don't know
                  whether I am making myself understood: perhaps the example will do it better than
                  my explanation. When God tells Job to look at his behemoth, or at his leviathan,
                  which he had made, he does not mean any particular individual behemoth or
                  leviathan. What he says of them is characteristic of each individual, and so applies to all the race of these
                  mighty monsters of the land and of the sea."
               "Or, to take a more familiar example, Theo.," said Mr. Percy, "when he directs his
                  attention to the horse rushing to the battle, he does not mean any particular
                  individual war-horse, but includes all that class of horses to which his
                  description will apply; and we are accustomed every day to use the word horse in common conversation just as the word church is
                  employed in the text we have been discussing. We speak of a horse,
                  referring to any individual specimen of the race, as Paul talks of
                  every church; of the horse, meaning thereby some particular
                  individual horse, as he speaks of the Church at Jerusalem, and the
                  like. Of the horses, meaning those on some plantation, or in some State, as he
                  talks of the Churches of Judea, of Galatia, and of Asia; and we every day speak of
                     the horse as the most desirable of domestic animals; of the
                  docility of the horse; of the speed of the horse, and the like, just as Jesus
                  here, and Paul elsewhere, speaks of the Church as founded on a rock;
                  as bought with his blood; as the body of Christ, who is its head; and, as we do
                  not mean by the term 'the horse,' when used in this generic or representative
                  sense, all the horses in the world combined in one vast horse, visible or
                  invisible, no more do we mean by the term 'the Church,' when employed
                  in this representative or generic sense, all the Churches in the world, combined
                  in one great visible or invisible Church. Now, my illustration, if not so
                  beautiful as Mrs. Percy's tree, or so sublime as her behemoth, has at least this
                  recommendation, that it is perfectly familiar."
               "Indeed, sir," said the Doctor, "it is very striking and convincing, though it
                  must be admitted that it is not very poetical. And, for my own part, I am ready,
                  Mr. Courtney, to go on to the other text you spoke of."
               "I had almost forgotten what we were about to do; and thank you for calling it to
                  my mind. I said, or might have said, that Christ, so far as we have any record of
                  the fact, personally employed this word but twice: once as we have seen, and the
                  next time, shortly afterwards, in the next chapter but one. In this, he designates
                  one of the objects for which the Church was constituted. If Mrs. Percy will turn
                  to Matt. xviii., and begin at the 15th verse, she may read us the passage."
               "Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault
                  between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother;
                  but if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the
                  mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he neglect
                  to hear them, tell it unto the Church; but if he shall neglect
                     to hear the Church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a
                  publican."
               "We learned from the other passage," said Mr. Courtney, "that Christ himself would
                  organize the Church, and that it should consist only of believers upon him as the
                  Messias of God; but we had no intimation of the objects which this
                  Church was intended to accomplish, or of the manner in which its business was to
                  be brought before it. In this one, however, a flood of light is poured upon these
                  points. One object, at least, was to secure peace and harmony among the brethren,
                  and the purity of its own membership.
               "This text contains the fundamental law of Church discipline. This is the process
                  to be observed in case of disagreement between Church members. The brother who
                  feels himself aggrieved, must first go to the offender and try the effect of a
                  personal interview. If this should fail, he must take one or two brethren, and
                  talk the matter over in their presence, and try what effect may be produced by
                  their suggestions. If this also should fail, he must not let the wound continue to fester and the sore to
                  spread. He must not go out into the world and proclaim his brother's faults, or
                  make known his own complaints. He must tell it to the Church; and if
                  he will not hear the Church, then he is no longer bound to treat him
                  as a Christian brother. Here the matter ends. When the Church has
                  decided, the question is settled. There is no appeal. There is no higher authority
                  to whom he can go. The Church is supreme. Its decision is final. It cannot be
                  reversed by any authority but its own. Christ is King, and the Church is the
                  executive in his dominion. What the Church does, even though it consist of but two
                  or three gathered in his name, asking wisdom from him,
                  and guided strictly by his laws, he says (verses 18-20) that he will
                  sanction, for he will be invisibly present in their midst.
               "Now, let us bring our question, 'What is the Church?' to this text
                  for an answer.
               "I think, Doctor, you do not now consider yourself a member of Christ's visible
                  Church at all. But our Methodist friend thinks you would be one if you should
                  unite with any one of those religious societies which are commonly called
                  Churches. Let us suppose that you had united with his society, and that you and he
                  should have a disagreement in which you felt yourself aggrieved. You have gone to
                  him and talked the matter over, but in vain. You have taken with you one or two
                  more, and tried to reconcile the quarrel through their mediation, but could not
                  succeed; and now, you, as a subject of Christ's kingdom and bound by his law, feel
                  that you have only one more thing that you can do: you are not at liberty to go
                  before the civil courts; you must not tell it to the
                     world; nor are you at liberty to leave the matter undecided, and
                  so perpetuate a quarrel between two members of Christ's body. The law of the King
                  is plain and imperative: you must tell it to the Church. This you are ready to do;
                  but now, where is your Church? Whom shall you tell? Who is to decide for you? The
                  Church. But what is the Church? Is it the class-leader? No. Is it the class? No.
                  Is it the minister in charge? No. Is it the Quarterly Conference? No. Is it the
                  General Conference? No."
               "Of course not," interrupted the Methodist. "The Methodist Church consists of all
                  those persons who have passed their six months' probation, and have been
                  recommended by the class-leader, and received by the minister in charge into full
                  membership. No one, I trust, is so simple as to imagine that we regard the class,
                  or the minister, or the Conference, as the Church of Christ."
               "Very good," said Mr. Courtney. "Your Methodist Church consists of all who have
                  passed their probation in class, and been admitted to full membership. Could Dr.
                  Thinkwell tell his trouble to them? He could not even tell it to the
                  Methodist Church, South; and if he could, that would not be the
                     Methodist Church, for that must include also the Methodist Church,
                  North; and these would only be the American portion of it. To tell it to the
                  Methodist 
                     Episcocal
                     Episcopal
                   Church, he must raise his voice so as to be heard from Maine to Florida,
                  and from New York to California. Nay, he must lift it above the roar of the ocean,
                  and shriek his complaints across the broad Atlantic, or fail to 'tell it to
                     the Church,' as Christ commanded him.
               "If he had been an Episcopalian, or a Presbyterian, or had connected himself with
                  any other of the great religious combinations or ecclesiastical establishments
                  which are commonly called Churches, he would have the same difficulty. If these
                  vast establishments are the Church, he cannot tell the Church—he
                  cannot make it hear him. And if we suppose the Church to be that
                     universal something which we were speaking of, the difficulty is
                  so much the greater; for then, when he has told his trouble to the Methodist
                  Church, or the Episcopal Church, or the Presbyterian Church, or the Lutheran Church, he has only told it to a
                     branch, and not to the Church itself."
               "Excuse me, sir," replied the Methodist, "if I say that this sounds to me like the
                  merest twaddle, since you can hardly be ignorant that we all regard the word
                  church as having two distinct meanings. In one sense, it means all
                  those who profess the true religion—the whole vast body of believers in Christ. In
                  the other sense, it is used to designate a single local society or congregation of
                  believers. In the passage before us it has this limited sense. 'It
                     was,' as the learned Bloomfield says in his note on the place, 'to
                     that congregation to which they both belonged that the offended brother was to
                     tell his grievance.'"
               "I am perfectly aware," replied Mr Courtney, "that the word church in common usage
                  has not only two but half a dozen meanings; but I say, that in the New
                     Testament, as a religious and appropriated term, it has but
                     one. 'The Church of God and of Christ' was one thing, and
                  no more. When this institution is spoken of, it is that one thing which is
                  intended. It was this which Jesus said he would build. It was
                     this against which the gates of hell should not prevail. It was
                  this to which the brother should relate his grievance. And this was the local
                  assembly of Christian people organized according to Christ's instructions.
                  Bloomfield was right. It was to the local organization, 'that
                  congregation to which they both belonged,' that the offended brother was to tell
                  his grievance. In this we perfectly agree. And now mark me; If this
                     was the body which Christ meant, I will show you that those
                  establishments which people call the Presbyterian Church, and the Episcopal
                  Church, and the Methodist Church, ARE OPEN AND SYSTEMATIC REBELS AGAINST THE LAW
                  OF CHRIST. They have nullified and set aside HIS law of discipline, and
                  substituted their own inventions."
               "Those are very hard words, sir, and should have been well weighed before you
                  uttered them. It is no trifling matter to bring such a charge against the great
                  mass of Christ's professing people; and, sir, God will hold you responsible for
                  such harsh and unfounded accusations against his dear people."
               The preacher evidently felt all the indignation which he expressed as
                  much by his voice and countenance as in his words; and the scattered company,
                  which had been engaged in reading, or talking, or lounging listlessly upon the
                  sofas, attracted by the peculiar tone of the excited speaker, all turned their
                  faces towards the table around which the discussion was going on; and several left
                  their seats, and came and stood where they could see Mr. Courtney's face as he
                  very quietly replied:
               "I have not been accustomed, in discussions upon the subject of religion, to make
                  assertions which I was not prepared fully to sustain. If I do not
                     show you that in this matter these so-called Churches have
                     rebelled against Christ, set aside and nullified his
                  law, and substituted regulations of their own in its place, then you
                  may give vent to all the indignation which you think you ought to feel towards a
                  slanderer of your brethren."
               "But, sir," exclaimed the unknown lady, "if we are rebels against
                  Christ, we cannot be Christians. If these Churches are living in open, systematic,
                  and avowed disregard of his laws, they cannot be his people. And yet I am sure
                  that even you, badly as you seem to think of everybody but your own company, will
                  not deny that there is as much piety and devotion to the interests of religion in
                  these Churches as even among the Baptists themselves."
               "I trust, madam, that neither you nor any of this company will so far
                  misunderstand me as to imagine that I mean for individual members
                  what I say of the ecclesiastical establishment to which they belong.
                  Some of the best and most devoted voted
                  men and women that have ever honored the Christian name were Roman Catholics; yet
                  you as much as I believe that the Roman Catholic hierarchy is so much a
                     rebel that it is the very 'antichrist,' 'the
                     man of sin,' and the 'son of perdition', foretold in the
                  Scriptures. Some of her members are good subjects of Jesus, who have
                  been deluded and deceived; but the organization is antichristian and
                  destructive to true obedience to Christ. So I do not deny that in these other
                  so-called Churches there is a vast amount of individual piety; I do
                  not question that there is much truth believed and acted out unto the salvation of
                  souls; but what I say is this: these establishments have, by their constitutional
                  laws, by the arrangements of their systems of judicature, as adopted in their
                  convocations and published in their books of discipline, confessions of faith,
                  etc., set aside the law of Christ, and substituted their
                     own. And this act I CALL an act of open and systematic and
                  deliberate rebellion. If you can find a milder and yet appropriate
                  name for it, you may call it something else. Christ the King says,
                  'Tell it to the Church.' They say, No, you are not to
                  tell it to the Church. You shall tell it to the 'minister in
                     charge,' or to a 'committee appointed by him.' If he or they do not
                  decide to please both you and the minister, you may tell it to the quarterly
                  conference, etc. Christ the King says, 'Tell it to the
                     Church.' They say, No, you shall tell it to the session, and if the
                  session do not decide to please both parties, then tell it to the presbytery, to
                  the synod, and general assembly. Christ the King says, 'Tell it to
                     the Church.' They say, No, you shall tell it to the
                     bishop, or those whom the bishop may have appointed. The Church,
                  that is, the assembly or 'congregation to which both the brethren belong,' is not
                  known. The whole business is taken out of the hands of the Church, where Christ
                  commanded it to be decided, and placed in other hands, to which Christ gave no
                  authority. If this is not a nullificationtion of the law of the King,
                  and substituting another in its place, I do not see what could constitute that
                  act. If this is not rebellion, how can a Church rebel? The same body to which the
                  brother was to tell his grievance was that which should
                     decide upon it; and its decision was to be final.
                  From it there was no appeal. When he had the decision of the Church,
                  that was the end of the matter. Now, if you really believe that the
                     Church, as Christ here used the words, was the local
                     society, how dare you prevent the brother from going to it? and how dare
                  you deny to it the right to hear and to decide? How dare you take the power from
                     the Church, and give it to the minister and his committee, or to a
                  quarterly or annual or general conference? If the Presbyterian considers the
                  Church here spoken of to be the 'local assembly of Christ's people,' how does he
                  dare to change Christ's law, and require the brother to tell it to the
                     session, and by what authority can the case be taken up to a
                  presbytery, synod, or general assembly? If, by the constitution of our government,
                  the power to declare war and negotiate peace is given expressly to the general
                  government at Washington, then any other organization that shall take upon itself
                  to perform these specific acts, places itself in the attitude of a rebel. If you
                  and these other religious establishments regard the Church here spoken of as the
                  local assembly, nothing can be more clear than that you do not intend to obey
                  Christ's law; for you and they, in utter disregard of his commandment
                  to settle the difficulty in the Church, require it to be settled in
                  altogether another place, and by altogether different authority. The authority
                  which Christ expressly gave the Church you have taken away from the
                  Church, and placed in the hands of individuals, or certain 'judicatory
                  bodies.'"
               "The Church," replied the Methodist, "may very properly be said to do herself what
                  she does by her authorized agents and
                  representatives. These judicatory bodies are the agents of the Church, through
                  whom she carries out her will."
               "Let us look into that a moment," said Mr. Courtney. "The Church which Christ
                  decreed should finally decide between the disaffected brethren, is 'the
                     local society of which they both are members.' Was this not what you
                  just now asserted?"
               "Certainly it was."
               "And yet you tell us now that these judicatory bodies, these conferences,
                  councils, synods, and assemblies, are the authorized representatives and agents of
                     'the Church.' Now, they may be the agents of those
                  amalgamated bodies which you call the Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church,
                  the Episcopal Church, and the like; but they are not the agents of
                  the local society of which both these brethren were members.
                     Their act is not the act of that society. Very often it is just
                  the reverse of what that society had determined. They are not the servants, not
                  the agents, but the masters of that society. They make laws for that
                  society. They require obedience from that society. They hold that society
                  responsible to them, and not themselves responsible to it. If it re fuses to
                  sanction their act, it is liable at once to be cut off from what they call the
                  body of Christ, as a corrupt and offensive member. If it rebels against their
                  decree, or refuses to carry it into execution, it is liable itself to be excluded
                  from what they call 'the Church.' If, then, Christ left the matter with the
                  Church, and the Church is the local society of which both the
                  brethren are members, then these bodies are usurpers. They have
                  usurped authority which Christ did not give them, and have taken it away from
                  those to whom he did give it. Why, sir, even if the Church
                     had delegated her authority to conferences or councils, synods or
                  assemblies, the act would have been utterly invalid. Christ could not
                  sanction tion it. He gave the authority to the Church to be exercised there; and
                  it can be delegated only by an open repudiation of HIS LAW as contained in this
                  text. If it be the local society, therefore, that Christ referred to, then all the
                  authority of your conferences, all the authority of sessions, presbyteries,
                  synods, and councils, is given, claimed, and exercised, not merely without the
                  sanction of the King, but in open disregard of his commandment. The Church that
                     gives it is a rebel. The body that receives and exercises it, so
                  far from being in any sense a true Church of Jesus Christ, is, to say the least,
                  an unauthorized intruder. Christ has no use for such a body. Christ never
                  appointed such a body. Christ made the local Church supreme. She has no right to
                  subordinate herself to any power on earth, and that day she does so she ceases to
                  be a Church of Christ, for in HIS Churches he alone is King. She may
                  ask advice of sister Churches, or of wise and holy men, but she dare
                  not and cannot delegate to others the supreme authority which Christ has vested in
                  herself. His Church is not allowed to call any man, or any set of men, its master.
                  Its members are alike subject to Christ, and all alike responsible to him alone.
                  But how, then, could they be governed? How could discipline be maintained? How
                  could the purity of the body be preserved? There were laws, but how could they be
                  applied, and by what authority enforced? This was the grand problem. In its
                  solution, Paul says, the manifold wisdom of God was made known to the
                  principalities and powers in heavenly places. His plan was very simple, and,
                  wherever it has been fairly tried, has been found perfectly effectual. He made
                  every one a priest and king. He invested every member with the right to execute
                  his laws, but only when assembled with the brethren. As many as could conveniently
                  unite came voluntarily together, and by mutual consent were constituted an
                     'ekklesia,' or official assembly, of Christ. It was subject to
                     his laws: it acted by his authority: it used
                     his name to give a sanction to its acts; and as he had
                     authorized it, and conferred on it all its authority, so he
                  promised to be in its midst by his Spirit, and to ratify in heaven what it did
                  upon the earth. In this assembly, all were equal. There were no subjects and no
                  lords. For the sake of order, it was needful to have some presiding officer, but
                  he was chosen by the brethren. He was only for the time the chief among his
                  equals. By this assembly the ordinances were administered. To this assembly
                  belonged the duty to enforce Christ's laws. It could not make laws.
                  It could not change laws. That were to usurp the prerogative of its
                  Master. It could only apply and execute Christ's laws. It was to this body and no
                  other that the brother was to go with his complaint; and when it had decided, no
                  power on earth could reverse its decision. Each Church was complete within
                  itself—independent of all earthly control, and subject only to the law of Christ.
                     This was the Church of Christ and of God. This was
                  the institution which Christ said, in the other chapter, he would build, and this
                  was the body to which, in this, he directs the offended brother to carry his
                  complaint. From this place we learn only one of its objects, but by turning to 1
                  Cor. xi. 20-34, you will see that it was in this official assembly that the
                  ordinance of the Supper was observed. It was not as individuals, but as an
                     ekklesia, an official assembly
                  of the members, that they brake the bread and drank the wine, in solemn and sad,
                  yet joyful remembrance of his death. If you turn to Romans xiv. 1, you will find
                  that it pertained to this body to decide who should be received as members. If you
                  will examine the fifth chapter of 1st Corinthians, you will see that it was
                  authorized and required to exclude from its membership the immoral and vicious,
                  and give them over to Satan. From Gal. vi. 1, and 2 Cor. ii. 8, you may learn that
                  it was empowered to restore the offender upon evidence of his repentance. From 2
                  Thess. iii. 6, it is evident that it was its solemn and imperative duty to disown
                  and withdraw from those who changed the ordinances, or conducted in
                  an unchristian manner.
               "These duties and obligations were binding on each ekklesia for itself; and in
                  their fulfilment it neither needed nor permitted the interference of any other.
                  Even an inspired apostle, when writing to the Corinthians, would not take the case
                  of discipline out of the hands of the Church; but only instructed them as to what
                  the law of Christ required in regard to the offender. And, on his repentance, he
                  did not undertake to thrust him back into the Church; but kindly
                     besought them to confirm their love to the penitent, lost he might
                  be overwhelmed with overmuch sorrow."
               "I think," said Dr. Thinkwell, "we may now pass on to the examination of those
                  other passages which you said are commonly understood to refer to the Church
                  universal. We seem to be getting on but slowly."
               "The general principle of interpretation which we have just settled," said Mr.
                  Courtney, "will help us more rapidly through the others. We have seen that both
                  from the origin of the word ekklesia, and from its actual application in the many
                  cases where it refers to a real and visible
                  organization, it signified only a local and independent body of
                  Christians—never all Christians combined in one body. We have seen, moreover, that
                  the word, without losing this meaning at all, may be employed in a general way, as
                  the name of the institution which Christ set up: just as we every day
                  apply the name of an individual to the whole species or family to which that
                  individual belongs: as when we say, the elephant is the most sagacious of brutes;
                  or, the dog is the companion of man Now, when the term 'the Church'
                  is thus employed, it is no more needful
                  to understand it as meaning all the Churches combined in one great Church, visible
                  or invisible, than it is to suppose that the words 'the elephant,' or 'the dog,'
                  thus used, must signify all the elephants in the world, combined in one unwieldy
                  elephant; or that all the dogs are united into one immense dog, who is the
                  companion of some giant man, comprising in his own person all the men upon the
                  earth. Let us then apply this rule to the three passages in which Paul speaks of
                  himself as having persecuted the Church: 1 Cor. xv. 9, Gal. i. 13, Phil. iii. 6.
                  'For I am the least of the apostles, and not worthy to be called an apostle,
                  because I persecuted the Church of God.' 'For ye have heard of my conversation in
                  time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the Church
                  of God, and wasted it.' 'Concerning zeal, persecuting the Church.'
               "It has been thought by some that Paul could have meant nothing less than the
                  Church universal in these places. The truth is, he could have meant no other than
                  the 'Church which was at Jerusalem,' for that was the only Church
                  that he ever persecuted. He had it in his heart to persecute that at Damascus
                  also, if he should find one there; but he did not do it. Christ met him on the
                  way, and changed the tiger to a lamb. And when Paul reached Damascus, it was to
                  preach the faith he once destroyed; and be himself the object of the bitterest
                  persecution from his former associates. But what if Paul had actually
                  persecuted a dozen or a hundred Churches? It would not follow that he meant to say
                  that he had persecuted some vast visible or invisible organization, comprising in
                  one body all the Church members on the earth. If I say that I have spent much time
                  in hunting the fox, or killing the deer, I do not mean
                  that I have hunted and killed some great 'universal' fox, or
                     'universal' deer It is easy to understand that by hunting
                     any one individual fox I hunted 'the fox;' and by killing any one
                  individual deer I killed 'the deer.' Why cannot we permit Paul to use words in the
                  same way? If he persecuted any one individual Church, he persecuted 'the
                  Church.'
               "This is plain, common sense. A sportsman can understand, though it may puzzle a
                  doctor of divinity. By the way, it has always seemed very strange to me that men
                  will not bring their common sense with them when they come to examine
                  into the meaning of the Scriptures. Suppose, Doctor, that a friend of yours in
                  Louisiana should write to you in language like the following: 'I am a
                  cotton-planter, and yet I am not worthy to be called a cotton-planter, because,
                  some twenty years ago, I was bitterly opposed to Whitney and the cotton-gin.'
               "What would you, or any of this company, think of that man's common sense, who
                  would gravely argue from these words that although the cotton-gin is a well-known
                  machine, and there are a great many separate and distinct cotton-gins scattered
                  about on thousands of plantations, yet, some twenty years ago, there must have
                  been some great and complicated machine, composed of all the cotton-gins in the
                  world, united into one great cotton-gin 'universal,' or else this man
                  could not have said, with any propriety, that he had been opposed to 'the
                     cotton-gin!' Yet this is precisely what doctors of divinity are guilty
                  of when they take it for granted, or try to prove that there must once have been,
                  and must be still, some vast conglomerate body, visible or invisible, called the
                     'universal' Church, and composed of all the Christians or of all
                  the Churches in the world; otherwise Paul could not, with any propriety, have said
                  that he 'persecuted the Church of God.'"
               "I think, sir," said the Doctor, smiling, "we may consider these three passages as
                  fairly disposed of."
               "Then let us take another. Turn to Ephesians iii. 10 and 21: 'To the intent that now unto the principalities
                  and"> powers in heavenly places might be known by the Church the manifold
                  wisdom of God.' 'Unto him be glory in the Church by Christ Jesus throughout all
                  ages, world without end.'
               "The idea in the first of these two passages is, that the angels of
                  God, who are elsewhere called principalities and powers, might look at this
                  wonderful contrivance of Jesus Christ for the execution of his laws and the
                  promotion of the comfort and piety of his people, and see in it evidences of the
                  wisdom of God It was a Divine contrivance, and characterized by
                     infinite wisdom. Nothing else could possibly have done so
                     well. Men have not believed this. Men have all the time
                  been tinkering at God's plan, and trying to mend it. Men have set it
                  aside, and substituted others in its place; but to the angels it
                  appears the very perfection of wisdom. And it was one object of God in having the
                  Church established, that his wisdom might, through it, be known to those heavenly
                  powers and principalities. But now, what was this plan? What was this
                  Church? It was, as we have seen, a local assembly, in which each member was the
                  equal of every other, and by whom, in the name of Christ and by authority from
                  him, his ordinances were to be administered and his laws enforced. What is there
                  in these texts which requires a grand collection of all the Churches into one, in
                  order to make the language appropriate? Suppose a friend in England should write
                  to me that he is about to publish a new history of the steam-engine,
                  'in order that unto kings and princes, in their palaces and on their thrones,
                     might be made known through the engine the manifold skill of the
                     inventor:' what would you think of that man's common sense, even though
                  he were a Doctor of Mechanics, who should insist upon it, that though
                  the steam-engine was a definite and well-known machine, and there were a vast
                  multitude of separate and distinct steam-engines, yet there must also be, in some
                  way or other, a vast conglomerate 'universal' engine, consisting of
                  all the steam-engines in the world united into one; or else the language of my
                  friend, when he speaks of 'showing the manifold skill of the inventor,' through or
                  by 'the engine,' is altogether unintelligible? Yet this is the way that doctors of
                  divinity reason upon a similar expression of Paul.
               "In the other passage he says, 'Unto him be glory in the Church by
                  Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end.' I might remark here, that
                  the original says 'in' Jesus Christ; and some manuscripts read, in
                  the Church, 'and' in Jesus Christ. But mere verbal criticism is not
                  necessary to set us right in regard to the point about which we are at issue.
                  Doctors of divinity say that the Church here spoken of must be the Church
                     universal, or else the language of the apostle is altogether
                  inappropriate, and has no meaning. Well, let us bring in our common
                     sense, and try it.
               "I take up a book written by some great admirer of the drama, and read, 'Let the
                  poetry of Shakspeare be honored in the theatre by managers and actors even to the
                  end of time.' Now, your doctor of divinity, reasoning on this as he does on Paul,
                  would assure me that although there are a multitude of separate local theatres in
                  almost every country of the civilized world, yet that there must, in some way or
                  other, be somewhere or other some one vast 'universal'
                  theatre, consisting of all the theatres in the world combined in one, either
                  visible or invisible, or else the language of this writer is inappropriate or
                  meaningless; for the term 'the theatre,' used in this connection, can
                  mean no less than this great world-embracing establishment; and, perhaps, he might
                  refer me for further proof to the immortal bard himself, who says that 'all the
                  world's a stage,' etc. When will men learn to use their reason in religious as
                  they do in other matters?"
               
               "I grant," said Doctor Thinkwell, "that we have now fairly disposed of six of
                  these passages; but there are some remaining which I do not see what we can do
                  with, unless we admit the existence of a general or universal Church: those, for
                  instance, which speak of the Church as the 'body of Christ, who is
                  its head.'"
               "There are a number of such passages," replied Mr. Courtney. "The figure is bold
                  and beautiful; and the Apostle Paul was very fond of it, for he employs it again
                  and again. I have sometimes fancied that he must have borrowed it from Luke, the
                  beloved physician, for no one so well as a physician could feel its
                  full force and appropriateness. So far, however, from teaching the doctrine of a
                  universal Church, either visible or invisible, it can only apply with any show of
                  propriety to a single local organization. And to remove even the shadow of a doubt
                  in regard to the matter, the apostle himself distinctly and in so many words
                     makes this application of it. He employs this same illustration in
                  his Epistle to the Colossians, in that to the Ephesians, and to the Romans and the
                  Corinthians. And if in any one of these places the language may appear indefinite
                  in its application, all the obscurity is removed by referring to the others. In
                  Colossians, for example, there is the simple assertion, (Col. i. 18,) 'And he is
                  the head of the body, the Church,' and, ver. 24, 'For his body's sake, which is
                  the Church.' To the Ephesians, Romans, and Corinthians, he presents it as an
                  argument in favor of meekness and mutual affection and forbearance. The members of
                  each Church were exhorted to love one another, for they were all one
                     body, of which Christ was the head. They had different
                  gifts and capacities: some were teachers, some were prophets, some could speak
                  with tongues, and some had gifts of healing; some, perhaps, were without any of
                  these extraordinary gifts, but none of them could be dispensed with: each was
                  useful in his place. (Eph. iv. 11-16.) All these were 'necessary for the edifying'
                  (literally, the building up) 'of the body of Christ, that it might
                  grow up into him which is the head, from whom the whole, fitly joined together and
                  compacted by that which every joint supplieth, maketh increase of the body to the
                  building up of itself in love.'
               "This language is very appropriate when used in reference to a single Church,
                  whose members are all bound together with the bands of Christian brotherhood, and
                  each is helper of the other's joy and growth in grace. Such a body may well be
                  said to be 'filly joined together and compacted.' But now if you
                  apply it to what people call the 'universal' Church, it is simply
                  nonsense. Where is your universal Church which is thus filly joined together
                     and compacted? Are Methodists, and Presbyterians, and Lutherans, and
                  Baptists, and Episcopalians thus 'joined together and compacted?'
               "But it is needless to argue about it. The apostle himself determines what he
                  meant by the body of Christ in these places, and that so plainly and definitely as
                  to preclude the slightest possibility of mistake.
               "Turn to Romans xii. 3-8: 'For I say, through the grace given unto me, to
                     every man who is AMONG YOU, not to think more highly of himself
                  than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every
                  man the measure of faith. For as we [each one of us] have many
                  members in one body, and all the members have not the same office, so we, [Church
                  members,] being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of
                  another,' etc.
               "Now, who were these members of Christ's body? Was it the different
                     Churches which were all united to make one body? or was it the
                     individual members of the one Church at Rome, to which Paul was
                  writing? It was 'every man among them,' ver. 3. It was
                     individual Church members who were members of the body, which body was
                     their own Church—not different Churches who were members or
                     branches of some great ecclesiastical establishment.
               "But now turn to 1 Cor. xii. 12, where the figure is carried out and elaborated in
                  all its minute details, and its intended application expressed in so many words:
                  'For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one
                  body, being many, are [yet] one body: so also is Christ.' Ver. 14, 'For the body
                  is not one member, but many.' And then he goes on to explain how, though each
                  member differs from the others in its capacities and uses, yet it is not only a
                  part of the body, but absolutely essential to its completeness and its comfort.
                  The body is not all eye, nor all car, nor all hands or feet; but God has set every
                  member of it in its proper place, and endowed it with capacity to perform its
                  proper function. The eye cannot do without the feet, and the feet cannot get on
                  well without the eye. And even those members that seem most feeble and least
                  useful are yet in their place quite indispensable. No one can be taken away or
                  injured but that all the rest will suffer. And then, in the 27th verse, to remove
                     all possible doubt about the application of the comparison, and to
                  show to them and to us that he did not mean anybody else, but only the Corinthian
                  Church itself, he says, 'Now YE are the body of Christ,
                  and members in particular.'"
               "That is sufficient, sir," replied the Doctor. "When Inspiration itself has made
                  the application to a single local organization, it were sheer madness in me to
                  insist that it must mean something else. You can go on to your other texts."
               "If Mrs. Percy will turn to the 5th chapter of Ephesians, she will find the word
                  church occurring some five or six times in twice as many verses, and used in a
                  sense very similar to that which we have just examined. Let us begin at the 22d
                  verse: 'Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord; for the
                  husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the Church; and he
                  is the Saviour of the body. Therefore, as the Church is subject unto Christ, so
                  let the wives be unto their own husbands in every thing. Husbands, love your
                  wives, even as Christ also loved the Church, and gave himself for it; that he
                  might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might
                  present it to himself a glorious Church, not having spot or wrinkle, or any such
                  thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love their
                  wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever
                  yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the
                  Church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this
                  cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife,
                  and they two shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery; but I speak concerning
                  Christ and the Church.'"
               "I do not see," said Mr. Percy, "how we can limit the application of this language
                  to the Church at Ephesus. It is the Church for which Christ died: that Church
                  which he loved and gave himself to purchase: that Church which he is going to
                  present to himself as a glorious Church, holy and pure, without spot or wrinkle,
                  or any such thing."
               "Yes," said Mr. Courtney, "it is the same Church which he said he
                  would build, in Matt. xvi. 18: the same Church to which he directed
                  the offended brother to tell his grievance; and through which his wisdom was to be
                  made known to the principalities and powers of heaven, and through which he is to
                  be glorified for ever. And this, we have already seen, is not any
                     particular local Church — much less is it all the
                  Churches united into one great collective 'universal' Church. Read the 23d verse
                  again. It furnishes the key to the right understanding of the whole passage.
                  Christ is the head of this Church,
                  which he loved, for which he died, and which he will sanctify and save—just
                     as the husband is the head of the wife. 'The husband is the head of the
                  wife, as Christ is the head of the Church.' Now, what is here meant
                  by the wife? Is it all the wives in the whole wide world considered
                  collectively as making one great conglomerate 'universal' wife? Not at all. The
                  wife is put as a representative word. It stands as the general name
                  or title of married women. It does not gather all married women into one immense
                  wife, visible or invisible, 'universal,' but simply means that every
                  wife of the whole multitude has her own husband for her guide, her protector, and
                  her lawgiver. And JUST SO is Christ the head, the protector, the Saviour and ruler
                  of his Church. As 'the wife' does not here mean all wives in one, so 'the Church'
                  cannot mean all Churches in one. But the meaning is that each and every true
                  Church of the whole multitude of Churches is connected to Christ by a union so
                  intimate and tender that it resembles that between the husband and the wife; and,
                  indeed, it is as though every Church were a part of his very self, 'bone of his
                  bone, and flesh of his flesh.'
               "The word church stands here, as in the other places of this sort which we have
                  examined, not for a great amalgamated whole, but for each
                     one of all. Just as Paul, when he says, the unbelieving husband is
                  sanctified by the wife, cannot possibly mean that all the unbelieving husbands in
                  the world are to be regarded as constituting one great collective 'universal'
                  husband, who is sanctified by one immense collective, visible or invisible,
                  'universal' wife, but only that each and every unbelieving husband stands in this
                  relation to his own believing wife.
               "This same rule applies to all these passages, which seem at first
                  glance, and have been generally supposed, to refer to all the multitude of
                  Churches viewed collectively, as one great conglomerate Church. There is no such a
                  Church: there never was such a Church; and, from the very nature of the case,
                  there never can be such a Church upon the earth. We may imagine
                  something of the kind; and as the poet 'gives to airy nothings a
                  local habitation and a name,' so, when we have conceived of all Church members
                     as though they were assembled in one vast ekklesia, we may give a name to this conception, and
                  may call it the 'Church universal,' but it will have no more reality
                  when we have thus named it than it had before. It will still be a mere creation of
                  the brain. And I do not discover that either Paul, or any other writer in the
                  Word, ever conceived of it or named it. The Church of Christ, as the
                     executive body in his kingdom, must of necessity be a visible and
                  working, business-doing body. It cannot be invisible: it
                     cannot be universal. If it were, it could not be an actual
                     (ekklesia) assembly.
               "the KINGDOM may be universal. The kingdom includes
                     all the Churches. The visible kingdom includes all
                  who have professed their faith in Christ, and been baptized, even though they may
                  not be members of any Church. The Ethiopian officer was in the visible
                     kingdom, when he and Philip came up out of the water, but he had not yet
                  united with any Church.
               "There is also an invisible kingdom of Christ, which reaches farther
                  still. Every one who has trusted in Christ, and in his heart has taken him for his
                  Lord, is a subject of this kingdom. Christ's people are not all
                  within his Church. There are some even in the realms of
                     Antichrist himself; for he says, when mystical Babylon, drunk with the
                  blood of the saints, is about to be destroyed, 'Come out of her, my people, lest
                  ye be partaker of her plagues.' The Church is not the kingdom, nor is the kingdom
                  the Church; but the Church is an institution of the kingdom, just as
                  the courts of law are an institution within the State—making a part of the
                     State, authorized by the laws of the
                  State, and doing a certain kind of business under the authority of the State, but
                  not constituting the State. It is true, nevertheless, that every
                     subject of the invisible kingdom is required, by Christ's
                  law, to become, if practicable, a subject of the visible, by a
                  profession of his faith, and baptism; and it is also true, that it is the duty and
                  the privilege of every such subject of the visible
                     kingdom to become, and continue, if possible, a member of some
                     Church. It is only as a Church member that he can participate in the
                  business of the kingdom, or partake of the emblems of the Saviour's broken body
                  and poured-out blood, in remembrance of him.
               "We have now examined every place but one, and that will hardly give us any new
                  light upon the question. It is Hebrews xii. 23—a passage confessedly highly
                  figurative and very obscure. It seems to me most probable that the apostle employs
                  the word here in its common Greek sense, as denoting merely an
                     assembly, or convocation of select individuals; and not in its
                  appropriated use at all. He is contrasting the Jewish economy with the Christian
                  dispensation in general. Their fathers, under the law, came to Mount Sinai—a
                  literal mountain that could be touched; a mountain that glowed with fire, and was
                  shrouded with the blackness of darkness and tempest. They heard the piercing sound
                  of the awful trumpet, and a voice spake such fearful words that those who heard
                  them entreated that they might never hear them any more. And so terrific was the
                  scene that even Moses quaked with fear. Such was the terrible aspect
                  of the law. But ye, who live under the gospel, have come to Mount
                  Zion—a mountain of peace, security, and beauty—unto the city of the living God,
                  the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, to the general
                  assembly and Church of the first-born, which are written (or registered) in
                  heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect,
                  and to Jesus, the Mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling,
                  that speaketh better things than the blood of Abel. These are the
                  things presented by the gospel.
               "Now, they are represented as having come up to the heavenly
                  Jerusalem. It is there they meet with the countless company of
                  angels. It is there they find the 'pancyurei' rendered 'general assembly,' but meaning, literally, a
                  great festal gathering, and there they meet an 'ekklesia' of the
                     'first-born,' of those who are special favorites; for
                  such was the Hebrew use of the term; or of those who had the birth-right, and who
                  were registered in heaven.
               "Now, the Greek 'ekklesia' was an assembly of called and qualified citizens,
                  invested with certain rights, and registered in the city records. So
                  Paul speaks here of a chosen assembly of privileged persons, whose
                  names were registered in heaven, as having their
                  citizenship there."
               "Let it mean what it may," said Theodosia; "I do not see that we can learn any
                  thing from it about the constitution and nature of the Church of Christ on
                     earth, unless it be that it should consist only of believers whose names
                  are written in the Lamb's book of life."
               "Well," said the strange lady, "I am glad you have gotten through with this
                  tedious task at last. I never knew before how much the Scriptures said about the
                  Church."
               "Nor I," said Theodosia; "and I am glad to find their teachings are so uniform and
                  simple. I shall hereafter always know what a Church is, and what is
                     not a Church. Do you not think, Doctor, you will now be able to
                  know one when you find it?"
               "I must confess, madam, that what we have found differs so much from my
                  preconceptions—from all that I was taught in childhood to regard as the Church,
                  and which I have always thought of as the Church—that I must take a little time to go over the ground again. I
                  want to think about it, and pray over it; and then I may be prepared to answer
                  your question. At present, I am sure all the company must be weary of this long
                  discussion. Let us postpone any further conversation on the subject till
                  to-morrow."
            
            
               FOURTH DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  In which are discovered some of the distinctive marks by which one may know a
                     true Church of Jesus Christ, wherever he may chance to find it.
               
               IT was singular what strange reports of these conversations reached that part of
                  the boat where the gentlemen passengers sat to play cards and smoke cigars.
               The prevailing impression which was made upon those who heard them was, that two
                  gentlemen and a very agreeable lady (who, by the way, thought she was very smart)
                  were trying their best to persuade that old infidel, Dr. Thinkwell, that if he
                  would only be immersed, he might be sure to go to heaven; but if not, he was as
                  certain to be sent to hell as there was any God, or any truth in the Bible.
               Some, however, thought there was a difference of opinion on this subject among the
                  disputants; and that it was only the Baptist preacher, Percy, that
                  consigned all those who had not been immersed to endless perdition; and that he
                  had assured the Methodist that it would be as hard to find a Methodist in heaven
                  as to find a mackerel in a horse-pond. Another declared that he had heard a part
                  of what was said, and could assure the crowd that they proved every thing by
                  Scripture; "and that," said he, "is of itself enough to show that the Bible is of
                  no account; for any thing in the world that anybody wishes to prove, he can find
                  the text for it Why, sirs," continued he, "I heard that fellow Courtney say that he had over a hundred texts to
                  show that there was only one Church in the world, and that one was somewhere in
                  the old country."
               "One thing is certain," replied his friend: "they can't convince me that old
                  Parson Tompkins don't know what the Bible says; and he is just as strong a
                  Presbyterian as I ever saw."
               "The fact is," said another, "they are all of them right, and all of them wrong;
                  and they ought to have some charity for one another, and not be sending each other
                  to hell, just because they do not happen to feel disposed to wade to heaven
                  through the floods of Jordan."
               Of such remarks, however, our disputants were happily ignorant; and having
                  themselves no doubt about the truthfulness and the sufficiency of the sacred
                  record, returned to it with perfect confidence that they should be able to find in
                  it the pattern of the Christian Church, so perfectly and so plainly drawn that
                  they would have no difficulty in recognizing it, and by the pattern be enabled to
                  identify the institution as still existing in the world.
               "If I did not fail of my purpose yesterday," said Mr. Courtney, "I showed you in
                  the Scriptures—and that not from detached and isolated texts, but from a careful
                  comparison and elaborate examination of all the places in which the
                  word ekklesia (or Church) occurs—that this institution is not the kingdom, but an
                  organization for certain specific purposes within the kingdom, like the court or
                  the jury within our State."
               "I have been looking over the facts and arguments again in my own mind," replied
                  the Doctor, "and I must confess I see no perversion of the texts, and no fallacy
                  in the logic, and must admit that you are right; but yet, I do not see that I am
                  much nearer the accomplishment of the object which I have in view. You have
                  convinced me that the Church is a local and independent organization, somewhere
                  within the kingdom; but you have not showed me what it is, or told me where I can
                  find it.
               "I am, I trust, a member of Christ's invisible kingdom: I desire to be
                  incorporated into the visible kingdom. To do so, I understand that I must make
                  public profession of my faith and be baptized. To whom shall I make this
                  profession? and by whose direction shall I be baptized? This falls within the
                  province of the Church. If these are the laws of the
                  kingdom, and the Church is the executive and administrator of those laws, then I
                  must apply to the Church, in its official capacity, to receive and to baptize
                  me."
               "Perfectly correct, sir."
               "But I do not know what or which is the Church. you will tell me it
                  is to be found among the Baptists. Another says, among the Presbyterians. My
                  parents taught me that the Episcopal was the Church; and our
                  Methodist friend assures me that I am at perfect liberty to take my choice among a
                  dozen claimants, and where I can best enjoy myself is the true Church for me. Now,
                  what I want to know is this: how can I tell which of all these is right? Can you
                  show me in the Scriptures any such distinctive signs or marks as will
                  enable me to recognize a true Church when I see it?"
               "Most certainly I can. The Scriptures are very plain, and abundantly explicit, on
                  this subject.
               "We have already seen that the first exemplification of the ekklesia or Church of Christ was given at Jerusalem.
                  This was the model after which the other New Testament Churches were fashioned;
                  and the same pattern must regulate the constitution, membership, and rites of the
                  Christian Churches down to the present time.
               "Human constitutions may admit of amendment, but the Divine enactment, not being
                  capable of improvement, can never be amended. To know, therefore, what a
                     Christian Church is
                  now, we have only to learn what was essential to it
                  then."
               "That is self-evident, Mr. Courtney; but we must be very careful that we do not
                  confound what was essential with what was accidental, and, consequently,
                  indifferent."
               "Most assuredly, sir, we cannot be too careful; and it may, therefore, be well for
                  us to determine beforehand what was of necessity
                     essential. All else we may cast aside."
               "The first Churches, for instance," suggested Theodosia, "met in private
                  residences, or in the Jewish synagogues; but that was a mere incident, and they
                  would have been just as really Churches if they had met in splendid temples, or in
                  the leafy forest."
               "Or," said Mr. Percy, "in 'the caves and dens of the earth,' as they were early
                  compelled to do. But as this was an official institution acting under
                  authority of another, and in his name, there must have been some
                     constitutional limitation as to its organization—as to who should
                  compose it, and as to the extent of its authority. Christ, as king in this new
                  kingdom which he set up, had enacted certain laws and established certain
                  ordinances. For the proper understanding and administration of these laws and
                  ordinances, he appointed the Church as his judiciary and executive. Now, this
                  judiciary and executive must consist of certain persons, organized
                  upon some definite plan, and governed in their official work by some
                  specific and designated rules. Thus much, at least, must be regarded
                  as essential."
               "Will it not be better," inquired the Doctor, "to take up one point at a time, and
                  satisfy ourselves regarding it, before we go to another? Thus we
                  shall avoid any confusion, and remove even the shadow of a doubt."
               "Very good," replied Mr. Courtney, "and let us first ascertain of what character
                  of persons a Church must consist to be regarded by us as a true
                     Church of Jesus Christ; and I say, 1st. It must be composed of
                     those who are members of the visible kingdom. This is self-evident,
                  (after what we have already settled, viz.: that the Church is an institution
                  within the kingdom, charged with the administration of the laws and ordinances of
                  the kingdom;) for it is inconceivable that the King has intrusted the execution of
                  these laws and the administration of these ordinances to the hands of those who
                  are not in the kingdom; and we have seen already that no one can be a member of
                  the visible kingdom who has not made a profession of penitence for
                  sin, and faith in Christ, and upon this profession been
                     baptized in obedience to his commandment.
               "But, lest this may seem to be too summary a method of disposing of the matter,
                  let us go back to the Record again; and, by the same means that we discovered who
                  are members of the visible kingdom, learn who are members of the visible
                  Church.
               "We are agreed about one thing, I suppose; and that is, that whatever was
                     essential to Church membership in the days of the APOSTLES, and in
                     the Churches organized by them, is STILL ESSENTIAL."
               "Of course," replied the Doctor, "that needs no proof; for since the time of the
                  apostles no one has been authorized to change the constitution of the
                  Church. They established it as they were instructed by Jesus and the Holy Spirit,
                  whom he sent to teach them, and bring all things to their remembrance. What was
                  settled by their precepts or by their example, can never be unsettled, amended, or
                  modified by any authority upon earth. Whatever, therefore, they made
                  the Church to be, that was the Church, and only that
                  must it be now and always, till Christ comes again."
               "Very good. Now let us go to the Book, and see what the apostolic Churches were in
                     regard to their membership, as this is the point now under
                  consideration.
               
               "You will remember that the first example of the ekklesia, or Church of Christ, was that given at Jerusalem. The
                  people of whom it was composed had been 'prepared' and 'made ready' by John. He
                  had admitted them into the kingdom by baptizing them upon a
                  profession of their penitence and faith, according to the command of Him by whom
                  he was sent. The precise time when the first Church was constituted
                  out of these materials, does not certainly appear. We first find it
                     transacting the business of the kingdom, as an 'ekklesia,' in Acts i. 15, 26. It then consisted of
                  only one hundred and twenty, who met in an upper room, and, after prayer,
                  proceeded to elect one of their number to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death
                  of Judas. These were all 'disciples:' they had consequently been instructed. They
                  were all professed believers in Christ; and they were all people of prayer. We are
                  justified, therefore, in the conclusion that they were all professed
                     believers. They were men and women, but no children.
                  Shortly after this, we read that three thousand were added to this ekklesia in a single day; and from henceforth it is
                  designated 'the ekklesia [or Church] which was
                  at Jerusalem.' The original hundred and twenty were praying men and praying
                  women—disciples of the Lord. The three thousand were such as had been 'pricked in
                  their hearts;' (Acts ii. 37;) were old enough to 'repent' and 'gladly receive' the
                  gospel; and when they had done so they were baptized, and added to
                  the Church; and, like the original number, 'they continued steadfastly in the
                  apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.'
                  (Acts ii. 42.) It seems, therefore, that not a single one of these was a little,
                  helpless baby. Those that continued to be added daily (verse 47) were 'such as
                  should be saved;' or, as the original reads, literally 'the saved.'
                  They were consequently of necessity believers, since no others can be called 'the
                  saved;' and especially, since all experience shows that infants added in their
                  infancy, if always saved, are often saved in sin. The five thousand others that
                  were added to them, (Acts iv. 4,) were those who had heard and understood the word
                  preached, and had believed it to the saving of their souls; and so were the
                  'multitudes, both of men and women,' who were added as recorded in Acts v. 14. So,
                  also, the great company of the priests (Acts vi. 7) were not admitted till they
                  had become 'obedient to the faith.' This Church, therefore, evidently consisted of
                  'disciples'—of those who could hear and understand the word—had believed it and
                  repented of their sins, and then had been baptized. Here are over eight thousand
                  men and women expressly mentioned, besides the 'multitudes' of others, who are
                  said to have been added to this ekklesia,
                     but there was not one of them who was not a PROFESSED BELIEVER. If
                  there were any infants, Luke was a false historian. So we may set it down as one
                  of the characteristic marks of a true Church of Christ that it consists of
                  professed believers, and not of 'professed believers and their
                     children,' as some teach, nor of believers and all the
                  children that can be procured to receive the rite of baptism, whether their
                  parents be believers or not, as our Methodist friends maintain, in common with the
                  largest number of the advocates of Pedobaptism."
               "Stop a little, if you please, Mr. Courtney," exclaimed Theodosia; "we shall
                  probably have occasion to refer to these characteristic marks again and again, and
                  I would like to have them written down."
               So saying, she produced a little tablet from her reticule, and wrote upon it as
                     follows:
                  
                     SIGNS OR MARKS BY WHICH TO RECOGNIZE A TRUE CHURCH OF JESUS
                        CHRIST. I. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                  
               
               "If you consider me a party to this investigation," said the Methodist, "I will
                  take the liberty to enter my protest against the adoption of this test."
               "And so will I, by permission of this company, whom I take to be really desirous
                  to know all the truth as it is in Jesus."
               The last speaker was a man in the full prime of life, though a few white hairs
                  were prematurely mingled with his jet-black locks. He had a large and
                  well-proportioned person, but he was very pale, and his intense and large black
                  eyes looked larger and blacker in contrast with the marble brow above, and the
                  ashy, bloodless complexion of the face below. He had been listening all the
                  morning most attentively, and had occasionally made a little note in his
                  memorandum-book of the points presented, but evidently with the design of using
                  them at some other time rather than the present. As he spoke, he laid his hand
                  emphatically upon the edge of the table, and showed that, however reluctant he
                  might have been to engage in the conversation before, he was now quite ready to
                  take his part.
               "I have listened," continued he, addressing Mr. Courtney, "with much pleasure to
                  most of your remarks, for I love to witness a fearless and bold investigation of
                  any subject, and especially of one connected with our holy religion. I have been
                  confined to my berth from sickness till this morning, and so have not enjoyed the
                  pleasure of being present at your previous conversations, which, I understand,
                  have occupied a part of every morning for several days; and I had no intention of
                  taking any part in your discussion. I hope, however, you will pardon me if I
                  suggest that there is really no foundation for this test which you
                  have so plausibly set up, and endeavored to establish by such an ingenious array
                  of Scripture proof."
               "Of course," rejoined the Methodist, "we cannot admit such a test as this, for if
                  we do, it will at once unchurch almost the whole of Christendom."
               "That is true," said the other, "but it is not upon that ground that I object to
                  it. I understand that the only appeal in this discussion is to the Holy
                     Word. And although for myself I feel bound to interpret that word in
                  accordance with what 'the Church' has in every age and every country understood it
                  to express, yet, so fully am I convinced that the Church has understood it
                  according to its natural and legitimate signification, that I am quite willing to
                  appeal to that word as it stands recorded, and take each sentence in its common
                  and proper acceptation as the ordinary sense of the language may require; and the
                  objection which I have to the test proposed is that it is really
                     unscriptural: it is not sustained by the Record"
               "That is, certainly," replied Mr. Courtney, "a valid ground of objection. We
                  desire to find the Church which was established by Christ and the
                     apostles. We recognize no authority but the Bible. We know
                  that tradition is a liar; but God's word we know is very truth. As Protestants, we
                  believe it is a sufficient rule, both of our faith and practice. What
                  we cannot find there we do not feel bound to recognize as of any binding force;
                  and we, as individuals, each one accountable for himself to the God of the Bible, feel bound
                  each to examine and learn its teachings for himself. If you can receive the
                     teachings of the Church, it is because you have already settled
                  the question for yourself what the Church really is. But that is the very question
                  about which we are at issue. We, as yet, know not what the Church is, nor where it
                  is, and consequently we can neither ask for nor receive her interpretations. But
                  if you will come to this Book, and let us examine for ourselves into the meaning
                  of the words, we will gladly entertain any and all the objections you may
                  offer."
               "I think, sir," replied the Bishop, (for it was no other than the Protestant
                  Episcopal Bishop of the Diocese of —,) "I think, sir, I understand your position;
                  and I am willing to meet you on your own ground; and what I say is simply this:
                     It is not true that the apostolical Churches consisted
                     only, and in all cases, of adult believers."
               "Then we must set aside our test," replied Mr. Courtney; "but you do not expect us
                  to take your word for it. You will, of course, tell us what others
                  were admitted to Church membership by the apostles, and point us to the chapter
                  and the verse, that we may see it in the Record for ourselves."
               "Certainly, my dear sir, I will show it to you in the Book;" and as he said so he
                  drew the Bible towards him, and turned to the sixteenth chapter of Acts. "It must
                  be admitted," said he, "that the account given of the Church at Jerusalem makes no
                  special mention of any but such as you have designated; but it does not follow of
                  necessity that there were no others. We do not read that the apostles
                  ever were baptized, but yet we have no doubt they were; and, though there is no
                  record made of the baptism and consequent Church membership of the children and
                  families of the Jerusalem Christians, yet, since we know that
                     elsewhere the apostles baptized the whole household upon the faith
                  of the head of the house, and since Peter, in that discourse in which he first
                  proclaimed the tidings and the terms of Christ's salvation to the Jews, assured
                  them that the promise was not merely to them, but to their children, I think we
                  are justified in concluding that they must have afterwards received the children
                  of the Jerusalem Christians—though there is no record of the fact. And this
                  assumption is greatly strengthened by the circumstance that we read neither in the
                  Scriptures, nor in any other history of those days, of any excitement or commotion
                  upon the subject of excluding the children, as there surely must have been had so
                  great a change in the economy of the Church of God been actually made; for, under
                  the regulations of the Jewish Church, children had always been
                  admitted to membership, and could not now have been excluded without occasioning
                  at least some questioning, if not remonstrance."
               "You may think us very unreasonable," replied Mr. Percy, 'but we can be satisfied
                  with nothing less than some plain precept telling us that children
                     may become Church members, or some example showing
                  that they did become Church members. Our investigation of the
                  Scriptures has taught us already that the Church is a business-doing
                     body: a body to which Christ, the King, intrusted the execution of his
                  laws and the administration of his ordinances. We cannot conceive of such a body
                  being composed of little children either in whole or in part; and, unless you will
                  show us the command that brought them in, or some example of their actually being
                  in, we must doubt if they ever were in. In the Church at Jerusalem, the only one
                  which we have yet examined in reference to this point, we have found the record of
                  the admission of eight thousand members, and great multitudes more, but they are
                     all, without any single exception, spoken of as men
                  and women who could hear the word, believe the word, receive it with gladness, and
                  continue in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship. There is not the slightest
                  intimation that they brought their children with them, or that there was a single crying baby in the whole
                  vast company. But you say there may have been, though there is no
                  record of it. I might say, so there may have been
                     monkeys! The thing is not impossible in the abstract. But where is
                  the proof? Is it in the fact that Peter said, 'The promise is to you and to your
                  children?' But that was not a promise of Church membership, but only
                  that God would 'pour out his Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your
                  daughters shall prophesy,' etc. What has this to do with babies? Is it in the fact
                  that children were circumcised under the law of Moses? But this Church was neither
                  a continuation nor a modification of the Mosaic dispensation. It was a
                     new institution. It belonged to the new kingdom which
                  the prophets had foretold, and which Christ came to establish. 'The law and the
                  prophets were until John.' Then they were superseded by the coming of
                  the Lord. He made the laws for his own kingdom. If infants were members of the
                  Jewish economy, it was because God had so ordained and expressly
                     declared through Abraham and through Moses; and if Jesus declared
                  as plainly or at all that they must be members of his new
                  institution, you can show us the record in the New Testament, which is the law of
                  his kingdom, as the Old was of the other."
               "I am aware, gentlemen, that the inferences I drew do not make it
                     certain that there were infants in the Church as it was
                     constituted at Jerusalem, but they at least make it exceedingly
                  probable; and if we can find that they were admitted at any time or
                  in any place by any of the apostles, it will be all the
                  same in regard to our argument as though we could show them in the Church at
                  Jerusalem."
               "That is quite true, sir," replied Mr. Courtney. "Find them where you can, and we
                  will yield the point."
               "I was about to call your attention to the 16th of Acts, in which we have two
                  instances of the reception by Paul and Silas of the whole household of a believer;
                  and you know these are but two of several others of a similar kind, as that of
                  Cornelius, of Stephanas, etc."
               "Did any of these households consist of unbelievers, or of little infants?"
               "It is most likely that they did: most families have such."
               "But is there any proof that there were actually any in
                     these families? Are any of them said to be
                  unbelievers or infants? On the contrary, is it not said of the household of
                  Stephanas, that they 'devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints?' Is it not
                  expressly said of the family of Cornelius, that the 'Holy Spirit fell upon them,
                  and that they spake with tongues, and magnified God?' (Acts x. 44-46.) Were not
                  Lydia's household 'the brethren' (spoken of in the 40th verse of the chapter) whom
                  Paul and Silas comforted, after they left the prison and returned to her dwelling?
                  And did not Paul 'speak the word to all' the household of the jailer, and did not
                  'all his house' unite with him in believing? Ver. 34. There is, if I read rightly,
                  just as much evidence that they 'believed,' as there is that they
                  were 'baptized.'"
               "But there are," said the Methodist, "at least two places in which children are
                  recognized as Church members, and those are Col. iii. 20, 21, where Paul says,
                  'Children, obey your parents in all things,' and Ephesians vi. 1, 'Children, obey
                  your parents in the Lord.' If they were not Church members, how could they be
                  exhorted to obey in the Lord? And, in fact, if they were not in the
                  Church, how could Paul address them at all, as his epistles were written to the
                  Churches?"
               "My dear sir," replied Mr. Courtney, "do you suppose one ceases to be his father's
                     child when he is old enough to believe the gospel? The child among
                  the Greeks did not legally become a man until he was
                     twenty-five, just as he does not legally become a man with us
                  until he is twenty-one. Till then he was, in the language of that
                  age, called a child— sometimes a
                     little child, though old enough to have been counted a man with
                  us. But, not to quibble about words, one thing is certain: these
                  Ephesian and Colossian children could not have been
                     babes, otherwise it was folly to address them. They must have been
                  old enough to understand the epistle, otherwise it could with no
                  propriety appeal to them. And if old enough for this, they were old enough to
                  understand the gospel and believe in Christ. Hence the apostle, in the beginning
                  of the letter, addresses the Colossians as 'saints and faithful brethren in
                  Christ,' (Col. i. 2,) and the letter to the Ephesians is addressed to 'saints' who
                  were 'faithful in Jesus Christ.' (Eph. i. 1.). Moreover, they were people who
                  'trusted in Christ,' and 'who loved the saints,' (i. 13-15.) They had been dead,
                  but brought to life by the gospel, (ii. 1.) They 'had been in darkness, but were
                  now light in the Lord,' v. 8."
               "But is there nothing," asked the Doctor, "in the history of
                     any of the other Churches at variance with the remarkable facts at
                  Jerusalem? Were all who at any time united with any one of the
                  Churches as evidently believers as those were in the first Church?"
               "You shall judge for yourself, sir. The next Church of which we have any account
                  is that at Samaria, and of that we read, (Acts viii. 12,) 'They believed Philip,
                  and were baptized, both men and women.' If there were also children, Luke was a
                  false historian, or he must have mentioned them. The members of the Church at Rome
                  are spoken of as believers, and such believers that their 'faith was spoken of
                  throughout the world.' (Rom. i. 7, 8.) To the Corinthians Paul wrote, 'Unto the
                  Church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus,
                  with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both
                  theirs and ours.' (1 Cor. i. 2.)
               "The Church of the Thessalonians, Paul says, 'received the word in much
                  affliction, with joy in the Holy Ghost.' (Thess i 6.) And nowhere, in
                     any place, is there any intimation given that
                     any Church consisted, or could consist, o any but
                  professed believers. In fact, the admission of any others must be for ever
                  precluded by the very objects for which the Church was constituted. It was to be,
                  as we have seen, the judiciary and executive in Christ's kingdom. It is the Church
                  that is to receive members. (Rom. xiv. 1.) The Church is to cast out the wicked.
                  (1 Cor. v. 4, 5.) The Church is to restore the penitent. (2 Cor. ii. 7, 8.) The
                  Church is to set apart ministers. (Acts i. 23; vi. 5.) The Church is to send out
                  missionaries. (Acts xiii. 3.) The ordinances of the kingdom are in the keeping of
                  the Church; and in the Church, when it has come together, the Lord's Supper is to
                  be observed, as a perpetual memento of his love, until Christ comes again. (1 Cor.
                  xi. 20, 33.) Now, such duties as these cannot be performed by little
                     children, and will not be properly performed by the unconverted. To
                  suppose that Christ gave such duties in charge to children and the unconverted, in
                  short, to any but believers, is to suppose him guilty of such folly as we would
                  expect to find in none but an idiot or a madman."
               "But you forget," replied the Methodist, "that the Church did not consist
                     entirely of such, and in our communion they have none
                  of the privileges of membership until they have professed a desire for conversion,
                  and have joined the class, and gone through their six months' probation."
               "Though the Church has always admitted little children by baptism," added the
                  Bishop, with dignity, "yet the rite of confirmation has ever been regarded as
                  indispensable to their recognition as complete Church members."
               "I know very well," said Mr. Courtney, "that you have both of you these
                  unscriptural and anti-scriptural appendages to what you call the Church. I do not
                  wish to discuss them now We will come
                  to them in regular order by and by. We have seen in the Scriptures that Christ set
                  up a kingdom on the earth, as had been foretold by the prophets. In that kingdom
                  he alone is king. He made the laws: he appointed the ordinances. The visible
                  administration of these laws and ordinances he vested in 'the Church,' which, we
                  have also seen, consisted of the believers in any place who were
                  gathered into an official assembly to transact this business in his name. You say
                  that this Church consisted of 'believers and their children,' or of believers and
                     all children who can be procured to be baptized. The only proof
                  you offer that has even the semblance of testimony is, that several
                     families were baptized by the apostles. Now I say, first, there is
                  no proof in the record that there was a single child, or an unbeliever, in any one
                  of these families. You can find whole families of adults, and of believers, in
                  every neighborhood, and such these might have been, for aught that is in the
                  record. Then, I say, in the next place, that the record actually
                     shows that they were all believers, since they are
                  called brethren, and are said to believe, rejoice, speak with tongues, glorify
                  God, and give themselves to the work of the ministry.
               "This is enough, surely, to set aside your proof; but now I go still further, and
                  say that to have received the unconverted, whether children or adults, would have
                  utterly subverted the very objects for which the Church was instituted, and
                  consequently it would have been no less than madness to admit them. I know we
                  differ here, because we differ in regard to what the objects are for
                  the accomplishment of which the Church was constituted. You Episcopalians look
                  upon it as the instrumentality of salvation. You baptize the children and receive
                  them into the Church to save their souls. You pretend thus to
                     regenerate and make them members of Christ. The
                     Scriptures teach, however, that they must be first
                  made members of Christ, (by faith,) and then made members of the
                  Church of Christ. They do not come into the Church for salvation, but
                  they are entitled to its privileges and required to assist in the transaction of
                  its business, because they are already of the saved. They must belong to
                     Christ before they can be qualified to act for Christ. He
                  does not set men and women (or little babies either) to administer the laws and
                  ordinances of his kingdom until they have first become the willing subjects of the
                  King. And if the Church be, as we have seen that it is, the authorized executive
                  of his kingdom, it follows, of course, that none who are not professed
                     believers upon him can be admitted to its membership. To admit them
                  would be to place the management of the affairs of his kingdom in the hands of his
                  enemies."
               "But, my dear sir," exclaimed the Methodist, "we do not intrust the management of
                  the business of the Church to the hands of the baptized children of
                  the Church."
               "That is very true, sir. You do not intrust it to the children nor to the adults.
                  You do not intrust it to the Church, at all. You preachers have usurped the whole
                  authority, and vested it in yourselves. The Church has nothing to do but to
                  reverently obey you, as you have sworn reverently to obey your bishop, or chief
                  minister. And you, sir," addressing the Episcopalian bishop, "have also taken upon
                  yourself to lord it over God's heritage. But we will come to speak of these things
                  hereafter. What I wish to say now is simply this: you both baptize little children
                  to make them members of the Church. When you have done so, I suppose
                  you will not deny that they are members; and if they are members,
                     how dare you exclude them from any right or any privilege that Christ
                     conferred upon Church members? Does the Word anywhere authorize you to
                  exclude Church members (except for open sin) from the table of the Lord, until
                  they become 'seekers,' or until they have learned a few questions and answers in
                  the catechism, and have had the bishop's hands put on their heads? Does the word anywhere authorize you to drive any
                  Church member (except for open sin) out of a business meeting of the Church, or to
                  deprive him of equal privileges there with any other member? If it does, you can
                  show me the text. If it does not, your baby members are entitled to equal
                  privileges with any other members."
               "Not at all, sir," replied the bishop. "They would be excluded from an equal
                  participation in the privileges and duties of Church members, from their very
                  incapacity properly to enjoy or perform them; and, consequently, no express
                  scriptural injunction was required."
               "But if that be so," replied Mr. Courtney, "it is surely an act of most consummate
                  folly on your part to make Church members of them. If they can neither enjoy the
                  privileges nor perform the duties of Church members, what business have they in
                  the Church? Why make them members till they are qualified to act the part of
                  members?"
               "It is useless, sir," said the bishop, very solemnly, "for us to dispute upon this
                  point, until we have agreed upon another; and that is, whether Christ did not
                  institute the ordinances of his house as a means of salvation?"
               "O, well, if you baptize the baby to save its soul, that is another
                  matter; and if you make it a Church member to give it the benefits of Church
                  forms, it can perhaps receive them. But I have not been able to find in the book
                  any authority for conferring these or any other Church privileges upon any but the
                  penitent and the believing. The Christian dispensation was introduced by John; and
                  John received and baptized none who had not professed their penitence and
                  faith.
               "Christ was himself the next preacher in this dispensation; and he, like John,
                  proclaimed that men should first repent—should first believe, and
                     then should be baptized.
               "Peter was the first to preach the gospel, after Jesus had gone up; and he said,
                  like his Master, 'Repent and be baptized.' And they were not baptized till they
                  had 'gladly received the word.'
               "When Philip preached Christ to the Samaritans, they first believed, and then they
                  were baptized.
               "When the eunuch asked for baptism, he was informed that it could be given only on
                  condition of his faith.
               "Paul was not baptized until he was a penitent believer.
               "The household of Cornelius were not baptized until the Holy Ghost had fallen on
                  them, thus giving evidence that they belonged to Christ.
               "Lydia was not baptized until the Lord had first opened her heart, so that she
                  attended to and believed the gospel, as it was preached by Paul.
               "The jailer believed in Christ, with all his house, and then they were
                  baptized.
               "Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, with all his
                  house; and many of the Corinthians, hearing, believed, and then they were
                  baptized.
               "All the Churches to whom the epistles were addressed, consisted, as we have seen,
                  of believers in Christ. And, in the language of the famous Pedobaptist, Richard
                  Baxter, author of the Saint's Rest, I can say: 'In a word, I know of no one
                     word in Scripture that giveth us the least intimation that ever man was
                     baptized without the profession of a saving faith, or that giveth the least
                     encouragement to baptize any upon any other faith.'"
               "I think, gentlemen," said Doctor Thinkwell, "we shall be obliged to let this test
                  stand on our tablet. It seems to me that, if any thing can be proved
                  from Scripture, this has been, namely, that the first Churches consisted
                     only of professed believers. And now let us hasten on, or we will finish
                  our voyage before we have completed our examination Is there any other peculiarity which invariably and
                  of necessity characterized these ancient Church members?"
               "Yes, sir," replied Mr. Courtney. "They were, of necessity, every one of them
                     baptized; for it was by the rite of baptism that they were
                  admitted into the visible kingdom; and the visible Church could not
                  go outside the visible kingdom for her members."
               "Then you do not claim that baptism is the door of entrance into the
                     Church?"
               "Strictly speaking, it is not, sir. It is the way of entrance into 'the visible
                     kingdom;' and through the kingdom to the Church. No one can reach
                  the Church, except through baptism; but every baptized believer is not a Church
                  member. The eunuch was in the visible kingdom as soon as he was baptized; but he
                  was not a member of any Church. The Church consists of such baptized believers as
                  have voluntarily associated themselves together according to the scriptural
                  constitution, to administer Christ's ordinances, and enforce his laws among
                  themselves. But it is just as true that no one can be a Church member who has not
                  been baptized, as though baptism were itself the door of entrance into the
                  Church."
               "Excuse me, Mr. Courtney," said Theodosia; "but do not Baptists receive members
                  into the Church by baptism?"
               "Certainly not, madam. They sometimes think they do; and, in fact, a
                     formal admission is dispensed with, and their membership is taken
                  for granted. But the facts are these: The candidate comes before the Church and
                  asks for baptism. (If it were not convenient to come to the Church, he might ask
                  it of any one whom the Church had previously authorized to administer it. But it
                  is always desirable and prudent to have the advice and sanction of the Church when
                  it is practicable.) The Church, after hearing his experience of
                     grace, in order that it may be able to judge whether he is
                  really a penitent believer, directs him (if his experience ba satisfactory) to be
                  baptized. And then, after his baptism, the members of the Church, or the pastor in
                  their name, gives him the right-hand of fellowship, in token of his reception as a
                  member. He first gives himself to Christ in his heart, by faith; then he goes to
                  Christ's people, and makes profession of his penitence and faith.
                  Upon this they are authorized and required to admit him into the visible
                     kingdom by baptism; and he then gives himself to some
                  company (ekklesia) of Christ's people, to walk
                  with them in all Christ's ordinances: to aid them in their labors, and be subject
                  to them in love. In general, however, the application for baptism is regarded by
                  both parties as an application for reception into the Church as a member, and the
                  determination that he ought to be baptized is accompanied by a resolution to
                  regard him as a member so soon as he shall have been baptized; and he is,
                  therefore, immediately upon his baptism, a member, to all intents and purposes,
                  even without any formal act of recognition."
               "All this is nothing to our present purpose," said Mr. Percy. "The question before
                  us is not whether one is made a Church member by baptism, but whether
                  he can be a member before baptism and without baptism? Whether
                  baptism makes him a member, or only qualifies him to become a member, it is
                  certain that all the members of the apostolic Churches were baptized
                  people."
               "Let me so write it in the tablet," said Theodosia. She wrote, and it then read
                     thus:
                  
                     SIGNS OR MARKS BY WHICH TO RECOGNIZE A TRUE CHURCH OF JESUS
                        CHRIST. I. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        II. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their
                        faith.
                  
               
               "I think, my dear," said Mr. Percy, when she read it aloud, "you have slightly
                  exceeded our instructions in adding that last clause. We have seen that the
                  Scriptures teach that they were all believers; and we know they were all baptized;
                  but our friends here may object to your making the baptism necessarily
                     subsequent to a profession of faith, for that will cut off even real
                  Christians who chanced to be baptized before they were old enough to
                  believe or make profession."
               "What if it does?" she answered. "I thought we were to decide these questions by
                  the teachings of the Book; and if the Book teaches that Church members must be
                  professed believers, it teaches just as plainly, and by the same passages, that
                  baptism must follow faith. It was 'repent and be baptized,' 'believe
                  and be baptized,' that John and Christ commanded; and all Church members that we
                  read of, first repented and believed, and were then
                  baptized upon profession of their penitence and faith. We have not
                  found a single case of baptism first, and faith and penitence coming
                  after it."
               "She is right, sir," said the Doctor, "so far as our investigations have gone; but
                  is it certain that we have seen all the teachings of the Word upon
                  this point?"
               "If there were even the shadow of proof that any such in stance existed, we should
                  have had it paraded by our Pedobaptist friends long ere this," said Mr. Courtney.
                  "They have told us that infants were circumcised, and, therefore, ought to
                     be baptized: that Christ took little children in his arms and
                     blessed them, and, therefore, they ought to be
                     baptized: that he told his disciples to let them come to
                  him, in order that he might put his hands on them and bless them, and, therefore,
                  they ought to be baptized: that the word of God nowhere
                     forbids their baptism in direct terms, and, therefore, they
                     ought to be baptized: they tell us that children are born
                     sinners, and, therefore, ought to be baptized: that
                  they are called holy, and, therefore, they ought to be
                     baptized. They tell us that they are born in the Church,
                  and, therefore, ought to be baptized; and that they ought to be
                     baptized to bring them into the Church. They give a vast number and a
                  great variety of strange and contradictory reasons why they ought to be
                     baptized; but they have never presented any single
                     instance in which either an infant, or any other who had not made
                  profession of penitence or faith, ever WAS baptized by
                  John or Christ, or any of the apostles—except so far as they may take it for
                  granted that the baptized households or families were not believing
                  families—a supposition which we have seen is utterly untenable."
               "If," said Theodosia, "the baptism of these families proves that
                     little infants were baptized, I will undertake to prove that
                     little infants voted for General Taylor when he was chosen
                  President; for I can find a dozen men who will each of them testify that he and
                  all his family voted for the hero of Monterey and Buena Vista. But, since little
                  infants are not capable of voting, and since the Constitution requires that every
                  voter shall be twenty-one years of age, I take it for granted that these families
                  consisted of grown-up boys, or others legally qualified to vote. What would you
                  think, Doctor, of a writer on the constitutional conditions of citizenship in the United States, who should
                  maintain that little infants were certainly entitled to vote, for the history of
                  the country records several instances in which whole families had
                  voted for Washington, for Jefferson, for Jackson, and Taylor!"
               "I would think," interrupted Mr. Courtney, "that he exhibited quite
                  as much common sense, and quite as much acquaintance with the rules of logic, as
                  those doctors of divinity who maintain that infants must have been baptized,
                  because among the thousands and thousands who believed and were baptized in the
                  apostles' days there were some half a dozen households.
               "But we are discussing again a position which we had already settled. We have seen
                  that none but professed believers could be Church members; and we are now to
                  inquire whether they could be Church members before they had been
                     baptized?"
               "I hardly think it necessary to make an argument on this point," said Mr. Percy,
                  "since all denominations, so far as I know, substantially agree that
                  no one can be admitted to the Church without that ceremony which they call
                  baptism."
               "I would be glad, nevertheless," replied the Doctor, "to know upon what
                     scriptural authority all denominations rest this item of their faith and
                  practice."
               "That is very easily made out, Doctor. 1st. Christ commanded them to
                  believe and be baptized, and this is, therefore, after profession of faith and
                  penitence, the first formal act of external obedience.
               "2d. All of whom we read in the Book were at once baptized upon profession of
                  their faith. The three thousand who believed upon the day of Pentecost, and all
                  the many thousands who were added to them in various places afterwards, were all
                  baptized. No instance is on record of one being received without it.
               "3d. The first Christian Churches were habitually addressed as
                     baptized persons. We are told that they had 'been baptized into
                     Christ,' 'buried with him by baptism,' and the like.
               "These proofs are so strong and complete that, although some have dispensed with
                  any personal profession of faith, yet no denomination claiming to be
                  a Christian Church has ever dispensed with what they called baptism, or considered
                  those as complete Church members who had not received something which
                  they regarded as baptism."
               "How, then," asked the Doctor, "can this be a characteristic or
                     distinguishing mark, since all the claimants possess it in
                  common?"
               "The true Church, sir," said Mr. Courtney, "must not merely have a rite which is
                     called baptism: it must have actual baptism: it must
                  have that very baptism which Jesus Christ commanded, and these
                     first Churches practiced. That cannot be a true Church of Christ which
                  has abolished his baptism and substituted some other
                     ceremony in the place of it, even though that other ceremony should be
                  called by the same name with his."
               "But, my dear sir," exclaimed the Doctor, "don't you see that if we attempt to
                  make any practical application of this mark, we shall be first obliged to go over
                  the whole baptismal controversy in order to ascertain what was the
                  act which Christ in fact commanded?"
               "Not at all, sir. It will not be necessary to prove what was the
                  original act, since they themselves admit it; nor will it be needful to prove that
                  they have changed it, for they have, some of them at least, confessed
                  it, and openly claim the right to change it again—as often in their
                  discretion as they may think best.
               "Very well. Then we may consider ourselves as having taken at least two steps in
                  our investigation. We have ascertained
                  tained that a Church, as regards its members must consist of professed believers,
                  and that these believers must have been baptized. What have we next?"
               "If you will permit me to suggest another mark," said Mr. Percy, "I will remind
                  you that in our examination yesterday we found that the Church, when regarded as
                  an actual, visible, working body, was in every instance a local and
                  an independent body. Now, since it is the actual and visible Church
                  for which we are looking, we will find it a local, separate, and independent
                  organization, complete in itself, and not bound up with others in any great
                     ecclesiastical establishment. It cannot be any collection of federated,
                  religious societies, mutually bound together and subordinated to each other, or to
                  some common head. It stands alone, supreme under Christ, as regards its own
                  membership; but having no authority beyond the pale of its own number. There is,
                  in the Scriptures, no appearance of subordination of Church to Church, of one
                  Church to many, or of all to one. There were no territorial Churches and no
                  national Churches. The Church at Jerusalem was one Church: the Church
                  at Antioch was another Church: the Church at Ephesus was another.
                  Each of the multitude of the Churches which were 'scattered about throughout all
                  Judea, and Galilee, and Samaria,' was just as much a Church as the Church at
                  Jerusalem. There was no Church of Judea including them all; nor did any one of
                  them, or all combined, pretend to exercise authority over any other."
               "Certainly," said the Doctor. "If we have discovered any thing about
                  the Church, we have discovered that it is a local and independent
                  organization."
               "And this is equally true of the Church," said Mr. Courtney, "whether we consider
                  it as an actual, visible, and working assembly, met together for the
                  worship of God and the administration of the laws and ordinances of Christ, or
                  whether, in accordance with the usage of modern language, we employ the term
                  generically to signify our mental conception of all the visible
                  Churches in the world, as if they were united in one great universal
                     assembly. The whole cannot be different from the parts of which it is
                  composed.
               "If every true Church is, as we have seen, a local and independent organization,
                  then the aggregate of them all cannot include any that are not thus local and
                  independent; and if federated ecclesiastical establishments are not true and
                  scriptural Churches, then such establishments can make no part of a true and
                  scriptural conception of a visible Church universal."
               "It is of no consequence at all to me," said the Doctor, "what this
                     imaginary body may be composed of. I want to find the real. I can
                  readily conceive of a great visible Church universal, including all
                     true visible Churches. I can conceive, also, of a great visible
                  Church, including all that claim to be Churches. I can conceive of a
                  vast invisible Church, including all believers, past, present, and to
                  come; but these are not the objects of my search. I want to find that visible
                  organization to which Christ has intrusted the administration of his laws and
                  ordinances; and I am satisfied that when I find it, it will be a local and
                     independent organization, composed of baptized believers."
               "Let me write this third mark in my tablet," said Theodosia.
               When she had written, the tablet read thus:
                  
                     SIGNS OR MARKS BY WHICH TO RECOGNIZE A TRUE CHURCH OF JESUS
                        CHRIST. I. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        II. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their
                        faith. III.It is a local organization, and independent of all
                        others.
                  
               
               "I do not feel quite satisfied with this last mark," said Mr. Courtney. "It tells
                  the truth, but not the whole truth. Each Church of Jesus Christ is a separate
                  organization, complete in itself, and competent of itself to exercise all the
                  functions of a Church. It can receive members. Rom. xiv. 1. It can exercise
                  discipline (1 Cor. v. 1-13) by expelling or suspending members. It can restore
                  them upon repentance. 2 Cor. ii. 1-11. It can reject false teachers, and cast out
                  those who hold false doctrines. Tit. iii. 10: Rev. ii. 14, 15, 20. It can elect
                  its own officers. Acts vi. 1-7; xiv. 23. It can ordain and send out missionaries,
                  or evangelists, to found other Churches, which, however, when established, shall
                  be as independent as itself. Acts xiii. 1. And it can do all that, in the
                  Scripture, is predicated of any Church of Christ. But, while it is independent of
                  all other Churches or federations in its organization, and in the exercise of its
                  functions, it is so absolutely dependent on Christ its Lord and King, that it
                     can make no laws, but only execute the laws which Christ has made;
                  and it can exercise no authority, but such as was specially delegated
                  to it by Christ. It is simply and only the executive body to which
                  Christ has intrusted the administration of his kingdom, according to the
                  constitution and laws which he made for its instruction and government. I would
                  therefore have preferred that when you wrote it down as an
                     independent organization, you had added some word to show the
                  limit of this independence."
               "I think; sir," replied Mr. Percy, "that we will understand well enough what we
                  mean by our mark, especially after your explanation; but let me ask if this
                  absolute recognition of Christ as its only head and lawgiver does not
                  itself constitute one characteristic mark of a true Church? If it is the executive
                  of his kingdom, it must, of course, execute the laws of the King. Christ is its
                  sole and only Lord. He makes the laws. It is as his laws, and only as
                  such, that the Church can execute them; and in doing this it must proceed in
                  strict accordance with the requirements of the King. The executive cannot make
                  laws for itself. It is bound by those already made, and must carry them into
                  effect alike, whether it approves or disapproves. It cannot abrogate them. It
                  cannot nullify them. It cannot change or modify them. It can only ask, What was
                  the intention of the Lawgiver? What did he say, and what did he mean by what he
                  said? When this is known, it has no discretion left. If it changes the law; if it
                  refuses to execute it as it was given, it is a virtual rebellion and
                     secession from the dominion of the King. It is no longer his
                     executive. It is no longer his Church. But if it goes still
                  farther, and permits other lords to make laws for it, and
                  acknowledges allegiance to other powers, then it has not only rebelled against and
                  seceded from the rightful sovereign, but has united with his enemies, or at least
                  with his rivals. It is, then, not only no longer a Christian Church, but it is
                     anti-Christian; not only not Christ's, but against Christ's
                  Church. Nor will it make any legal difference whether these new lords and
                  lawgivers make their new regulations in their own name, and openly
                  and avowedly on their own authority, or whether they claim in the
                     name of Christ a right
                     which he has never given them. A Church of Christ has Christ
                     alone for her King and Lawgiver, and can never acknowledge the
                  authority of any man or body of men—not even of herself—to change one jot or
                  tittle of Christ's law, or to institute new laws or regulations in regard to her
                  ordinances, her terms of membership, her rules of discipline, or any thing else
                  that comes within her province as a Church of Christ.
               "That is most certainly an indisputable conclusion, which grows of necessity out
                  of the admission that Christ is her only King. And I do not suppose that any man,
                  or body of men, claiming to be Christians, will deny that Christ is the head over
                  all things to his body, which is the Church, or that any thing is to be received
                  by the Church as a rule either of faith or practice which does not rest upon 'Thus
                  saith the Lord,' as its authority."
               Mrs. Percy took up her tablet again, and entered this mark, and it then read—
               
                  SIGNS OR MARKS BY WHICH TO KNOW A TRUE CHURCH OF CHRIST.
               
               1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
               2d. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their faith.
               3d. It is a local organization, and independent of all others.
               4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and recognizes no authority
                  but his above its own.
               "We have now seen," said Mr. Courtney, "the characteristics of a scriptural Church
                  in regard to its membership and its constitution. We
                  need yet to learn what were its peculiar doctrines, and what were the
                     objects or purposes of its organization."
               "I remember," said Theodosia, "that when we were studying the nature of the
                     kingdom, the other day, we found that all its subjects were
                     voluntary subjects, who had come of their own free will and
                  accord, and had sought for admission. Is it not also a characteristic of a Church
                  within this kingdom that its members must have become such by their own personal
                  and voluntary act?"
               "Certainly it is; and I thank you for reminding us of it; for I had well-nigh
                  forgotten it," said Mr. Courtney. "You may add this mark also to your tablet; for
                  nothing is more certain than that the members of these first Churches (which must
                  ever be the pattern of the true Churches of Christ) became members with their own
                  personal consent, and by their own voluntary act. Each one for himself 'gladly
                  received the word.' They voluntarily 'consorted with' the company of the
                  believers. They were not driven to it by the government, with fines,
                  imprisonments, and stripes. They were not forced by the authority of parents, or
                  of masters. They were not carried in while they were little helpless babes, and
                  made Church members without their own knowledge or consent. Nothing is plainer
                  than the fact that the members of Christ's Church were designed to be converted
                  people—those who had been renewed in the temper and disposition of their minds—who
                  had been regenerated by the power of God, and made new creatures in Christ Jesus.
                  They had been aliens, but now were sons. They had been in darkness, but now were
                  light in the Lord. They had lived after the flesh, but now they lived after the
                  Spirit. Old things had passed away, and all things had become new. Those who had
                  thus been changed would love Christ and love his people, and desire to be
                  associated with them. Such would desire the prosperity of Christ's kingdom, and in
                  their hearts would pray for its advancement. Such, and only such, could be with
                  any propriety intrusted with the management of the business and the administration
                  of the ordinances of the kingdom. Religion is a voluntary thing. Religion is a personal matter. It has
                  to do with personal opinions personal feelings, and personal actions. No one can
                  be religious by proxy. He must repent for himself, believe for himself, love the
                  Lord Jesus for himself: and for himself he must obey, by submitting to baptism as
                  the ordinance of Christ, and uniting with his Church as the people of Christ."
               "I do not see," said the Doctor, "that there can be any objection to this test. We
                  certainly did not find in the Scriptures any instance of involuntary Church
                  membership."
               Theodosia wrote in the tablet a fifth mark, namely:
               "5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act."
               "Now, what shall we say in regard to its doctrine?" asked the Doctor.
               "That," replied Mr. Courtney, "is a much more difficult question than would at
                  first glance appear; for, while all agree that there are certain fundamental
                  doctrines, upon which the whole gospel system is based, it would take too much
                  time, and would too much complicate our present investigation, to examine and
                  determine precisely what they are, and just how far a Church may lose them, or
                  depart from a full belief of them, without ceasing to be a true Church of Jesus
                  Christ."
               "There is, however," said Mr. Percy, "at least one doctrine which is
                  involved in the very nature of the ancient profession of faith; and that is, the
                  Divine nature and Messiahship of Jesus."
               "So also," said Theodosia, "was the doctrine that man is a sinner, and Christ the
                  only Saviour; for these ideas are both involved in penitence and faith."
               "It will answer all our purposes," replied Mr. Courtney, "to say that a true
                  Church of Jesus must believe and teach the fundamental doctrines of the gospel of
                  Christ. We shall not probably disagree about what these doctrines are, so far as
                  to make any difficulty in the way of applying our test; and if we happen to do so,
                  the question can be settled then as well as now."
               Theodosia added therefore this sixth mark:
               "6. It holds, as articles of faith, the fundamental doctrines of the gospel of
                  Christ."
               "We need now, it seems to me, but one thing," said Mr. Percy, "to complete our
                  tablet. It is not every association of Church members, or every
                     assembly of Church members, that constitutes a Church of Christ.
                  His Church was instituted for a specific purpose. It has certain objects in view:
                  certain duties to perform; and it can only be regarded as a Church,
                  when it is considered in its relation to these objects and duties."
               "That is very true, sir. There may be associations or meetings consisting
                  exclusively of real members of a true Church, and even including all
                  the members of such a Church, organized for some secular or moral, or even for a
                  religious purpose, and yet it would not be a Church.
               "The ekklesia of Christ is not a mere association or assembly of his real and
                  visible people; but it is an officialassembly, for specific purposes,
                  clearly designated in the Word.
               "The jury is not a mere assembly of twelve men; or of twelve men properly
                  qualified to be jurors; or of twelve actual jurors (when released from their
                  official duties as jurors and) engaged in some other business. It is 'a
                     jury' only when properly qualified, duly organized and acting in its
                     officialcapacity, in accordance with the laws of its existence. So
                  the Church is not a mere assembly of Church members, when met together for any of
                  the common or uncommon purposes of life; but only an official assembly, for the
                  purposes enjoined in the law of the King, by whose authority it
                  exists, and in whose name it acts."
               "Do you mean to say," asked Theodosia, "that the Church is in being only so long as it is in official
                  session? Does the Church cease to be a Church when it is
                  dismissed, and only become one again when it has again
                  assembled?"
               "Only in the same sense, madam, that our legislature ceases to be a legislature
                  when it adjourns for dinner. Its members are still members, duly qualified and
                  ready to act; but they cannot act as a legislature till
                  they come together again as an official body. And if, in the
                  interval, any of the members, or all of the members, had gone to a
                  political meeting, and passed resolutions, or nominated candidates, or formed a
                  temperance society, those would not have been acts of 'the
                     legislature,' and would have no legal sanction. So the Church, when it
                  has been dismissed, still exists in the being and qualifications of its members;
                  but it can perform no Church action, as the judiciary and executive
                  in the kingdom of Christ, until it shall have come together as an official
                     body. But we were about to inquire concerning the specific objects for
                  which Christ's Church was constituted. These we must learn, as we have all that we
                  know about the Church, from the teachings of the book. We must ascertain what the
                  Church was instructed to do, and what the apostolic Churches actually
                     did, in their official capacity, as Churches of Jesus Christ.
               "This will not give us much trouble, after the examination we have already made.
                  From the instructions which the Master gave to the offended brother, Matthew
                  xviii., we have seen that one of its duties was to adjust disagreements which
                  might arise among its members. From Acts i. 22, vi. 5, we learn that it was to
                  choose its own officers. From Acts xi. 22, xiii. 3, we see that it was its
                  province to set apart and send out missionaries. From 1 Cor. v. 13, we find it was
                  to exclude the sinful and disorderly; and from 2 Cor. ii. 8, to restore such upon
                  evidence of their repentance. From 1 Cor. xi. 20-34, we learn that it was to
                  regularly observe the ordinance of the Lord's Supper, in remembrance of him. From
                  Rev. ii. 14, 15, that it was to take proper measures to preserve the purity of
                  doctrine; and from 2 Thess. iii. 6, and 1 Cor. xi. 2, that it must maintain the
                  ordinances in their purity, as it had received them."
               "I think," said Mr. Percy, "we might sum up the whole matter in few words. The
                  Church is the visible executive and judiciary of the kingdom. As the executive, it
                  receives members, elects officers, ordains ministers, sends out evangelists, or
                  missionaries, observes ordinances, and provides for the regular and public worship
                  of God. As the judiciary, it settles disputes, excludes the disorderly, restores
                  the penitent, condemns false doctrines, and does whatever is needful to preserve
                  the peace and purity of its members.
               "We have found no instance of its exercising legislative powers. It
                  makes no new laws. It ventures not to repeal, or even modify, the laws of Christ:
                  this were to invade the prerogative of the King.
               "The only instance which seems, at first glance, like an act of
                  legislation, is that in which the apostles and elders associated the
                  Church with them in their decree about circumcision. Acts xv. 22, 23. But it was
                  to the apostles and elders that the Church at Antioch had sent. And care is taken
                  to show that the binding authority of the decree is not in the Church, but in the
                  Holy Ghost. And from Acts xvi. 4 we learn, that although the brethren
                  had been apparently associated with the inspired apostles and elders, yet it
                     was only in the sending of the messengers; for the decree is here
                  expressly called the decree of the apostles and elders which were at
                  Jerusalem, as distinct and separate from the Church. They were
                  inspired and fully authorized to legislate; but the
                     Church could only execute the laws which the King had enacted, or
                  might enact, through those whom he inspired to speak his words."
            
            
               
               FIFTH DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  In which the Tablet is completed—The great difficulty—A new character.
               
               WHEN our company had assembled on the morning of the fourth day, they found
                  themselves surrounded by a group of eager listeners. The discussion had begun to
                  excite great interest among the passengers. Even the irreligious were delighted to
                  find something which would in some degree relieve the monotony of the tiresome
                  voyage; and Church polity became a prominent subject of discussion in every part
                  of the beat.
               It must be admitted, however, that, except in the ladies' cabin, where Mr. Percy,
                  Theodosia, and Mr. Courtney could speak for themselves, the party which they
                  represented met with very little favor. The prevailing sentiment was, that
                     all who professed faith in Christ, and obedience to his laws,
                  belonged to his Church. And it was regarded a sufficient answer to any argument in
                  favor of a strict adherence to the scriptural model, that if it were received,
                     it would at once unchurch some of these professors.
               Here is, in fact, the great difficulty in the way of the general reception of the
                  truth in regard to this subject. Every professor of religion who has united with
                  any religious society, fully believes that he is a member of Christ's Church; and
                  his mind will receive nothing as truth which is opposed to that belief. If you
                  reason with him out of the Scriptures, and show him the New Testament model of a
                  Church, and point out to him the utter discrepancy between his society and the
                  institution of Jesus Christ, he may not attempt to reply. He probably will not,
                  even in his own mind, try to reconcile the differences; but he will say to
                  himself, "I am not able to understand all the teachings of the Scriptures, but I
                  know that my good minister, and my dear brethren, and myself,
                     belong to the Church; and any doctrine that turns us out is
                  false." This is an impervious shield: no shaft of Scripture truth can penetrate
                  it: no power of logic can wrest it from his hand. He will readily receive any
                  theory of the Church which counts himself as a part of the Church, even though it
                  should include the practical infidelity and open profligacy of material
                  Christianity—all the abominations of Antichrist himself. But any theory, however
                  scriptural, which excludes his darling self and those whom he esteems as honest
                  Christian people, is to him a simple absurdity, about which it is not worth while
                  to reason.
               It is, nevertheless, a fearful truth, that all cannot be right.
                     If there be any Scripture pattern, men have departed from it at their
                     peril. Christ's Church must be what Christ established and enjoined upon
                  his people to maintain. This is one definite and specific thing, plainly described
                  and easily recognized in the Holy Word. And if Christ's people have been blinded
                  by the mists and clouds of traditional error, and led astray by leaders blinded
                  like themselves, he may forgive them: he will forgive them. But he makes it now
                  their solemn and imperative duty to go back to THE BOOK, and "inquire for the old
                  paths," and return to that organization which he established.
               "Will you do me the kindness," asked the bishop of Theodosia, when they were
                  seated around the table, "to let me see the little tablet you were making
                  yesterday?"
               
               "Certainly, sir."
               He ran his eye down its several heads, and, directing his question to Mr.
                  Courtney, asked what, according to those rules, would be his definition of the
                  Church?
               "the Church, sir," replied the schoolmaster, "is the local and
                     visible judiciary and executive of the kingdom of Christ It consists of
                  such members of the kingdom as have voluntarily associated together for the
                  maintenance of the public worship of God, the observance of Christ's ordinances,
                  and the execution of his laws. But, if I do not forget, we had not quite completed
                  our tablet yesterday. When finished, it will read thus:
               
                  SIGNS OR MARKS BY WHICH TO KNOW A TRUE CHURCH OF CHRIST.
               
               1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
               2d. Its members have been baptized upon a profession of their faith.
               3d. It is a local organization, and independent of all others.
               4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Law-giver, and recognizes no authority
                  but his above its own.
               5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act.
               6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the gospel of
                  Christ.
               "Now, these gentlemen, who have been present all the time, will bear me witness
                  that we have found each of these marks distinctly recognized in this HOLY WORD.
                  The claimant to Church honors, which cannot show these marks, is therefore not a
                     scriptural Church. It is not the Church which Christ
                  established. It is not that Church which he founded on the rock of faith. It is
                  not that Church which he authorized and ordained, to exercise the authority of his
                  kingdom in his name"
               "I do not feel disposed to discuss these positions with you," replied the bishop.
                  This is no fitting time or place for such a discussion. I am willing to grant that
                     you verily believe that you have, after careful and diligent
                  search, discovered that these are the distinctive and peculiar marks of a true
                  Christian Church, as laid down in the Scriptures. I am willing to grant that these
                  intelligent ladies and gentlemen, who have so patiently listened to you, and seen
                  you turn from chapter to chapter, and read the very verse on which your opinion
                  rests, may have been compelled to agree with you; and yet I will show you that you
                  have great cause to distrust your own conclusions.
               "I suppose that you will not deny that you, as well as other men, are human, and,
                  therefore, liable to err. I do not now say that you are wrong, but
                  only intimate the possibility that you may be wrong. If you are
                  right, the Church of Christ is a very insignificant affair. I do not know where it
                  is. I have read no account of it. I have no certain knowledge of its existence;
                  for I confess to you that I have not seen or heard of any body of people, claiming
                  to be a Church, who unite in themselves all that I think would be
                  demanded by that tablet. But if there be somewhere, in some secluded neighborhood,
                  such an assembly, or, if in some strange country there should be a hundred or a
                  thousand such assemblies, it is certain they have never been recognized as the
                  Church of Christ by any but themselves; and when this little company of ignorant
                  people, unknown to history, and unknown to scientific theology, sets up its claim
                  not merely to be a part of the Church, but to be itself the Church,
                  and the whole Church, and the only Church, against the countless thousands of the
                  most devoted followers of Jesus, not in this age alone, but in all the past, from
                  the days of the apostles down to the present hour, does it not seem, even to
                  yourself, that it is more likely that you and your little company are
                  wrong than that all the congregated and
                  successive hosts of God have been mistaken?"
               "If it were true," said Mr. Courtney, smiling, "that the multitude were always
                  right, I would concede much to your suggestion. It might, in that case, be prudent
                  for no man to go to the Bible for his religious faith, but simply to
                  inquire what opinions are held by the majority. If we adopt this
                  plan, we shall, as Christians, all be driven into Romanism; and then, as men, into
                  idolatry; for I suppose at least two-thirds of all the race are worshippers of
                  idols, and a vast majority of all professing Christians are Roman Catholics. For
                  myself, I prefer to be guided by the teachings of Jesus and the apostles rather
                  than by the vast and countless majority. I say with Paul, that even though 'an
                  angel from heaven' teach any other doctrine than that which I find here in this
                  Holy Book, let him be accursed. I dare not follow the multitude to do evil."
               "Oh, no, my dear sir! you do not understand me. I do not deny that the Scriptures
                  are the only rule of faith and practice. I am willing this question shall be tried
                  by the Word; but what I say is this: You and your little company are more likely
                  to be mistaken in your understanding of the Scriptures than all the
                  multitudes of Christendom in every age. We must be governed by the Word; but is it
                  the Word as you and your little company understand it? or as
                  countless thousands of the people of God, as they are known to history, have
                  understood it, and practiced it in every age? Is the faith of the ancient Church
                  to go for nothing? Is the understanding of the Fathers to go for nothing? Is the
                  practice of the holy martyrs to go for nothing? The Church of Christ, my dear sir,
                  is not a verbal abstraction, to be gathered out of the Testament, and written down
                  upon a tablet. It is an historical verity. We can trace it on the map of history
                  from the earliest beginnings down to the present time. At first a little stream,
                  then a mighty river: at length a vast sea, and now a mighty ocean, which is, at
                  last, destined to become a world-enveloping flood, which shall overwhelm all
                  enemies and all opposers."
               "Oh, yes!" replied Mr. Courtney, "I would like to talk to you an hour about this
                  'historical Church,' and, perhaps, it may come in our way presently. But I am
                  afraid just now I shall forget your argument, which, if I understand you rightly,
                  amounts to this: Every man is to go to the Scriptures to see what the Church is,
                  but when he reads them he is not to understand them to mean that the Church is
                  what they say it is; but he must take it for granted that they mean
                  what the ancient historical Church says it is—what the Fathers say it is—and what
                  the martyrs say it is. Now, the Fathers and the martyrs were, no doubt, very good
                  people. They believed for themselves, and have gone to give account for
                  themselves. You have the same word of faith which they had. You must believe for
                  yourself, and God will hold you personally accountable for your faith and your
                  practice. He charges you to found it on HIS WORD, and not on traditionary legends,
                  or uninspired historical records of early Churches, Fathers, or martyrs.
               "The fact is, sir, we do not know and cannot know with any considerable degree of
                  certainty, what the fathers and the martyrs did believe and teach. Their writings
                  have been mutilated and interpolated until they would now hardly recognize them;
                  and history is often the mere record of traditions, and traditions are often mere
                  old wives' fables. I want something better for my religious faith and practice to
                  rest upon than the vague and contradictory accounts of the faith of ancient
                  Churches, Fathers, and martyrs. Then, you say that I, as an individual, may
                     be mistaken, and am, in fact, more likely to be mistaken than all good
                  Christians of every age. I might grant this, and yet I should feel that as I am personally responsible, I must
                  personally examine and personally determine for myself in this as in other things.
                  When I surrender my right to use my private judgment to determine for myself what
                  the Scriptures teach, I will go to Rome and procure an infallible priest. Nothing
                  less would answer my purpose. No other could take the whole responsibility.
               "But I will meet you on your own ground. I will accept your historical test; for
                  the truth is—and I will prove to you by your own historians—the
                  constitution of the ancient Church and the faith and practice of the Fathers and
                  the martyrs, in regard to this subject, was, down to the time of Cyprian, just
                  such as is expressed in this tablet. I will go still farther. I will show you that
                  it continued, down to the Reformation, to be the faith and practice of all those
                  Christian communities which recognized the Bible as their authority,
                  or which permitted their people to read the Bible. Now, if you ask me
                  to receive the interpretation which any Church or any people give to the
                  Scriptures, let it, I beseech you, be that Church and those people that
                     had the Scriptures and searched the Scriptures, and
                  were free to understand them according to the meaning of the language, and not
                  those who were forbidden to read them, or to believe any thing different from
                  their priests, on pain of death."
               "Stop a minute, if you please, Mr. Courtney," interrupted Doctor Thinkwell. "Let
                  us make this matter practical as we go along. I want to see just what bearing it
                  has upon the matter in hand. I asked you to tell me which was the true Church of
                  Jesus Christ. You proposed rather to show me than to tell me, and
                  directed me to look for it in the Book. We have seen it there, as it was organized
                  and established by Christ and the apostles. We have thus ascertained that it was a
                  local company of baptized believers, voluntarily associated in accordance with
                  Christ's law, to administer his ordinances and execute his laws. For the sake of
                  convenient reference, we have, as we ascertained from time to time some
                  distinctive peculiarity of this Church, put it down in our tablet. We have thus
                  far been guided entirely by the Scriptures. We have not been at all dependent on
                  history or tradition. Now, if our tablet is complete, that is, if it has all the
                  distinctive marks, or enough of the distinctive marks of a true Church to enable
                  us to recognize one when our attention is directed to it, why should we complicate
                  the issue by turning aside to explore a question of history? If it can be avoided,
                  I do not want my faith to hang on any other testimony than the inspired record.
                     That I can trust. Outside of that I am afraid to go. I do not care
                  what other people think; I do not ask what they believe. It is nothing to me: I
                  must decide for myself. I shall use my own judgment, and be determined by the
                  teaching of the BOOK, as I understand its language. It seems to me, therefore,
                  that we may, for the present at least, dispense with any historical testimony on
                  either side of this question. I do not see why we cannot at once proceed to try
                  the various claimants, and decide who it is that has the characteristic
                  marks."
               "It will, sir," replied Mr. Courtney, "be very possible to decide the matter
                  without any other information but that which we can gather from the Scriptures on
                  the one hand, and our own personal observation on the other; but, at the same
                  time, it will be more satisfactory, where we have undoubted historical testimony
                  bearing upon the case of any claimant, to bring it before our minds, in order that
                  we may decide in full view of all the circumstances. Such testimony will, however,
                  come in by the way, and may be omitted till the occasion calls for it."
               "Then, please let us begin to make some practical application of the rules we have
                  discovered. I am impatient to make some progress."
               "Whom shall we try first?"
               
               "I should think that the Roman Catholic Church, by virtue of her age, and the
                  extent of her claims, is entitled to our first consideration. I suppose there is
                  no one present who regards her as the true Church of Christ, but I would like to
                  understand precisely the grounds upon which we are compelled to reject her."
               "I do not much like," said Mr. Courtney, "to take any course which will exclude,
                  or even appear to exclude, from our tablet any scriptural test which may be
                  suggested; and as it is evident from the declaration of our Saviour to Peter, that
                  'the gates of hell should not prevail against his Church,' and from the various
                  prophecies which represent his kingdom as a perpetual and increasing kingdom, that
                  the Church of Christ, as he established it, must have continued ever the same in
                  all that is essential to its being, I would gladly add such a historical test as
                  will enable us to identify among ourselves the Church of the earliest fathers, and
                  of the holy martyrs, whose testimony seems to be so highly prized by our friends
                  that they set it above the literal meaning of the Word itself. It is true, we can
                  recognize the Church without this mark; and it is also true, that to those whose
                  knowledge of ecclesiastical history is limited it may be somewhat difficult of
                  application; but it is not the less valuable to those who have the needful
                  information. The test itself is simple and scriptural. The Church of
                  Christ began with Christ. It did not exist before his day. It has existed ever
                  since. Any organization claiming to be that Church, and yet originating a thousand
                  years after it was established, cannot surely be what it claims. This is
                  self-evident. And to all those who know the origin of the claimant,
                  the argument is quite as valid and convincing as though it were in the power of
                  the most ignorant to apply it as perfectly as themselves; and to those who do not
                  know, it may be made available by reference to unquestioned
                  historical authority. Consequently, though I would be very unwilling to make it
                  the only test, I cannot but regard it as a most certain and
                  infallible one. And you will observe that we need not, in our application of the
                  test, require of any claimant to prove an origin in the time of
                  Christ. We are willing to take it for granted that each and all of those
                  organizations which claim to be Christian Churches did begin with Christ, unless
                  we can show for them a more recent origin. The history of most or all these
                  claimants has been written by themselves, and this history gives their own
                     statement of the time and place and manner of their beginning: now if we
                  show the origin of each by their own account of themselves, I am sure none of them
                  can reasonably complain."
               "But do you not see another difficulty in the way of applying this test?" inquired
                  the Doctor. "We have ascertained that a Church of Christ is a local and
                  independent organization. Now, the Church that was organized somewhere last year
                  began more than 1800 years after Christ, and, consequently, if your rule should be
                  adopted, could not be regarded as a true Church of Christ."
               "Not at all," said Mr. Courtney. "We are speaking now of the
                     institution which Christ ordained and called his Church, and not
                  of any particular individual example of that institution. If I say
                  the jury was first established in England a thousand years ago, and has existed
                  ever since, I do not deny that the jury which was empanelled yesterday was a real
                  jury. To make it a jury, it is only necessary that it should be composed of
                  similar materials and organized for the same purposes with its ancient English
                  prototype. We use the word church in its generic sense. We are speaking of the
                  executive body in the kingdom of Christ. That kingdom still exists as he set it
                  up. It has the same Lord and the same laws. It has also the same ordinances and
                  the same executive. That executive is the Church. The kingdom cannot exist and be perpetuated without
                  the Church, for it is the Church only that is authorized to
                     receive members into the kingdom, either by her own act or that of
                  officers appointed by her. Now, the kingdom has come down, by a regular succession
                  of subjects, from generation to generation. There must have been, therefore, a
                  regular succession of Churches to receive and cherish them. But these Churches
                  must have been all formed upon the same Scripture model, and have
                  been regular successors to each other. If we find at any time a new
                  organization, with a new constitution, consisting of different
                     materials, and governed by different regulations from the
                  original Church, as established by Christ, then we can readily understand that it
                  is not his Church, but some new thing that has come in its place. We do not say
                  that the model Church which was at Jerusalem, or any other of the Churches which
                  were founded in apostolic times, has continued to the present time, but only
                     that there have always been Churches formed upon the same model.
                  Those first Churches were not extinct till others were in being, descended from
                  themselves, and having the same Lord, the same faith, the same baptism, the same
                  objects, the same offices, the same character of members, and, like themselves,
                  executing the laws and observing the ordinances of the kingdom. So I trust Mrs.
                  Percy may add to her tablet this test, also, viz.:
               "It began in the time of Christ, and has continued to the present time."
               "If you will permit me," said Mrs. Percy, "to suggest one other mark, I would say
                  that the Church of Christ can never be a persecuting Church."
               "That is true, madam," said Mr. Courtney, "and since we have admitted one
                  historical test, we need not object to receiving another; for, like the other, it
                  will be very valuable to those who know enough of history to apply it."
               "But first," said the Doctor, "let us see whether it has, like the others, the
                  sanction of the Scriptures. We must not forget that this alone is our
                  authority."
               "Certainly," replied Mr. Courtney. "The Scriptures teach that it should be a
                     persecuted Church, but never itself a persecutor. It should
                     suffer wrong, but not inflict it. If it were persecuted, the
                  persecutors must be outside itself. The Church of Christ could never persecute
                  itself. Its law was the law of love. The world might hate it, but it
                  was to bless them that hated it. The world should kill and destroy it, but it
                  should pray for them that spitefully entreated and persecuted it. The beast and
                  the false prophet should make war upon it: the great dragon should seek to destroy
                  it: the woman sitting on the beast should be drunken with the blood of the saints;
                  and there was a power which should set itself in the place of God, and should
                     'wear out the saints of the Most High' with the bitterest and most
                  fearful persecutions; but the Church of Christ was not to persecute or retaliate
                  upon her enemies. No New Testament Church was a persecutor, and there is no
                  intimation that Christ's people ever should become persecutors. We may, therefore,
                  very safely say, that whenever we find a claimant to Church honors upon whose
                  skirts is found the blood of the saints, she is not a Church of Jesus Christ."
               Theodosia added to her tablet this eighth mark: "It never persecutes for
                  conscience' sake."
               "Now," said Mr. Percy, "let me suggest one other mark, and then I think our tablet
                  will be complete. It is also so far historical that it will require some knowledge
                  of history to apply it, but it is most undoubtedly a scriptural test. It is this:
                  No apostate Church can be a Church of Jesus Christ.
               "Individual members, who have hypocritically professed to take Christ for their
                  King, may become apostates, and may go out or be cast out; as the apostle says,
                  'They went out from us, because they
                  were not of us.' Whole societies may by rejecting Christ's rule, changing his
                  ordinances, or submitting to other rulers than Christ in matters of religion,
                  place themselves without his kingdom; but in doing so they surely cease to
                     be Churches of Christ. They may retain the name, but they are no longer
                  what the name implies. They cannot be in his kingdom and out of it at the same
                  time. They cannot be subjects of Christ while owning allegiance and yielding
                  submission in religious things to other masters. Whenever a Church becomes
                  apostate, and denies the faith or departs from the practice of the first Churches
                  in any essential particulars, it ceases at that very moment to be a
                  Church of Christ, and has no longer any authority as the executive of his kingdom.
                  It is itself a rebel."
               "I do not know so well about that," said Theodosia. "We find that the first
                  Churches fell into very serious errors, both of doctrine and of practice; yet they
                  were not at once disowned."
               "You are both correct," said Mr. Courtney. "It is not every error in doctrine, or
                  every departure from the simplicity of the practice of the first Church, that
                  constitutes apostasy; but there are some doctrines and some practices which are
                  incompatible with the very nature of the gospel, and if a Church embraces these it
                  is an apostate, and is no longer a Church of Christ.
               "The Church of Christ is everywhere in the Scripture represented as faithful and
                  true. She never gives up her allegiance to her Lord. We read, indeed, that 'there
                  should be a falling away,' but it was a falling away of the parasites who had
                  attached themselves to the kingdom, and not of the kingdom itself. It was only the
                  man of sin and the son of perdition, a dead and putrid mass of religious
                  corruption, that fell off. There is no intimation that 'the Bride,' 'the Lamb's
                  wife,' should forsake her faithfulness and abandon her Beloved loved. She was to
                  be tried: she was to be persecuted: she was to be driven into the
                  wilderness, (that is, into obscurity:) she was to be hidden from the eyes of the
                  world for many a century; but she was always and ever to be a faithful, loving,
                  and obedient wife. She was never to become the drunken bawd that sat
                  upon the scarlet-colored beast, nor was she ever, like the offspring of that bawd,
                  to become a harlot or the associate of harlots. If any people, therefore, calling
                  themselves by the name of Christ, have at any time cast aside the peculiar
                  characteristics of his people, they are surely no longer to be counted as
                     his people. A Church which consists of subjects not
                  designated by him, submits to rulers not authorized by him, and
                  observes ordinances not commanded by him, is not his
                     Church, whatever it may once have been. Christ has no
                     revolted, no rebel Churches. When any Church rejects
                  him as its sole King, it is no longer in his kingdom, and all its authority as his
                  executive is gone. Its baptism is not the baptism of the kingdom, for it has no
                  longer any right to admit members. Its ministry is not the ministry of the
                  kingdom, for it is no longer authorized to ordain ministers. It may propagate its
                  sentiments and perpetuate itself, but it cannot continue or originate a Church of
                  Christ."
               "One thought more," said Mr. Percy, "and then I think we are ready to proceed with
                  the claimants. It is this: Whatever is now an essential
                  characteristic of a true Church, has always been such since the
                  Church was established. If, for example, the Church of Christ cannot persecute
                     now, there never was a time when it could persecute; and if an
                  apostate Church cannot be a Church of Christ now, there never was a time when a
                  Church that had become apostate could have been authorized to administer the laws
                  or ordinances of Christ's kingdom. If it be true that any Church which should
                     now become apostate would, by that act, utterly
                  incapacitate herself for the performance of any official act under the authority of Christ, then it must be
                  equally true that every Church that ever did at any time become apostate did, at
                  the time of doing so, become incapable of conferring genuine baptism, or real
                  ordination. In short, from the moment it ceased to be a true and genuine Church of
                  Jesus Christ, according to the scriptural characteristics which we have
                  ascertained, from that very moment all its official acts were null and void."
               "It strikes me," said the Bishop, "that your search for the true Church will now
                  be very much like looking for a cambric needle in a stack of hay. You have pruned
                  her away on every side until she will be of necessity so small as to be almost or
                  quite invisible. I confess I begin to feel a great curiosity to be present at the
                  finding.
               "I would like to see that Church which has had a visible and actual existence from
                  the time of Christ, which has never persecuted, never temporarily apostatized, and
                  which has always held the fundamental doctrines of the gospel;
                  consisting in its membership only of those who have first believed,
                  and then have been baptized, and by their own personal and voluntary act have
                  become its members. I say, if there be any Church which embraces all
                  these characteristics, I would like to see and become acquainted with it. But if I
                  regarded myself as in any sense a party in this discussion, I should solemnly
                  protest against the trial of my Church by any such rules."
               "And so should I," said the Methodist, "for I see no necessity of such extreme
                  strictness of construction. The people of God are those who love him and trust
                  him, and wherever they assemble, there is a Church of God."
               "That, in a certain sense, is true," replied Mr. Courtney; "but every
                  assembly of those who love God is not THAT CHURCH to which
                     Christ has committed the affairs of his visible kingdom. Every assembly
                  of his people is not such a Church as that which Christ established, and requires
                  you, as an obedient subject of his, to unite with and sustain. That
                  Church is a peculiar assembly; and if it has been described in the
                  Book by such distinctive marks as we have discovered, your protest is simply a
                  declaration that you are not willing to be tried by the Word of God. If there is
                     any one of these marks which we have invented ourselves, and did
                  not find plainly put down in the Book, tell us which it is, and we will at once
                  blot it out of our tablet. You will surely admit that there is some
                  way to know a true Church. If you can tell us of any better way than this, we will
                  adopt it. But until some one can point out a more certain and reliable course, we
                  must follow this. We have 'searched THE SCRIPTURES to see
                     whether these things are so;' and for myself, I know of no better and no
                  other way to ascertain what the Church is, than to find it in the Scriptures."
               "I want no other," said Dr. Thinkwell. "When God has spoken in his
                  Word, I ask no other test of truth. I take the Bible, and the Bible alone, for my
                  guide in all matters pertaining to religion. What I cannot find there I do not
                  care for. What I do find there I trust I shall be found willing always humbly to
                  receive and joyfully to obey. I acknowledge that I had no idea that there was so
                  much in the Word concerning this matter. I had fancied, since I found so many and
                  such different opinions among professed Christians, that the Scriptures must have
                  been very indefinite, and have left the whole subject undetermined. But I find it
                  is not so. These which we have found were certainly characteristics of the
                  Churches of the apostolic days. I do not know whether there are any Churches
                     now that have these same characteristics or not; but if there be
                     but one, and that so lowly and despised that the world does not so
                  much as know it by name, with that Church I will, if possible, unite, and help, so
                  far as God may give me strength, to build it up. I can never be contented with any human substitute for what my
                  Lord himself ordained. Nor do I see why any people who love Jesus, and desire to
                  obey his laws, should hesitate to bring their Church organization any
                  more than their faith or their practice to the Bible, and try it by the simple
                  teachings of inspiration. And now, Mr. Courtney, if you are not weary, let us
                  bring some one of the claimants to the Book, and try it. I am anxious to make some
                  visible progress. We have spent several days merely in arranging preliminaries. I
                  hope we can now get on more rapidly."
               "I have been so much interested in the preliminaries," said Theodosia, "that I had
                  almost forgotten for what purpose we were arranging them."
               "Well, we are now ready for the application, and will first see how THE CHURCH OF
                  ROME will look, when we examine her in the light of the Holy Word. Does she look
                  like the Church of Jesus? Has she the signs and marks which Christ has put upon
                  the executive of his kingdom?"
               "Would it not be better to postpone our examination of this claimant until
                  to-morrow?" asked Mr. Percy. "We cannot tell how long it may require, and it is
                  most likely we shall all grow weary before we get through. There is danger that,
                  in our impatience to reach some tangible result, we shall hurry over some matters
                  which should not be lightly passed, or overtask the patience of these friends, who
                  seem to feel an interest in the subject almost equal to our own."
               "You are right," said the Doctor. "I am myself weary already with the long sitting
                  of to-day; but when we meet in the morning, let it be understood that we are to
                  waste no further time on preliminaries."
            
            
               SIXTH DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  In which the Church of Rome is tried by the Scripture tests, and found to be no
                     Church of Christ.
               
               WHEN the party had collected the next morning, they entered at once upon the
                  subject, like people anxious to get through with a long-anticipated task.
               Mr. Courtney commenced the conversation by saying, "Be kind enough to let us have
                  the tablet, Mrs. Percy, to refresh our memories. This, you will all remember, is
                  its only use. We have found certain things in the Scriptures concerning the
                  Church; and when we were sure they were there, we entered them
                     here, merely for the convenience of reference, and in order to
                  give some system to our application of the Scripture teachings. Mark this:
                     We do not try the Churches by our tablet, but by the SCRIPTURE
                  TESTS, of which our tablet is a mere memorandum. We found—
               "1st. That the Church of Christ, according to the Scriptures, consists only of
                  professed believers in Christ, and net of believers and their
                     children. [See pp. 138 to 149.]
               2d. That its members have all been baptized upon profession of their
                  faith. [See pp. 149 to 156.]
               3d. We found the Church to be a local and independent organization, and not a
                  great collective ecclesiastical establishment, consisting of many societies
                  subordinated to each other, or to a common head. [See p. 156 to 157.]
               
               4th. We found that while it was subject in all things to Christ as its king and
                  lawgiver, it neither made laws for itself, nor submitted to any others but those
                  of Christ. [See pp. 158 to 160.]
               5th. We found that its members became such, not by compulsion or restraint, but
                  freely and voluntarily by their own personal act. [See pp. 160 to 162.]
               6th. We found that the Scripture Churches held certain peculiar
                     doctrines, which of necessity are contained in the very
                  enunciation of the gospel. [See p. 162 to 163.]
               These tests we can apply without any other knowledge of the different claimants
                  than we can gain by our personal observation of the professions and the practices
                  of each. By these the question, which is the Church, can be readily settled
                  without any acquaintance with the past history of the several
                  claimants. But as the Church of Christ was the subject of prophecy, and we can, in
                  Scripture, see not only the peculiarities which it then possessed,
                  but those which it should exhibit in all coming time, we availed
                  ourselves of this circumstance, and looked into the glass of prophecy for some
                  peculiar features, and must look into that of history to see the correspondence.
                  Thus we found—
               7th. That Christ foretold his Church, which began with him, should be perpetual;
                  and the true Church, therefore, is one which has not been destroyed or overcome by
                  Satan and the gates of hell. [See pp. 174 to 176.]
               8th. It appeared evident to us, moreover, that the Church of Jesus,
                  the executive of his laws, could never be a persecuting
                  Church. [See pp. 176 to 177.]
               And lastly, we found, 9th, that no apostate Church could be the true Church of
                  Christ, nor have any authority within his kingdom. [See pp. 177 to 179.]
               These marks belong to every true Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. That claimant
                  which cannot show them we must reject. We need not care what she may be called. We
                  need not ask how numerous or how intelligent or how pious her
                  membership may be, for it is not numbers or intelligence or piety that constitutes
                  a Church. To be a Church of Christ, it must consist of such people as
                  HE has designated—that is, of baptized believers. It must be
                     organized according to his instructions, and in
                  conformity to the models which HE furnished in the Scriptures, and in doctrine and
                  practice as an official body it must be conformed to HIS laws. Now, if even a very
                  numerous body of very intelligent and very pious people have associated themselves
                  together as Christians, and yet not in accordance with
                  the Master's instructions concerning his Church, they cannot be regarded as his
                  Church. Theirs is not the institution to which Christ, as King,
                  intrusted the executive authority of his kingdom; and if they attempt to exercise
                  it, they are (though it may be unconsciously, yet no less truly) usurpers and
                  rebels. They may be the friends of the King. They may, in their hearts, wish well
                  to the kingdom. They may earnestly strive to promote the invisible extension of
                  the kingdom in the hearts of men. They may believe on Christ to the salvation of
                  their own souls, and be the means of bringing thousands of others to believe and
                  to be saved; but THOSE ORGANIZATIONS into which they are incorporated
                  are no more the Churches of Christ than if they were not called by
                  that name. To be his Churches, they must not only consist of
                     his people, but be organized upon his constitution,
                  and governed in their official acts by his rules."
               "Certainly," exclaimed the Doctor, "we all understand that. We have collected out
                  of the Scriptures the scriptural marks or characteristic
                  peculiarities of a scriptural Church, and all that now remains for us
                  to do is to apply them fairly and honestly, without fear or favor, to the several
                  claimants which ask to be recognized and treated as the Churches of Jesus. If any
                  one will not be tried by these scriptural tests we may, it seems to me, regard that
                     fact as in itself a sufficient reason to reject its claims, since it is
                  evident that no Church of Christ could be unwilling to bring herself up to the
                  requirements of her Lord, as laid down in his Word. And now please do
                  not let us spend any more time on the preliminaries, but go at once into our
                  work."
               "Let me," said the Bishop, "suggest—not for the purpose of embarrassing your
                  inquiries, (you have made your path sufficiently narrow already,) but merely to
                  show that you are not yet quite ready—that you have in your tablet taken no notice
                  of the officers or ministers of the Church. You have not
                  inquired whether there are in the true Church one order, or two orders, or three
                  orders of the ministry."
               "Nor," replied Mr. Courtney, "have we any need to do so now, since this subject
                  will necessarily come up when we come to apply our fourth test; for
                  if Christ did not appoint prelatical bishops, then the Church that submits
                     herself to the rule of such bishops has gone out from the
                  fold of the gospel order, and submitted to the authority of other lords than
                  Christ. By doing so she ceased to be a Church of Christ, and became the Church of
                  the bishops: so, as episcopos signifies a
                  bishop, your Church is rightly named the 'Episcopal,' that is, the
                     bishops' Church.
               "I will merely say, however, at this time, that the Church at Jerusalem was a
                  Church competent to receive members and administer the ordinances before she had
                  any deacons; and we read in Acts xiv. 23, of Churches which seem to
                  have existed without any elders or presbyters, from which I infer
                  that a Church may exist without any officers until it
                  can choose its deacons and its pastor, and have them properly
                  ordained. It is not complete, but still it is a Church, and has
                  within itself the authority to perfect its organization by the
                     election from its own members of a pastor to minister in the Word,
                  and deacons to minister in its temporal affairs. But we will have occasion to look
                  at this again as we progress with our investigations. And we are now ready,
                  Doctor, to go on as you requested, and apply our tests to the boldest and most
                  arrogant of all the claimants to Church honors. How is it with the Church of Rome?
                  Does she consist only of believers?
               "Certainly not. Her members are almost all made members in their
                     infancy, without personal faith or any pretence that it exists.
                  And, unlike the American Presbyterians and Methodists, Rome does not in practice
                  repudiate her theory, and virtually disown her members till they give evidence of
                  conversion, or at least of a desire to escape from hell. She counts them as having
                  been made Christians in fact, as they were in form, by the ceremonial mummery of
                  their baby baptism. In that, they say, they were regenerated and made members of
                  Christ, and of his Church, before any act of personal faith in Christ was
                  possible. Even, therefore, though we should concede that all her adult members are
                  real believers in Christ, yet she embraces in her membership thousands and
                  thousands who, so far from being qualified to act their part in the transaction of
                  the business of Christ's kingdom, do not so much as know their right hand from
                  their left. Apply your second test. Have her members all been baptized?"
               "Our answer to that question," replied the Doctor, "must depend upon our decision
                  of another, and that is, What is baptism? If sprinkling a little babe
                  is baptism, then they have been baptized: if only the immersion of a believer is
                  baptism, then they have not been baptized. You will remember that I doubted the
                  propriety of introducing this test, (if it could have been avoided,) on the ground
                  that it would subject us to the necessity of going over the whole field of the
                  baptismal controversy."
               
               "We need do nothing of the kind, sir," replied Mr. Courtney. "The Roman Catholic
                  Church has never pretended that sprinkling was valid baptism, only so
                  far as it was made such by the Pope, or by 'the Church.'
                  That it was immersion which Christ commanded, which the first Churches practiced,
                  and which was everywhere and always practiced (except in supposed cases of
                  necessity) for over thirteen hundred years, no Roman Catholic will pretend to
                  deny. It remained for Protestants, for men professing a purer Christianity, and a
                  more sacred regard to the authority of the Scriptures and the truth of history; it
                  remained for Episcopalians, Presbyterians, and Methodists, to distort and falsify
                  history, and pervert and mystify the Scriptures, in order to obtain at least some
                  shadow of support for the sprinkling ceremony which they have substituted for the
                  baptism of the New Testament. The Roman Church felt no necessity for such a
                  course. She asked no Scripture sanction. The decree of a council or
                  the bull of a pope is all the authority which she requires. It is on
                     such authority, and only on such, that she has openly
                  and avowedly substituted sprinkling for immersion. She makes no
                  secret of the business; she openly and boldly declares, in the face of God and
                  man, that she has changed the rite; that though Christ commanded and
                  the first Churches practiced immersion, yet she had the right to
                     change laws and ordinances, and she has changed
                     this to sprinkling or pouring. She will tell you when
                  she changed it, and give you the reasons why she changed it; and she
                  habitually and justly taunts the sprinkling Protestants with having adopted
                     her rite, instead of the baptism of Christ and the Scriptures,
                  while they pretend to disown her authority and submit only to that of the written
                  Word.
               "The only question for us to decide is, therefore, whether the popes and councils
                  of the Church of Rome had any right to abolish the ordinance of Christ, and in its
                  place to substitute another, bearing the same name indeed, but altogether
                  different from it in form and in fact?"
               "There can surely be no hesitation about the proper decision of that
                  point," replied the Doctor. "But are you sure that the facts are as you have
                  stated?"
               "If I had not been, I should not have stated them. But I do not ask you to receive
                  them on my authority. I will point you to the means of verifying, to the
                  satisfaction of the most incredulous, the fact as I have stated it.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The reader is respectfully desired to turn back to page 159 of the first
                     volume of Theodosia, and read again, in connection with the subject, the
                     chapter on the introduction of sprinkling.
               
               "1. I might refer you to the statements of ecclesiastical history. What says
                  Neander? What says Mosheim? What says Scharf? What say the Magdeburg Centuriators?
                  What says every learned and candid historian, whether he be himself an
                  immersionist or sprinkler, who has carefully investigated the subject?
               "No one can carefully read what they have collected on this point, and not be
                  ready to say, with that eminent Pedobaptist, Professor Stuart, 'It is a thing made
                  out, namely, the ancient practice of immersion. So, indeed, all the writers who
                  have thoroughly investigated the subject conclude. I know of no one usage of
                  ancient times which seems to be more clearly made out. I cannot see how it is
                  possible for any candid man who examines the subject to deny this.'
               "2. I might refer you to those massive monuments of the ancient practice, the
                  baptisteries, with their immense artificial pools deep enough to swim in; and I
                  ask for what purpose they could have been constructed, at so much cost and labor,
                  if baptism had not been immersion.
               "3. I might refer you to the otherwise inexplicable fact that in the Roman
                  Catholic Church, for many ages, adults
                  and children, male or female, were always divested of their clothing when about to
                  be baptized. 'Revolting as this custom was,' says Stuart, 'yet it is as certain as
                  testimony can make it.'
               "But I need not try to prove what the party concerned has never pretended to deny,
                  namely, that immersion was the original baptism, and that it was so recognized and
                  practiced by the Church of Rome, and that, by the authority of the popes and
                  councils, it has been changed to pouring and sprinkling.
               "That very learned Roman Catholic, Doctor F. Brennen, in his work on the history
                  of baptism, says, expressly, that such has been the case. Dr. Chase gives the
                  following translation, of the first paragraph of what Brennen presents as a 
                     'SYNOPTICAL VIEW OF ANCIENT TIMES AND MODERN IN RESPECT TO BAPTISM, [AMONG
                        THOSE WHO ACKNOWLEDGE THE PAPAL AUTHORITY.]'
                  
                  
                     
                        'FORMERLY. 'Thirteen hundred years baptism was generally and
                           ordinarily an immersion of the person under water; and only in
                           extraordinary cases a sprinkling or pouring with water; the latter as a
                           mode of baptism was, moreover, called in question; ay, even
                           forbidden.'
                        'AT PRESENT. 'Now baptism is generally and ordinarily a pouring of the
                           person with water; and only in the Church of Milan immersion still
                           continues, as something peculiar to this Church alone, and extraordinary;
                           elsewhere it would be punishable.'
                     
                  
               
               "Bossuet, the famous Roman Catholic Bishop of Meaux, says: 'We read not in
                  Scripture that baptism was otherwise administered, [than by immersion,] and we are
                  able to make it appear, by the acts of councils and by the ancient
                     rituals, that for THIRTEEN HUNDRED YEARS baptism was thus
                     administered throughout the whole Church as far as possible.'
               "Again, speaking of the fact that baptism is immersion, and was thus given by
                  Christ and practiced by the apostles: 'Though these are incontestable truths, yet
                  neither we, [Roman Catholics,] nor those of the pretended reformed religion,
                  hearken to the Anabaptists, who hold immersion to be essential and indispensable;
                  nor have either they or we feared to change this dipping, as I may of
                  the whole body, into a bare aspersion or infusion on one part of it.' In another
                  work, in which he is defending the Roman Catholic usage of denying the cup to the
                  laity in communion, he makes the following argument: 'Baptism by immersion, which
                  is as clearly established in the Scriptures as communion under two kinds can
                  possibly be, has, nevertheless, been changed into pouring with as
                  much ease and as little dispute as communion under one kind has been established;
                  for there is the same reason why one should be preserved as the other. It is a
                  fact most firmly believed by the reformed, (though some of them at this time
                  wrangle about it,) that baptism was instituted to be administered by plunging the
                  body entirely in; that Jesus Christ received it in this manner, and it was thus
                  performed by his apostles; that the Scriptures are acquainted with no other
                  baptism; that antiquity understood and practiced it in this manner; and that to
                  baptize is to plunge: these facts, I say, are unanimously acknowledged by all the
                  reformed [Protestant] teachers, by the reformers [Protestants] themselves; by
                  those who best understood the Greek language and the ancient customs of both Jews
                  and Christians; by Luther, by Melancthon, by Calvin, by Casaubon, by Grotius, with
                  all the rest, and, since their time, by Jurieu, the most ready to contradict of
                  all their ministers. Luther has even remarked that this sacrament is called
                     Tauf in German, on account of the depth;
                  because they plunged deeply in the water those whom they baptized. If, then, there
                  is in the world a fact absolutely certain, it is this. Yet it is no
                  less certain that with all these authors baptism without immersion is
                     considered ered lawful, and that the
                  Church properly retains the custom of pouring; and the Church, in
                  supporting these two customs which tradition proves are equally indifferent, has
                  not done any thing unusual, but maintained against troublesome persons that
                  authority upon which the faith of the ignorant rests.'
               "In perfect accordance with these are many other Roman Catholic writers and
                  teachers. They all admit and are ready to prove (if necessity require) that
                  Scripture baptism was immersion, and was so received and practiced; but as the
                     external act was not of the essence of the sacrament, the Church
                  had the right, and has employed it, to change the rite, and
                  substitute the aspersion of a part of the body for the immersion of the whole.
               "If, in the face of these open concessions of their own most eminent men, a single
                  doubt remains that the Roman Church has changed Christ's rite and put another in
                  its place, that lingering doubt will be removed by the simple fact that all the
                  industrious research of the learned Dr. Wall could find no instance of any
                  pretended baptism by sprinkling or pouring among the early Christians, except in
                  cases of supposed necessity from dangerous sickness; and no country,
                  which had not been under the dominion of the Pope, in which this substitution had
                  been made. 'All those countries,' he says, 'in which the usurped power of the Pope
                  is or has formerly been owned, have left off dipping of the children in the fonts,
                  but all other countries in the world, which had never regarded his authority, do
                  still use it.'
               "If any shadow of a doubt should still remain, it must surely be dispelled by the
                  account which Catholics themselves have given of the time and manner, when and
                  how, the change was made.
               "Mr. Robinson has gathered from their Latin documents the following facts:
               "'In the year seven hundred and fifty-three, Astulphus, King of the Lombards,
                  oppressed the city of Rome. Pope Stephen the III. fled into France to implore the
                  assistance of Pepin, who had been lately elected king. He, whom many considered as
                  a usurper, availed himself of this event, and with the address of a great
                  politician turned it to his own advantage. He examined with profound reverence
                     a letter which Saint Peter had written and sent him from heaven by
                  the hands of Stephen to persuade him to assist the Church. He promised instantly
                  to execute the celestial commission, and he fulfilled his promise by freeing Italy
                  from the Lombards, by replacing Stephen, and richly endowing the Church. Stephen
                  was not ungrateful to his benefactor. He sanctified his title to the crown by
                  giving the royal unction to Pepin in the Church of St. Denis, made him the first
                  anointed sovereign in Europe, and denounced an anathema on the French if they
                  should ever bestow their crown on any other family than that of Pepin. Stephen
                  resided in France all winter, and had a severe fit of sickness, occasioned by the
                  fatigue of journeying and the perplexity of his affairs, from which, however, he
                  soon recovered.
               "'During his residence in the monastery of St. Denis, he introduced the Roman
                  ritual. In the spring of the next year, seven hundred and sixty-four, in answer to
                  some monks of Cressy, who privately consulted him, he gave his opinion on nineteen
                  questions, one of which is allowed to be the first authentic law for
                     administering baptism by pouring, and which in time was interpreted to
                  signify sprinkling. The question proposed was, whether, in case of
                     necessity, occasioned by the illness of an infant, it were lawful to
                  baptize by pouring water out of the hand or a cup on the head of the infant?
                  Stephen answered: If such a baptism were performed in such a case of
                     necessity in the name of the Holy Trinity, it should be held valid.'
               
               "The learned James Basnage (a Roman Catholic antiquary) makes several very proper
                  remarks upon this canon; as, that 'Although it is accounted the first law for
                  sprinkling, yet it doth not forbid dipping; that it allows sprinkling only in case
                  of imminent danger; that the authenticity of it is denied by some Catholics; that
                  many laws were made after this time in Germany, France, and England, to compel
                  dipping, and without any provision for cases of necessity; therefore, that this
                  law did not alter the mode of dipping in public baptisms, and that it was not till
                  five hundred and fifty-seven years after, that the legislature in a council at
                  Ravenna, in the year thirteen hundred and eleven, declared dipping or sprinkling
                  indifferent.'
               "It is not denied that pouring and sprinkling had in case of necessity been
                  employed before this, but it was done without legal authority, and it
                  was ever doubtful whether it were valid baptism. It was, however, legalized in
                     cases of necessity by Pope Stephen the III., and in all cases by
                  the popish council at Ravenna."
               "I do not think," said the Doctor, "that we need spend any more time on this
                  point. If any thing can be made certain by testimony, it seems to be certain that
                  this Church once baptized by immersion, and now do it by pouring or sprinkling. If
                  the first was the baptism commanded by Christ, they have abolished
                  it, and substituted another act; and so are now no Church. If the first was
                     not the baptism commanded by Christ, then they were for ages
                  without baptism, and were, consequently, no Church."
               "But," said Theodosia, "they were no Church even though their act of
                  baptism had been the scriptural act. They would have been no Church, according to
                  our test, though they had been immersed, unless it had been done upon a personal
                  profession of their faith. We found in our examination of the Scriptures not only
                  that all were baptized before they were counted as members of
                  Christ's Church, but they were not baptized until after they
                     had made profession of their penitence and faith. So far, therefore, as
                  these or any other people have been baptized before they believed, they are not
                  scriptural Church members. The immersion of an unconscious babe is no
                  more gospel baptism than the sprinkling of such a babe."
               "Perhaps you are right," said the Doctor; "I will think of that hereafter. Let us
                  now go on to our third test.
               "Is the Roman Catholic Church a local and independent society of baptized
                  believers, or is it a great establishment embracing many local societies? To ask
                  the question is to answer it. Everybody who knows any thing of this hierarchy is
                  familiar with the fact that each of all its thousands of local congregations is
                  but a part of the great combination called the Roman Catholic Church, the central
                  power of which is in the city whose name it bears, or rather in the Pope, wherever
                  he may be; and it is very certain that we found no prototype of any such a Church
                  in the New Testament. The Church of which we saw so many examples there was in
                  every instance independent of all other Churches. It was never itself subjected to
                  any other Church, or to all the other Churches; nor did it in any single instance
                  demand or receive subjection from all others, or from any other, to itself. And
                  even though we should admit the existence of a scriptural universal Church, that
                  Church must be made up of scriptural Churches. If the single Churches were
                  independent local bodies, the great collective Church must be made up of just such
                  independent bodies. The whole could not consist of different materials from the
                  parts of which it was composed. No great confederation of so-called Churches can
                  be, therefore, in this general sense, the Church of Christ, unless each member of
                  that confederation be itself a Church complete within itself, and as a Church
                  entirely independent of the
                  confederation of which it may be supposed to make a part. Even though we should
                  conceive of something the parts of which are Churches, and the whole combined the
                  Church, and call this conception the visible Church universal, it could embrace
                  within its limits no ecclesiastical establishment consisting of local societies
                  subordinate to some national central power, or even subordinate to each other. If
                  the visible Church of Christ considered as a local organization is complete and
                  independent within itself, then his visible Church considered collectively must be
                  composed only of such local and independent societies. The whole can
                  embrace no more than all its parts. But let us go on to apply our fourth test. Has
                  the Roman Church any lawgiver but Christ? Does she recognize any authority but his
                  above her own?"
               "Surely not," exclaimed Mr. Percy, "if by the Church you mean the whole
                  establishment, including the popes and cardinals, bishops and priests! The Church
                  of Rome admits no power above herself, and does not hesitate to abrogate and
                  change even the laws of Christ. But if you mean to ask whether any one of those
                  local congregations which are called Roman Catholic Churches recognizes any
                  authority but Christ's above its own, that is another question."
               "Our friend the Doctor," replied Mr. Courtney, "is looking for the visible Church
                  of Christ. He desires to join it. He can only unite with it as a local assembly.
                  In fact, we have already settled that the Church of Christ is a local
                  assembly, and nothing more. The question, therefore, which we have to decide is,
                  whether any of the so-called local Churches which may come before our
                  observation are Churches of Jesus Christ; and if we find any such Church, which
                     as a Church recognizes the authority of any power but Christ's
                  outside itself to make laws for it, or to exercise discipline for it, or over it,
                  that Church is not a Church of Christ. It has rejected Christ as its sole King,
                  and submitted itself to other lords. It is not Christ's executive,
                  but, so far as it exercises any authority, it carries into effect the laws of
                     some other; or, what is worse, it abandons the exercise of all
                  authority, and tamely submits to the government of fallible men. So
                  far from being herself the administrator of the laws of Christ, exercising under
                  him the supreme authority of his kingdom in regard to its own membership; so far
                  from deciding for herself, according to Christ's law, whom she will admit and whom
                  she must exclude, whom she will have to minister in holy things, and by what means
                  she can best enforce her Lord's requirements, she leaves all this to a minister, a
                  priest, a bishop, a pope, a council, a conference, a presbytery, or some other
                  controlling power, which she, as a Church, recognizes as having
                  authority to determine for her, and to which she as a Church is under
                  obligations to submit. Now, the local Roman Catholic society is subject to the
                  priest; it is subject to the bishops; it is subject to the councils; it is subject
                  to the Pope; and if it should have the unheard-of temerity to appeal to the
                  Scriptures, determine their meaning for herself, and, in obedience to what she
                  thought to be the law of Christ, reject the authority of these human rulers and
                  lawgivers, she would be at once disowned and cast out. She would be no longer a
                  Roman Catholic Church.
               "She is not as a Roman Catholic Church free to examine and decide for herself what
                  are the requirements of Jesus, as the King in Zion, and carry them into effect;
                  but she must believe and do what is required by the Pope. As a Church she has no
                  power to say who shall be her members, who shall be admitted to or who excluded
                  from her communion. As a Church she cannot choose her ministers, nor refuse the
                  most abject submission to such as it shall please her human masters to place over
                  her. The popes and councils make laws for her, and the bishops exercise discipline
                  for her. She is a slave, whose only
                  duty is to obey unquestioningly every command, not of Christ, but of men who have
                  taken it upon themselves to lord it over God's heritage.
               "But now, if you look at the Roman Catholic Church as a great collective body, and
                  inquire if this hierarchy has Christ alone for its Lawgiver and King, the answer
                  must be no. She makes laws for herself. The decrees of her councils are of equal
                  authority with the commands of Jesus. She is not the simple executor of the laws
                  of Christ, but she has taken upon herself to change his laws and his ordinances,
                     refusing to obey him, and requiring obedience to her own
                  enactments. The Pope is to her the king and lawgiver, and what the
                     Christ has commanded, her members are not even permitted to
                  inquire for themselves.
               "If now we apply our fifth test, and ask if her members have become such by their
                  own voluntary act, the answer must be no. With very few exceptions, they were made
                  such without their own knowledge or consent. They were made members by the acts of
                  others before they were capable of understanding any thing about the matter.
               "If you should take a pen, put it in the hand of a babe, and take hold of his
                  fingers and guide his tiny hand in such a way that it should write its signature
                  to a deed of gift conveying to the Church his whole inheritance, that act would be
                  as much the act of the child, as is the act by which he is made to give
                     himself to the Church. It is no act of his. He is made a member
                  not only without his desire, but without his consciousness. The members of the
                  Scripture Churches were not made thus. They heard the Word: they were pricked in
                  their hearts: they believed in Christ: they rejoiced in hope; and then they of
                  their own accord consorted with the people of God. This is, therefore, no Church,
                  because its members were not made such by their own desire, or even with their own
                  consent.
               "Does it, in accordance with our sixth test, hold the fundamental doctrines of the
                  gospel? Is salvation, in her formulas, made to depend on grace, through faith, or
                  is it made to rest on works: on the observance of forms
                  and conformity to the ceremonies prescribed by the Church? No one
                  familiar with her ritual can doubt. The child is made a Christian by
                  its baptism; and as it grows up must complete the work of salvation by confessions
                  and penances, genuflexions and fastings, and the like. Here is no recognition of
                  the sacrifice of Christ once offered for the sins of the world, and
                  now available to every one who believes. Salvation is only to be found in
                     the Church, and only to be received at the hands of the
                     priests, and that by the use of certain forms. We need not take
                  time to show her errors in detail. We need not speak of the adoration of images
                  and supplications to saints. It is enough for us to know that she has so far
                  changed the gospel plan of saving sinners that she cannot give the same directions
                  to the convicted and anxious inquirer after salvation which the apostles did,
                  'Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved.'
               "Seventh. Did it begin in the time of Christ, and has it continued to the present
                  time? There is no doubt that in the time of the apostles a Church of Christ was
                  founded at Rome. There is no doubt that it continued for a time to be a
                     true Church. At first it was composed only of baptized believers,
                  who had 'been buried with Christ by baptism,' and whose 'faith was spoken of
                  throughout the world.' It was at first and for several generations a simple local
                  assembly, which claimed no authority over other Churches, and submitted itself to
                  no authority out that of Christ. It took the law of Jesus for its guide and in all
                  questions of doctrine or of duty appealed to that alone. So
                  long as this continued, it was a Church of Christ. Had it continued thus until the
                  present, we should rejoice to recognize it now as a true Church of Christ, which had existed from the
                  earliest days But she did not continue thus. At an early day she began to
                  recognize the authority of rulers whom Christ had not appointed; she submitted to
                  laws which Christ had not enacted; she introduced members whom Christ had not
                  authorized; and from that time she ceased to be a Church of Christ. She was still
                  called by his name, but she was no longer his; she had become apostate, and, by
                  doing so, had lost all right to act as his executive. She became the seat of sin,
                  the very throne of Satan She shed the blood of the saints by thousands upon
                  thousands. She changed the ordinances of Christ, and showed herself to be the very
                  'Antichrist,' the 'man of sin' and 'son of perdition,' foretold in the Word. So
                  long as she retained her first estate, she was a Church of Christ; when she
                  entered the second, she was the Church of Rome; and in the course of time she
                  styled herself the Roman Catholic or universal Church. The exact date
                  of her transformation from a Church of Christ to Antichrist is not now easy to
                  determine; but she was certainly no Church of Christ from that day when she first
                  imbued her impious hands in the blood of those whom she slew for the testimony of
                  Jesus. In her present form as a religious hierarchy, and with her
                  present constitution and character of membership and order of ministry, she dates
                  her beginning long after the time of Christ. In his day, or that of the apostles,
                  no such religious establishments were dreamed of. The Church of Christ, as we have
                  seen, was not a hierarchy, and of course no hierarchy could be his
                  Church. And so even if this immense establishment had existed from before the
                  death of Christ, it could have been no Church of his, for his Church was
                     not such an establishment, but a simple local, independent
                  society. We know, however, from undoubted historical records, that it was at least
                  as late as the second century before the Church of Christ at Rome gave place to
                  the Roman hierarchy; so that she has not even this claim to be a true scriptural
                  Church.
               "Then, if we apply our eighth test, and ask if she has ever
                     persecuted for conscience' sake, all history will testify that she
                  was for ages drunken with the blood of the saints. When was there a day that she
                  did not persecute? In every age, and every country, where she has had the power,
                  she has tortured, and tormented, and destroyed all who ventured to obey Christ
                  rather than Rome. It is somewhat remarkable that, though she has sometimes killed
                  Jews and Pagans for their religion, her chief cruelties have been inflicted on
                  those who claimed to be the followers of Jesus: who studied God's holy Word for
                  themselves, and who would not recognize her authority above that of their Lord.
                  They said that a corrupt apostate Church had lost all authority as the executive
                  of the kingdom of Christ, and therefore that baptism conferred by her ministers,
                  and on her authority, was no Christian baptism, and they could not receive it as
                  such. They consequently baptized those who came to them from the Roman Church,
                  even though they had been immersed by the priests. This Rome declared was the
                  horrible sin of rebaptizing, or Anabaptism, and those who practiced it were called
                  by them the Anabaptists. It is remarkable also that these Anabaptists could not
                  find any authority in the Word for the baptism of children. They said Christ did
                  not command it, for no such command can be discovered in the Book. They said
                  Christ did not practice it; no more did the apostles; for no instance of its
                  performance can be discovered in the Book. And since there was no
                     Scripture for it, they could not practice it as a religious
                  ordinance. They consequently, while they dedicated their children to God, and
                  carefully educated them in a knowledge of his Word, yet did not dare to mock God
                  by conferring on them the baptism which Christ had appointed only for those who
                  had repented and believed. For these things they were anathematized. For these things they were
                  fined, imprisoned, scourged, tortured, beheaded, drowned, and burned, by the
                     'Holy Catholic Church' of Rome. For these things they are to-day
                  fined, and imprisoned, and tormented, in every Catholic country where the Church
                     has the power, and dares to use it. It is mainly by the curses
                  which were denounced against them, by the instructions given for their
                  extirpation, and the reasons given why they must be destroyed from the earth, that
                  we can trace the history of the true Churches, from the time that the Roman
                  hierarchy was established. The history of that hierarchy is minutely
                  recorded, and that is called the history of the Church! But the true
                  Churches of Christ have scarce a name for many ages. We might have been left to
                  doubt of their existence, did not these decrees, which denounced them as the most
                  fearful of heretics, and the record of the bloody executions by which these
                  decrees were so remorsely enforced, attest their continuous existence. But, as it
                  is, we can recognize them in every age, and many lands. We can trace them by the
                  streams of blood which they shed for the testimony of Jesus; and see them by the
                  light of the fires by which their bodies were consumed, because they would not
                  forsake their King, give up the liberty with which Christ had made them free, and
                  subject their conscience to the rule of Rome. They boldly asked, 'What has the
                  emperor to do with our religion?' They knew, in matters of religion, no other king
                  but Jesus. They were governed by his Word; and this was their
                  unpardonable crime. They would not obey the Pope: they would not heed the decrees
                  of councils: they had the Word of God; that they could not disobey; its authority
                  was supreme, and its instructions were complete. What need had they of popes and
                  councils to teach them the law of Christ? And what right had popes and councils to
                  change or abrogate the laws of Christ? They were Christ's freemen, and would not,
                  nay they could not, bow their necks to the yoke of Roman Catholic bondage, or bow
                  their knee to Roman Catholic authority. And Roman Catholic authority, after 'the
                  Church' had secured the alliance and control of the civil power to enforce her
                  decrees, was not lightly to be cast off. Not the blood of individual offenders
                  alone could satiate her vengeance; though countless thousands perished thus alone
                  in the dungeons of the Inquisition, and in the flames of the 'auto da fé;' but whole provinces were laid waste by
                  fire and sword, and all the population, men and women, innocent maidens and
                  little, helpless infants, consigned to indiscriminate and murderous death—death
                  made most terrible by all the atrocities which the most diabolical cruelty and
                  most satanic ingenuity could possibly devise, to add to its horrors. The Church of
                  Rome can count her victims, not by thousands nor by hundreds of thousands, but by
                  millions; and these not Jews, rejecting Christ; not Pagans, bowing down to dumb
                  idols; but believers in Jesus—baptized believers, meeting, like the early
                  Christians, in their local churches, and organized upon the Scripture model; whose
                  only crime was that they chose to obey Christ rather than the Pope. They would not
                  acknowledge that Rome had any right to rule where Christ alone was King. They
                  would not acknowledge the baptism of Rome, and would not baptize their children
                  till they gave evidence of penitence and faith."
               "If it will not give you too much trouble," said Theodosia, "I would like to hear
                  some of the particulars of the Catholic persecutions. I know they are many; and
                  some of them have been very destructive and cruel; but I have in my mind rather a
                  general conception of nameless horrors, than any of the details of cruelty and
                  death which you have referred to in such general terms."
               "I fear," said Doctor Thinkwell, "that if we enter upon the particular acts of
                  persecuting cruelty on the part of this
                  Church, it will consume too much of our time. I have given some little attention
                  to this matter, and can assure you that the history of her persecutions is, in a
                  great degree, the history of the hierarchy. She has been not an occasional but a
                  continuous persecutor. Still, if Mr. Courtney can select a few of the most
                  striking or most instructive examples, it will, perhaps, not be amiss."
               "An examination of these facts," said Mr. Courtney, "so far from causing a
                  needless waste of time, or directing our attention from the main object which we
                  have in hand, will be almost essential to our perfect understanding, not only of
                  the position of this claimant, but of several of the others. And though we cannot
                  enter into all the horrible details of the persecutions which God's people have
                  sustained from this ecclesiastical hierarchy and her descendants, we cannot do
                  less than briefly to trace her history in connection with this point."
               "Please give it to us, then, as briefly as you can," said the Doctor.
               "No, no, Mr. Courtney!" exclaimed Theodosia. "Please tell us all you know about
                  it. Dr. Thinkwell has been over all this ground, and does not remember that to the
                  rest of us it will be entirely new, and will have all the interest of
                  romance."
               "The history of persecution is a strange history, in any light in which we are
                  able to view it; and the strangest chapter in that history is that which relates
                  to the persecution of Christians by those who professed to be themselves the
                  friends and followers of Jesus. It was not wonderful that Pagans should kill
                  Christians, and seek to arrest the progress of a religion which so bitterly
                  denounced their opinions and their practices, and was so utterly and
                  irreconcilably opposed to all that they held sacred. Christianity, wherever it was
                  received, abrogated and destroyed the power of the Pagan priests. The reverence
                  with which they had been greeted was changed to pity or contempt. The costly
                  offerings no longer came to enrich their shrines; no victims bled before their
                  altars. The pomp and grandeur of their imposing ceremonies was gone. Their temples
                  were crumbling to ruin; and all the splendor and pageantry of their once
                  attractive ritual no longer attracted countless thousands to gaze, and wonder, and
                  adore. These priests were the educated; the intelligent, the governing minds of
                  vast and powerful nations. They would not see their power sliding from out their
                  grasp, and make no effort to retain it. Instinctively they clung to it with the
                  tenacity of the death-struggle. The intensest efforts of the mightiest minds of
                  all the Pagan world were exerted in defence of the ancient religion. Nor does it
                  seem too much to believe that they were aided in their counsels by suggestions
                  from that Prince of darkness whose willing servants they had been so long. As Rome
                  was now the mistress of the world, it was in Rome that the great battle must be
                  fought. When Paul began to preach there, in his own hired house, bound by a chain
                  to the soldier who had his liberty in charge, Christianity was too small a thing
                  to excite more than contemptuous disregard on the part of those in power. But when
                  converts had multiplied, and some of them were found even in the household of the
                  emperor, the priests became alarmed. They did not choose to reason, but determined
                  to destroy. The government belonged to them, and all the ingenuity of statutes,
                  all the powers of arms, and all the authority of the empire, were employed at once
                  to crush the new religion to the earth, and grind out every vestige of it from the
                  minds of men. If it had been like other religions, such would have been the speedy
                  and certain result. But the name of Christ was stronger than the terrible name of
                  Rome. Ten fearful persecutions, in which all the vast power and resources of the
                  mightiest empire of the earth were
                  brought to bear with most malignant and terrific energy upon the rising sect, had
                  passed, and yet it was not extinguished. The cruel Nero, the proud and perfidious
                  Domitian, the superstitious Diocletian, in vain assailed it. The bodies of
                  Christians were slaughtered in the streets; thrown alive into the arena of the
                  amphitheatre, to be devoured by wild beasts; burned as torches to illuminate the
                  public gardens; and subjected to tortures too horrible to mention. But
                  Christianity still survived. Celsus, Porphyry, and Hierocles, attacked it by
                  argument, by abuse, by satire, and denunciation; but it was still triumphant. 'The
                  Apologies' of the Fathers were more than a match for the learning and wit of their
                  opponents. Even Julian the Apostate, when he brought all the learning and all the
                  skill of his philosophy, combined with all the power of the empire, to bear upon
                  the religion which he had once embraced, and then disowned, was compelled to own
                  in death that the Galilean had conquered—Christianity was triumphant. The temples
                  of the idols became the churches of the worshippers of Jesus. The altars no longer
                  smoked with the blood of sacrifices offered to Jove. And yet the
                     priests were there, clothed, like their pagan predecessors, in
                  their sacred robes, and much of what was called the worship of Jehovah was
                  wonderfully like what had once been called the worship of Jupiter. The Christian
                  name was there, but the purity and the power of the religion of Christ had been
                  lost; and those who were now called Christians, so soon as they were invested with
                     the power, showed that they were quite as ready to torture and
                  torment, to persecute and destroy, those who ventured to call in question
                     their authority, as the ancient Pagans had ever
                  been."
               "Please tell us, Mr. Courtney, how this change was brought about. How was it that
                  the disciples of Him who was another name for love, and who bade his followers to
                  do good to them who hated them, and pray for those who persecuted them—how was it
                  that they ceased to obey their Lord, and became themselves the murderers of their
                  brethren?"
               "When the religion of Christ," replied Mr. Courtney, "became the
                     popular religion; when those who professed it were courted and
                  flattered, rather than imprisoned and killed; when nobles and emperors had
                  espoused the cause of Christ, bad men united with that party for the sake of power
                  and influence. When infant baptism (or, rather, the baptism of minors, for the
                  baptism of babes was not introduced till a later day;) had been
                  adopted, and the only prerequisite for Church-membership was the ability to
                  repeat, like a parrot, the words of a creed, and answer some questions of a
                  catechism; when sincere repentance and a living faith in Christ had been dispensed
                  with as terms of admission to the Churches, they soon came to be composed of
                  unconverted men, who had no spiritual understanding of the gospel, and to whom
                  religion was but an empty form, valuable only so far as it could be used for
                  purposes of worldly aggrandizement. These Churches were no longer the assemblies
                  of the disciples of Jesus. They had already ceased to be true Churches of Christ;
                  they were mere companies of worldly men, who had no love for Jesus or
                  his cause, and cared far less for the prosperity of his kingdom than
                  for their own promotion. The first step towards that fearful change by which
                  Christ's Church was driven out of sight, and an establishment having the same
                  name, though consisting of a different sort of people, and organized under a very
                  different constitution, and filled with rancorous hatred towards it, was the
                     loss of the independence of the local societies. Christ, as we
                  have seen, made each Church independent. It had none above it but himself alone.
                  He was its Lord and Master; but it called no one master on the earth.
               "But it happened very early (some time in the second century) that this wise
                  arrangement began to be changed. In the
                  large cities the first Church that was organized began to take
                  precedence of the others, which were formed, to some extent, under its
                  superintendence. The process was very simple and very natural. There was a large
                  and influential Church: it had in it a number of ministers, who were all called
                  presbyters—that is, elders or bishops. Some one of these it chose to be its
                  pastor. As the membership increased, it would become inconvenient for all to meet
                  in the same place. They would consequently assemble for worship in different
                  localities in the city; and it was but natural that they should request
                     him whom they all recognized as their pastor, and to
                  whose Church they came to partake of the holy supper, and at whose hands they had
                  received their baptism, to send them some elder to conduct their public worship.
                  It was but natural that he should request some minister to go, and that he should
                  even desire him to take the permanent charge, with the consent of all concerned,
                  of this little interest. It was but natural that what was thus done as a matter of
                  convenience and courtesy, should soon come to be regarded (among people so
                  ignorant of Christianity as the first converts from Paganism must have been) as a
                  matter of right, and founded in the original constitution of the
                  Church. The new assembly still considered itself as an appendage to the first, and
                  its minister was still subject to the pastor of the first as his pastor. And in
                  time he was regarded as holding his place, not by the will of the people to whom
                  he ministered, but by that of the pastor who had designated him to the work. A
                  number of such outside assemblies would be formed: in each the same results would
                  follow, from the influence of like causes. The pastor of the first and prominent
                  Church would find himself, though having no immediate concern in their affairs,
                  yet nominally the pastor of thousands of people, to whom he never ministered, but
                  who were under the control of those who soon began to be styled his
                  presbyters, or inferior clergy; while he, by way of eminence, was called the
                     'episcopos;' that is, in plain English, 'the
                  overseer:' a term which is employed several times in the New Testament, but always
                  as synonymous with 'presbuteros,' or elder; as
                  when Paul is said to have sent for the 'presbyters,' elders of the
                  Church at Ephesus, and charged them to take heed to themselves, and to all the
                  flock over which the Holy Spirit had made them 'bishops'—rendered in our version,
                  very properly, 'overseers.' Now, all this may have been very innocently done. The
                  first of the pastors who thus acquired the control of other Churches than his own,
                  may have been, and probably was, desirous, not so much to extend his
                  own power as to extend the conquests of religion. The influence which he exerted
                  was probably much more dependent on his personal character than on his official
                  position. The people loved him, and were unwilling to be
                     entirely dissevered from his ministry. They offered him the
                  spontaneous and unenforced subjection of willing hearts, and sought instruction
                  and direction from him in their ecclesiastical affairs rather as a father in the
                  Lord than as the ruler over their consciences. But a generation
                  passed away. What was at first mere courtesy had now become custom. His successor
                  could demand, as a right, the control which the other had, perhaps, reluctantly
                  retained. The bishop claimed the right to designate the ministers to
                  the secondary Churches; he claimed the right to control their discipline; he
                  claimed as a right the fees and revenues which began to accrue from
                  various sources. He found himself in a place of power and influence. His control
                  over so many thousands of people made his friendship important to political
                  aspirants. He could be useful to the state; the state therefore confirmed his
                  claims, and, if need be, enforced them by the secular power. The bishop and his
                  diocese became a part of the apparatus of the empire, and his relations to the
                  Churches were established by the civil laws. Here was the first error. The original simplicity of the Church
                  organization established by Christ and the apostles was lost, and the independent
                  local Church was swallowed up in a hierarchy, or ecclesiastical
                  establishment, consisting of all the Churches in a certain city, or province, or
                  country, made subject, more or less completely, to one common head. Congregational
                  independence was displaced, and episcopacy was set up in its stead. This was not
                  done everywhere at once; nor was it ever done by all the
                  Churches. Some there were who still refused subjection to any lord but Christ; and
                  were for this the objects of the bitterest persecution on the part of those who
                  had acknowledged the supremacy of the bishops, and formed alliance with the
                  state."
               "Excuse me, gentlemen," exclaimed the Bishop, who had come in after this
                  conversation commenced, and had taken a seat apart from the little circle engaged
                  in it, apparently with the determination to have no more to say in the
                  discussion—"Excuse me, gentlemen, but I would like to know upon what
                     authority such statements as those to which I have just listened can
                  possibly be based. The explanation of the pretended rise of Episcopacy is
                  certainly very ingenious, and to me has been very entertaining, as will be,
                  doubtless, the story of the innumerable evils of which it is, I discover, to be
                  made the parent. And it seems almost a pity to spoil such a beautiful fabric by
                  knocking the foundation out from under it; and that I fancy I can do by simply
                  asking upon what it rests? For if any fact recorded in ecclesiastical
                  history is certain, it is that the Church of Christ, from the earliest days, even
                  from the time of the apostles themselves, was organized upon the Episcopal plan,
                  and recognized three orders of the ministry: to the first of which (that is, the
                  bishops) was given the exclusive authority to ordain to the ministry, and exercise
                  the discipline of the Churches."
               "It is very easy," replied Mr. Courtney, "to make confident dent assertions, and
                  sometimes very difficult to sustain them by the only admissible testimony. You ask
                  me upon what foundation I base my explanation of the rise of the Episcopacy, and
                  by what authority I have made such statements concerning it. I will answer you
                  frankly and freely.
               "In the first place, we have, by a careful study of this book,
                  [laying his hand upon the Bible,] ascertained that the Churches established by the
                  apostles were independent, local Churches. There is no such thing as a hierarchy
                  there. There is no Church mentioned there which subjected any other Church to
                  itself, or became itself subject to any other. If, therefore, Churches became thus
                  dependent and confederated in the apostles' days, it must have been after the
                  canon of the Scripture was closed.
               "In the next place, it is, I believe, the unanimous testimony of
                  those who have written impartially the history of the first Churches, that they
                  continued to be thus independent, at least until the second
                  century.
               "What says the learned Mosheim? 'A bishop, during the first and second centuries,
                  was a person who had the care of one Christian assembly, which at that time was
                  generally small enough to be contained in a private house. In this assembly he
                  acted, not so much with the authority of a master as with the zeal
                  and diligence of a faithful servant. He instructed the people,
                  performed the several parts of Divine worship, attended the sick, and inspected
                  into the circumstances and supplies of the poor.' (See vol. i.,
                     Ecclesiastical History, pp. 100-106.)
               "But when he comes to speak of the third century, he says, 'The face of things now
                  began to change in the Christian Church. The ancient method of ecclesiastical
                  government seemed still to subsist in general, while at the same
                  time, by imperceptible steps, it varied from the primitive rule, and degenerated
                  toward the form of a religious monarchy
                  archy. For the bishops aspired to higher degrees of power than they had formerly
                  possessed; and not only violated the rights of the people, but also
                  made gradual encroachments on the privileges of the presbyters. And
                  that they might cover these usurpations with an air of justice and an appearance
                  of reason, they published NEW DOCTRINES concerning the nature
                     of the Church, and the Episcopal dignity. One of the
                  principal authors of this change was Cyprian, (Bishop of Carthage,)
                  who pleaded for the power of the bishops with more zeal and vehemence than had
                  ever been hitherto employed in that cause. This change in the form of
                  ecclesiastical government was soon followed by a train of vices which dishonored
                  the character and authority of those to whom the administration of the Church was
                  committed. For although several yet continued to exhibit to the world illustrious
                  examples of primitive piety and Christian virtue, yet many were sunk in luxury and
                  voluptuousness, puffed up with vanity, arrogance, and ambition, possessed with a
                  spirit of contention and discord, and addicted to many other vices that cast an
                  undeserved reproach upon the holy religion of which they were the unworthy
                  professors and ministers.' (Pages 265-267.)
               "Concerning the fourth century, the same learned historian speaks as
                  follows: 'The bishops, whose opulence and authority were considerably increased
                  since the reign of Constantine, began gradually to introduce innovations into the
                  form of ecclesiastical discipline, and to change the ancient government of the
                  Church. The first step was the entire exclusion of the people from
                  all part in the administration of ecclesiastical affairs; and afterwards, they by
                  degrees divested even the presbyters of their ancient privileges, and their
                  primitive rights, that they might have no importunate protestors to control their
                  ambition or oppose their proceedings, and, principally, that they might either
                  engross to themselves, or distribute as they thought proper, the possessions and
                  revenues of the Church. Hence it came to pass that at the conclusion of the fourth
                  century there remained no more than a mere shadow of the ancient government of the
                  Church. Many of the privileges which had formerly belonged to the presbyters and
                  people were usurped by the bishops; and many of the rights which had been formerly
                  vested in the universal Church were transferred to the emperors and to subordinate
                  officers and magistrates.' (Page 348.)
               "Similar to this is the testimony of Neander. He says—"
               "But what does it matter in this dispute," exclaimed the Bishop, "what such
                  writers as Mosheim, or Neander, or Coleman, may assert? They are opposed to the
                  Episcopacy. They wrote, in part at least, for the express purpose of bringing it
                  into discredit. They, and such as they, are not disinterested, and, consequently,
                  are not reliable witnesses."
               "I should be very sorry to believe," replied the schoolmaster, "that such men
                  could not relate the real facts of the history they profess to record, even though
                  they did believe that the existence and authority of diocesan bishops
                  was an unauthorized innovation upon the original order of the Churches. But I am
                  disposed to be very accommodating in regard to the ecclesiastical character of my
                  witnesses. I have such a variety that I am sure I can satisfy the most fastidious
                  taste. Suppose we pass by Neander and Coleman. You surely will not object to
                  Gibbon—the author of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. Mr.
                  Gibbon says of the first and second centuries: 'The public functions of religion
                  were solely intrusted to the established ministers of the Church—the
                     bishops and the presbyters; two appellations which,
                  in their first origin, appear to have distinguished the same office,
                  and the same order of persons. The name of presbyter
                  was expressive of their age, or rather of their gravity or wisdom. The title of
                     bishop denoted their inspection tion over the faith and manners of the Christians
                  who were committed to their pastoral care. In proportion to the respective numbers
                  of the faithful, a larger or smaller number of these Episcopal
                     presbyters guided each infant congregation with equal authority and with
                  united counsels.'
               "In this we have a picture of one of the earliest Churches. It was an organized
                  body of baptized believers, who had among them a number of members who, on account
                  of their wisdom and gravity, were called presbyters, or elders; and to whom had
                  been committed the general oversight of the membership; and they were on this
                  account called bishops, or overseers. But Gibbon goes on to say that
                  'The most perfect equality of freedom requires the directing hand of a superior
                  magistrate; and the order of public deliberations soon introduces the office of a
                     president, [or chairman,] invested at least with the authority of
                  collecting the sentiments and of executing the resolutions of the assembly. A
                  regard for the public tranquillity, which would so frequently have been
                  interrupted by annual or by occasional elections, induced the primitive Christians
                  to constitute an honorable and perpetual magistracy, and to choose one of the
                  wisest and most holy among their presbyters to execute, during his life, the
                  duties of their ecclesiastical governor; [that is, to make him perpetual president
                  of their congregation; or, in other words, invest him with the pastorate.] It was
                  under these circumstances,' continues the historian, 'that the lofty title of
                     bishop began to raise itself above the humble appellation of
                     presbyter. And while the latter remained the most natural
                  distinction for the members of every Christian senate, the former was appropriated
                  to its new president. The pious and humble presbyters, who were first
                  dignified with the Episcopal title, could not possess, and would probably have
                  rejected, the power and pomp which now encircle the tiara of the Roman pontiff, or
                  the mitre of a German prelate. The primitive
                  bishops were considered only as the FIRST of their
                  EQUALS, and the honorable servants of a free people. Whenever the
                  Episcopal chair became vacant by death, a new president was chosen among the
                  presbyters, by the suffrage OF THE WHOLE CONGREGATION. Such was the
                  mild and equal constitution by which the Christians were governed more than a
                  hundred years after the death of the apostles.' (Decline and Fall,
                  vol. ii., pp. 272, 275.)
               "Here is, according to Gibbon, whom you will admit to be an impartial witness, a
                  direct assertion of the fact that the elders and bishops were at first the same,
                  and, for more than a hundred years after the apostles had died, there was no other
                  distinction between them, except that the title of bishop began to be appropriated
                  exclusively to that presbyter whom some Church had chosen, by the
                  vote of the whole congregation, to preside in their meetings and
                  execute their decisions. But now, when he comes to speak of the third
                  century, he presents a different picture:
               "'As the legislative authority of the particular Churches was insensibly
                  superseded by the use of councils, the bishops obtained by their
                  alliance a much larger share of executive and arbitrary power. And, as soon as
                  they were connected by a sense of their common interest, they were enabled to
                  attack, with united vigor, the original rights of the clergy and people. The
                  prelates of the third century imperceptibly changed the language of
                     exhortation to that of command, scattered the seeds
                  of future usurpations, and supplied, by Scripture allegories and declamatory
                  rhetoric, their deficiency of force and reason. They exalted the unity and power
                  of the Church, as it was represented in the Episcopal office, of which every
                  bishop enjoyed an equal and undivided portion. Princes and magistrates, it was
                  often repeated, might boast an earthly claim to a transitory dominion. It was the
                  Episcopal authority alone that was derived from the Deity, and extended itself over this and another world. Bishops
                  were the vicegerents of Christ, the successors of the apostles, and the mystic
                  substitutes of the high-priest of the Mosaic law. Their exclusive privilege of
                  conferring the sacerdotal character invaded the freedom both of the clerical and
                  popular elections. And if, in the administration of the Church, they sometimes
                  consulted the judgment of the presbyters, or the inclination of the people, they
                  most carefully inculcated the merit of such a voluntary condescension.' (Vol. i.,
                  pp. 276, 277.)
               "Surely Mr. Gibbon sustains substantially what I asserted. The Church is at first
                  a local society, governed by several presbyters. One of these is presently
                  selected by the whole congregation to preside over their deliberations, and
                  execute their will. To him, in time, the title of bishop, which had at first been
                  given to all the presbyters, becomes specially appropriated. But yet, though a
                  bishop, he is bishop only of the one local society, and is among them rather a
                  servant than a ruler. This continues till the third century. Then the bishops
                  begin to combine to elevate the Episcopal office. Then they begin to change the
                  language of exhortation to that of command. Then, so far from regarding themselves
                  as the servants of Christ's people, they claim to be successors of
                  the apostles and vicegerents of Christ himself."
               "But," replied the Bishop, "you must be well aware that Gibbon was an infidel, and
                  an enemy to the Christian religion; and, consequently, not the most reliable
                  authority in matters of ecclesiastical polity."
               "Certainly, sir; and I would not have thought of referring to him if he had not
                  been; and that in regard to this very point most fully endorsed by Dr. Haweis, one
                  of your own most eminent divines, and the historian of your own Church. Dr. Haweis
                  says, 'Where no immediate bias to distort the truth leaves him an impartial
                  witness, I will quote Gibbon with pleasure. I am conscious that his authority is
                  more likely to weigh with the world in general than mine; I will therefore
                     simply repeat his account of the primitive Church; I think we shall not
                     on this point greatly differ.' (Eccl. Hist., vol.
                  i., p. 414.)
               "But, if you object to Gibbon, even thus endorsed and vouched for, I am disposed
                  to be accommodating. I will give you testimony from the Episcopal Church of
                  England. Nay, I will go back and call the ancient Fathers from their graves, and
                  they shall testify.
               "What say you to the statements of your own Episcopal Bowdler? 'I am aware,' he
                  says in his letters, 'that in St. Jerome's time there existed generally, though by
                  no means universally, this difference between the bishop and the presbyters,
                  namely, that to the former was then confided the power of ordination. The
                  transition from perfect equality to absolute superiority was not suddenly
                  effected. It was the growth of time—not of years, but of centuries; the
                  distinction of authority, or office, preceding that of order, or
                  degree, in the Church, and being introductory to it. With the former (the
                  distinction in office) I have no concern; it being sufficient to show
                  that, as a distinct and superior order in the Church, Episcopacy, in
                  the modern acceptation of the term, did not exist in the time of the
                  apostles; and that, however expedient and desirable such an institution might be,
                  it cannot plead the sanction of apostolic appointment or example. It may be
                  difficult to fix the period exactly when the Episcopate was first recognized as a
                  distinct order in the Church, and when the consecration of bishops,
                     as such, came into general use. Clearly not, I think, when St.
                  Jerome wrote. Thus much, at least, is certain, namely, that the
                  government of each Church, including the ordination of ministers, was at first in
                  the hands of the presbytery, [the company of elders embraced in its numbers;] that
                  when one of that body was raised to the office of president, and on whom the title
                  of bishop was conferred, it was simply
                  by the election (co-optatio) of the other
                  presbyters, whose appointment was final, requiring no confirmation or consecration
                  at the hands of any other prelates; and that each Church was essentially
                     independent of every other.'
               "But Bowdler, I know, though an Episcopalian, was a layman; and perhaps, as you
                  are disposed to be so very particular about the ecclesiastical relations of your
                  witnesses, you may prefer the testimony of a bishop; nay, of an archbishop, and he
                  one of the most eminent for his learning and logic. What says Archbishop Whateley
                  upon this subject? Does he deny that the first Churches were independent, and the
                  first bishops were bishops or pastors of only a single local society? 'Though
                  there was,' he says, 'one Lord, one faith, one baptism, for all of these, yet
                     they were each a distinct, independent community on earth; united
                  by the common principles on which they were founded, by their mutual agreement,
                  affection, and respect; but not having any one recognized head on
                  earth, or acknowledging any sovereignty of one of those societies over others.
                  Each bishop originally presided over one entire Church.' (Kingdom of
                     Christ.)
               "And, if it will not seem wrong to come down from the high place of the archbishop
                  to the stand of a simple minister, what will you say to the testimony of that
                  learned and eminent Episcopal divine, John Edwards, D.D., who, after a careful
                  exposition of the teachings of the Fathers upon this subject, thus concludes:
                  'From all these we may gather that the Scripture bishop was the chief of the
                     presbyters, but he was not of a distinct order from
                  them; and as for the times after the apostles, none of these writers, [Clement,
                  Ignatius, Cyprian, Chrysostom, Theodoret, Jerome, etc.,] nor any ecclesiastical
                  historian, tells us that an order superior to presbyters was set over the
                  presbyters. It is true, one single person is recorded to have presided over the
                  college of presbyters byters; but this college had the same power with the single
                  person, though not the particular dignity of the presidentship. The short is, the
                     bishops in these times were presbyters; only he that presided over
                  the body of presbyters was called bishop, while the rest were generally known by
                  the title of presbyters; and the bishop was still but a presbyter, as to
                     order and function; though, for distinction's sake, he was known by the
                  name of bishop. He was superior to the other presbyters so long as he
                  executed his office; just as a chairman in a committee is above the rest of the
                  justices, whilst he holds that place. It was generally the most ancient presbyter
                  that was chosen to preside over the college of presbyters; but he had no
                  superiority of authority. All the priority or primacy he had was that of order.
                  Here is the ancient pattern. Why was it not followed? To single Fathers we may add
                  councils, who deliver the same sense. This, then, is the true account of the
                  matter. Bishops were elders, or presbyters; and, therefore, of the same order. But
                  the bishops differed from the presbyters in this only: that they were
                  chosen by the elders to preside over them at their ecclesiastical meetings or
                  assemblies. But, in after ages, the presbyters of some Churches parted with their
                  liberty and right, and agreed among themselves that ecclesiastical matters should
                  be managed by the bishop only.' (Edwards's Remains, p. 253.)
               "So also the famous Bishop Burnet says expressly, 'I acknowledge bishop and
                  presbyter to be one; and so plead for no new office-bearer in the
                  Church. The first branch of their power is their authority to publish the gospel,
                  to manage the worship, and dispense the sacraments; and this is all that is
                     of Divine right in the ministry, in which the bishops and
                     presbyters are equal sharers. But, besides this, the
                  Church claimeth a power of jurisdiction, of making rules for discipline, and
                  applying and executing the same; all of which is, indeed, suitable to the common laws of society, and the
                  general rules of Scripture, but hath no positive warrant from any Scripture
                  precept. And all these constitutions of Churches into synods; and the canons of
                  discipline taking their rise from the division of the world into several
                  provinces, beginning in the second or beginning of the third century, do clearly
                  show that they can be derived from no Divine original; and so were, as to their
                  form, but mere human institutions.'
               "But I will not fatigue you. This is enough from the English Church; though but a
                  specimen of what remains on record. It is possible you may not be quite pleased
                  with even these witnesses, though they be your own brethren. They get their
                  information from the Fathers. We can go to the same source. To them you can surely
                  have no objection."
               "Excuse me for interrupting you," said Theodosia; "but I am a little bewildered. I
                  do not understand precisely what a discussion on Episcopacy has to do with the
                  Church of Rome. I have been accustomed to associate the word Episcopal with the Church of England and the Methodists; but not with the Roman
                  Catholics."
               "Perhaps," replied Mr. Courtney, "I should have explained before, that our word
                  Episcopal is formed from the Greek word 'Episcopos,' which signifies an overseer. It is sometimes so rendered
                  in the New Testament, and sometimes it is rendered bishop; which is, in fact, only
                  the English form of the same word. It is said by some, who profess to have traced
                  the several steps by which Episcopos became
                  bishop, that it first lost the prefix 'E,' and was pronounced 'Piscopos;' then the affix 'us,' and was called 'Piscop;' then, by a common transition, 'P became 'B,' and it was 'Biscop.' Then the 'c' was
                  changed to 'h,' and it became our common word, bishop. So you see
                  that Episcopal is the same as Bishopical, if there were only such a word. The
                  Episcopal Church is the Bishopical Church; that is, the Church that is governed by
                  bishops. So the Methodist Episcopal Church is that portion of the Methodist
                  denomination which is subject to bishops, as distinguished from the Protestant or
                  Independent Methodists, who refuse to acknowledge their authority. Now, it is the
                  peculiar characteristic of the Episcopal and Methodist Churches, that they are
                  controlled by bishops; but they have both inherited this peculiarity in
                  consequence of their regular descent from Rome. It is a part of the system of
                  Popery, which they have retained.
               "You inquired, some time since, by what process those which had been the Churches
                  of Jesus became the persecutors of his people? I replied, that the first step
                  seems to have been taken by giving up their independence as separate,
                  local organizations, and becoming united in a hierarchy, in which they were
                  subject to bishops; or, in other words, it was the setting up of the
                  Episcopacy.
               "Our friend here took issue with me upon this point, and assured us that it was as
                  certain as any historical fact could be, that no such change from independence to
                  Episcopacy had ever been made, since the Episcopacy existed from the very first,
                  and was the order which was established by Christ and the apostles.
               "I have been trying to convince him that I did not speak without authority when I
                  said the change was made; and described briefly the manner in which it was brought
                  about. If any reliance is to be placed on the testimony of men who, like the
                  Magdeburg Centuriators, Mosheim, Neander, and other ecclesiastical historians,
                  have made Christian antiquities the object of their most laborious and careful
                  investigation, my statements are fully sustained. But, as some of these may have
                  been suspected of some latent aversion to Episcopacy, I have quoted Episcopalians,
                  stating the same things. And now I propose to bring up the testimony of the
                  Fathers, as they are called; that is, those Christian writers whose works have escaped the tooth of all-devouring
                  time, and have come down to us from the very days when this change was made.
                  These, after all, must decide the question; for modern historians and divines can
                  only tell us what, in their opinion, the Fathers did actually say upon the
                  subject."
               "But, Mr. Courtney, why can we not decide this question by the
                     Scriptures? If we cannot find Episcopacy in the Scriptures, it
                  must, as a matter of course, have been introduced after they were written; or,
                     if introduced before, must be without any binding authority on us.
                  I don't like to be dependent on mere human testimony, when we have
                  the infallible Word for our guide."
               "We have already ascertained, madam, that the Scripture Churches were
                     independent Churches: that each one had in itself all that was
                  needful to make it a complete Church; and that, so far from being subject to the
                  rule of a bishop from without, it was itself the administrator of Christ's laws;
                  and, as such, had the making, and, if need be, the unmaking, of bishops in its
                  hands. The bishops were its servants, not its masters."
               "Then you admit that the Scripture Churches had bishops?"
               "Surely they had. So far as practicable, every Church had its bishop, and some of
                  them had several bishops. Every minister who had the charge—the oversight—of a
                  Church, either exclusively to himself, or in conjunction with other ministers,
                  was, according to the Scriptures, designated a bishop. There were plenty of
                  bishops; there were as many bishops as there were pastors; and, in a certain
                  sense, the Churches were subject to their bishops. But no Church was
                  subject to any bishop but her own, chosen by herself to conduct her
                  worship and preside in her business meetings."
               "I see now how it was," said Theodosia; "and begin to understand the reason why my
                  mind has all the time been confused. The word bishop, in the New Testament, means
                  one thing, and in modern English another, and a very different thing. Then, a
                  bishop was the simple pastor of a Church. Now, he is the ruler of a diocese,
                  including all the Churches in a certain province, state, or district of
                  country."
               "Precisely so," said Mr. Courtney. "But the change is not merely in the number of
                  Churches subjected to his supervision; but in the nature of the relation which he
                  sustains to them. Then the bishop was chosen from their own members by the Church
                  to be her pastor. Now the bishop is created by some power outside the Church; and
                     he chooses a pastor for the Church, and sends him to her, whether
                  she desire it or not. Then the Church received herself those whom she thought
                  worthy of membership. Now, the members can only be received by the bishop, or his
                  deputy, the priest or minister in charge. Then the Church exercised the needful
                  discipline upon her own members, reproving, suspending, excluding, or restoring,
                  as the executive and judiciary of Christ; but now all this is done without her
                  voice, by the bishop or his representatives. The Church, which was the independent
                  executive of Christ the King, has become the abject dependent of a man-made
                  master. Now, we were inquiring how this change was brought about? I
                  have given you the testimony of Mosheim and of Gibbon. I might have given you that
                  of Neander, Schaff, Coleman, and Bunsen; and, in fact, of almost every author of
                  ecclesiastical history who has gone back to this early day, and given a picture of
                  the first Churches in this particular. They all agree that the Church, at first,
                  was a local, independent society, or organization, and that the bishop was but the
                  pastor of one of these Churches. In regard to the distinction between the
                  presbyters and bishops, some regard these as but two different words for the same
                  thing. Some think that when there were more elders than one, which seems generally
                  to have been the case, one of them was
                  chosen to preside in their meetings, and he was called bishop. But he was still
                  only the president, or bishop, of that local Church. All agree that, at an early
                  day, when mission Churches, so to speak, began to grow up around some principal
                  Church, the bishop of that Church began to be considered the bishop of the
                  subordinate Churches, and these Churches subject to the control of that first
                  established; and thus the foundation was laid for that system of despotism which
                  has since so utterly destroyed the original freedom of all those Churches which
                  have become subject to the bishops, whether in the Grecian, the Roman, the
                  English, or the Methodist communions.
               "I have said that the general correctness of this view was conceded by many
                  eminent Episcopalians themselves, the testimony of some of whom I have repeated.
                  And now, I will show you from the Fathers themselves that such a change as I have
                  asserted was actually made. It has been customary for the advocates of the Divine
                  origin of Episcopacy to appeal with great confidence to the testimony of the
                  Fathers. One of them writes as follows: 'Is it not reasonable to suppose that the
                  primitive Fathers of the Church must have been well acquainted with the mode of
                  ecclesiastical government established by Christ and his apostles? Now,
                     their testimony is universally in our favor. What
                  course, then, have the enemies of Episcopacy for the most part pursued? Why, they
                  have endeavored, by every art of misrepresentation, to invalidate this testimony
                  of the Fathers.' If others have done so, I will not. Let the testimony of the
                  Fathers stand for all it is worth. I welcome them as the best of witnesses as to
                  what existed and as to what transpired in their days. But I will not believe that
                  the Church of Christ is to be any thing different from that which we can find in
                  the Scriptures, even on the testimony of the Fathers, and martyrs besides. The
                  Bible for me, before all the Fathers that ever wrote, and all the martyrs that
                  ever bled. So, after I have found the scriptural Church to be a local and
                  independent body, I will not change it into a hierarchy, though every Father and
                  every martyr in the catalogue should unite in testifying that in their day it was
                  a hierarchy. If Christ set up the hierarchy, and makes it binding on
                  his people, we should have the record of it in his Word. If men set
                  it up, without his authority, I do not care how early they did it,
                  nor how many or clear the testimonies that it was set up. My Church must be the
                  Church of Christ, and not of the Fathers. If the Fathers testify that Christ laid
                  down the plan of the hierarchy in the Scriptures, I would simply say, I can and
                  must examine the Scriptures for myself. If I cannot find it there, I
                  cannot believe it is there. If the Fathers merely assert that it
                     existed in their day, I am ready to admit it, and let
                  the advocates of the bishops make the most they can out of it. What if it
                     did exist? Its existence is nothing, unless it can be shown that
                  it existed by the authority of the Master."
               "Its existence," replied the Bishop, who had listened with great apparent
                  indifference to this long speech of the schoolmaster—"its existence in the days of
                  the Fathers proves that it began before their days. And since some of
                  them had seen and conversed with the apostles, it follows that it must have begun
                  in the times of the apostles. And if it began in their day, and we find no
                  expression of their disapprobation, it must be conceded that it had their sanction
                  and authority."
               "I am willing to grant all that," said Mr. Courtney; "and if you will show me that
                  the hierarchy had been established, and that prelatical bishops,
                     diocesan bishops, or any other bishops than those spoken of in the
                  New Testament, who were, as we have seen, the bishops of a single congregation, or
                  one-local Church, were in existence during the lifetime of any of the Fathers who
                  had spoken with the apostles, I will yield the point, and admit that the apostles
                  taught one thing in their writings, and
                  sanctioned its opposite in their practice Nay, I will go farther—I will yield it
                  if you will show me such a prelatical bishop any time before the beginning of the
                  third century, or before the change of which I have been talking so
                  much had taken place. I know very well that Clement of Rome, who lived towards the
                  last of the first century, and who, it is supposed, had conversed with Peter and
                  Paul, wrote an epistle to the Church at Corinth, in which he mentions bishops, and
                  deacons, and presbyters. So the New Testament, in a variety of places, speaks of
                  bishops, deacons, and presbyters. The question is, Who were these
                  bishops? Paul sent to Ephesus, and called to him the elders, that is, the
                  presbyters of that Church, and said to them at parting, 'Take heed to
                  all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you bishops.' Did
                  not Paul mean the same persons, by bishops, whom Luke calls
                  presbyters or elders? They were but two different titles for the same officers. If
                  they were prelatical bishops, then there were several prelatical bishops in the
                  one city.
               "So Paul, writing to Titus, says, that he left him in Crete, among other things,
                  that he might ordain them elders—'Presbuterous'—in every city; and then goes on to give him instruction
                  concerning the qualifications for the office, and tells him a bishop—Episcopos—must be blameless as the steward of God.
               "When he writes to Timothy on the same subject, he mentions only deacons and
                     bishops; but says not a word about the presbyters. Yet he was
                  instructing him in regard to the officers of a Church. Presbyters, therefore, must
                  be included in the term bishop; for it is evident he did not mean to overlook
                  them, since he mentions them expressly afterwards in the same epistle.
               "But if this leave any doubt, it must be removed by what he says to the
                  Philippians: 'To the saints which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.'
                  'How is this?' says Chrysostom, one of the Fathers. 'Were there many bishops in
                  the same city? By no means; but he calls the presbyters by this name,
                     (bishops,) for at that time this was the common appellation of
                  both.'
               "So Peter exhorts the presbyters to feed the flock of God, taking the oversight
                  thereof—literally, bishoping it—(Episcopountes.) The presbyters are called bishops; they are to have
                  the same qualifications, and are to perform the same duties. It is as clear as it
                  can be made that the two terms are employed indiscriminately, and are entirely
                  synonymous. Now, as the Scriptures thus employ the word bishop, so do the earliest
                  Fathers. The bishops Clement speaks of are therefore simple presbyters.
               "Hermas, also of Rome, is the next of the Fathers commonly quoted on this subject.
                  He too speaks of those who preside over the Church: 'Thou shalt say to those who
                  preside over the Church that they order their ways in righteousness, that they may
                  fully receive the promise in much glory.'
               "Now, who are these who preside over the Church? They are the presbyters; for he
                  says, farther on, 'After this I saw a vision at home, in my own house; and the old
                  woman whom I had seen before came to me, and asked me if I had yet delivered her
                  book to the elders, (presbyters;) and I answered that I had not yet.
                  She replied, Thou hast done well, for I have certain more words to tell thee; and
                  when I have finished all the words, they shall be clearly understood by the elect.
                  And thou shalt write two books, and send one to Clement, and one to Grapte. For
                  Clement shall send it to the foreign cities, because it is permitted him to do so.
                  But Grapte shall admonish the widows and orphans. But thou shalt read in this city
                  with the elders who preside over the Church.' Whether these presiding
                  officers were benefited by the admonitions of the old woman's book or not, it is
                  certain they were elders.
                  And in another place, he expressly calls them bishops. 'For what concerns the
                  tenth mountain, on which were the trees covering the cattle, they are such as have
                  believed, and some of them have been BISHOPS; that is, PRESIDENTS OF
                  THE CHURCHES.'
               "The next in order of the earliest Fathers is Polycarp. He never employs the word
                  bishop; but often speaks of the elders, or presbyters, and deacons. He uses such
                  language concerning the presbyters as to show that they were the presidents of the
                  Church. 'Let the presbyters be compassionate and merciful towards all, turning
                  them from their errors, seeking out those who are weak, not forgetting the widows,
                  the fatherless, and the poor; abstaining from all wrath, respect of persons, and
                  unrighteous judgment; not easy to believe any thing against any; nor severe
                     in judgment, knowing that we are all debtors in point of law.'
               "Paphias, who was a companion of Polycarp, and a disciple of John, in a fragment
                  of his writings preserved by Eusebius, calls the apostles presbyters,
                  as they sometimes called themselves; but makes no mention of bishops. 'I shall not
                  think it grievous,' he says, 'to set down in writing the things which I have
                  learned of the presbyters: what Andrew, what
                     Peter, what Philip, what Thomas, or
                     James had said; what John, or Matthew,
                  or any other disciples of the Lord were wont to say; and what Ariston
                  or John the presbyter said. For I am of the mind that I could not
                  profit so much by reading books, as by attending to those who spake with the
                  living voice.'
               "Irenæus, who suffered martyrdom early in the third century, and wrote towards the
                  close of the second, speaks as Clement and Hermas had done, of bishops,
                  presbyters, and deacons. We do not deny this, but we ask, What did he
                     mean by bishops? What sort of bishops were they? Were they
                  scriptural bishops, or prelatical bishops? Were these bishops-not
                  pastors of single Churches, but lords over all the Churches in a certain diocese
                  or district? It is enough to say that he, like Paul, employs the words presbyter
                  and bishop indiscriminately, to signify the very same persons and officers. In one
                  place he says, 'We can enumerate those who were constituted bishops
                  by the apostles in the Churches, and their successors even to us.'
               "In another, 'Obey those presbyters in the Church who have the
                     succession, as we have shown, from the apostles; who with the
                  succession of the episcopate [or bishopric] received the gift of
                  truth.'
               "He mentions by name those who had governed the Church of Rome from the first down
                  to his own time; and says, they had the episcopate. And, in another
                  place, he mentions them again by name, and calls them presbyters.
               "Justin Martyr, who lived in the second century, in the famous apology which he
                  wrote to the emperor, speaks several times of the president: 'The
                  president having given thanks:' 'the president delivers a discourse,' etc. Now, as
                  he was giving an account of each Christian congregation, it is evident that each
                  one had its own president; and if the president was the bishop, it follows that
                  every Church had its own bishop; or, in other words, the bishop was simply the
                  pastor. Clement of Alexandria speaks of deacons, presbyters, and bishops; but he
                  also uses the word bishop in the same sense. He says that on a certain occasion
                  the Apostle John gave a certain young man into the charge of a particular
                     bishop, and that the presbyter [meaning the same man]
                  took him home to his own house, nourished, comforted, cherished, and at length
                  baptized him."
               "I have purposely abstained from interrupting your disquisition," said the Bishop,
                  "because I do not wish or intend to enter into an argument under existing
                  circumstances; but I will take the liberty merely to remind you that you have omitted all mention of that Father on
                  whom the advocates of the Episcopacy most confidently rely."
               "I know I have," said Mr. Courtney. "I left him til the last, because he will
                  require some peculiar treatment. The epistles of Ignatius have ever been the
                  stronghold of Episcopacy; and some have concluded that it was on this
                     account that their genuineness has been so often called in question. But
                  this cannot be given as the reason why Dr. Hammond, himself a zealous son of the
                  Church, speaking of some of the evident interpolations of these epistles, should
                  have said that they were 'senseless,' 'extravagant,' and evidently the work of
                  some 'impostor.' This could not be the reason why an earnest advocate of the
                  prelacy should say of them, 'that these compositions will surely not be alleged by
                  any capable and candid advocate for primitive
                  Episcopacy, without great hesitation—by many they will be entirely rejected.'"
               "I have heard much," said the Doctor, "of these epistles; and yet I have rather an
                  indistinct conception of what they are, and what depends upon them."
               "The epistles of Ignatius," said the schoolmaster, "when they first appeared, were
                  eleven in number; and soon after, another was added; and, after a time, three
                  more, making the whole number fifteen. Archbishop Wake translated them, and
                  attempted to ascertain which of them were genuine. He says, 'To pass by the first
                  and most imperfect [edition] of them, the best that for a long time was extant
                  contained not only a great number of epistles falsely ascribed to this author, but
                  even those that were genuine so altered and corrupted that it is hard to find the
                  true Ignatius in them.
               "'The first that began to remedy this confusion, and to restore this great writer
                  to his primitive simplicity, was our most reverend and learned Archbishop Usher,
                  in his edition of them at Oxford, 1644.' Usher conceived that six of them were
                  genuine. Wake accepted seven, though he does not deny that the seventh is very
                  suspicious. These six or seven are all that Protestants now ever quote in this
                  controversy. On these the cause of Episcopacy is made to rest, so far as the
                  authority of Ignatius can give it any support.
               "But it has happened recently that new materials for criticism have been brought
                  to light; and by their aid, the accomplished Chevalier Bunsen has been able to
                  determine, beyond all reasonable doubt, that four of these seven were forgeries,
                  and the other three had been greatly interpolated. And that, when the writings of
                  Ignatius alone remain, they give no sort of support to any other Episcopacy than
                  that which finds a bishop in the pastor of every Church. Indeed, there are some
                  who were willing to grant the genuineness of all the seven, and yet would
                  undertake to show that, however often they might speak of bishops, presbyters, and
                  deacons, they meant no more in any place by bishops than the
                     president of a single Church, which meaning it is certain that the
                  word acquired at a very early day. Thus the eminent Doctor, afterwards Bishop,
                  Stillingfleet, himself a dignitary of the Church, expressly says: 'Of all the
                  thirty-five testimonies produced out of Ignatius, in his epistle for the
                  Episcopacy, I can meet with but one which is brought to prove the
                  least semblance of an institution of Christ for Episcopacy; and, if I be not much
                  deceived, the sense of that place is clearly mistaken.'
                     (Irenicum.)
               "In fact, all that is said of bishops in these epistles is entirely consistent
                  with the idea that he was the simple pastor of a local Church, in which there were
                  other elders, or presbyters, who were in some sort associated with
                  him in the management of the Church, yet recognized him as their president, or
                  moderator, in all their assemblies.
               "These, if not all the Fathers of the first and second centuries whose testimony is relied upon, are
                  certainly those most relied upon. If they used the word bishop in the
                     scriptural sense—the sense in which they had received it—then they
                  must mean by a bishop no more than a pastor, a presbyter, having the charge of a
                  congregation. If they use it in the sense which it acquired soon after the
                  apostles, then they mean by it that presbyter who was chosen by the others and his
                  Church to preside in their meetings. In one or the other of these senses they
                  always used it. In no case did they mean by it a prelatical bishop;
                  that is, a bishop having the exclusive power of ordination and of discipline—not
                  in one Church alone, but over all within a certain diocese. They had
                  no idea of such a bishop: such a one had not yet existed. There was
                  as yet no Church which was subject to the rule of any other bishop than the one
                  whom she had chosen. Theodoret, Cyprian, Augustine, and others, who lived in later
                  times, represented the power of the bishop as already established. The Church had
                  lost her independence. Jerome explains how it was done. He lived in the latter
                  part of the fourth century, and after the hierarchy had been set up and
                  established, but before men had forgotten that it had come in the place of
                  something else. He was the most learned of all the Fathers, and one of the most
                  eloquent of men. Nothing can be more plain and explicit than his testimony on this
                  subject. Hear what he says in his commentary on the epistle to Titus: 'Let us
                  attend carefully to the words of the apostle, saying, that thou mayest
                     ordain elders in every city, as I have appointed thee; who, discoursing
                  in what follows what sort of presbyter is to be ordained, saith, "If
                  any one be blameless, the husband of one wife," etc., afterwards adds, "For a
                     bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God." A presbyter,
                  therefore, is the same as a bishop. And before there were, by the devil's
                  instinct, parties in religion, and it was said among the people, I am of Paul, and
                  I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, the Churches were governed by the common council of
                  presbyters. But afterwards, when every one thought that those whom he had baptized
                  were rather his than Christ's, it was determined by the whole world that
                     one of the presbyters should be set above the rest, to whom all
                  care of the Church should belong, that the seeds of schism might be taken away. If
                  any suppose that this is our opinion, and not that of the Scriptures, that bishops
                  and presbyters are the same, and that one is the name of age, and the other of
                  office, let him read the words of the apostle to the Philippians, saying,
                     "Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in
                     Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the BISHOPS AND DEACONS."
                     Philippi is a city of Macedonia; and certainly in one
                  city there could not be more than one bishop, as they are now styled.
                  But at that time they called the same men bishops whom they called
                     presbyters. Therefore he speaks indifferently of bishops as of
                  presbyters. This may seem, even yet, doubtful to some, till it be proved by
                  another testimony. It is written in the Acts of the Apostles, that when the
                  apostle came to Miletus, he sent to Ephesus, and called the presbyters of that
                  Church, to whom, among other things, he said, "Take heed to all the flock over
                  which the Holy Ghost hath made you bishops, to feed the Church of
                  God, which he hath purchased with his own blood." Here observe diligently, that
                  calling together the presbyters of one city, Ephesus, he afterwards styles the
                  same persons bishops. If any will receive that epistle which is written in the
                  name of Paul to the Hebrews, there also the care of the Church is equally divided
                  among many; since he writes to the people, "Obey them that have the rule over you,
                  and submit yourselves; for they watch for your souls as those that must give an
                  account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable
                  for you." And Peter, (so called from the firmness of his faith,) in his epistle,
                  saith, "The presbyters which are among
                  you I exhort, who am also a presbyter and a witness of the sufferings of Christ;
                  and also a partaker of the glory which shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God
                  which is among you; not by constraint, but willingly." These things have I written
                  to show that among the ancients presbyters and bishops were the very same. But by
                  little and little, that the seeds of dissension might be plucked up, the whole
                  care was devolved on one. As, therefore, the presbyters know that by the
                     custom of the Church [not by the authority of Christ] they are subject
                  to him who is their president, so let the bishops know
                  that they are above presbyters, more by the custom of the Church than
                  by the true dispensation of Christ; and that they ought to rule the Church in
                  common, imitating Moses, who, when he might alone rule the people of Israel, chose
                  seventy, with whom he might judge the people.'
               "Such is the testimony of this most learned Father, after the change was made. He
                  says the bishops of his day knew that they were above the presbyters,
                  not by the command of Christ, not by the original constitution of the Church, but
                  that, little by little, the change had been brought in by the custom of the
                     Church. To the same purpose, and, if possible, still more explicit, is
                     his letter to EVAGRIUS: 'I hear that a certain person has broken
                  out into such folly, that he prefers deacons before presbyters—that
                  is, before bishops. For when the apostle clearly teaches that
                  presbyters and bishops were the same, who can endure it that a minister of tables
                  and widows should proudly exalt himself above those at whose prayers the body and
                  blood of Christ is made? Do you seek for authority? Hear that testimony:
                     "Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ
                     Jesus that are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons." Would you
                  have another example? In the Acts of the Apostles, Paul speaks thus to the priests
                  of one Church: "Take heed
                  to yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you
                     bishops: that you govern the Church, which he hath purchased with his own
                     blood." And, lest any should contend about there being a plurality of
                  bishops in one Church, hear also another testimony, by which it may most
                  manifestly be proved that a bishop and presbyter are the same: "For this
                     cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldst set in order the things that are
                     wanting, and ordain presbyters in every city, as I have appointed thee. If my
                     be blameless, the husband of one wife," etc. "For a BISHOP
                     must be blameless, as the steward of God." And to Timothy:
                     "Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy,
                     by the laying on of the hands of the PRESBYTERY." And Peter also, in his
                  first epistle, saith, "The presbyters which are among you I exhort, who am
                     also a PRESBYTER, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and
                     also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed, to rule the flock of
                     Christ, and to inspect it, not of constraint, but willingly, according to
                     God." Which is more significantly expressed in the Greek Episcopountes—that is, superintending it, whence the
                  name of bishop is drawn.
               "'Do the testimonies of such men seem small to thee? Let the evangelical trumpet
                  sound the son of thunder, whom Jesus loved much, who drank the streams of doctrine
                  from our Saviour's breast: "The presbyter to the elect lady and her
                     children, whom I love in the truth." And in another epistle: "The
                     presbyter to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth." But that one
                  was afterwards chosen who should be set above the rest, was done as a remedy
                  against schism, lest every one, drawing the Church of Christ to himself, should
                  break it in pieces. For at Alexandria, from Mark the evangelist to Heraclas and
                  Dionysius, the bishops thereof, the presbyters always named one chosen from among
                  themselves and placed in a higher degree bishop; as if an army should make an emperor, or the deacons should
                  choose one of themselves whom they knew to be most diligent, and call him
                  archdeacon.'
               "This," continued the schoolmaster, "was what one who has since been called a
                     saint, and who deserved the title better than most of those so
                  named, said about the origin of the bishop government in the Church more than
                  fourteen hundred years ago."
               "Perhaps," suggested Theodosia, "he was peculiar in his opinions, and differed
                  from all others of his time."
               "So far from it, madam, we find the very same information in the writings of most
                  of his contemporaries, whose works have survived the destruction of the dark ages
                  which followed; not indeed so formally, but quite as unmistakably, announced.
               "Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, writing to this same Jerome, who was only a
                  presbyter, uses the following language: 'I entreat you to correct me faithfully,
                  when you see I need it; for although, according to the names of honor which
                     the custom of the Church has NOW brought into use, the office of bishop
                  is greater than that of presbyter; nevertheless, Augustine is, in many respects,
                  inferior to Jerome.'
               "Bishop Jewel, in his defence of his apology for the Church of England, refers to
                  this passage, to show that bishops and presbyters were originally the same; and
                  thus translates it: 'The office of bishop is above the office of priest, not by
                  authority of the Scriptures, but after the names of honor which the custom of the
                  Church hath now obtained.' St. Ambrose, sometimes called St. Hilary, who lived and
                  wrote at the same time, says, 'After that Churches were planted in all places, and
                  officers ordained, matters were settled otherwise than they were in the
                     beginning. And hence it is that the apostle's writings do not in all
                  things agree to the present constitution of the Church, [A. D. 376,]
                  because they were written under the first rise of the Church; for he calls
                  Timothy, who was created a presbyter by him, a bishop,
                  FOR SO AT FIRST THE PRESBYTERS WERE CALLED. Among whom this was the course of
                  governing Churches—that, as one withdrew, another took his place. And in Egypt,
                  even to this day, the presbyters ordain in the bishop's absence. But, because the
                  succeeding presbyters began to be found unworthy to hold the first place, the
                  method was changed, the council providing that not order, but merit,
                  should create a bishop.'
               "Chrysostom was another Father who lived and wrote about the same time, or
                  somewhat later. Here is what he says, in his homily on the Epistle to Timothy:
                  'The apostle having discoursed concerning the bishops, and described
                  them, declaring what they ought to be, and from what they ought to abstain,
                  omitting the order of presbyters, descends to the
                     deacons. And why so? Because between bishop and presbyter there is
                  scarcely any difference. And to them [the presbyters] is committed both the
                     instructions and the PRESIDENCY of the Church; and whatever he
                  said of bishops agrees also to presbyters. In
                     ordination alone have they gone beyond the presbyters, and of this
                  they seem to have defrauded them.'
               "Theodoret, who wrote somewhat later still—early in the fifth century—commenting
                  on the same passage, says, 'The apostles call a presbyter a bishop, as we showed
                  when we expounded the Epistle to the Philippians, and which may also be learned
                  from this place; for, after the precepts proper to bishops, he describes the
                  things that belong to deacons. But, as I have said, they of old
                  called the same men both bishops and presbyters.'
               "So also others; but these are enough for our purpose, and perhaps too much for
                  the patience of our friends."
               "But let me ask," said Doctor Thinkwell, "if these same writers are not all
                  referred to by the advocates of the Episcopacy, as admitting its existence and
                  advocating its claims?"
               
               "What if they are? They did admit its existence; and some of them
                  were themselves a part of it. They did approve it, at least so far as
                  to exercise the Episcopal authority themselves, or to submit to it in others.
                  There is no difficulty in proving this; but what of it? Our question is not
                  whether this rule of the bishops existed then; but whether it
                     had existed from the first? and whether its existence then was not
                  the result of a change in the original constitution of the
                  Churches?
               "I grant that there were bishops in the days of Jerome, and of Eusebius, the
                  historian, who lived before Jerome. I grant that, in their day, the bishops were a
                  higher order than the other clergy. I grant that the Churches were then
                     ruled by the bishops. I grant that Eusebius gives us catalogues of
                  the bishops whom he says had succeeded each other from the days of the apostles.
                  But I say that the bishop of that day was not the bishop of the apostles' days. He
                  is called by the same name, but he is not the same
                     thing; and this I have proved by these Fathers themselves. It is
                  just so with baptism. Christ's baptism was immersion. The Church of Rome has set
                  aside immersion, and substituted pouring or sprinkling, and called this act
                  baptism. The name is the same, but the thing is changed. It is just so with the
                  Lord's Supper. The Church of Rome gives a bit of consecrated wafer to her
                  communicants, but withholds the wine. The Supper instituted by our Lord was both
                  bread and wine. She has changed the ordinance, but calls it by the
                  same name. So it is in regard to deacons. The deacon of the New Testament and the
                  first Churches was one appointed to attend to the secular affairs of
                  the Church. As Jerome says, he was 'the servant of tables and widows.' But the
                  Church of Rome and the Church of England have made him a minister of the word, and
                  yet call him by the same name. Here is the fallacy by which the simple and
                  incautious are entrapped and deluded. It is thething, and not the
                     name, that we must look after. There is now, in some
                     ecclesiastical establishments, called Churches, a class of
                  officers called bishops; and there was in the Churches of
                     Christ, as established by the apostles, a class of officers called
                     bishops. Of this there is no doubt. But then, the modern bishop is
                     one thing, and the scriptural bishop was
                     another and a very different thing. The scriptural
                  bishop was a simple pastor of a single Church, or sometimes the joint pastor, with
                  several others, all his equals in rank, all called presbyters, and all called
                  bishops, as in the address of Paul to those of Ephesus. The modern bishop is
                     not the pastor of a single Church, jointly with others, or by
                  himself alone. He is a prelate: counts other ministers his inferiors,
                  and lords it over all the Churches in a diocese. The ancient bishop was the
                     servant of a single Church: the modern is the master
                  of many Churches. The ancient bishop was at first identical with the presbyter or
                  elder. And even after the first distinction was made, when that
                  elder, who was chosen, for the sake of order, to preside in
                  the Church-meetings, was called bishop, he was still only the equal
                  of his brother presbyters, the fellow-servant with them of the single Church to
                  which they all belonged. But the modern bishop is the master of the
                     elders, as well as of the Churches. He says to one, Go, and he
                  goeth; to another, Come, and he cometh; and to all of them, Do thus, and they obey
                  him.
               "The ancient bishop was chosen by the presbyters and the Church to
                  preside over them. The modern chooses the presbyters, and sends them to minister
                  where he will. And yet men who are, or ought to be, familiar with all these facts,
                  and these men the professed lovers of truth, the avowed ministers of Jesus, have
                  the effrontery to contend that bishops, in this modern sense, have
                     always existed in the Church, simply because they can trace the
                     word down to the apostles themselves
               
               "But I ask your pardon: I am talking too long. We have spent too much time already
                  upon this point; especially as we shall probably have occasion to refer to it
                  again, when we come to investigate the claims of the Episcopal Church. You will
                  remember that it now came up incidentally, and not entirely in the order of our
                  discussion. I have, however, redeemed my pledge. I have shown, by the testimony of
                  standard historians, by the concessions of the most zealous advocates of the
                  bishop's power, and by the Fathers themselves, that the Episcopate, in the modern
                  understanding of it, was an innovation upon the order established by
                  Christ. It was, as I have stated, probably the first of those changes
                  by which the Churches were finally involved in utter apostasy. They cast off the
                  rule of Christ as their sole Lord and King, and subjected themselves
                  to the bishops."
               "Was it not strange," asked Mr. Percy, "that this should have been done without
                  resistance or remonstrance?"
               "It was done, as Jerome says, 'paulatim'—by
                  little and little, so gradually as scarcely to excite alarm. But yet it was
                     not done without remonstrance. How many complained, and yet
                  submitted, we do not know. How many Churches refused to submit, history has not
                  recorded. But we know that there were many, under various names, and
                  in various places, who always protested against this usurpation. But when once the
                  bishops had obtained the power, it was no light matter to venture to dispute their
                  Divine right to govern; as may be seen in the case of Ærius, (not Arius, who
                  denied our Lord's eternal Sonship, or, as some say, his Divinity; but Ærius,) who
                  lived about the same time with Jerome, or a little earlier. He held the same
                  opinion that Jerome and Augustine, Ambrose and Chrysostom did: namely, that in the
                     first Churches bishops and presbyters were one; and that the
                     authority which had then been usurped by the bishops, and was, for
                  the most part, tamely acquiesced in by the Churches, was not conferred by the
                     Scriptures, but only existed by the custom of the Church. But, not
                  like Jerome, and these others, whom the Catholics have since dubbed
                     saints, he was determined to carry out his faith into his
                  practice. The others acted as Chalmers, and McKnight, and many other eminent
                  modern divines have done in regard to baptism. They admit that it was immersion
                  which Christ commanded, and the first Churches practiced; and that the change to
                  sprinkling was made without any express sanction of the Master. And yet they
                  quietly coincide with the Church; and, while contending for immersion as the true
                  baptism, practice the sprinkling which has, by custom, come into its
                  place. So these ancient saints, while they contended and proved that
                  the first bishops were not invested with dominion over the Churches, yet either
                  exercised that dominion themselves, or quietly submitted to those who did. Ærius,
                  however, sought to reform the error. He openly and boldly proclaimed that bishops
                  are, by the Scriptures, in no way superior to the presbyters: that these were only
                  different names for the same office. He declaimed against feasts, and fasts, and
                  prayers for the dead, or to the dead; all which he regarded as
                     unscriptural. He sought to bring the Churches back to the simple
                  gospel standard. But by doing so, he roused a host of enemies on every side. He
                  was quickly silenced as a minister: denounced as a heretic. His
                  followers were excluded from the Churches, banished from the cities and towns, and
                  obliged to hold their meetings (as the Waldenses did afterwards, for teaching the
                  same doctrines) in the forests or the caverns of the mountains
               "But let us go back. You will recollect, Mrs. Percy, that we were endeavoring to
                  answer your question, how it was that what had once been Churches of Jesus Christ,
                  became the persecutors of the true believers and obedient disciples of the Lord. I
                  said that the first step towards this unhappy result was that by which the Churches lost their separate
                  independence, and became the subjects of a hierarchy of bishops. They
                  gave up their sole allegiance to Christ, and owned the rule of human masters. We
                  have spent perhaps more time than we should in showing how that was done. But,
                  simultaneous with that, and, like that, brought about by little and little, was
                  another change, still more important. That was a change in the
                     government of the Church: this was a change in the character of
                  its constituent membership. That was a change of external
                     polity: this was a change of the very materials of which it was
                  composed. That set over the Church rulers whom Christ had not appointed: this
                  introduced into the Church members whom Christ had not authorized. The first
                  change, even before itself was fully consummated, did much to prepare the way for
                  the introduction of the second; and the second did much in after years to
                  perpetuate the first. Christ's Churches were at first, as we have seen, composed
                  exclusively of those who had given evidence of conversion, and had professed a
                  rational and personal belief in him as their Redeemer. They were a
                     spiritual people, who had been renewed in the temper
                  and disposition of their minds; in whom the carnal enmity of the natural heart had
                  been supplanted with the love of God in Christ; in whom the darkness of the
                  natural mind had been made light in the Lord; who had been subjects of an interior
                  change so great that it was aptly designated a new birth, by which they were
                  introduced into a new life, as was symbolized in their baptism; wherein their old
                  life, their former self, was represented as dead and buried with
                  Christ, and their present self as raised up again from the dead; so that they
                  should henceforth walk in newness of life, or simply live a new life. The first
                  Churches, I say, the true Churches of Jesus Christ, were composed, or designed to
                  be composed, of such people as these. But very early after COUNCILS of bishops had
                  usurped the prerogative of Christ, and began to make laws for the
                  government of the Churches, they changed the conditions of membership, and
                  substituted the repetition of a form of words for an intelligent
                  profession of a living faith. Grown persons, youth, and children, were taught,
                  like parrots, to repeat the form of words; and when they had been thus prepared,
                  they were initiated into the Church, and entitled to all its privileges. The
                  Church was therefore soon composed of unconverted men; and they were taught that
                  by the ceremony of their initiation, by the magic efficacy of their
                  baptism, they had been made members of Christ and heirs of glory; and were ready
                  enough to obey the behests of those bishops at whose
                  hands they now were taught eternal life could only be obtained. Salvation was in
                  the sacraments: the sacraments were in the Church, and
                  could only be available when received at the hand of the bishop, or
                  some one authorized by him. And what the bishop's blessing gave, the bishop's
                  curse could take away. The bishop had the keys of heaven and hell. Whom he would
                  he slew; and whom he would he kept alive. Not for time—that were a trifle—but his
                  power reached beyond the grave, and was as lasting as eternity. Who would not fear
                  the bishop? Then, on the other hand, the bishops loved power; and the bishops
                  loved wealth. Strange as it may seem, they delighted in magnificent cathedrals,
                  and splendid palaces, and princely ostentation. To gain wealth, they must have
                  subjects; to multiply subjects was the shortest way to power and opulence. Now,
                  each bishop claimed as his subject those who were baptized by him or under his
                  direction. Each, therefore, had an interest in making the terms of entrance into
                  the Church as easy as possible.
               "At first they gave instruction to adults, and when they could repeat the creed
                  and catechism, admitted them to baptism. But they could not overlook the rising
                  generation. It would soon control the
                  wealth and power of the nation. That wealth and power must be made subservient to
                  the Church The youth therefore were all, so far as practicable,
                  collected, and catechized, and baptized. Then the children, as soon as they could
                  learn the creed and say the needful formula, were brought into the Church. Then
                  smaller children still, as soon as they could say the words as
                     prompted at the time. And, at length, little, puling babes, who
                  could not answer for themselves at all, but were obliged to have
                     sponsors to say for them what older people had been required to
                  say for themselves. When these water-made Christians, these unconverted minors,
                  children and babes, grew up to manhood, they were the Church. They
                  had no more love for Christ and for his cause, no more of his meekness, no more of
                  his charity, no more of his justice, than if they had not been baptized; no more
                  than the heathen. Yet they were the members; they were the deacons; they were the
                  presbyters; they were the bishops; and is it any wonder that, like other
                  unconverted men, they hated, and despised, and rejected, and persecuted the simple
                  gospel and the pure religion of the meek and lowly Nazarene? Is it any wonder that
                  a true believer, who had the courage to obey God rather than man; who protested
                  against this monstrous metamorphosis of Christianity, and ventured to intimate
                  that this was not the Church which Christ established, was at once
                  denounced as a heretic, excommunicated as a schismatic, banished as a disturber of
                  the peace of the Church, or burnt, as a warning to the
                  faithful not to distrust the teachings of their priests and bishops? This is the
                  process by which the first persecuting Churches were made; and this is the process
                  by which every persecuting Church has been made, down to the present time. They
                  have all brought in their members in childhood, or infancy; and they
                  grow up wicked men, haters of Jesus, and persecutors of his people.
                  No Church that bears the Christian name, and which requires the same terms of
                  membership that the Scriptures do, namely, personal penitence for sin, and
                  personal faith in Christ, has ever persecuted; and it is remarkable that
                     every one of all the Pedobaptist ecclesiastical
                  establishments, all these so-called Churches of Christ, have, when
                  they have had the power, been persecutors of those who could not
                  conscientiously submit to their dictation."
               "That, if true, is certainly a very remarkable fact," said the Doctor, "and very
                  suggestive. I do not feel disposed to question it just now; nor will I ask you
                  to-day for the authorities upon which you base the account you have just now given
                  of the introduction of infant baptism. The picture you give is natural enough, and
                  I could readily believe it, if properly authenticated. But I have always taken it
                  for granted that infant baptism was, if not sanctioned by the apostles, one of the
                  very earliest innovations on their practice, and that it was introduced with so
                  great unanimity that there is no record of the time or manner of its coming in, or
                  of any opposition to it. But I will not ask you for your testimony now. We have
                  already had a long sitting, and we have yet another test to apply to the Church of
                  Rome."
               "That will not take us long. Our test is the ninth and the last. It says that, No
                  apostate Church can be a Church of Christ. Not that a true Church may not, in
                  process of time, by change of members, change of officers, and change of laws,
                  cease to be a true Church, and thus become apostate; but that after she
                     has thus apostatized, she is no Church of Christ, even though she
                  may still retain the same name and the same external forms that she had at first.
                  Christ's institution, called the Church, is to be permanent and
                  perpetual. But as many an individual example of that institution has
                  died out and ceased to be, so many a one has gone out from Christ's jurisdiction,
                  and associated with his enemies. But when it has done so it is not a
                  Church of Christ; when it has done so,
                  it has no authority in his kingdom; when it has done so, its members are no longer
                  members of Christ's Church; its ordinances are no longer Christian ordinances, its
                  ministry is no longer the Christian ministry. All its official acts are null
                     and void. It cannot therefore be the medium of baptism to members or
                  ordination to ministers. This is self-evident. It is a thing of necessity, unless
                  you admit the absurdity that an organization which is not a Church of
                  Christ, and to which Christ has given no authority, is yet entirely
                  competent to perform, in a legal and valid manner, those acts which he has
                  intrusted exclusively to his Church.
               "I trust our friends here will notice this point; I dwell upon it
                  because it is of vast importance."
               "How so, Mr. Courtney? I do not discover any thing so very important
                  in it," said Theodosia; "but I suppose it is my stupidity that prevents me from
                  seeing it."
               "I will tell you. The Episcopalians, the Lutherans, the Presbyterians, the
                  Methodists, and, I believe, all those denominations who are called
                     Protestants, believe and teach that the Church of Rome, so far
                  from being a true Church of Christ, is that Antichrist which was
                  foretold by the apostles. They have the best of reasons for this faith. There is
                  no doubt that they are in this entirely correct. And yet, while they thus believe
                  and teach, they cannot deny the fact that they all received their baptism
                     and their ordination from the Church of Rome. Now, if Rome were never a
                  Church of Christ, they could not even pretend that it had any right to baptize or
                  ordain, any more than the Mormon society at Nauvoo had. Baptism and ordination
                  conferred by them, and received through them, would have been no more
                     Christian baptism than if it had been received from the followers
                  of Mohammed in Mecca. They therefore say that Rome was once a true
                  Church, but that she has apostatized and become what she is. As she
                  was once a Church, she could receive and transmit true Christian-baptism and valid
                  ordination. Now, our position is, that from the day she became
                     apostate she ceased to be a Church of Christ. She was no
                     more a Church of his than if she never had been one. She had no more
                  authority to act as the administrator of the laws of his kingdom than if she had
                  never possessed that authority. Her baptism, after that, was no more
                  Christian baptism than the washing of the heathen in the pagan temples of their
                  idol gods was Christian baptism. The ordination of a minister by her authority and
                  for her service, was no more Christian ordination than the consecration of a
                  priest of Jupiter was Christian ordination; for she was no more a Christian
                  Church, and had no more authority to act in the capacity of a Christian Church
                  than any other company of those who hated holiness and persecuted the true
                  disciples of the Lord.
               "This surely will not admit of doubt; it needs no argument. If any one will
                  dispute this, it is hardly worth while to reason with him. Christ gave the
                  authority to administer his ordinances and execute his laws to his Church as the
                  executive of his kingdom. Now, when any assembly ceases
                  to be HIS Church, it has no longer his commission. All its rights are forfeited.
                  It cannot carry them out of the kingdom; it cannot exercise them as Christ's
                  executive, when itself no longer belongs to Christ. A provincial government that
                  has revolted against its king, thrown off its allegiance, instituted new officers,
                  made new laws, received other subjects, and directed all its powers, physical and
                  mental, to the destruction of the faithful subjects of their former king, are
                  surely not legal administrators of the ordinances of his kingdom. They may still
                     claim to act by his authority; they may still employ his
                     name to give apparent sanction to their work; they may deny that
                  they are rebels; they may declare that the king has no other faithful
                     subjects but themselves, and gives authority to none but them. Yet all
                  this will not legalize ize their acts.
                  Their acts will no more possess the actual sanction of the king than
                  if they had been done in their own name, or in the name of some foreign potentate,
                  whose authority they had never pretended to recognize. The faithful
                     subjects of the king can no more recognize their acts as legal than if
                  they had never made any part of the kingdom. Now, suppose a subject of a foreign
                  power should be naturalized, and so entitled to all the rights of
                  citizenship in this revolted province, and should thence pass over to some
                  province which had continued faithful to the king; would that
                     naturalization given by this revolted province entitle him to
                  citizenship in the real kingdom? He has come among the rebels; he has
                  been received by the rebels; he has been naturalized by the rebels; and he is on
                  this account entitled to citizenship among the rebels. But now, when he comes
                  among the faithful, he must be naturalized by the faithful. They cannot recognize
                  the authority of the rebels to admit citizens to their kingdom. If he
                  become a citizen there, he must be naturalized there, and by the legal and
                  undisputed authority of their king.
               "So, when a subject of Satan comes to an apostate, a revolted Church, and is
                  received by them, baptized by them, and thus made one of them, and entitled to all
                  the privileges of Church-membership among them, he does not by this act become a
                  member of Christ's kingdom. This baptism does not make him a member of any true
                  Church of Christ. And if he should desire to leave the rebels and unite with a
                  true and faithful Church, that Church could not recognize as legal, or receive as
                  valid, the baptism of the apostates. And if she should receive him as a
                     member, without baptizing him, she would by that act acknowledge that
                     his previous baptism had been legal and valid; and, consequently,
                  that the revolted and apostate Church was, at the time of conferring it, just as
                  much a true Church of Christ, and just as truly authorized
                  by Christ to receive members and administer his ordinance, as she is
                  herself.
               "So also in regard to ordination. Suppose, in the revolted province, some one who
                  had been received and naturalized and made a citizen among the rebels, should be
                  by them chosen to office, by them duly initiated and commissioned as an
                     officer to exercise among them the authority belonging to his
                  station; and he should choose, afterward, to go over among the faithful subjects
                  of the king, and claim that he was entitled to exercise the authority of his
                  office there, in the real kingdom, what would the faithful subjects
                  of the king be bound to do? Must they recognize his authority? must they submit to
                  his rule? If they do so, they admit that the acts of the rebels are as legal and
                  valid as their own acts, done by order of the king. They could do no such thing.
                  If they received him as a citizen, they must first
                     naturalize him again; for his naturalization by the rebels is
                  nothing to them; (it did not make him a member of the kingdom, but only of a
                  community of rebels.) Then, if they desired his services as an
                     officer they would elect him as such, and commission him as such.
                  And until he had been thus chosen and commissioned, he could surely be no more an
                  officer among them, and they could no more recognize any official act of his, than
                  as though the rebels had never dreamed of giving him a commission in their
                  revolted government.
               "So, when an apostate, a revolted Church, has first, by their
                  unauthorized baptism, made one a member of their apostate communion, and then
                  appointed him to office, and commissioned him as a minister to exercise his proper
                  functions in their rebel assemblies, this does not make him a minister of any true
                  Church of Christ. This does not empower him to exercise the office of a minister,
                  or make any of his ministerial acts legal and valid, within Christ's visible
                  kingdom Christ has intrusted the selecting and commissioning of his ministers to his Churches, and
                  not to Churches which hate his people and his cause, and employ all their powers
                  to injure and destroy them. If this man is to perform any official act within the
                  true kingdom of Christ, he must first be ordained by
                     legal authority within the kingdom; and every official act which
                  he shall take upon him to perform, without such legal ordination, is illegal and
                  invalid; it is null and void, as though it never had been done.
               "This is surely all very plain; and I cannot conceive how any man of common sense,
                  who will take five minutes to think about it, can ever venture to doubt or dispute
                  it."
               "Certainly, I see all that," said Theodosia; "but I do not yet quite
                  apprehend the vast importance which you seem to attach to it. I do not yet
                  perceive the tremendous consequences which are to follow from these self-evident
                  truths."
               "These consequences," replied Mr. Courtney, "are so
                     tremendous, and they follow so necessarily and
                     indisputably from the promises which we have laid down, that, when
                  they are seen and felt, the mind almost instinctively rejects the
                  premises; though, when seen without the consequences, it cannot help admitting
                  their truth, and, even after the consequences are fully realized, can find no
                     logical means of setting them aside.
               "As one who stands and gazes at the desolation in the path of the avalanche, which
                  rushed but yesterday over some beauteous, and luxuriant, and densely-populated
                  valley, can hardly realize what he beholds; but exclaims, even while he sees it
                  all, 'This cannot be. Surely this is not the place which yesterday
                  was thronging with busy life and studded with peaceful dwellings, in which were
                  beating a thousand human hearts, with all their joys and sorrows, hopes and fears;
                  and now thus desolate; now thus dead. And yet it must be so. This
                     is the place; and there is now the ponderous mass which made this
                  fearful ruin!' So he who can be brought to look this subject fairly and fully in
                  the face; who will bring his mind and hold it to the point until he sees and
                  realizes the premises we have laid down, and the conclusion that
                  must, of logical necessity, follow, is apt to feel as though the mind
                  were stunned and stupefied with the result. And though he cannot show any flaw in
                  the argument, or offer any reason why he should think it false, he yet exclaims,
                     'It surely cannot be true.'
               "The consequence which I have spoken of is this: An apostate Church, after
                     it has become apostate, is not a Church of Christ. Her baptism is not
                  valid Christian baptism. Her ministers are not legal Christian ministers. Her
                  acts, as a Church, are, one and all, utterly null and void. Now, it
                  is admitted by Episcopalians and Presbyterians, Lutherans and Methodists, that
                     the Church of Rome IS THUS APOSTATE, and that she WAS thus
                  apostate before the Reformation. If so, she had before that time
                  become incapable of conferring baptism or ordination. Her baptism was
                     not Christian baptism, and her ministers had no
                  authority as the ministers of Christ. And yet the only baptism and
                  the only ordination which any of these denominations have, they
                  received from the Church of Rome. It follows, therefore, if an
                  apostate Church cannot confer valid Christian baptism; nay, if the baptism of
                     Antichrist is not valid Christian baptism, the founders and first
                  members of these Churches were not baptized; and if the ordination of
                     Antichrist could not create a Christian minister, their ministers had
                  never been ordained. And now, if baptism is a necessary prerequisite to Church
                  membership, so that an assembly, even of good people, cannot be a true, visible
                  Church of Christ, unless its members have been baptized,—not into Mohammedanism,
                  by the authority of the false prophet; not into Mormonism, by the authority of Joe
                  Smith; not into Roman Catholicism, by the authority of the Pope; but into a
                     genuine Christianity, by the authority of Jesus,—then they could not, until they had
                     been baptized, have become true Churches of Christ. And
                  unless genuine and valid baptism can be conferred by those who have
                  themselves not been baptized, and unless true and valid ordination can be
                  conferred by those who have themselves neither been baptized nor ordained, then
                  they have never received baptism, and have never had a
                  legal ministry; and, consequently, never have been, ARE NOT NOW, and
                  NEVER CAN BE, true Churches and true ministers of Christ, until they shall have
                  been baptized into a real Church of baptized believers.
               "They admit that baptism is an essential prerequisite to
                  Church-membership.
               "They admit that no one can give true Christian baptism who has not
                  been himself baptized.
               "They admit that baptism conferred by Mohammedans or Mormons, by a
                  Temperance Society, or a lodge of Odd-Fellows or Freemasons, would not be
                  Christian baptism; but that, to be such, it must be given by a true Church
                     of Christ.
               "They admit that they received their baptism from
                  Rome.
               "And they admit—nay, they contend and prove, that Rome,
                  so far from being a true Church of Christ, was Antichrist himself—the
                  man of sin—the son of perdition—the apocalyptic beast—the dragon that made war
                  upon the saints, and that drove the true Church into the wilderness, and that
                     wore out the saints with cruel and incessant persecutions.
               "They admit all this, and they therefore must admit that they have
                  never had true baptism, and are not true Churches of Jesus Christ.
               "They may stand and stare at the ghastly array of their admissions, and at the
                  overwhelming ruin in which these admissions bury up all their claims to be
                  regarded as true Churches. But they cannot deny that they have made these
                  admissions. They cannot help making them again Theymust admit these
                  things, or deny what is as open and plain as the day to every thinking mind. They
                     dare not dispute the premises, and they cannot resist
                  the consequence. They may lift up their hands and stupidly exclaim, 'This
                     cannot be so;' but IT IS SO, nevertheless. They may say it is
                  unchristian and uncharitable thus to unchurch almost the whole of
                  Christendom. We do not do it; it is the logic of the
                     case that does the work. Neither we nor they themselves can
                  deny the conclusion, if these admissions are once made. They may go back, if they
                  choose, and retract these admissions. They may take them one by one,
                  and see if they can, see if they dare, as conscientious
                  adherents to the simple truth, retract a single one of them.
               "Let them try it. Let them begin with the last. Will they deny that Rome is
                  Antichrist? We will prove it to them by arguments from the principal defenders of
                  each of the denominations. We will prove it from Luther, from Calvin, from Baxter,
                  from Doddridge, from Scott, from Benson, from Adam Clarke, from Wesley, from
                  Chalmers. Or, if they do not like their own authorities, we will prove it by a
                  comparison of the historical facts with the Scripture predictions.
                  Nay, further, if they deny that Rome is Antichrist; if they contend that Rome is,
                  as she claims to be, the true Church of Christ, then it will follow, just as
                     certainly as before, that THEY are NOT true Churches,
                  though on different grounds. If Rome be the true Church, then they
                  who went out from Rome were heretics and schismatics,
                  and they legally are exscinded and excluded from the
                  Church. For Rome, by the authority that was in her as Christ's executive, has cut
                  them off and consigned them to perdition. So, whichever horn of the dilemma they
                  may take, they cannot go behind the last of these admissions. If Rome
                     was the true Church; if Rome was authorized to
                  exercise the authority of the kingdom of Christ; if Rome was that
                  body to which Christ had committed
                  mitted the ordinances and laws of his kingdom for preservation and execution, then
                  the act of Rome, by which they were cut off, was a legal act; and
                  they were cast out of the Church, and, of course, had no more
                  authority to baptize, and preach, and found Churches, than a deposed and excluded
                  minister would have now.
               "If you say that they withdrew, and were not cut off, it does not
                  help the case at all; for, on the supposition that Rome was the true
                  Church, they, in that case, went out from the true Church of Christ, and of course
                  no longer made a part of it, and had no authority in it. But the first reformers
                     did not withdraw. They remained in the Church as long as they
                  could. They had no thought of forming a new Church, but only of
                  reforming the old. They, as members of the Church of Rome, protested
                  against her faith and practices. And for this they were excluded, anathematized,
                  and persecuted, by that apostate, corrupt, and tyrannical hierarchy. But
                  Protestants will not, they cannot, they dare not, in the face of their own
                  denunciations of Rome as an apostate Church, and as Antichrist, recall what they
                  have said, and fraternize with her as a true Church of Christ. And if
                     they DO, it will not affect our argument; for WE HAVE
                  PROVED HER FALSE, though they may count her true. We have tried her by the Word of
                  God, and found that she has not one single mark of a
                     true Church of Christ. And yet, if she had every mark but
                     one, she would not be a true Church of Christ. If, therefore, she ever
                  was a true Church, she has become apostate. If she is apostate
                     now, she has been so ever since she possessed the
                  same peculiarities upon which we have rejected her claims; and this was, to say
                  the least, long before the Reformation. The only ground on which a
                  consistent Protestant can stand and claim that those who received their baptism
                  and their ordination in Rome, and yet, on coming out of her, were true
                  Church-members, with valid baptism and legal ordination, is this: they may contend
                  that when these members were received and baptized, and when these ministers were
                  ordained, the Church of Rome was a true Church of Christ; but, in the
                  interval which elapsed between their baptism and ordination and their final
                  withdrawal or expulsion, she had become the apostate seat of sin and abode of
                  every unclean and hateful bird. But this they did not pretend at the time. No one
                  will venture to pretend it now. Bad as Rome was at the time of Luther, she was not
                  as bad as she had been. Her pope and cardinals, bishops and priests, vile as they
                  were, were decent men, in comparison with the monsters of vice, and cruelty, and
                  profligacy, which filled her sacred (!) offices in the tenth and eleventh
                  centuries. She was just then only selling for money the privilege to sin; but she
                  had long been accustomed to sell for money the right to grant such privileges. She
                  was then only burning now and then a heretic; but she had long before been used to
                  murder them by thousands.
               "The apostasy was not only begun, but matured, hundred of years before Luther was
                  born. It was not then a thing of yesterday. Luther was born under an apostate
                  Church; he was baptized into an apostate Church, and made a priest of an apostate
                  Church; and his companions were all of them baptized into an apostate Church, if
                  they were baptized at all. The only baptism and the only
                  ordination that he or any of them received, was that of a Church that had
                     not one single mark or feature of the Church of Christ; and,
                  consequently, their baptism and ordination was no better than if they had received
                  it in a Mohammedan mosque, or a Mormon temple, or a Freemason's lodge. And since
                  they could not give what they had not received, the so-called Churches which they
                  set up have never had, and have not now, and never can have, the ordinances of a
                  Church of Christ, until they receive them from a true and legal Church.
               
               "But we need not forestall the results of our coming examination of their several
                  claims. We have now done with that of the Church of Rome. We have first
                     'searched the Scriptures,' and found what were there laid down as
                  the peculiar characteristics of a true Church of Christ. We have tried to find if
                  Rome possessed these characteristics, and discovered that she has not
                     one."
               "I have," said Mr. Percy, "busied myself, as we have gone along, in making a sort
                  of picture, or diagram, of this Church. As we had nine marks, I divided this blank
                  page into nine equal spaces, and writing the marks in the margin, determined, if
                  she was found to possess any one of them, to leave a white space for it; if not,
                  to make it black. And here you see it all black, in every space, from the top to
                  the bottom."
               "It is a good conception," said the Doctor; "and I hope you will give us a similar
                  diagram of every Church whose claims may come before us. But we are tired now; let
                  us adjourn; and when we meet to-morrow, take up the Church of England."
               
                  
                     DIAGRAM OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
                     
                        SIGNS OR MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        It includes little children who cannot believe. See p. 187.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith.
                        
                        Its members were sprinkled in infancy. See pp.
                           188-194.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization and independent of all others.
                        
                        It is not a local, independent organization, but a vast hierarchy. See
                           pp. 195-197.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and recognizes no
                           other authority above its own.
                        
                        It has the Pope for its head and lawgiver, and receives Christ's law
                           as subordinate to its own. See p. 197.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        They were made members in childhood, without their knowledge or
                           consent. See p. 198.
                     
                     
                        6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        It denies the fundamental doctrine of salvation by faith, and makes it
                           depend on works and sacraments. See p. 199.
                     
                     
                        7th. It began with Christ, and has continued to the present
                           time.
                        
                        Christ did not establish any hierarchy. The Roman Catholic Church
                           began long after the apostles. See p. 199.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        It has always and everywhere been a persecuter, when it had the power.
                           See pp. 201-206.
                     
                     
                        9th. No apostate Church can be a Church of Christ.
                        
                        If it was ever a true Church, it apostatized when it became a
                           hierarchy, or a persecuter. See pp. 245-256.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               SEVENTH DAY'S TRAVEL
               "You will recollect," said the Doctor, at the commences men of the conversation
                  this morning, "that there was one point suggested by your remarks yesterday,
                  concerning which I desired some further information; not so much because I had any
                  doubt of the correctness of your statements, as because I desire to know upon what
                  sort of evidence you made assertions so very different from those I have been
                  accustomed to hear."
               "Certainly," replied Mr. Courtney; "I remember it perfectly. You have all your
                  life been taught, as all Pedobaptists are, by preachers, and books, and pamphlets,
                  and papers, that the baptism of babes dates from the time of Christ. And I
                  asserted that it was introduced at a much later period. I do not love to make
                  assertions without giving the proof, and am very glad that you are disposed to
                  hear the testimony. I will make it as concise as possible, and it will be as
                  convincing as you can possibly desire. I will set your mind at rest on this point
                  at once and for ever.
               "And I say, in the first place, if the baptism of babes was
                     not practised by Christ and the apostles, it must
                  have been introduced afterwards. This is self-evident. But now, we have carefully
                  examined the record of the sayings and doings of Christ and the apostles, from
                  Matthew to Revelation; and though we have found the baptism of many thousands of
                  men and women expressly mentioned, we have not discovered any account of, or any
                  allusion to, the baptism of one solitary babe. We must therefore, if the record be
                  not incomplete on this most important point of Christian faith and practice, admit
                  that no infant was baptized. At any rate, we must so decide, unless
                  those who say that infant baptism was then practiced will show at least one plain,
                  undoubted fact on which to base their assertion. But such a fact the most
                  intelligent and candid Pedobaptists do not so much as pretend to
                  have. They say, with their learned and zealous advocate, Professor Stuart,
                  'Commands, or plain and certain examples, in the New Testament relative to it I do
                  not find.'
               "No one ever investigated this subject with more laborious scrutiny then Dr. Wall,
                  the author of the 'History of Infant Baptism;' yet he is forced to acknowledge
                  that, 'Among all the persons that are recorded as having been baptized by the
                  apostles, there is no express mention of any infant.'
               "So Luther says, expressly, 'It cannot be proved by the Sacred Scriptures that
                  infant baptism was instituted by Christ, or begun by the first Christians after
                  the apostles.'
               "So the learned Erasmus, in his note on Romans v. 14: 'Paul does not seem to treat
                  about infants. It was not yet the custom for infants to be baptized.'
               "So the Magdeburg Centuriators: 'Concerning the baptism of infants, there are no
                  examples of which we read in the first century.'
               "Bishop Burnet expressly declares, 'There is no express precept or rule given in
                  the New Testament for the baptism of infants.'
               "I might extend this catalogue indefinitely; but I need not do so. I will only add
                  the testimony of the learned Limbroch, given in his System of Divinity: 'There is
                  no express command for it in Scripture. Nay, all those passages wherein baptism is
                  commanded, do immediately relate to adult persons, since they are ordered to be
                  instructed, and faith is prerequisite as a necessary qualification, which [things]
                  are peculiar liar to the adult. There
                  is no instance can be produced from whence it may indisputably be inferred that
                  any child was baptized by the apostles. The necessity of Pedobaptism was never
                  asserted by any council before that of Carthage, held in the year 418. We own that
                  there is no precept nor undoubted instance in Scripture of infant baptism.'
               "Now, since we have searched for it in the Record, and could not find
                  it; and since these and others of the most learned, most industrious, and most
                  zealous advocates of infant baptism admit that they have searched for
                  it and cannot find it, it seems to me that we are fully justified in concluding
                     that it is not there."
               "But, Mr. Courtney, you say these men were themselves baptizers of infants. They
                  were pious, conscientious men. How could they practice and commend
                  that which had no Scripture authority?"
               "That is a hard question, sir. If they were still alive, I would like to ask it of
                  themselves. I suppose most of them, did they venture to speak out truly the real
                  ground of their faith and practice, would give it somewhat in the language of Mr.
                  Walker, in his modest plea for infant baptism: 'Where authority from the
                  Scriptures fail, there the custom of the Church is to be held as law.
                  It doth not follow that our Saviour gave no precept for the baptizing of infants
                  because no such precept is particularly expressed in the Scriptures; for our
                  Saviour spake many things to his disciples concerning the kingdom of God, both
                  before his passion and after his resurrection, which are not written in the
                  Scriptures. And who can say but that among those many unwritten sayings of his,
                  there might be an express precept for infant baptism?'"
               "Certainly," exclaimed Theodosia. "Who can say? And who can say that there was not
                  among those unwritten sayings of his a complete description of purgatory? Who can
                  say that there were not express directions concerning the consecration of monks
                  and nuns? Who can say that all the mummery of Popery was not detailed in those
                  unwritten conversations?"
               "It seems very evident to me," said Dr. Thinkwell, "that if He did give them such
                  an express precept, they were very disobedient to his requirement; for of all the
                  thousands whom they actually baptized, we do not read that they ever baptized a
                  single infant; and never in a single instance so much as intimated to those whom
                  they received and organized into Churches, that it was their duty and their
                  privilege to bring their infants in with them. If he gave them such a precept, I
                  can only say, they must have forgotten all about it, and the Holy Spirit failed to
                  bring it to their remembrance, as Jesus promised he should do concerning the
                  things which he had told them."
               "We have nothing at all to do," said Mr. Courtney, "with traditions
                  on this or any other point of faith or practice. The custom of the Churches,
                  except so far as that custom is recorded in the Book, is nothing to us; and yet I
                  will show that the custom of the Churches was not to
                  baptize infants for several generations after the apostles. I say, first, infant
                  baptism was not commanded by Christ, or practiced by the apostles. It did not
                  exist up to the time when the canon of Scripture was completed. This I take for
                  granted from the simple fact, that neither we, nor its most diligent and capable
                  and zealous advocates have been able to discover any trace of it in the Book.
               "I will now prove to you that it did not exist in the century next after the
                  apostles. What sort of testimony do you require? Will you have the statements of
                  ecclesiastical historians? Wallafridus Strabo, a Catholic ecclesiastical historian
                  of the ninth century, says, 'It should be observed, that in the primitive times,
                  the grace of baptism was usually given to those only who were arrived
                  at such maturity of body and mind that they could understand what were the
                  benefits of baptism; what was to be confessed and believed; and, finally, what was to be observed by those who
                  are regenerated in Christ.'
               "In fact, there is a canon of a Roman Catholic council, held at Paris in the year
                  eight hundred and twenty-nine, which says the same thing: 'In the beginning of the
                  Holy Church of God, no one was admitted to baptism unless he had before been
                  instructed in the sacrament of faith and of baptism, which is proved by the words
                  of St. Paul, Rom. vi. 3, 4.'
               "Salmasius, an eminent French Roman Catholic, says, 'In the first two centuries no
                  one was baptized except, being instructed in the faith, and acquainted with the
                  doctrine of Christ, he was able to profess himself a believer, because of those
                  words, "He that believeth and is baptized." Thence the order of catechumens in the
                  Church. Then also it was the constant custom to give the Lord's Supper to those
                  catechumens immediately after their baptism.'
               "Ludovicus Vives declares, 'No one in former times was admitted to the sacred
                  baptistery except he was of age, understood what the mystical water meant, desired
                  to be washed in it, and expressed that desire more than once, of which practice we
                  have yet a faint resemblance in our baptism of infants; for an infant of only a
                  day or two old is yet asked [in the Lutheran Church] whether he will be baptized;
                  and this question is asked three times: in whose name the sponsors answer, He does
                  desire it.'
               "Curcellæus says, 'The baptism of infants in the first two centuries after Christ
                  was altogether unknown; but in the third and fourth was allowed by some few. In
                  the fifth and the following ages it was generally received. The custom of
                  baptizing infants did not begin before the third age after Christ was born. In the
                  former ages no trace of it appears. It was introduced without the command of
                  Christ; and therefore,' he says in another place, 'this rite is observed by us as
                  an ancient custom, but not as an apostolical tradition.'
               "To the same effect speak many of the most learned Europeans who have, with every
                  possible facility for such investigations, made the customs of the ancient Church
                  their study.
               "Thus the Magdeburg Centuriators concerning the first century say, 'In this age
                  they baptized only the adult or aged, whether Jews or Gentiles; and as to the
                  manner of baptizing, it was by dipping or plunging in the water, into the name of
                  the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.' Of the second century they say, 'It doth not
                  appear from any approved authors that there was any mutation or change in respect
                  to baptism from the first century.' Of the third they say, 'As to the rite of
                  baptism in the Churches of Asia, we have no testimony of any
                  alteration; but concerning the African Churches, there were great corruptions, in
                  opinion at least, if not in practice;' and instance the introduction of the
                  baptism of infants, which was opposed by Tertullian.
               "Dr. Mosheim says of the first century, 'No persons were admitted to
                  baptism but such as had been previously instructed into the principal points of
                  Christianity, and had also given satisfactory proofs of pious dispositions and
                  upright intentions.' And of the second century, 'The persons to be baptized, after
                  they had repeated the creed, confessed, and renounced their sins, particularly the
                  Devil and his pompous allurements, were immersed under water, and received into
                  Christ's kingdom by a solemn invocation.'
               "These authorities are none of them Baptists. They every one belong to Churches
                  which consist of those baptized in infancy. They all have every motive to find
                  infant baptism in the first Churches if they can. They none of them have any
                  conceivable interest in advancing Baptist sentiments; and one would think the
                  united testimony of such men, upon a question of ecclesiastical history, would be
                  decisive. I would say, if I were talking on any other subject, that he who would,
                  without a careful personal examination of the evidences, venture ture to assert, in opposition to all this, that
                  infant baptism existed in the first two centuries, was either a liar or a fool.
                  But I know the force of religious prejudice, and will not use such language. I
                  will, on the contrary, suppose that even you and these good friends around me are
                  not yet convinced I have given you the simple declarations of
                  very learned and eminent men (themselves Pedobaptists) who before making those
                  declarations had gone back into the musty records of antiquity, and made a careful
                  and laborious search for the real facts. After such examination they expressly
                  depose that the first and second centuries knew nothing of infant baptism. I can
                  for my own part see no reason why any man should ask for further witnesses; but we
                  have others, and I will bring them in, and they shall testify.
               "There are witnesses which show that even to a much later day than this, infant
                  baptism was the exception, and not, as now in Pedobaptist Churches, the general
                  rule—I mean the baptisteries. The Christians continued to baptize in streams, and
                  pools, and baths until the middle of the third century. Justin Martyr says, the
                  candidates 'Were brought to a place where there was water.' And Tertullian says,
                  'It made no difference whether it were the sea, or a pool, or a lake, a river or a
                  bath.' But about the middle of the third century, shortly after infant baptism
                  began to be rather proposed than practiced, the Churches began to build special
                  places for baptism, especially in the towns and cities. These baptisteries were
                  outside the churches, and consisted of a large pool enclosed in a building, and
                  covered by a cupola, or dome. Now, the most ancient of these
                  baptisteries were arranged at great cost for the immersion of adults. The pools
                  were large enough and deep enough to swim in, and by the ancients were sometimes
                  called swimming places. It was not until after the fifth century that the
                     font was found in the place of the pool, and not
                  until the fourteenth that the basin took the place of the
                     font. Now these, though silent, are most convincing witnesses. The
                  first baptisteries were contrived and fitted for the immersion of adults. The
                  fonts, reduced in size, first to the standard of youths, and then to that of
                  babes, show the gradual incoming of the immersion of infants; and the substitution
                  of the basin shows the introduction of sprinkling.
               "But, not to dwell on this, I wish to call your attention to another and a most
                  conclusive fact. It is this: All the ancient formularies of the baptismal
                     service are arranged for adults; or, at least, for those who could
                  understand and answer the questions for themselves. In the earliest
                  liturgies and rituals there is no provision made for infants. They are no more
                  recognized as the proper subjects of baptism than are the worshippers of
                  Jupiter."
               "I do not see how you can prove that," said the Doctor, "unless you can give us
                  the rituals to examine for ourselves, or show us the testimony of some competent
                  and credible witness who has examined them."
               "It is in my power to do both at the same time. I have in my trunk a work,
                  recently published in London, which brings to light much that was not known
                  before, and clears away the rubbish which defaced and concealed much that was
                  partly understood concerning the faith and practice of the first Churches. No one,
                  who will follow the learned author through all the various paths by which be has
                  come to his final conclusions, will be disposed to doubt that he has at length
                  discovered and brought to view the real picture of the ancient Church. I will get
                  it, and show you what was the practice of that Church concerning baptism. The
                  author, who is the learned Chevalier Bunsen, is not a Baptist. He has no object in
                  advancing Baptist sentiments. He is a Pedobaptist scholar, who, by vast labor and
                  research, has endeavored to discover beneath the rubbish which false learning had
                  heaped upon it, the beautiful form of the apostolical Church. Not, indeed, as it existed in the apostles' days; not as
                  it was before it had been at all corrupted by false doctrine or unauthorized
                  practices; but as it was from the second to the fifth century. This book is called
                  'HIPPOLYTUS AND HIS AGE.' It is based upon the discovery of a long-lost manuscript
                  of that ancient bishop, who lived and wrote in the third century. But besides this
                  manuscript, Bunsen, the translator of it, has brought together, from many and
                  various sources, the most reliable and authentic accounts of the age when
                  Hippolytus lived."
               Mr. Courtney went to his state-room for the book, and presently returned with the
                  third volume, containing what purports to be the "Church and House Book of the
                  Ancient Christians."
               "We will not have time," said he, "to read this book today. I will merely call
                  your attention to the fact recorded on the fifth page, that those who would be
                  baptized must first be brought to the minister to be instructed. On
                  the eighth page, we learn that the course of instruction ordinarily continued
                     three years, though this depended on their course of life. After
                  this they were examined, the correctness of their lives duly certified by those
                  who had brought them for instruction; and after fasting, bathing, exorcism, etc.,
                  they were divested of their clothing and immersed in water. (Pp. 18-22.) Then,
                  after baptism, they go up out of the water, are anointed with oil, signed with the
                  sign of the cross, clothed in white garments, and so return to the Church, where
                  the Lord's Supper is at once administered to them.
               "We see, therefore, that all these fooleries of exorcism, unction, and chrism,
                  together with the sign of the cross, which have no scriptural authority, had come
                  into use long before infant baptism; and if the usage of the ancient
                  Church can establish any thing not commanded in Scripture, these things stand on
                  better ground than it does. But, although they had so far departed from the
                  simplicity of the gospel as to introduce this senseless mummery, they had not yet
                  learned to make one a Christian without his own consent. And Mr. Bunsen, on page
                  179, makes a very plain summing up of the whole matter. I will read it to you:
                  'The Church adhered rigidly to the principle as constituting the true import of
                  the baptism ordained by Christ, that no one can be a member of the communion of
                  saints but by his own free act and deed, his own solemn vow, made in the presence
                  of the Church. It was with this understanding that the candidate for baptism was
                  immersed in water and admitted as a brother upon his confession of the Father, the
                  Son, and the Holy Ghost. It understood baptism, therefore, in the exact sense of
                  the First Epistle of St. Peter, iii. 21, not as being a more bodily purification,
                  but as a vow made to God, with a good conscience, through faith in Jesus Christ.
                  This vow was preceded by a confession of faith, made in the face of the Church, in
                  which the catechumen expressed that faith in Christ, and in the sufficiency of the
                  salvation offered by him. It was a vow to live for the time to come to God, and
                  for his neighbor—not to the world and for self; a vow of faith in his becoming a
                  child of God, through the communion with his only-begotten Son in the Holy Ghost;
                  a vow of the most solemn kind, for life and for death. The keeping of this pledge
                  was the condition of continuance in the Church. Its infringement entailed
                  repentance or excommunication. All Church discipline was based upon this voluntary
                  pledge, and the responsibility thereby self-imposed. How could such a vow be
                  received without examination? How could such examination be passed without
                  instruction and observation?
               "'As a general rule, the ancient Church fixed three years as the period for this
                  preparation; supposing the candidate, whether a heathen or a Jew, to be competent
                  to receive it. With Christian children the condition was the same, except that the
                  term of probation was curtailed according to circum stances. Pedobaptism, in the more modern
                     sense, meaning thereby baptism of new-born infants, with the vicarious promises
                     of parents or other sponsors, WAS UTTERLY UNKNOWN TO THE EARLY CHURCH,
                  not only down to the end of the second, but indeed to the middle of the third
                  century. We shall show, in a subsequent page, how this practice originated in the
                  baptism of children of a more advanced age.'"
               Mr. Courtney then turned to page 186, and read,
               "'THE EXAMINATION.—In the third and last year of the preparation, the catechumens
                  were called competentes, or candidates, as they
                  had been called hearers in the second. Before they were set apart from the rest,
                  in immediate preparation for their baptism, an examination was made
                  as to their life and conduct during the period of probation. . . . It is
                  unnecessary to say that this examination was a public one. The
                     congregation [the ekklesia] was, and continued to be, the supreme
                  judge. . . . If the candidates passed this ordeal, they were first bathed and
                  pronounced personally clean. They fasted on Friday, and met together solemnly on
                  Saturday. Thereupon they were commanded to pray. They knelt down and received the
                  bishop's blessing, who exorcised every unclean spirit. . . . The bishop breathed
                  upon each of them, as the Lord did upon his disciples, and then
                     sealed them (as the text-book expresses) on the forehead, ears,
                  and lips—doubtless with the sign of the cross. . . . At the dawn of Sunday, the
                  baptismal font was filled, accompanied by a blessing, which corresponds exactly
                  with the prayers [which they] used in consecrating the elements used for the
                  Lord's Supper. The deacons assisted the men, and the deaconesses the women, to
                  take off their ornaments and put on the baptismal dress. They were then presented
                  to one of the presbyters, who called solemnly on each of them to renounce Satan
                  and all his services and all his works. . . . After this solemn renunciation he
                  was anointed by the presbyter with the oil of exorcism. . . . The deacon and
                  deaconess accompanied the neophytes into the water, and made each of them, in
                  turn, repeat after them a confession of faith in the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
                  or respond to it with the words, I believe. . . . The confession was three times
                  repeated, being uttered before each of the three immersions. . . . After that
                  followed the true baptismal unction with the precious oil, the so-called chrisma.
                  . . . The ceremony concluded with the Christian kiss. . . . After this, the
                  baptized persons were clothed in white and conducted into the church.' When, after
                  repeating the Lord's prayer in the name of the whole congregation, to show that
                  each one was now a priest, 'They partook of the Lord's Supper, in which milk and
                  honey were set before them, as well as bread and wine, doubtless as symbols of
                  their being, as it were, newly born.'
               "Now, what I say," continued Mr. Courtney, "is this: however far all this may be
                  from the practice of Christ and the apostles, it is utterly inconsistent with the
                  idea that those who were the subjects of baptism could be little infants or any
                  way incapable of witnessing a good profession. And if we read in this age or the
                  next of the baptism of children, we may be sure that they are not
                     little babes, but such as could be instructed, could believe and
                  make profession of their faith."
               "But Bunsen promised to tell us, if I heard you rightly," said Theodosia, "how it
                  was that children at a later day came to be received. Can you find us that
                  place?"
               "It follows directly what we have been looking at. Here, on the 191st page, is the
                  beginning of what he says on this point: 'Baptism is indeed called a new
                     birth—regeneration. But in what sense? Was it a sort of magical
                  conversion of the curse into a blessing, effected now in the case of the infant by
                  the act of sprinkling? Was it a forgiving of sins not intended to be brought back
                  to the recollection of the parents or
                  the sponsors who were present, but to be applied to the infant itself?
               "'The ancient Church knew no more than do the Gospels and the apostles of such
                  superstition, which contains less spirituality than many of the
                     lustrations of the old world, and not much more than the taurobolia and criobolia, mysteries of the last stages of heathenism, purporting to
                  purify the neophyte by the blood of victims. On the contrary, she bears authentic
                  testimony in all her ordinances against this corruption and misunderstanding, as
                  in other cases the origin was innocent; and I think that we are at this moment
                  better able than either the defenders or the opponents of infant baptism have
                  hitherto been, to tell how it originated. A passage in our Alexandrian Church-book
                  gives the true explanation of the assertion of Origen, himself an Alexandrian,
                  that the baptism of children was an apostolic tradition. And it removes the origin
                  of infant baptism from Tertullian and Hippolytus to the end of our present period;
                     Cyprian being the first Father who, impelled by
                     a fanatical enthusiasm, and assisted by a bad interpretation of the Old
                     Testament, established it as a principle. . . . The difference between
                  the ante-Nicene and the later Church was essentially this: the later Church, with
                  the exception of converts, only baptized new-born infants, and she did so on
                  principle. The ancient Church, as a general rule, baptized adults,
                  and only after they had gone through the course of instruction; and as the
                  exception, only Christian children who had not yet arrived at years
                  of maturity, but never infants. . . . Cyprian, and some other African
                  bishops, his contemporaries, at the close of the third century, were the first who
                  viewed baptism in the light of a washing away of the universal sinfulness of human
                  nature, and connected this idea with that ordinance of the Old Testament,
                  circumcision.' And he goes on to show, that it was on this ground that it was
                  applied to babes, to wash away their hereditary tary or original sin. Hence the
                  doctrine of baptismal regeneration.
               "Now, not only Bunsen, but all these writers whom I have quoted as authorities,
                  are, if not opponents of the Baptists, all members of Pedobaptist Churches, and
                  have every inducement to make the best showing that they can for the practice of
                  their own communion. They are therefore most unexceptionable witnesses so far as
                  they may be suspected of any secret bias to one side or the other of this
                  controversy. They are certainly competent to testify, having made the
                  customs of the ancient Church their special study; and they testify most
                  unmistakably that what I said was true; namely, that baptism which Christ
                  commanded to be given only to the believing penitent, that is, to him who gave
                  evidence of a renewal of his nature by the obedience of faith, was first given to
                  the youth upon the repetition of a form of words which they had
                     learned as catechumens; and at length to those who could not say
                  the words, but whose parents or others answered for them; and now, as we have
                  often seen, it is given to little crying babes who do not know their right hand
                  from their left. We have seen when infant baptism was introduced,
                     why it was introduced, and how it was introduced;*
                   and I trust you are ready now to go on with our investigation of the
                   claims of the English or Episcopal Church."
               
                  
                  *The reader is referred for additional information upon this subject to pages
                     319-340, vol. i.
               
               "I am quite ready," said the Doctor. "I shall not be troubled any more with doubts
                  about the time of the introduction of infant baptism. I used to think that Dr.
                  Barlow, an eminent Episcopalian, and Professor in the University at Oxford,
                  England, spoke very strangely for one who belonged to a Pedobaptist Church; but I
                  see now, that as a diligent student of antiquity, and a candid man, he could not
                  have spoken otherwise."
               
               "What did he say, sir?" asked Theodosia.
               "It was in a letter of his, published in England, in which he says, 'I do believe
                  and know that there is neither precept nor example in Scripture for infant
                  baptism, nor any just evidence for it for above two hundred years after Christ;
                  that Tertullian condemns it as an unwarrantable custom, and Nazianzen, a good
                  while after him, dislikes it too. Sure I am, that in the primitive times they were
                  first CATECHUMENT, then Illuminati, or
                  BAPTIZATI; and that not only Pagans, and the children of Pagans converted, but
                  children of Christian parents. The truth is, I do believe Pedobaptism, how or by
                  whom I know not, came into the world in the second century, and in the third and
                  fourth began to be practiced, though not generally defended as lawful, from the
                  text John iii. 5, grossly misunderstood; and upon the like gross mistake of John
                  vi. 53, they did for many centuries, both in the Greek and Latin Churches,
                  communicate infants, and give them the Lord's Supper; and I do confess they might
                  do both as well as either.'"
               "The whole history is told," said Mr. Courtney, "in a few words by the learned
                  Johannes Bohemius, who wrote in the twelfth century. 'In times past,' he says,
                  'the custom was, to administer baptism only to those who had been instructed in
                  the faith, and seven times in the week before Easter and Pentecost catechized. But
                     afterwards, when it was thought and adjudged needful to eternal
                  life to be baptized, it was ordained that new-born children should be
                  baptized, and godfathers were appointed, who should make confession and renounce
                  the Devil on their behalf.' But enough of this—perhaps too much, as it has turned
                  our minds away, for the time being, from the main object of our conversation. Let
                  us now proceed to look for our scriptural marks of a true Church of Christ in the
                  English Episcopal Church. Let us have the tablet, Mrs. Percy. What is the first
                  mark?"
               "She must consist only of professed believers in Christ."
               "Is this true of the English Church? Does not her membership embrace the little
                  children who cannot believe, and thousands who were made nominal
                  Christians in their infancy, and who make no pretension to genuine piety? Does it
                  not embrace the gamblers and horse-racers, the profane, the lewd and debauched?
                  Does it not, so far as they can be brought into it, embrace the whole
                  population, good, bad, and indifferent, of the great English nation?
                  It is the custom, sanctioned by law, that every infant must be baptized. By
                  baptism it is made a member of the Church. The confirmation which follows, when it
                  has come to the age of childhood, and is able, though not very intelligently, to
                  answer for itself, is not the act of admission: it only confirms what
                  was already done. The liturgy regards the child as regenerated and made a member
                  of Christ's body by the act of baptism. This is the door of entrance
                  into the Church; and, consequently, all who are baptized by her authority are
                  members of her communion."
               "But, my dear sir," asked the Doctor, "is not the confirmation necessary to
                     complete and ratify the act of admission? I do not think any are
                     recognized and treated as Church members, who do not
                  at confirmation make a sort of profession of their faith. They must say the
                  catechism and repeat the creed before they can be entitled to the
                  privileges of full communion."
               "Let it be so; but is this an intelligent and personal profession of that
                     saving faith in Christ which is required by the Scripture? Every
                  one who has any familiarity with this confirmation ceremony, knows that the
                  repetition of the catechism and creed is, in most cases, a mere formal saying over
                  of the words. It means nothing more than that the child has been so far instructed
                  that he has committed it to memory, and can say it over as he would a lesson in
                  geography, or a rule in arithmetic. He is admitted to communion, not because he gives to the Church or to the bishop
                  any evidence at all that he is a penitent believer in the Lord Jesus
                  for the salvation of his soul, but because he gives evidence that he has intellect
                  enough to learn the catechism, and memorize the creed. This is enough, and this is
                  all. If it sometimes happens that the child has really been converted, and in his
                  mind and heart attaches some spiritual meaning to the words repeated, this is the
                  exception and not the rule. It is not required—it is not expected; and the
                  membership exists, and is just as readily confirmed, without as with it. That
                  there are some, nay, many, very good and pious people in the English Church, I
                  will not deny. They have truly repented of their sins, and have heartily trusted
                  in Christ as their Saviour. They have been born again, and made new creatures in
                  Christ Jesus. But at the same time it is notorious that a majority of those she
                  counts as members, make no pretensions to any other Christianity than that which
                  they received by the forms of the Church; and to the efficacy of these forms they
                  are trusting for salvation. If a profession made not by them, but
                     for them, in infancy, and by them acknowledged and ratified in
                  early childhood, not heartily, and with a full understanding of its import, but in
                  words only, and as a regular matter of form—a mere ceremony which they read in a
                  book, and which is required and expected to be observed at a certain age, and that
                  whether there is any evidence of piety or not—if this is a genuine scriptural
                  profession of faith in Christ, then they have made such profession; if not, then
                  Mr. Percy must make the space opposite this mark in his tablet black, as he did
                  for Rome."
               "It certainly cannot be left white," said Mr. Percy; "and yet, when I see so many
                  pious believers in Jesus among their members, I do not like to make it entirely
                  black. Suppose we shade it, and leave it neither white nor black?"
               "Do not forget the true point of our inquiry," replied Mr Courtney.
                  "It is not whether she has believers among her members—Rome has had
                  many thousands—but whether a genuine and scriptural profession of faith is,
                  according to her acknowledged standards, a prerequisite for
                     membership; or whether she admits them without such
                  profession, and, in fact, before they are competent either to have or to profess a
                  sincere and personal faith in the Redeemer.
               "Now, if you have any sort of doubt that little infants are by
                     baptism made members of this Church, you can easily dispel it by
                  turning to the baptismal service in her liturgy: 'The minister,' you may read
                  there, 'shall take the child in his arms, and, after naming it, shall dip it
                  discreetly in the water, or shall pour upon it, saying, "I baptize thee in the
                  name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen." Then the
                  minister shall say, "We receive this child into the congregation of Christ's
                     flock, and do sign him with the sign of the cross,"' etc. Now, is this
                  congregation of Christ's flock the Episcopal Church? Certainly; for the minister
                  is to go on and say, 'Seeing now, dearly beloved, that this child is regenerate
                  and grafted into the body of Christ's Church, let us give thanks,'
                  etc. But if this leave any doubt, read on: 'Then shall the minister say, "We yield
                  thee hearty thanks, most merciful Father, that it hath pleased thee to regenerate
                  this infant with thy Holy Spirit; receive him for thy own child by adoption, and
                     incorporate him into thy holy Church."' If the infant, therefore,
                  is not a real Church member, the minister is instructed to say what is not
                  true.
               "See also the form of a certificate of baptism, under the head of 'Private Baptism
                  of Children:' 'I certify you that in this case all is well done, and according to
                  due order, concerning the baptizing of this child, who is now, BY
                  BAPTISM, incorporated into the Christian Church.'
               "And now, to assure yourself that it is not faith or penitence tence that qualifies for confirmation,
                  and, consequently, for all the privileges of full communicants, turn to the note
                  at the end of the little catechism, before the 'Order of Confirmation,' and you
                  may read as follows:
               "'So soon as children are come to a competent age, and can say
                     the creed, the Lord's Prayer, and the ten commandments, and can answer
                  to the other questions of this short catechism, they shall be brought to the
                     bishop for confirmation.'
               "The English Church, and that of Rome, stand on the same ground. They both admit
                  infants to Church-membership by baptism; and both pretend that they are by this
                  baptism regenerated and made members of Christ. It is by baptism in
                  both that men are born again; and this is given, not on any evidence of faith in
                  them, but solely on the promise of the sponsors, or godfathers.
               "Give us the second mark, if you please, Mrs. Percy."
               "It is that the members must have been baptized upon profession of
                  their faith."
               "The question for us, then, is whether the English Church has in herself, and
                  confers upon her members, genuine Scripture baptism? We Baptists will say, of
                  course, that she has not; for we do not recognize the baptism of
                     infants as authorized by Scripture; nor do we admit that sprinkling, or
                  pouring, which is now generally practiced in the Episcopal Church, is baptism at
                  all. But as we have not time to go over the facts and arguments on which we have
                  based our opinions, it will be enough for us to show, by the testimony of the
                     Episcopalians themselves, that they have changed
                  Christ's ordinance, both in the act and the subjects of it; and, consequently,
                  that what they now perform as baptism is, according to their own
                     showing, NOT the baptism of the Scriptures, but a ceremony which was
                  substituted for it by mere human authority.
               "But, first, I would remark, that when we were examining the record upon this
                  point, we ascertained that those who came into the apostolic Churches
                     believed, and were then baptized. They were not first
                  baptized, and left to find their faith in after life. Now, as in this Church the
                  pretended baptism is given before there is or can be any faith; this fact alone
                  vitiates the whole, and renders it no true scriptural baptism. And, therefore, if
                  the Church of England had continued to practice immersion, as the
                  Greek Church has done, it would not have been true baptism when applied to little
                  babes. But they have changed the act as well as the subjects. This I
                  will prove to you by their own plain and express declarations. Hear what the
                  learned Dr. Wall says, in his famous History of Infant Baptism, page 462, speaking
                  of the primitive Christians: 'Their general and ordinary way was to baptize by
                  immersion, or dipping the person, whether it were an infant or a grown man or
                  woman, into the water This is so plain and clear, by an infinite number of
                  passages, that one cannot but pity the weak endeavors of such Pedobaptists as
                  would maintain the negative of it. . . . It is a great want of prudence, as well
                  as of honesty, to refuse to grant to an adversary what is certainly true and may
                  be proved so. It creates a jealousy of all the rest that one says. . . . It is
                  plain that the ordinary and general practice of St. John, the apostles, and
                  primitive Church, was to baptize by putting the person into the water, or causing
                  him to go into the water. Neither do I know of any Protestant who has
                  denied it.'
               "Hear what Bishop Nicholson says:
               "'The sacrament of baptism was anciently administered by plunging into the water,
                  in the western as well as the eastern part of the Church.
               "So Archbishop Secker: 'Burying, as it were, the person baptized in the water, and raising him
                  out again, without question was anciently the more usual method.'
               "So Bishop Davenant: 'In the ancient Church, they did not merely
                  sprinkle, but immersed those whom they baptized.'
               "And Bishop Patrick: 'They [the primitive Christians] put off their
                  old clothes and stripped themselves of their garments; then they were immersed all
                  over and buried in the water.'
               "In accordance with this, Mr. Stackhouse declares that 'Several authors have shown
                  that we nowhere read in Scripture of any one being baptized but by immersion; and
                  from the acts of ancient councils and ancient rituals, have proved that this
                  manner of baptizing continued (as much as possible) to be used for thirteen
                  hundred years after Christ. But it is much to be questioned whether the prevalence
                  of custom and the over-fondness of parents will, in these cold countries, ever
                  suffer it to be restored.'
               "So Bishop Taylor says, expressly, 'The custom of the ancient Church
                  was not sprinkling, but immersion, in pursuance of the meaning of the word in the
                  commandment, and the example of our blessed Saviour.'
               And Archbishop Tillotson says, that 'Anciently, those that were
                  baptized put off their garments, which signified the putting off the body of sin,
                  and were immersed and buried in the water, to represent their death to sin; and
                  then did rise up again out of the water, to signify their entrance upon a new
                  life.'
               "Now, if the original practice was immersion, as these doctors, and bishops, and
                  archbishops declare, and sprinkling has now come in its place, it is self-evident
                  that, by some authority, the ordinance of Christ has been displaced, and another
                  action substituted for that which he enjoined. But, lest any one may doubt the
                  authority of these dignitaries of the Church—for some people will, now-a-days,
                  doubt almost any thing which goes to show that sprinkling was not the baptism
                  enjoined by Christ and practiced by the apostolic Churches— I will show you that
                  the English Church herself practiced immersion, and immersion only, until
                  comparatively a very recent day. In a catechism, published in the name of King
                  Edward VI., shortly after the separation of the English from the Church of Rome,
                  are the following question and answer:
               "'MASTER. Tell me, my sonne, how these two sacraments be ministred: baptisme and
                  that whyche Paule caleth the Supper of the Lord?
               "'SCHOLER. Hym that beleueth in Christ, professeth the articles of the Christian
                  religion, and mindeth to be baptized, (I speake now of thè that be growè to ripe
                  yeres of discretion: sith for the yòg babes, theyr parentes' or the Church's
                  professiò sufficeth) the minister dyppeth in, or washeth with pure,
                  clean water only, in the name of the Father, and of the Sonne, and of the Holy
                  Ghost,' etc.
               "In a sermon by Archbishop Cranmer, a little before this time, the following
                  passage occurs: 'What greater shame can there be, than a man who professeth
                  himself to be a Christian man because he is baptized; and yet he knoweth not what
                  baptism is, nor what strength the same hath, nor what the dypping in
                  the water doth betoken. . . . Baptism, and the dypping in the water,
                  doth betoken that the old Adam, with all his synne and evel lusts, ought to be
                     drowned and killed by daily contrition and repentance.'
               "In like manner William Tyndale speaks of baptism: 'The plungynge
                  into the water sygnifieth that we dye and are buried with Christ, as concernynge
                  the old life of sinne, which is Adam; and the pullynge out agayne
                  signifieth that we ryse agayne with Christ in a new
                     lyfe.'—(Robison, p. 430.)
               "But why go to the early days of the English Church, when the very words of her
                  Liturgy, even in modern times, expressly require dipping, except in case the
                  subject be too feeble to endure it. Archbishop Usher says, 'Some there are that
                  stand strictly for the particular action of diving or dipping the baptized tized under water, as the only action
                  which the institution of the sacrament will bear; and our Church allows no
                     other except in case of the child's weakness; and there is expressed in
                  our Saviour's baptism both the descending into the water, and the raising up.' So
                  the famous George Whitefield says, 'It is certain, in the words of our text, (Rom.
                  vi. 3, 4,) there is an allusion to the manner of baptism, which was by immersion,
                     which our own Church allows, and insists upon it that children
                  should be immersed in water, unless those that bring the children to be baptized
                  assure the minister that they cannot bear plunging.' Thus Mr. Wesley says on one
                  occasion that he baptized a certain individual by immersion, according to the
                  custom of the first Church and the Church of England. And on another occasion
                  says, he refused to baptize a child unless it could be done by immersion,
                  according to the Book of Common Prayer, or unless the parents would certify it to
                  be weakly.
               "It is evident, therefore, that immersion was not merely the ordinance established
                  by Christ, and practiced by the first Churches, but it was recognized and
                  practiced by the Church of England as her ordinary baptism, even towards the close
                  of the last century. And Dr. Whitby, of that Church, says expressly, that
                  'Immersion was observed by all Christians for thirteen centuries, and approved by
                  our Church, (the Episcopal;) and as the change of it into sprinkling
                  was made without any allowance from the Author of the institution, or any license
                  from any council of the Church, it were to be wished that this custom might be
                  again of general use, etc.'—Now if these things be so, is it not as evident as any
                  thing can be, that just to that extent to which they have left off immersion, they
                  have ceased to baptize? and that, according to the confessions and declarations
                  which they themselves have made? They lack, therefore, the second mark of a true
                  Church, which we discovered in the Word.
               "Let us now look for the third: Is it a local congregation, or is it, like the
                  Roman Church, a centralized hierarchy? We need spend no time to determine this.
                  The structure and constitutions of the two establishments are very similar, if not
                  identical, except that one recognizes the sovereign of England as its visible
                  head, and the other the Pope of Rome. No local congregation of the English Church
                  is of itself an independent church. It only makes a part of the great
                  confederacy called THE CHURCH; and as our Scripture Churches were each one
                     independent, and did not make a part of any such
                  confederacy, but was complete within itself, so we may know from this circumstance
                  alone that this is not the scriptural Church.
               "Our next mark will demand a little more particular attention. Does the Church of
                  England take Christ alone for her King and Lawgiver? or does she
                  recognize the authority of the King or Queen and Parliament to legislate for her
                  in matters pertaining to religion? I speak now of the Episcopal Church in
                     England, for that in this country stands upon somewhat different ground.
                  The English Church grew out of the Roman Catholic, as we shall see hereafter, in
                  the time of Henry the Eighth; and one of those enactments by which it was
                  established, declares that 'Archbishops and bishops, archdeacons, and other
                  ecclesiastical persons, have no manner of jurisdiction ecclesiastical, but by and
                  under the King's majesty, the only undoubted Head of the Church of England, to
                  whom by the Holy Scripture power and authority is given to hear and determine all
                  manner of causes whatsoever, and to correct all sin and vice whatsoever.'
               "In the time of King Edward VI., it was further enacted, that 'Whosoever should
                  affirm by open preaching, express words or sayings, that the King is
                     not, or that any other is the Supreme Head of the
                  Church of England, should for the first offence forfeit goods and chattels, with
                  imprisonment at the king's will, for the second forfeit profit of lands; and for
                     the third suffer as in cases of high
                  treason.' It was under such laws as these that the Church of England was
                  organized.
               "I cannot give you a better account of the results than has been given by
                  Macaulay, himself a Churchman, in his History of England. 'Henry the Eighth,' he
                  says, (p. 38, vol. i.,) 'attempted to constitute an Anglican Church differing from
                  the Roman Catholic Church on the point of supremacy, and on that point alone. His
                  success in this attempt was extraordinary. The force of his character, the
                  singularly favorable situation in which he stood with respect to foreign powers,
                  the immense wealth which the spoliation of the abbeys placed at his disposal, and
                  the support of that class which still halted between two opinions, enabled him to
                  bid defiance to both the extreme parties, to burn as heretics those who avowed the
                  tenets of Luther, and to hang as traitors those who owned the authority of the
                  Pope. But Henry's system died with him. . . . The ministers who held the royal
                  prerogative in trust for his infant son, could not venture to persist in so
                  hazardous a policy, nor could Elizabeth venture to return to it. It was necessary
                  to make a choice. The government must either submit to Rome, or obtain the aid of
                  the Protestants. The government and the Protestants had only one thing in
                  common—hatred of the Papal power. . . . But as the government needed the support
                  of the Protestants, so the Protestants needed the protection of the government.
                  Much was therefore given up on both sides. A union was effected, and the fruit of
                  that union was the Church of England. . . . To this day the constitution, the
                  doctrines, and the services of the Church retain the visible marks of the
                  compromise from which she sprung. . . . Nothing, however, so strongly
                  distinguished the Church of England from other Churches, as the relation in which
                  she stood to the monarchy. The King was her Head. . . . What Henry
                  and his favorite counsellors meant by the supremacy was certainly nothing less
                  than the whole power of the keys. The king was to be the Pope of his kingdom, the
                  vicar of God, the expositor of Catholic verity, the channel of sacramental graces.
                  . . . The king (such was the opinion of Cranmer given in the plainest words)
                  might, by authority derived from God, make a priest, and the priest so made needed
                  no ordination whatever. . . . These high pretensions gave scandal to Protestants
                  as well as Catholics; and the scandal was greatly increased when the supremacy
                  which Mary had resigned back to the Pope, was again annexed to the
                     Crown on the accession of Elizabeth. It seemed monstrous that a
                     woman should be the chief bishop of a Church in which an apostle
                  had forbidden her even to let her voice be heard. . . . When the Anglican
                  Confession of Faith was revised in her reign, the supremacy was explained in a
                  manner somewhat different from that which had been fashionable in the Court of
                  Henry the Eighth. . . . The queen, however, still had over the Church a visitorial
                  power of vast and undefined extent. She was intrusted by parliament with the
                  office of restraining and punishing heresy, and every sort of ecclesiastical
                  abuse;' (so all the discipline of its membership was placed in the
                  hands of the Crown;) 'and was permitted to delegate her authority to
                  commissioners. The bishops were little more than her ministers. Rather than grant
                  to the civil magistrate the absolute power of nominating spiritual pastors, the
                  Church of Rome, in the eleventh century, set all Europe on fire; rather than grant
                  to the civil magistrate the absolute power of nominating spiritual pastors, the
                  ministers of the Church of Scotland, in our own time, resigned their livings by
                  hundreds. The Church of England had no such scruples. By the royal authority
                  alone, her prelates were appointed. By the royal authority alone, her convocations
                  were summoned, regulated, prorogued, and dissolved. Without the royal sanction her
                  canons had no force. One of the articles of her faith was that, without the royal
                  consent, no ecclesiastical council could lawfully assemble. From all her judicatures an appeal lay in
                  the last resort to the sovereign, even when the question was whether an opinion
                  was heretical, or whether the administration of a sacrament had been valid.'
               "Such is the account which this learned son of the Church gives of her
                  constitution. And if such a Church has Christ alone for her King and
                  Lawgiver, there is no means of subjecting a Church to any secular or religious
                  power. Look at it a moment. No one can be a minister within her borders who has
                  not been ordained by a prelate. Yet the prelate is the
                  absolute creature of the crown. The crown, therefore, by making the prelate, makes
                  the whole ministry of the Church. The whole discipline of the Church
                  is in the crown. The queen says, by her commissioners, who are to be admitted as
                  Church-members, and who excluded; who retained and who expelled; who shall be
                  censured and who commended. And, in case even these, her own commissioners, do not
                  decide to please her, there is, in the last resort, an appeal to herself. So that
                  the queen has power to decide who shall and who shall not be members of the
                  Church. The queen decides what is gospel truth, and what is heretical; what must
                  be believed and what must be practiced. For, without the royal consent, the
                  decisions of the Church can have no force."
               "That seems all very true," replied the Doctor. "But you will recollect that this
                  is the mere theory of the Church, under which she went into operation
                  in the troublous times that gave her birth. It does not follow that the powers of
                  the queen are now what they were then; that Queen Victoria has the
                  same ecclesiastical prerogatives which belonged to Queen Elizabeth."
               "What if she has not?" replied Mr. Courtney. "The Church which
                     once gave up her sovereignty, and consented to be subject in
                  matters of religion to another lord than Christ, did, by that act, cease to be a
                  Church of Christ, and lose the authority to act as his executive. But your surmise
                  has no foundation in truth. This is not merely the ancient theory, but the modern
                  practice. The authority of the crown determines, to-day, the forms of prayer, the
                  ritual of baptism, the times of worship, and all else pertaining to the English
                  Church, as truly as it did in the days of Elizabeth. When Mr. Seabury went to
                  England to procure ordination as a bishop, there was no Church or council of
                  Churches, no bishop or house of bishops, that dared to confer ordination on him,
                  or could, according to the law of the Church, have
                  conferred it, until an act of parliament had been passed, and
                  received the royal signature, permitting it to be done. Not only
                  Seabury, but all the bishops of America, hold their commission by virtue of a
                     special act of parliament; and not only they, but all who shall be
                  by them ordained to the ministry, are by that act expressly prohibited from
                  exercising their ministry in England.
               "But we have been speaking of the Church of England as a whole; of the
                     hierarchy, which comprises all the local societies in one great
                  body. The Churches of Christ, however, we have before determined, are the
                     local societies; and the true question before us is simply whether
                  each one of the local organizations, commonly called Episcopal Churches, is
                  subject, in matters belonging to religion, to any lord but Christ. If you look at
                  it in this light, you will see that an Episcopal Church is subject to the priest;
                  it is subject to the bishop; it is subject to councils; and, in fact, it has
                     no voice in its own government. It is ruled from without, and has
                  nothing to do but inquire the decrees of its lords and humbly to obey them. If it
                  refuse to carry into execution their enactments, it cannot continue an Episcopal
                  Church."
               "But tell me," asked Theodosia, "does the Episcopal Church in this country stand
                  on the same ground?"
               
               "It claims to be a part of the same Church So far as practicable, it
                  is constituted on the same plan. It is not, however, dependent on the will of the
                  queen or the acts of parliament, but on the decrees of its general councils. If,
                  however, the mother, in England, was not a true Church when she gave
                  it birth, it cannot be a true Church; for it has nothing which it did
                  not receive from her. Moreover, each local society in America is just as much
                     subject to its priest and bishop, and just as much bound by the
                  ecclesiastical laws concocted for it and imposed upon it, as any local English
                  Church."
               "Let us pass on," said the Doctor. "I am anxious to see the end. What was our next
                  mark?"
               "It was," said Mr. Percy, "that its members must have been made such by their own
                  voluntary act; and we have seen already that the members of this Church were made
                  such in infancy, without their own knowledge or consent."
               "Let us then go on to the next."
               "That," said Mr. Percy, "has regard to her faith. Does she hold the fundamental
                  doctrines of the gospel? It is well known that both in this country and in England
                  she is divided into two great parties; one trusting as much as Rome herself to the
                  efficacy of sacraments, and forms, and works; and the other recognizing salvation
                  by Jesus only. I am disposed to mark her half black, therefore, to designate the
                  High Church, or sacramental party; and half white, to designate the other, or
                  Evangelical party."
               It may have been observed by the attentive reader that neither the Episcopal
                  bishop nor the Methodist preacher have taken any part in this morning's
                  discussion. The truth is, they were not present; and the interest of the
                  passengers had in a great degree subsided; so that our little company had the
                  conversation all to themselves. They had been themselves so much engaged that they
                  had scarcely observed the absence of their friendly adversaries, until they came
                  to the seventh of those marks, which they had gathered out of the Book, and by
                  which a true Church might be known.
               But when the question was asked whether this Church began with Christ, and had
                  continued ever since, they very naturally looked round for the Bishop, at whose
                  instigation it had been added to the tablet; and, on finding that he was not
                  present, they concluded to postpone their investigations until another day
            
            
               
               THE EIGHTH DAY'S TRAVEL.
               WHEN our little company assembled the next morning they learned that they were
                  within an hour's sail of Nashville. They had therefore no time to talk, but each
                  one began to make preparation to leave the boat. Mr. Courtney made inquiry for the
                  Episcopal bishop and the Methodist minister, that he might bid them a kind adieu;
                  but learned that they had taken another boat, or gone ashore at the mouth of the
                  Cumberland. The Doctor insisted that Theodosia, Mr. Percy, and Mr. Courtney,
                  should make his house their home for a few days, at least, until they should have
                  finished this discussion. And in some three hours after they had landed, they were
                  sitting round a table in Doctor Thinkwell's dining-room.
               After dinner, when the Doctor had finished his cigar, he came into the parlor,
                  where his guests were talking, and exclaimed, "Come, Mr. Courtney, we have no time
                  to lose: I am anxious to have this question, what is the Church, or rather,
                     which is the Church, settled as soon as possible. Let us resume
                  our conversations here, and progress to a conclusion; I am impatient to see the
                  end. Perhaps Mrs. Percy will come with us into the library, where we will be less
                  liable to interruption, and have readier access to such books as we may wish to
                  consult."
               The arrangements were made at once, and the investigation resumed where it was
                  left off upon the boat.
               "We were, I think," said the Doctor, "engaged in applying ing our tests, or marks,
                  to the English Episcopal Church, and had progressed as far as the seventh sign. We
                  had just inquired whether the English Church had been established by Christ, and
                  had continued from his day until now?"
               "It surely needs no time to answer that," said Mr. Percy, "after what we have
                  already seen to be the testimony of Macaulay, the historian; for he says
                  expressly, that 'it was the result of a compromise between the government on the
                  one hand and the Protestants on the other.' It cannot date farther back than King
                  Henry VIII."
               "But I presume you are aware, Mr. Percy," replied the Doctor, "that some of our
                  clergy have contended that the true Anglican Church began in the time of the
                  apostles, and has continued ever since, independent of Rome, except so far as it
                  was for a time brought into unwilling subjection, previous to the Reformation. It
                  is said that Christianity was brought into the island by Paul, and thousands of
                  Churches existed both in England and Wales before the Saxon conquest; and when the
                  Saxons re-introduced idolatry, Christianity retired to the fastnesses of the
                  forests and mountains; and it was through these, and not through
                  Rome, that our descent has come."
               "I suppose," replied Mr. Percy, "that it is much easier to claim and contend for
                  such a pedigree than to establish it. But let us see the proofs. We know what the
                  English Episcopal Church is now. The question is, When did it become
                  what it now is? And who made it such? Macaulay and other secular historians say
                  with one voice, it was Henry the Eighth and his successors on the throne of
                  England. But theologians who see that this would be fatal to their claims to be a
                  scriptural Church, declare that history is mistaken. Let us then examine for
                  ourselves. It is a 
                     hierachy
                     hierarchy
                   which has for its head the person who wears the English
                  crown. This is its peculiar feature. Take this away, and it is not the English
                  Episcopal Church. It has been, in this respect, what it is now, ever since Henry the Eighth. What was it
                  before that time? Was it not the same people, the same
                  priests, the same bishops, and the same archbishops
                  which then began to recognize King Henry as the head of the Church, who had
                  previous to that time recognized the Pope as their sovereign lord in
                  all matters of religion? Was it not that part of the Church of Rome which was in
                  England which then, by the decree of the king and his parliament, was made the
                  Church of England? They must be simpletons indeed who believe that the Church of
                  King Henry, and his successors in the headship, was the ancient English Church
                  which Austin, about the year six hundred, sought in vain to persuade to 'give
                  baptism to their children.' Did King Henry call those people from
                  their hiding-places in the mountains of Wales, and seek to them for
                  the ordination and ordinances of Christ which Rome, as Antichrist, could not
                  confer? No conscientious historian will dare to intimate any such thing. Those who
                  make such statements make them to deceive. They know that he did nothing of the
                  sort. They know that if the members and ministers of that old Church were yet in
                  being, (and I do not question that they were,) King Henry had no use for them. No
                  more did his successors. Both he and they continued to hang them, and
                     drown them, and burn them, (as the Popes had done
                  before,) even down to the time when Cromwell subverted his throne. That ancient
                  Church, if I have read its history rightly, was a Baptist Church; or
                  at least it was a Church that did not baptize except upon a profession of faith,
                  and would not submit to be controlled in matters of religion by any lord but
                  Christ."
               "It is a matter of no consequence at all to our present argument," said Mr.
                  Courtney, "whether the modern Church of England came out of Rome, or out of some
                  ancient Church planted upon her native soil by Paul himself; for whatever her
                     origin might have been, she could not at any time have been
                     what she is now, and at the same time a true Church of Christ.
                  Whenever she became a hierarchy, and owned the rule of any lord but
                  Christ, whether that lord were the Pope of Rome, the King of England, or the
                  Archbishop of Canterbury, is of no consequence at all; from that moment she ceased
                  to be the true Church of Jesus Christ; for his Church was, and must
                  continue to be, an independent local organization, not a confederacy;
                  not a hierarchy; not any great ecclesiastical establishment. Christ established
                     no such Church. The apostles established no such
                     Church, either in England or anywhere else. If Paul built up a Church in
                  England, (of which there is no proof but loose tradition,) it was like the other
                  Churches which he founded, an independent local society; and if he established
                  more than one, as he did in Greece, then each one was independent.
                  And if any one usurped the power over others, or if any one yielded subjection to
                  any other, whether that at Rome, or at Bangor, it ceased from that time forth to
                  be a Church of Christ; for Christ was then no longer its only King and
                     Lawgiver. Now, that the English Church has ceased some time or
                     other to be the independent body which Christ enjoined, is certain; and
                  it will not at all affect our argument whether she did so at, before, or since the
                  time of Henry the Eighth."
               "But yet," said Theodosia, "it would be very interesting to know the history of
                  the Churches which were first established in England, and which must have been
                  true Churches, if they dated near the times of the apostles. It may be they yet
                  exist as independent bodies, and have always refused subjection alike
                  to the Pope of Rome and the hierarchy of which the crown has now become the
                  head."
               "Your conjecture is but the truth of their history, Mrs. Percy They
                     do yet exist. They have resisted, even unto death,
                  all efforts to subject them to the Pope of Rome, or to the hierarchy of England.
                  Their history was written in the blood of their martyrs, shed by those who, in
                  former days, con trolled the records
                  and wielded the power of the country, and who were greatly desirous that it should
                  be blotted out. We must therefore trace them mainly now in those brief allusions
                  to their existence which the narration of other events made needful, and in the
                  decrees which were designed for their destruction. Yet we will find no insuperable
                  difficulty in tracing a true and pure Church of Christ in England, or at least in
                  Wales, from the time that Christianity was first established on the island. This I
                  trust we will be permitted to do before we close this investigation; but let us
                  now not wander from the matter before us. This Church you may be sure was not the
                  modern Church of England. That began with Henry the Eighth, according to the
                  testimony of Macaulay and others of its own historians. But we can still trace the
                  persecuted followers of Jesus by the blood of their martyrs, until the
                  Reformation, and long after it. The first and the last whose blood was shed for
                  their religion in England, were Baptists. They were never amalgamated with and
                  never subjected to the hierarchy of the Pope, or of the King; and to this day
                  maintain their ancient baptism, and their independent organization in the
                  mountains of Wales, whence many have come, both ministers and members, to our own
                  beloved land, and have aided us to build up Churches like their own, after the
                  model at Jerusalem. But we will be obliged to go back to this subject. Let us now
                  hasten on. What is your next mark, Mrs. Percy?"
               "It is, that No true Church can be a persecuting Church."
               "Then surely the English Church cannot be true; for though she has not been, like
                  Rome, at all times a perpetual and relentless persecutor, yet her hands are red
                  with the blood of more than one of the followers of Jesus. Henry the Eighth laid
                  the very foundation of the Church in blood. He, as head of the Church, persecuted
                  and destroyed both Papists and Protestants: the Papists because they preferred the
                  Pope to the King, and the Protestants because they could not receive his
                     Church, which contained the whole of Popery except the Pope.
               "Edward the Sixth, the youthful and amiable successor of Henry as the head of the
                  Church, would gladly have been delivered from the necessity of killing his best
                  subjects because they could not think about religion as his bishops did; but he
                  was urged and goaded by the clergy into the condemnation and execution even of
                  tender women, whose only crime was nonconformity to the Church of England.
                  Cranmer, the archbishop, had great difficulty in overcoming his natural kindness
                  of heart, and inducing him to sign the warrant for their death by
                     burning; but he did succeed, and it was done."
               "Surely," exclaimed Theodosia, "you do not mean to say that Archbishop Cranmer,
                  the martyr, had been himself the means of bringing others to the flames! I have
                  always thought he was one of the best and holiest of men. I remember there was in
                  the catechism I used to study, a picture of him as he stood at the stake, holding
                  out his right hand in the fire to punish it for signing his recantation."
               "Yes, Mrs. Percy, I mean to say that Cranmer was a murderer and a persecutor. So
                  also was in heart that other saint of whom you had a picture in your catechism,
                  representing John Rogers at the stake, surrounded by his wife and
                  nine little children, one yet a nursing babe. John Rogers was so far a persecutor,
                  that when he was solicited to ask for pardon, or at least some milder mode of
                  death, for a woman condemned to the flames, he obstinately refused to say one word
                  in her behalf."
               "I must believe you, Mr. Courtney; but still it seems to me almost
                  incredible."
               "I grant, madam, that it is almost incredible; but I will show you such
                  authorities that you shall be convinced that Rome herself, even in her worst
                  estate, was never a bitterer or
                  bloodier persecutor for conscience' sake, than was this new-made Church of
                  England. Look at Bishop Burnet's History of the Reformation, vol. ii. p. 112. See
                  also Strype's Ecclesiastical Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 214; or Neal's History of the
                  Puritans; or Ivimey's History of Baptism, pages 88-90. In the year 1549, a
                  commission was given to Archbishop Cranmer and several others, by the King as the
                  HEAD of this so called CHURCH of the gentle and loving Jesus, to
                  'search after all Anabaptists, (the same people now called Baptists,) all heretics
                  and contemners of their Book of Common Prayer, and, if they would not be
                  reclaimed, to excommunicate, imprison, and deliver them over to death.' There was
                  a Baptist woman, Mrs. Joan Boucher, sometimes called Joan of Kent, of whom Strype
                  says, 'She was a great reader of the Scriptures,' and who risked her life to
                  circulate the Scriptures among the ladies at court. She could not conform to all
                  that the bishops taught, and was therefore arrested and condemned. When the young
                  king refused to sign her death-warrant, Cranmer urged him, with great earnestness,
                  to authorize her execution. The king could not answer the arguments of the learned
                  prelate, and knew not how to resist his importunity. He signed the warrant, but
                  did it with tears in his eyes, and protesting that he did it only on the
                     authority of the Archbishop, who had declared that God required it; and
                  said, if it should be wrong, that 'he (the prelate) should answer for the sin in
                  the great day of judgment.' The bishop took the warrant, and thus said, 'Her blood
                  be upon my soul.' Now in Fox's Latin edition of the Book of Martyrs are a few
                  sentences which the English has omitted, and which are thus translated by Mr.
                  Pierce in his answer to Nichols, p. 33:—'In King Edward's reign some were put to
                  death for heresy. One of these was Joan Boucher, or Joan of Kent. Now, says Mr.
                  Fox, when the Protestant bishops had resolved to put her to death, a friend of Mr.
                  John Rogers, the divinity-reader in Saint Paul's Church, came to him, earnestly
                  desiring him to use his influence with the archbishop that the poor woman's life
                  might be spared, and other means used to prevent the spreading of her opinion,
                  which might be done in time; saying too, that though while she lived she infected
                  few with her opinion, yet she might bring many to think well of it by suffering
                  death for it. He pleaded, therefore, that it was better she should be kept in some
                  prison, without an opportunity of propagating her notions among weak people; and
                  she would do no harm to others, and might live to repent herself. Rogers, on the
                  other hand, pleaded that she ought to be put to death. "Well then,"
                  saith his friend, "if you are resolved to put an end to her life, together with
                  her opinion, choose some other kind of death, more agreeable to the gentleness and
                  mercy prescribed by the gospel; there being no need that such tormenting deaths
                  should be taken up in imitation of the Papists."
               "'Rogers answered, that burning alive was no cruel death, but easy
                     enough. His friend hearing these words, which expressed so little regard
                  to poor creatures' suffering, answered him with great vehemence, and striking
                  Rogers's hand, which before he had held fast, said to him, "Well, perhaps it
                     may so happen that you yourselves shall have your hands full of this mild
                     burning." And so it came to pass. Mr. Rogers was the first man who was
                  burned in Queen Mary's reign. I am apt to think,' adds Mr. Pierce, 'that Mr.
                  Rogers's friend was no other than Fox himself.'—(Crosby, vol. i., p.
                  61. Ivimey, p. 92.)
               "In the few remaining years of Edward's life, and while the religion of the realm
                  was under the control of Cranmer, many other persons were burnt at the stake for
                  their religious sentiments. After the king's death, the Catholics had the
                  supremacy for a little season, under the reign of her whom historians have been
                  pleased to call the Bloody Mary, because she killed the Protestants for the same reasons that they had
                  killed the Baptists, and other so-called heretics.
               "When Elizabeth came to the throne, the Baptists expected toleration, and began
                  openly to avow their sentiments. But they were fearfully mistaken. They were burnt
                  with just as little pity as the Catholics themselves had ever shown. 'Indeed,'
                  says Neal, 'more sanguinary laws were made in her reign than in those of her
                  predecessors. Her hands were stained with the blood of both Papists and Puritans:
                  the former were executed for denying her supremacy; the latter for sedition and
                     nonconformity.' Nor did the persecution cease when Elizabeth had
                  gone to her account, and James became the head of the Church. It was continued
                  after James had died, and his unfortunate successor, Charles I., had come to the
                  headship of the Church. Fines and imprisonments, whipping and mutilating,
                  branding, torturing, and tormenting the saints of God, who held the authority of
                  the Sacred Word to be above the dicta of the bishops, were not only inflicted by
                  the laws, but earnestly urged upon the magistrates by the synods of
                  the Church. (See the Constitutions and Canons of 1640.) But we have
                  enough of this.
               "He who would deny that the English Episcopal Church was a persecuting Church,
                  would deny that Rome herself ever persecuted for conscience' sake. Not only is the
                  testimony rife in English history, across the water, but the men are
                  living yet, among ourselves, whose ancestors in this
                  country were, by the English CHURCH laws, condemned to
                  fines and imprisonments, if not to death. The jails are standing yet in which they
                  were confined. The iron bars are yet in place through which the Baptist ministers
                  of Virginia preached to their people, while Virginia was subject to the head of
                  the Episcopal Church. Now, let me say one word, and I have done with this
                  disagreeable subject: When the Church of
                  England became a persecutor for conscience' sake, she CEASED TO BE A
                  CHURCH OF CHRIST, even on the supposition that she had been one before that time.
                  So, whether you derive her from Rome, her persecuting mother, or whether you try
                  to trace her origin to the Apostle Paul, through the ancient English Churches, is
                  of no consequence at all. She lost her authority to act as Christ's
                     executive (if she ever had it) when she began to shed the blood of
                     the martyrs of Jesus. Trace your succession of Christian Churches
                  downwards from Christ; or trace it upwards towards Christ; but, either way, it
                  cannot cross that stream of blood which flows out from the hearts of the martyrs
                  of Jesus. Every link of the chain of succession may be perfect, from Paul down to
                  the first of the martyrs whose life was taken by the so-called
                  Church, for his religion; but when the executioner lets fall his bloody
                  axe, by Church authority or instigation, the chain is severed for ever. That is no
                  Church of Christ that burns Christ's people at the stake. Those gory hands, which
                  are red with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus, cannot confer the sacraments of
                  his Church. Yet the advocates of Episcopacy will have us believe that this is,
                  forsooth, THE Church, and out of her there are no
                  ordinances and no Christian ministry!"
               Mr. Courtney spoke with an energy of manner that was quite unusual for him; and
                  when he ceased, there was perfect silence for a little time, till Theodosia,
                  looking at her tablet, remarked that we had only one mark more, which is, that no
                     apostate Church can be a Church of Christ.
               "If you derive the English Episcopal Church from the ancient British Churches,"
                  said Mr. Courtney, "she is apostate. She became so when she became a
                  hierarchy, introduced infants as members, united with the state, (thus recognizing
                  another lord than Christ,) and began to persecute for conscience' sake. Any
                     one of these innovations on Christ's order would have marked her
                  apostate; and when she became apostate,
                  she ceased, of course, to be Christ's Church. But if, according to the
                  indisputable truth of history, you derive her from Rome in the age of King Henry
                  VIII., she has not become apostate, for she never was a
                  true Church of Christ. She had, at first, no baptismbut that of
                  Antichrist. She had no ministry but that ordained by Antichrist; and
                  her organization was that of Antichrist. She began in
                  lust, and worldliness, and blood. She was from her inception the mere creature of
                  the secular power; and, from the very first, so foul that she could not
                     apostatize."
               "My dear sir," exclaimed the Doctor, "you must surely speak without thinking of
                  the full import of your words. I grant that the Church of England was not at its
                  inception a perfect Church. It still had some leaven of Romanism; but was
                  certainly a very great improvement on the system which it supplanted, and far from
                  being as vile as it could be."
               "By an apostate Church," replied the schoolmaster, "we mean a Church which has
                  once been a true Church of Jesus Christ; but, by a change of constitution, of
                  membership, of doctrine, or of practice, in points essential to its identity with
                  the New Testament model, has ceased to be a true Church. It follows,
                  therefore, that if his Church of England never had the
                  characteristics of a true Church, she could not lose them, and, consequently,
                  could not apostatize. And this was all I meant to say. But if you imagine that she
                  was at her beginning any better than her mother, of Rome, or in any way different
                  from her as regards the want of the essential features of a Church of Christ, let
                  me tell you that you have entirely misapprehended her character. The only
                  important difference between them was that the pope was the head of the Roman, and
                  the king was the head of the English. The king made laws for the one, as the pope
                  for the other. The king required faith in his dogmas, on pain of death, as much as
                  the pope. The king forbade the people to read the Word of God as peremptorily as
                  the pope. The king, in short, became the pope of England. And this is what people
                  call the Reformation."
               "I am certainly mistaken, if such were really the case; but I suppose you have the
                  proof. I had been under the impression that King Henry authorized and encouraged
                  the reading of the Scriptures; and even required, by his royal authority, that
                  they should be publicly read in the Churches."
               "That is true, sir. The king, at first, did order a translation to be
                  made; approved it when it was received from Tyndale; and it was 'SET FORTH WITH
                  THE KING'S MOST GRACIOUS LICENSE;' and a decree enacted that it be 'sold and read
                  of every person, without danger of any act, proclamation, or ordinance, heretofore
                  granted to the contrary.' All the authority and influence of the government
                     was earnestly and efficiently employed to secure to the people the
                  opportunity to read the Scriptures and urge them to improve it.
               "The king knew that the pope had forbidden the Scriptures to be read, and trusted
                  that, by reading them, his people would learn to fear and hate the pope. But it
                  did not occur to him that they would see that he had no more right to
                  rule the Church than the pope had. He thought also that he had well
                  secured his people from all danger of heresy, by the law enacted about the same
                  time, 'to establish Christian quietness and unity.'
               "The doctrines enjoined by this statute were, 1. Transubstantiation. 2. Communion
                  in both kinds not necessary to salvation. 3. Priests may not marry by the law of
                  God. 4. Vows of celibacy binding. 5. Private masses to be retained. 6. Auricular
                  confession useful and necessary. Its penalties were, for denial of the first
                  article, death at the stake, without privilege of abjuration; for the
                  five others, death as a felon, or imprisonment during his majesty's
                  pleasure.
               "But so soon as the king found that if people read the Scriptures, they would not, or could not, believe
                  his monstrous doctrines; when he found that hundreds of his most loyal subjects
                  were ready to die at the stake rather than profess to believe them, he suddenly
                  changed his policy. And it was then enacted, 'That all manner of books, of the Old
                  and New Testament, in English, of Tyndale's crafty, false, and untrue translation,
                  [the very same that had been before graciously ordered to be read,] should, by
                  authority of this act, be clearly and utterly abolished and extinguished, and
                  forbidden to be kept and used in this realm, or elsewhere, in any of the king's
                  dominions.'
               "And further, 'That no manner of persons, after the first of October, 1543, should
                  take upon them to read openly to others, in any Church or open assembly, within
                  any of the king's dominions, the Bible, or any part of the Scriptures, in English,
                  unless he was so appointed thereto by the king, or any ordinary, on pain of
                  suffering one month's imprisonment.'
               "And, to show how little probable it was that the king would appoint any one to
                  read, it was further enacted, 'That no women, except noblewomen and gentlewomen,
                  might read the Bible to themselves alone; and no artificers, apprentices,
                  journeymen, serving-men of the degrees of yeomen or husbandmen, or laborers, were
                  to read the Bible or New Testament to themselves, or any other, privately or
                  openly, on pain of one month's imprisonment.'
               "And then again, three years after this, 'That, from henceforth, NO MAN, WOMAN, OR
                  PERSON, of what degree he or they shall be, shall, after the last day
                  of August next ensuing, receive, have, take, or keep, in his or their possession,
                  the text of the New Testament, of Tyndale's or Coverdale's, nor any
                     other, that is permitted by the act of Parliament, holden at
                  Westminster, in the thirty-fourth and thirty-fifth year of his majesty's most
                  noble reign.'
               "These and many other most interesting and significant facts connected with the
                  introduction of the vernacular Bible in the English nation, you will find in that
                  most admirable work of Mrs. Conant, The History of English Bible
                     Translation, pp. 320-325.
               "That these laws were designed to be executed, and that they were
                  executed, even to the veriest extremity of their bloody requisition, the history
                  of many a murdered lover of the Scriptures will testify. Under this law the
                  Anabaptists were burnt, as testified by Bishop Latimer, in many parts of England;
                  and under it the heroic Anne Askew was first tortured on the rack, and then burned
                  at the stake.
               "Now, what I say is this: a Church thus false in doctrine; thus like Antichrist in
                  government; thus devilish in spirit; ordained and established by a wicked king,
                  for worldly purposes, and sustained, from the very first, by outraging, not merely
                  the laws of God, but the dictates of humanity, could not have been at any
                     time, by any possibility, A TRUE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST. She could not,
                  therefore, cease to be a true Church, since she had never been one.
                  She could not apostatize. Nor can she ever become a true Churchwhile
                  she remains the Church of England. She may become less vile and abominable than at
                  first. She has indeed grown vastly better than at first. But, since she was not a
                  true Church then, she had no authority to administer the laws or ordinances of
                  Christ. Her baptism was, consequently, no more Christian baptism than is a Mormon
                  immersion; her ordination was no more Christian ordination than if it had been
                  performed by the priests of Jupiter. Christ gave no sort of authority to any such
                  establishment; and all her acts are therefore null and void. So far
                  from having the only baptism, she has no Christian baptism at all. So
                  far from having the only ministry, she has no Christian ministry at
                  all. So far from having the exclusive authority to confer the
                  sacraments of Christ's Church, she has never received them, never has had, has not now, and never can have, the
                  right to confer them at all."
               "Surely," said the Doctor, "she may repent and reform, if she has not already done
                  so. How then dare you assert that she can never become a true Church, and have all
                  the rights of any other true Church?"
               "My dear Doctor, let us simply use our common sense one minute. We have seen what
                  a true Church is according to the Scriptures. It is a local, independent society,
                  and not a part of a confederacy or a hierarchy. If this Church should
                  ever fall back upon the Scripture rule in this respect, she will no longer be the
                  Church of England
               "We have seen that a true Church can, as a Church, recognize no power
                  to make laws for her but Christ. Now, if this Church deny the power of the king
                  and parliament to determine for her the doctrines that her members shall believe,
                  and her ministers shall teach; what parts of Scripture she shall read on certain
                  days; what words of prayer she shall employ; or that the king, by his chancellors
                  and the bishops, shall have control of her discipline; determine what each member
                  must believe; who shall be received as members, and by what form it shall be done;
                  who shall be excluded, who retained; and, in fact, almost every thing in regard to
                  all that characterizes a Church—I say, if she deny all or any of this, she ceases
                  to be the Church of England. We have seen that a true Church consists
                  of those who have first professed their faith, and then have been
                  baptized. Let this Church cease to receive any but believers, and
                  restore what she herself admits to have been the baptism which Christ ordained,
                  and which was changed without authority from him, and she will no
                  longer be the Church of England. In short, if she should ever be so
                  far changed as to be conformed in all essential points to the Scripture model, she
                  must first cease to be. The king must resign the headship and give it
                  up to Christ. The bishops and archbishops must leave their Episcopal thrones and
                  become simple pastors of single Churches. The discipline of the Church must revert
                  to the 'ekklesia,' the assembly of the brethren and sisters. And from this
                  assembly those must be excluded who have not come to it voluntarily,
                  professed their faith, and then received that baptism
                  which Christ appointed."
               "And if all that is done," said Theodosia, "she will no longer be the English
                  Episcopal Church, for these are her characteristic features. But how is it with
                  the American, or Protestant Episcopal Church?"
               "In condemning the mother, we have sentenced the daughter," replied Mr. Courtney.
                  "The Episcopal Church of this country was a part of the English so
                  long as it could be; and when, by the political separation of the two
                  nations, it became impracticable to retain all that belonged to the
                  mother Church, no more was given up than was imperiously demanded by the
                  circumstances. The most important difference is, that as the king or queen could
                  not be here recognized as the head, the bishops have retained the headship in
                  themselves. It cannot here, since the revolution, secure the power of the state to
                  enforce its decrees; and, therefore, it is no longer able to be a persecutor; and
                  probably it has no will to be. But if the mother was (as we have seen) no true
                  Church of Jesus, the daughter cannot be. She received her organization, her
                  ministry, and her ordinances, from the English Church; and if that
                  was not the authorized executive of Christ, it had no right to confer either, and
                  its acts are null and void. The bishops of this country were made such, not by the
                  law of Christ, but under a special act of Parliament, and their
                  ministrations are limited by this act to the western continent. Their commission
                  does not read, 'Go ye into all the world,' but, If you shall keep
                  yourselves in the United States of America, you shall have the right to
                     exercise the office
                  of a Christian bishop. So the act of Parliament requires. The American Episcopal
                  Church exists, so far as the greater part of its ministry are concerned, by a
                  special act of the British government, passed after we had become a
                  free and independent people; and that act confines their ministrations to
                     this country, or, at least, forbids them to preach the gospel of
                  salvation in the realms of her majesty the queen. Thus was Christ's
                  command, 'Go into all the world,' set aside, and the English king's
                     permission humbly sought, and reluctantly granted, to preach in
                  these United States."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The following is a part of the act of Parliament referred to, and under
                     authority of which the three American bishops, White, Madison, and Prevoost
                     were permitted to be consecrated. After making it lawful for the English
                     bishops to proceed with the consecration in a certain way, the act goes on
                     to say, that "No person shall be consecrated bishop in the manner herein
                     provided, until the Archbishop of Canterbury, or the Archbishop of York, for
                     the time being, shall have first applied for and obtained his
                     majesty's license, by warrant, under his royal signet and
                     sign-manual, empowering him to proceed to such consecration.
                  "Provided also, and it is hereby declared, that NO PERSON or
                     PERSONS, consecrated to the office of a bishop in the manner
                     aforesaid, nor any person or persons deriving their consecration from
                        or under any bishop so consecrated, nor any person or persons
                     admitted to the order of a deacon or a priest, by any bishop or
                     bishops so consecrated, SHALL BE THEREBY ENABLED TO EXERCISE HIS OR THEIR
                     RESPECTIVE OFFICES WITHIN HIS MAJESTY'S DOMINIONS."—(Statutes of
                        George III.)
               
               "I am convinced," said the Doctor, "that this is not the Church of
                  Christ. But let us hasten on, and find, if possible, what and where it is."
               "Wait one minute," said Mr. Percy, "till I have finished my diagram of this
                  claimant, and then I will be ready to look at another.
               "Here is the picture, all black but half the space representing the articles of
                  faith."
               
                  
                     DIAGRAM OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
                     
                        SIGNS OR MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        It makes members of children, who do not know their right hand from
                           their left.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith.
                        
                        They were sprinkled when they were incapable of
                           believing.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization, and independent of all others.
                        
                        It is a vast hierarchy, and not a local organization.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and recognizes no
                           other authority above its own.
                        
                        It is subject to the king and Parliament in England, and to the
                           bishops in this country.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        They were made such in childhood, without their knowledge or
                           consent.
                     
                     
                        6th. It hods as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        The high-Church party hold to salvation by the efficacy of the
                           sacraments.
                     
                     
                        7th. It began with Christ, and has continued to the present
                           time.
                        
                        It began with Henry VIII., or if before his time, it had
                           apostatized.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        It was for many years a blood persecutor.
                     
                     
                        9th. No apostate Church can be a Church of Christ.
                        
                        If not apostate itself, it was the creature and offspring of
                           Antichrist.
                     
                  
               
               
               "I think," said Mr. Courtney, "you might have left that white; for if we take
                  their published standards, TO WIT, the thirty-nine articles in the Prayer-book,
                  there is not much to object to them."
               "But how if they practically repudiate their own professions, and elsewhere teach,
                  and in their hearts believe, that it is by the sacraments, and not by
                  faith alone, that men are made the children of God and the heirs of glory? This I
                  understand the high-Church party to have done, and so have marked them black."
               "Well, let it stand; we have not time to dispute about it now. Suppose we take up
                  the other branch, or off-shoot, of the English Episcopal Church: TO WIT, the
                  Methodists."
               "Very good; this is the natural place for them in our investigation; and after
                  what has been already settled in regard to the Roman Catholic and Episcopal
                  Churches, we need not spend much time upon their Methodist offspring. Now, if Mrs.
                  Percy will read again the first of the marks of a true Church as they stand upon
                  her tablet, we will apply it to this claimant."
               "Is the Methodist Episcopal Church composed exclusively of those who have
                  professed a saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ?"
               "I wish," said Dr. Thinkwell, "that our Methodist minister were here to answer for
                  his Church. I do not like to see her tried without the benefit of counsel."
               "Since he is not here," said Theodosia, "let us set their Book of Discipline to
                  answer for them. Mr. Percy has a copy in his trunk, and surely no Methodist, if he
                  were present, would object to the reception of its testimony."
               Mr. Percy went for the little book, and on his return opened at the 20th page, and
                  read as follows:
               "The visible Church of Christ is a congregation of faithful men, in which the pure
                  word of God is preached, and the sacraments duly administered, according to
                  Christ's ordinance, in all things that of necessity are requisite to the
                  same."
               "It seems, then, from this, their own definition," said Theodosia, "that the
                  Methodist Church must be a simple local congregation of believers, or else it
                  cannot be the visible Church of Christ; and yet it is notorious that the Methodist
                  Church is not a mere congregation of believers, but that
                  great confederation governed by the Conference. I fear their theory and practice
                  will not correspond."
               "Here is something more," said Mr. Percy, "on the 30th page: 'Let none be received
                  into the Church until they are recommended by a leader with whom they have met at
                  least six months on trial, and have been baptized, and shall, on examination by
                  the minister in charge before the Church, give satisfactory assurances both of the
                  correctness of their faith, and their willingness to observe and keep the rules of
                  the Church.'"
               "Surely," exclaimed Theodosia, "that excludes all but professed believers; and I
                  am glad to find that this claimant has the first mark, at least, of a true Church.
                  I have always admired the zeal and self-denying piety of Mr. Wesley, and am glad
                  he had such correct views of what was necessary to membership in the Church of
                  Christ; and yet I hardly understand how these views are compatible with the system
                  of seekership and infant baptism. I have been under the impression that many of
                  the members of the Methodist Churches had never even pretended to be converted
                  people, but that they had joined the Church as seekers, passed their six months'
                  probation, and had simply been retained or confirmed as members on
                  the recommendation of the class-leader."
               "The actual and the theoretical Methodist Church," replied Mr. Courtney, "may be
                  somewhat different. It is very certain that we read and hear every week of persons
                     joining the Methodist Church as seekers; and it is equally certain
                     that Methodists, as well as other
                  Pedobaptists, contend that per sons are by baptism made members of the Church. Mr.
                  Wesley himself expressly says, that 'by baptism we are admitted into the
                     Church, and consequently made members of Christ its Head. The Jews were
                     admitted into the Church by circumcision; so are Christians
                     by baptism. For as many as are baptized into Christ, (in his name,) have
                  thereby put on Christ, Gal. iii. 27; that is, are mystically united to Christ, and
                  made one with him. For by one spirit we are all baptized into one body, (1 Cor.
                  xii. 13,) namely, the Church, the body of Christ, from which spiritual, vital
                  union with him proceeds the influence of his grace on those that are baptized, as
                  from our union with the Church a share in all its privileges, and in all the
                  promises Christ has made to it.' (See Doctrinal Tracts, p. 248, Treatise on
                  Baptism.) And again, on p. 250, 'There can be no reasonable doubt but it [baptism]
                  was intended to last as long as the Church into which it is the appointed
                     means of entering.'"
               "You need not have gone to Mr. Wesley," said Mr. Percy, "for the Discipline itself
                  teaches very plainly that baptism is the door of entrance to the Church, and
                  consequently that all the baptized are, by that act, made members of the Church.
                  See the Ritual for Baptism, chap. 5th, see. 2d, where the minister, coming to the
                  font, is instructed to say, 'Dearly beloved, forasmuch as all men are conceived
                  and born in sin, and that our Saviour saith, none can enter into the kingdom of
                  God except he be regenerate and born anew of water and of the Holy Ghost, I
                  beseech you to call upon God the Father through our Lord Jesus Christ, that of his
                  bounteous mercy he will grant this child the thing which by nature he cannot have,
                  that he may be baptized with water and the Holy Ghost, and received into
                     Christ's holy Church, and be made a lively member of the same.' And thus
                  exhorted, the people, through the minister, are taught to pray that the 'child now
                  to be baptized may receive the fulness of God's grace, and ever
                     remain in the number of his faithful and elect children'—precisely the
                  same language which is used farther on in reference to the baptized adults; and it
                  would seem that if adults are made members by baptism, the infants are by the same
                  process. Like the Presbyterians, however, they repudiate the act, and practically
                  deny the membership. They give them no more Church privileges than if they had
                  never had the holy water sprinkled on their foreheads, and are thus guilty of the
                  inconsistency of refusing to commune with, or recognize as Church members, those
                  whom they seem so anxious to bring into the Church by baptism."
               "But how is it with the seekers, Mr. Courtney? Are they not counted
                  as Church members? I am sure they count themselves as such. Mrs. Babbleton told
                  me, just before we left home, that two of her daughters had joined the Church
                  during a protracted meeting which had just closed, and that one of
                  them had professed conversion. I know they both partook
                  of the Lord's Supper, and seemed to have all the privileges that any Church member
                  has in their denomination; and I do not understand how they can be entitled to all
                  the privileges of membership and yet be out of the Church."
               "The difference," said Mr. Courtney, "between a member in full, and a member on
                  probation, is simply this: the first cannot be excluded from Church privileges
                  except by the preacher in charge, and that not until after trial and
                  conviction. The other can be cast out at any time by the
                  class-leader, without any trial or accusation. With this exception,
                  they are equal partakers in all the rights and immunities of
                     Church-membership; and whether converted or unconverted, all sit down
                  together at the table of the Lord. 'There is,' in the language of the Discipline,
                  'only one condition previously required of those who desire admission
                  into these societies, and that is, a desire to flee from the wrath to come, and to
                     be saved from their sins;' and these
                  societies are the Methodist Churches, if they have any Churches at all. They do
                  consist in part of unconverted people. They may consist
                     entirely of such. It often happens that there is in
                  them a majority of such; and this majority can recommend candidates
                  for license to preach; can witness the trial of accused members, and,
                  so far as the laity have any part in Church discipline, it may be,
                  and is, in the hands of men who have never made any pretensions to the
                     possession of true faith in Christ, but only have expressed a
                     desire for it.
               "It is 'the society,' or a leader's meeting, that
                  recommends persons to be licensed to preach. See Discipline, chap. 2d, quest. 3,
                  ans. 4. It is 'the society,' or a 'select number of
                  them,' before which the preacher is to try an accused member. Chap. 4,
                  ques. 2, ans. 1. If the society were mostly converted people, I see nothing in the
                  Discipline to hinder the preacher, if he chose to do it, from selecting those whom
                  he knew to be the unconverted probationers to try the cause; nor can
                  I see, after a careful examination of the Discipline, that the full
                  member, as he is called, has any single privilege as a Church member which is not
                  equally conceded to the so-called probationer, so long as it shall
                  graciously please his class-leader to permit him to remain in 'society.'
               "If those who have made no profession of saving faith are permitted to enjoy all
                  the privileges of Church members, and exercise all the prerogatives
                  of Church members, it can be a matter of no consequence whether they are
                  technically called Church members or not. It is things,
                  not names, we must be governed by. If these societies form any part
                  of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and they consist not of professed believers
                  upon Jesus, but in part or in whole of those who are merely 'seeking
                  the power of godliness,' who have only professed conviction and not
                  conversion, we must of necessity conclude that the Methodist Episcopal Church does
                  not consist exclusively of those who have professed their faith in
                  Christ. Paul did not receive the jailer when he had merely asked what he must do
                  to be saved. He waited until he had done what he was instructed to do. Nor did we,
                  in all our examination, find any instance of members, whether believers or
                  unbelievers, whether converted or only convicted, being received as
                     probationary Church members."
               "Really," said Theodosia, "I do not feel quite satisfied with this treatment of
                  the Methodist societies. I fear we do not any of us fully understand them, and may
                  unconsciously do them some slight injustice. I do wish some Methodist were here to
                  plead their cause, and explain apparent difficulties. I know that they have done
                  much to spread Christ's gospel; I know that many of them are earnest and devoted
                  Christians, patterns of piety which I long to be able to copy. I have read the
                  lives of Wesley and Fletcher, and others among them, and am sure they could not
                     designedly have gone counter to the teachings of God's Word. They
                     meant to serve the Master, and to lead men and women in the way to
                  heaven; and surely their Church must have more marks of a true Church than
                     the Episcopal or Roman Catholic."
               "Wesley and Fletcher, madam, lived and died as members of the English Episcopal
                  Church. They had no idea of leaving it for any other. What they desired was, to
                  infuse new life into its half-rotten carcass. They sought not to destroy, but to
                  reform it; and if their personal piety makes the Church in which they
                  had their membership a true Church of Christ, it makes the Church of
                  England such. But let me again remind you, that it is not individuals, not
                  persons, but organizations, which we are examining. The piety of
                  Pascal, of Fénélon, of Madam Adorna or Madam Guyon, or even of Thomas à Kempis
                  himself, could not make the Church of Rome, to which they belonged, a Church of
                  Christ. No more could that even of the martyrs who bled for the Church of
                     England make it a Church of Christ.
                     Good people may, by birth of education, or errors of judgment,
                  become connected with organizations which have no single feature of a
                  Christian Church, yet such connection will not change the
                     nature of the organization. It is true, that if Wesley had
                  required, as a condition of membership in his societies, that piety which he
                  himself exhibited after his conversion, they would not have been
                  subject to the objection we are now considering. They would in that case have
                  consisted exclusively of professed believers. But however pious he
                  may have been, however devoted many of his followers have been, and may be now,
                  yet he himself declares that the 'only prerequisite for admission to
                  his societies' is a desire of salvation. They, according
                  to his own words, consist of those who have the form and are
                     seeking the power of godliness. Now all we have to do
                  is, to determine whether this was the basis of membership in the New
                  Testament Churches. Was this the condition of membership established
                  by Christ and the apostles? If not, then his societies
                  were not, and without a change in this particular could not be, Churches of
                  Christ. This is as plain as common sense can make it."
               "Yes, Mr. Courtney, I see that, and admit its force; but still I would feel better
                  satisfied if we could compel some intelligent Methodist to see it and
                  admit it with us."
               "Your wish to have a Methodist to assist in our discussion can very easily be
                  gratified," said Doctor Thinkwell, "if you will but postpone the conversation
                  until to-morrow. The presiding elder of this district is my nearest neighbor, and
                  a special friend. He is, moreover, a man who takes delight in the defence of
                  whatever is peculiar in the system which he advocates and of which he makes a
                  part. The societies in this region regard him as an oracle, whose authority is, in
                  matters of faith, second only to that of the bishop himself."
               "Do, then, let us wait," exclaimed the lady. "We have talked too long to-day
                  already. I am sure you must all be tired but me; and, besides, you know, Doctor,
                  you have promised to take us in and show us the Capitol, and the bridge, and the
                  other marvellous things in and about your famous City of Rocks."
            
            
               
               NINTH DAY'S TRAVEL
               
                  In which he parties pass by and carefully examine the so-called Methodist
                     Episcopal Church, assisted by the Presiding Elder and his amiable wife. Strange
                     disclosures in the history of the Discipline.
               
               WE will not detain the attention of the reader by giving a narrative of the
                  evening visit to the city. We will not describe the magnificent capitol, the pride
                  of Tennessee, at once the tomb and the noblest monument of the architect who
                  conceived its plan, but died before he could witness its completion. We will not
                  describe the city, with its beauties or its blemishes, as it lay spread out before
                  them like a map, while they stood in the portico of this immense pile of massive
                  rocks.
               Nor will we stop to describe the ride round the plantation the next morning. We
                  have no time to tell of the romantic scenery upon the river's brink; the shaded
                  avenues and terraced banks of flowers. We can hardly even pause to go with
                  Theodosia to the whitewashed cabin of old 'Aunt Rachel,' and hear her tell how,
                  when her master was an infidel, she prayed year after year that God would shine
                  into his heart, and show him what a blessed Saviour Jesus is; and how at last God
                  heard her prayers, and sent him home a Christian. 'O missis! if you only knowed
                  how my heart cried when master used to go on so about the Bible, you
                  wouldn't blame ole Rachel for shouting sometimes now, when I sees him study the
                  blessed book so, day after day. O, de blessed Lord has done great things for us,
                  missis. And now, if master could only see his way into the Church, seems to me I
                  could say, like ole Simeon, 'Lord, now thou lets me die in peace.' But I hope he's
                  comin' right bym-by."
               "Maybe you could tell him which the Church of Jesus is, Aunt Rachel."
               "Ah yes, missis, if they'd only ask the ole nigger, she'd tell them how to get
                  into the Church."
               "What directions would you give?" asked Theodosia, greatly interested.
               "O, I'd just say, Do as my blessed Jesus did. He was baptized himself, and he
                  wants all his people to be baptized, Let them go down into the water, 'cordin' to
                  his commandment."
               "Then you are a Baptist, Aunt Rachel."
               "Yes; missis, I was baptized more 'an thirty years ago."
               "But we are studying now to see if the Methodist Church is not the true Church of
                  Jesus Christ. What do you think about it, Aunt Rachel? Don't you think there are
                  as many Methodists in heaven as there are Baptists?"
               "Why, no, missis, bless your heart! the Baptists has been agoing there ever since
                  the days when John baptized in Jordan, and they tell me that the Methodists just
                  begun a little while ago. The Methodists is mighty good people, missis; but they
                  han't been agoing to heaven so long as the Baptists have. I hope master will hunt
                  out in that blessed book till he finds the good old way."
               "Your master has invited the Methodist minister and his lady to come over and
                  spend the day with us, and they will make a Methodist of him if they can."
               "Ah, missis, the minister is a mighty good man. I loves to hear him preach about
                  Jesus; I loves to hear him tell about heaven; I loves to hear him sing and pray,
                  and they shall have the best dinner
                  that ole Rachel can fix up; but they isn't goin' to make master be a Methodist, I
                  knows that."
               "How do you know that, Aunt Rachel?"
               "'Cause, missis, master goes by the book, an' if the Methodist Church
                  was in the book, people would have found it long time before they did."
               The Doctor had himself gone over to his neighbor's, after supper, and explained to
                  him in what position the discussion stood, and desired him and his good lady to
                  come and spend the day, and bring with them a copy of the Discipline, and any
                  other works which might assist in the complete understanding of the system called
                  Methodism.
               At an early hour the visitors came, not prepared for or expecting a
                     debate, but ready to engage in social and kind discussion
                  of any points of difference which might arise between them and those they came to
                  see.
               Doctor Thinkwell introduced the subject of conversation by saying that he and his
                  other guests had found themselves embarrassed in their investigation of the claims
                  of the Methodist Church to be the Church of Christ, by a fear that, in the absence
                  of some one to represent her claims, who was familiar with her polity and
                  interested in her welfare, they might do her some possible injustice. He desired
                  to understand precisely upon what ground she stood, and to give her claims
                     all the weight to which they could be any way entitled.
               "If you expect me to enter into any labored defence of the Church of which I have
                  the honor to be an humble minister," replied the Rev. Mr. Stiptain, "I hope you
                  will excuse me if I disappoint you; but if you merely want such information as I
                  possess concerning the doctrines, the practice, the polity of the Methodist
                  Church, I will take pleasure in telling you all that can be of service to your
                  investigation. The Methodists, sir, are people who love the light. We do not wish
                  to hide our principles from friend or foe."
               "I am glad to hear you talk so," said Theodosia, "for I feel that we
                  need more light upon this subject. I do not think we understand
                  just what the Methodist Church is in regard to her organization and
                  her membership. You must know, sir, that we think we have ascertained, from a
                  careful examination of the Scriptures, that in the Churches established by the
                  apostles, none were admitted to membership who had not
                     professed a saving faith in Christ; or, in other words, that they were
                  designed to be composed only of converted people. Now if this is so, you will see
                  that we cannot recognize any organization as the true Church of Christ which does
                  not adopt the same rule, and receive as members only those who have
                  given evidence of genuine conversion. Now in talking about your Church yesterday,
                  we were in doubt whether you did not admit the professedly
                     unconverted; that is, those who have made no
                  profession of saving faith."
               "I do not see how you could have doubted for a moment, madam, except from sheer
                  ignorance of our practice. We are so cautious to admit none but true
                  believers, that we require of all who would unite with us six months'
                     probation, in order that we may be sure of their piety. The great object
                  of Mr. Wesley, as he again and again declared, was to secure a holy
                     people."
               "And yet I am told he admitted infants to baptism, and expressly said, that by
                  baptism they were made members of the Church."
               "Well, what if he did? Are not infants holy? Is it not of such that
                  the kingdom of heaven is composed? Would to God that all our adult members were as
                  pure and blameless as the little babes!"
               "But do you treat them as Church members when they grow up? Do you not require
                  them to join on probation, just like a
                  sinner who had never been received at all? How is that? They are in the
                     Church—made members by baptism, and yet you do not permit them to
                     commune, or recognize their membership in any way whatever. And by
                  requiring them to join the Church again, you virtually declare that
                  they are not and never have been members. Please tell me, if they are
                  members after they have been baptized, when do they cease to be
                  members? At what age do you disown them? or in what manner is their membership
                  abrogated? Do they lose it simply by growing up? If so, you seem to
                  consider it a sin to grow. Please explain this to us first, and then
                  I have a question to ask about the probationers, or seekers, as they
                  are commonly called."
               The Rev. Mr. Stiptain moved his seat towards the table on which he had laid his
                  bundle of books when he came in, and picking out a very small one, remarked, "I
                  have here the Doctrines and Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church South,
                  which does not differ materially from that of the Methodist Episcopal Church, or
                  the Church North. This is our standard of doctrine and discipline,
                  and if you wish to learn the exact relation of the baptized children to the
                  Church, you will find it here, chap. iii., sec. iii., quest. 1, ans. 5: 'Let all
                  baptized children be faithfully instructed in the nature, design, privileges, and
                  obligations of their baptism. Those of them who are well disposed may be admitted
                  to our class-meetings and love-feasts; and such as are truly serious, and manifest
                  a desire to flee from the wrath to come, shall be advised to join the
                     society as probationers.'"
               "But let me ask, sir, if you do not advise all persons who are
                     'truly serious, and desire to flee from the wrath to come,' to
                  join the society as probationers, just the same as you do those who have been
                  baptized in childhood?"
               "Certainly we do."
               "Then you treat the baptized and unbaptized exactly alike as regards admission to
                  the Church; and yet you say the baptized were made Church members in their
                  childhood, and have never lost their membership: how can they join
                  societies as probationers for membership when they are members already, and have
                  been from their very infancy?"
               The Reverend Mr. Stiptain cleared his throat, and hitched his chair still nearer
                  to the table, and seemed to be looking for another book. He did not try to answer
                  the question,*
                   and the kind-hearted host, to relieve his evident embarrassment, called
                  his attention to the other portion of the extract which he had read from the
                  Discipline.
               
                  
                  *Can any Methodist answer it? Let each one try.
               
               "It seems," said he, "that you ministers, or the members, are to
                     'instruct the baptized children in the nature, design,
                     privileges and obligations of their baptism.' This instruction is, of
                  course, to be given after they are old enough to understand; and as one of the
                  chief ministers, you are, of course, familiar with the substance of what is to be
                  taught to them concerning these points. If it will not trouble you too much, I
                  would be glad to hear what is in your Church understood to be the nature,
                     design, and privileges of baptism as conferred on infants. Of course you
                  must mean something by it. The baptized child is, of course,
                  understood to stand in a different relation to God, or to the Church, or in some
                  way to be in a different condition from one that is unbaptized. What
                     is the change effected by it? What does it really do, and for what
                  purpose is it used? If we can ascertain this, it will go far to remove the doubts
                  which seem to trouble Mrs. Percy. For if it is employed to make them members of
                  your Church, then Church members we must consider them until they are disowned by
                  an official act, as public and significant as that by which they are received. If
                  it is employed for this purpose, and does not accomplish the purpose,
                  it would appear to me to be not only a
                  useless, but a very foolish ceremony. But if it is used, not for
                  this, but some other purpose, please tell us what that other purpose is. I ask
                  merely for the sake of information. You have, of course, given the
                  instruction called for in the Discipline hundreds of times, and can readily tell
                  us what it is."
               "I do not know that I can answer your question more satisfactorily," replied the
                  Reverend Mr. Stiptain, "than by reading the explanations of the father and founder
                  of our societies, the venerable Mr. John Wesley. No Methodist will ever be counted
                  as denying the true faith, or departing from the right practice, while he can
                  present the unquestioned authority of Mr. Wesley for what he believes or does; and
                  I therefore prefer to call your attention to his instructions, rather than my own.
                  I have here Mr. Wesley's own teachings on this subject; and as he was the author
                  of the instructions in the Discipline, which I have read, it is very evident that
                  it was his own teachings concerning the 'nature, design, and
                     privileges of baptism,' that the Discipline refers to, and requires the
                  ministers to inculcate."
               "That would seem to be almost self-evident," said the Doctor: "and Mr. Wesley's
                  expositions must set the matter at rest at once and for ever. Please read them to
                  us. We had ourselves referred to them, but only by memory."
               "They are," continued the Presiding Elder, "to be found in his Sermons, and in the
                  Doctrinal Tracts published by order of the General Conference, as a sort of
                  Appendix to the Discipline. I have here the volume of Tracts; and this fact, that
                  it is not only sanctioned by the Conference, but published by their
                     positive order, and under their supervision, will be
                  a sufficient guaranty to you and all concerned, that the book contains a fair and
                  honest exposition of what are the real teachings required by the Discipline in the
                  passage I have read.
               "On page 242, Tract xii., we read, in the language of Mr Wesley himself,
                  'Concerning baptism, I shall inquire, What it is? What benefits we receive by it?
                  Whether our Saviour designed it to remain always in his Church? and who are the
                  proper subjects of it?' '1. What it is. It is the initiatory sacrament which
                  enters us into covenant with God.'"
               "Never mind what it is," said the Doctor. "We think we understand
                  that already. But tell us what the benefits are which
                     infants baptized according to the Discipline are expected to
                  realize from it. Does it bring them into the Church? or leave them,
                  like heathens, still in the world?"
               "O, if that is all you want, you have it in a very few plain words, on page 248:
                     'By baptism we are admitted into the Church, and consequently made
                  members of Christ its Head.' And again, on page 254, s. 6, 'Thirdly, If infants
                  ought to come to Christ, if they are capable of admission into the Church of God,
                  and consequently of solemn sacramental dedication to him, then they are proper
                  subjects of baptism. But infants are capable of coming to Christ, of
                     admission into the Church, and solemn dedication to God. [P. 255:]
                  Therefore his disciples or ministers are still to suffer infants to come; that is,
                  to be brought into the Church, which cannot be but by baptism. Yea,
                  "and of such," says our Lord, "is the kingdom of heaven." Not of such only as were
                  like these infants; for if they themselves were not fit to be subjects of that
                  kingdom, how could others be so because they were like them? Infants,
                     therefore, are capable of being admitted into the Church, and have a right
                     thereto. Even under the Old Testament, they were admitted into it by
                  circumcision; and can we suppose they are in a worse condition under the Gospel
                  than they were under the Law? and that our Lord would take away any privileges
                  which they then enjoyed? Would he not rather make additions to them? This then is
                  a third ground: infants ought to come to Christ, and no man ought to forbid them. They are capable of
                     admission into the Church of God, therefore they are proper subjects for
                  baptism.'
               "So again on page 266: 'The children of the Jews were visible members of the
                  Jewish Church under the covenant of Abraham, and as such were received into it by
                  circumcision as the door of entrance. The children of Christians were never cut
                  off from this privilege when their fathers were received into the Church, whether
                  they were Jews or Gentiles, and therefore they are members of the Christian
                     Church also, under spiritual promises and blessings.'
               "I trust these extracts will make clear to you what were Mr. Wesley's teachings on
                  the point about which you ask for information."
               "Excuse me, Mr. Stiptain," said Theodosia; "but is it not true that the Methodist
                  Church now has departed from the doctrines of Mr. Wesley on this
                  subject? Do they still hold, as he did, that baptism admits infants into the
                     Church, and makes them members of it? Could you not direct our attention
                  to some more recently published work, which would give us with certainty their
                     present faith and practice in regard to this interesting
                  point?"
               "I am happy to say, madam, that I can. Here is our brother, P. D. Gorrie's most
                  admirable 'History of METHODISM as it WAS and as it IS,'
                  recommended by two presiding elders, who examined it in manuscript, and who
                  testify over their official signatures 'that the facts therein stated are correct,
                  as far as they have been able to judge,' and recommend the work, especially to the
                  members and friends of the Methodist Episcopal Church, as containing 'much useful
                  information in relation to the history, doctrines, and institutions
                  of Methodism.'
               "In this standard work, published in 1852, we have a plain and comprehensive
                  statement of the present faith and teachings of the Church upon this point. And
                  first, as to 'the nature' of baptism. Here, on page 170, I read as
                  follows: 'The nature of baptism. 1. It is a figurative ordinance, symbolical of
                  our death unto sin, and our being born again from above; of being purified by the
                  water of regeneration and receiving of the Holy Ghost.'"
               "Pardon me for interrupting you; but do you understand that when an infant is
                  baptized, its baptism signifies that it has died to sin and been
                     born again from above; that it is, or has been,
                  purified by the water of regeneration, and has received the Holy
                  Ghost? This is all very appropriate and beautiful as applied to a converted
                     man, but how can it be true of an unconscious babe?
               "But go on sir; I ask your pardon; I ought not to have interrupted you."
               He reads again: "'2. Baptism is a sign of profession, a rite which
                  was instituted under the law and retained under the gospel, as the distinguishing
                  mark or sign of a profession of faith. As the generic term, to
                     baptize, means to purify and cleanse, not only is there in baptism
                  a sign of inward moral cleansing, but a sign of outward moral conformity to the
                  law of God and the rules of the Church on earth.'"
               "So, when you baptize an infant," said Theodosia, "it is a sign that it professes,
                  or has professed, its faith in Christ, while yet it does not know its
                  right hand from its left, and could not be made to understand that such a being as
                  Christ ever existed. Please, sir, go on."
               "'3. Baptism is also considered as the door of entrance into the
                     Church. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved," "Repent and
                  be baptized," "Then were they baptized, both men and women," "Then Philip baptized
                  him," are passages which clearly show that water-baptism is designed to be an
                  initiatory rite, and that in this way men are generally to be
                  received into the Church. We say generally, for we dare not say that
                  no person can be a member of the household of faith without water-baptism, for we know not
                  that the apostles even were ever baptized, except in the washing of feet; but, as
                  a general rule, baptism is and ought to be the initiatory rite.'"
               "That is enough," said Theodosia, "to answer my question. If 'baptism is
                  considered the door of entrance into the Church,' then all who have been baptized
                  must be considered as having passed through the door and as being in the Church.
                  It is true you speak as though you were doubtful whether people might not be
                     born in the Church, or get into it in some other way, without
                  going through the door; but there is no question that those who have
                  gone through are actually in; and if they are in the Church they are
                  Church members, and we must so consider them, until they are officially
                     expelled by those who have the power of discipline."
               "If any of you have any doubt remaining," said Mr. Courtney, very quietly, "it may
                  be dispelled by turning to the 173d page."
               The Rev. Mr. Stiptain politely handed him the book, and he read as follows:
               "'That infants are scriptural subjects of baptism appears from the following
                  considerations: "1st. The perpetuity of the Abrahamic covenant, which included
                  children as well as adults." "2d. The elegibility of children to
                     Church-membership. That infants were members of the Jewish Church is
                  evident from the fact of their circumcision, which was the initiatory rite, or
                  door of admission into the Church of God. Can we possibly conceive that the
                  children of Christian parents are entitled to lesser privileges than were the
                  children of Jewish parents; or would it be any inducement to a pious Jew of the
                  present day to be told that although his children are members of the Jewish
                  Church, yet, on his embracing Christianity and becoming a member of the Christian
                  Church, his children must be thrust out until they attain to adult years? Does not
                  our Saviour explicitly say in regard to young children, 'Of such is the kingdom of
                  heaven?' The kingdom must mean, either the kingdom of glory, the work of grace in
                  the heart, or the Church of Christ on the earth. Now, in whatever sense it is used
                  in the text, it must include the idea of infant Church-membership. Is
                  a young child fit for the kingdom of glory? Then why not for the kingdom of grace?
                  If fit for the Church triumphant, then why not for the Church on earth? And was
                  not the promise of God given to Christian parents and their
                  'children, and to all that are afar off?' If so—and there can be no
                  reasonable doubt of it—then are infants entitled to the initiatory rite which
                     will formally admit them into the visible Church of Christ; and to
                  debar them that privilege is not only unwise, but unjust to the children whom God
                  has given us."'
               "And here also, near the bottom of the 174th page: 'Again, if children were fit
                  subjects for circumcision, they are equally fit subjects of baptism. And if it be
                  inquired, as it sometimes is, What good does it do a young child to baptize it? we
                  might reply, What good did it do a young child to circumcise it? In the latter
                  case it admitted the child to Church-membership, and in the former
                  case it does the same. What more than this does it do in the case of
                  an adult?'"
               "You see, madam," said the Presiding Elder, "that we Methodists do not entirely
                  agree with you in regard to the teachings of the Scriptures about what constitutes
                  a true Church. You think it excludes all but professed believers. We understand
                  that it includes believers and their children, and in fact all children who have
                  been baptized."
               "We do not need, for our own satisfaction, to recur to the evidence on which our
                  rule is based," she replied. "We settled it after a careful study of all the facts
                  and arguments, including those presented by your author. We are now endeavoring to
                  apply it to the various claimants for Church honors, and my only doubt was, whether your
                  Methodist Church did regard the baptized children as
                     Church-members, or whether you baptized them for some other purpose.
               "It seems, however, that I had no occasion to doubt at all. Not only the earliest,
                  but the latest, expounders of your faith and practice clearly avow and contend for
                  infant Church-membership.
               "You expressly declare that baptism is the door of entrance into the Church; that
                  infants are baptized because they are entitled to Church-membership, and that by
                  baptism the child is admitted to Church-membership just as much as the adult.
               "I cannot help wondering how they get out of the Church after they have been thus
                  admitted, so that they have to join it on probation, just like the
                  unbaptized heathen; or how you dare to refuse to commune with your own
                     Church members, when you complain so much of us Baptists because we
                  cannot conscientiously commune with those whom we do not recognize as members of
                  the Church at all. But I can no longer doubt that people are made members of the
                  Methodist Church without their own knowledge or consent, while they are little
                  babies. And I will now, with your permission, propound my other question, which is
                  this: Are those people called seekers, or probationers, members of
                  the Methodist Church?"
               "Certainly not, madam. That is, they are not full members."
               "I do not know, sir, that I precisely understand you," replied Theodosia. "We did
                  not, in our examination of the first Churches as described in the Scriptures, find
                  any class of persons (so far as I can now recollect) who were Church members and
                  yet not full Church members. They were either members or not members.
                  They were either in the Church or out of it They were either entitled to all the
                  privileges of Church-membership, or to none at all. Yet you SEEM
                     to have a class who are neither in nor out of the Church; but I
                  suppose they are either in one condition or the other. They are in the Church, or
                  else they are not in the Church; and I would be glad to have some
                  definite and reliable authority by which we can decide whether the
                  probationers are really IN or OUT. If you do not feel prepared to say
                  for yourself, could you not, as in the other case, refer us to some statement of
                  Mr. Wesley, or other of your standard writers?"
               "I would say, madam, that they are members of the society, but
                     not of the Church."
               "That is certainly very explicit, and I am much obliged to you for so prompt a
                  reply to a question which, I feared, you might think almost impertinent; and now
                  if you will explain to me the exact difference between the society and the Church,
                  I will begin to understand the case."
               "The society, madam, consists of all the probationers and Church members
                  considered as one body. The Church consists of those who have been members of the
                  society for six months, and by the faithful observance of its rules have satisfied
                  their class-leader that they would make good members, have been recommended by
                  him, and then have been 'examined by the minister before the Church in regard to
                  the correctness of their faith, and their willingness to observe and keep the
                  rules of the Church.'" (See Discipline, chap. iii., ans. 3.)
               "Then your society is not the Church, or any part of the
                  Church, but, like a Sunday-school, or a Bible-class, an institution outside
                     the Church for the instruction and training of those who desire
                  membership; and you recognize none as Church members, and never admit them to
                  Church privileges, until they have passed their six months' trial, have been
                  recommended, examined, and officially received. This is very different from what I
                  had supposed. We were under the impression that all the members of 'society' were
                  entitled to equal privileges, and all enjoyed the same rights, whether they had
                  passed their 'term' or not."
               
               "You may rest assured, madam, that we count none as members of the
                     Church except they have been received as I described. We intend to have
                  a holy Church, composed of those who have not only
                     professed their faith, but by sufficient trial have
                  shown the truth of their profession."
               "Will you permit me to ask one question?" said Mr. Courtney.
               "Certainly; a dozen, if you wish."
               "Please tell us, then, what are the privileges which those you call
                  Church members enjoy, and which are not enjoyed equally by the
                     seeker who joined the society but yesterday? Do you not invite
                  them both alike to sit down at the table of the Lord, or rather to
                  kneel down and partake of the holy sacrament of the Lord's Supper?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Do you not permit and urge the seeker to have his children baptized, and made
                  Church members, just as you do the parent who has passed probation?"
               "We do, sir."
               "Cannot a class-meeting consisting in part or altogether
                  (except the leader) of unconverted seekers, recommend a member for license to
                  exhort, just as well as the so-called Church?"
               "Undoubtedly it can." (See Gorrie, p. 303.)
               "Is it not the society, or a select number of it, before which the
                  preacher in charge shall cite those who refuse to attend class, and a majority of
                  whose votes shall decide whether they have been guilty of wilful neglect,
                  according to chap. iv., see. iii., quest. 1, ans. 2, of the Discipline?"
               "So I admit it reads, sir."
               "Is it not before the society, or a select number of them, that an
                  accused member must be brought for trial, according to chap. iv., sec. iii.,
                  quest. 2, ans. 1?"
               "It is so put down in the book, sir."
               "Then if the members of the society enjoy each and every
                     privilege that a member of the Church does, what is
                  the use of calling some of them Church members, and others members of
                  society? You see I am likely to avail myself of your permission to ask a dozen
                  questions instead of one."
               "I am glad you ask them, sir. Methodism seeks not to hide herself. Whatever she
                  is, she is willing the world should know it."
               "What then, I ask again, is the practical difference between a member
                  of society and a member of the Church? You call them by different
                     names, but you treat them as though they were the very same. The
                  only difference which I can discover is, that the member yet in his probation may
                  be excommunicated without trial, by the decree of the class-leader,
                  while one who has passed his term and been received, cannot be excommunicated
                  except by the preacher, and that after a formal accusation and trial.
                  Now if these seekers are not Church members, you are guilty of taking
                  Christ's ordinances out of the Church, and giving them to the
                     people of the world. If they are Church members, then your
                  Church consists, in many instances, to a large extent, of people who make no
                     pretension to the possession of true religion, and no profession of true
                  faith in Christ. In either case I should fear to call it the Church of Christ. But
                  we are losing time from our general investigation. I presume we are all satisfied
                  upon this point now. We must regard that organization as the
                  Methodist Church in which the privileges of the Church are enjoyed,
                  whether Methodists call it so or not. That is the Church
                  which acts the part of the Church. This, in the Methodist economy, is the
                     society; and 'there is,' according to the Discipline, chap. i.,
                  sec. 4, 'only one condition previously required of those who desire admission into
                  these societies;' and that is not faith in Christ, but only 'a desire to flee from
                  the wrath to come, and to be saved from their sins;' which is understood to mean simply, that they are seriously
                  concerned upon the subject of salvation, and willing to make some effort to secure
                  it, and can be persuaded to join the class for that purpose.
               "Our next mark will lead us to inquire whether the members of the Methodist
                     Church have been baptized upon a profession of their faith?"
               "I suppose," said Mr. Stiptain, "that you Baptists will hardly admit that we have
                  been baptized at all."
               "In regard to this point," said Mr. Courtney, "there can be no room for doubt or
                  cavil. If sprinkling or pouring is not baptism, few of you will
                     pretend that they have been baptized. If only immersion is
                  baptism, the Discipline will testify that baptism is required of
                  none, but only permitted to those who prefer it; and if the
                  directions of the Discipline could be fully carried out in practice, and all
                     the infants could be baptized, there would be no such thing as
                     baptism upon a profession of faith, since it is certain that little
                  infants neither have nor profess to have a saving faith in Christ. These positions
                  we have settled before, and it is now enough respectfully to say, that the
                  Methodist Episcopal Church stands, in regard to this matter, just where we found
                  her mother of England, and her grandmother of Rome. Not to waste our time,
                  therefore, let us hasten on."
               "Our next mark," said Theodosia, "will lead us to inquire whether the Methodist
                  Episcopal Church is an independent, local society, recognizing, in matters
                     of religion, no authority but that of Christ above its own."
               "And this need not detain us as long as the last," said Mr. Percy; "for it is a
                  fact too notorious to require any proof that the Methodist societies are
                     not independent organizations, but each is a part of
                  a great establishment, somewhat like the Church of England, out of which it came,
                  and after which it was mainly modelled. The local society of the Methodists is no
                  more an independent Church than a local society of Roman Catholics is an
                  independent Church. It is entirely dependent on persons outside of
                     itself for the discipline even of its own members. It cannot determine
                  for itself who shall be received or who excluded; who shall be commended or who
                  reproved. The preacher sent to them without their own consent, sometimes against
                  their urgent remonstrance, has all the power in his hands; they can do nothing but
                  obey."
               "O no, Mr. Percy, not quite so bad as that. Did not Mr. Courtney himself say that
                  the societies recommended the persons to be licensed, and that an offending member
                  was tried before the whole society, or at least a part of it, selected by the
                  minister in charge?"
               "Certainly he did, but what of it? It serves to delude the people (if I may use
                  the expression without offence to these good friends) with a shadow of authority
                  without a particle of substance. There is the Church, or society, for example, in
                  our little town. Last year they had a minister whom they dearly loved, and they
                  sent up to Conference a unanimous and urgent request that he should be sent back
                  to them. But he was sent to the opposite side of the State. One, who had been
                  there some years before, and was far from being popular, and who had reasons why
                  he himself did not desire to be forced upon them, was, against their wishes and
                  his own, compelled to take the charge of their affairs, and they must accept his
                  ministrations or have none; for so the bishop willed it."
               "I trust you will excuse me, Mr. Percy, if I say the society must have been very
                  silly to ask what they knew could not be granted," replied the Reverend Mr.
                  Stiptain. "They must have known the rules, and, as good Methodists, should have
                  gladly conformed to them."
               "I grant all that, sir; but still, it shows how far the local society is from
                  being independent. They cannot say who
                  shall or who shall not occupy the house which they have built with their own
                  money, or who shall or who shall not be the instructors of themselves and their
                  children in matters which concern their souls' salvation. The bishop, whom they
                  have probably never seen, and who knows nothing of them but by the reports of his
                  subordinates, takes away or sends them ministers at his own discretion, and they
                  dare not so much as complain, lest a worse thing come upon them.
               "Now this minister, thus sent against their will, has,
                  if I understand your system, all the power of discipline in his own hands, or in
                  the hands of those whom he can commonly influence, to carry out his will. The
                  society itself has no power at all. It seems to have,
                  but it strikes me that when we look at the subject carefully, the illusion
                  vanishes. Let us suppose, for illustration, that the son of Mr. Markman (the
                  gentleman with whom this preacher had some difficulty when he was there before)
                  has, during the past six months, joined the society on probation, and the minister
                  has determined that he shall not be a member: he has only to whisper to his
                  class-leader, who is appointed by himself, that this young man's name had better
                  be dropped, and the class-leader fails to report him for
                  confirmation. He is virtually excommunicated, without accusation, without trial,
                  and without fault."
               "O, no!" exclaimed Theodosia. "The class-leader would be too conscientious to
                  comply with his request."
               "Then he would quietly remove him, and put another in his place; for it is his
                  privilege and duty 'to appoint all the leaders, and change them when
                  he sees necessary.' It would be strange indeed if he could not find some one who
                  could be relied upon to carry out his wishes."
               "I am very sorry, sir, to see that you have so bad an opinion of us," said Mr.
                  Stiptain. "I am sure you never heard of one of our preachers thus abusing the
                  power with which he has been intrusted for the good of the cause. Nor would such
                  tyranny on his part be tolerated by those to whom he is responsible for his
                  conduct."
               "I grant that it is not very likely to happen in the present generation, Mr.
                  Stiptain. But organizations like the Methodist Church are long-lived, and power
                  has a tendency to accumulate in the hands where it is lodged. I am not speaking of
                  what has been done, or what is likely to be done just now, but of what may
                     be done under the sanction of your Discipline. Your
                  ministers are, doubtless, many of them very humble, pious people; but there
                     may be among them some few who are proud, selfish,
                  revengeful, and ambitious. Now I have, for the sake of argument, supposed this to
                  be the case with the one of whom I am speaking. Do you not see how it would be in
                  his power to shut this pious young man out of the Church, without any violation of
                  the rules of discipline, and against the unanimous wish of the Church itself that
                  he should come in?"
               "I see, indeed, how the thing might possibly be done; but I can assure you it
                  would cost the minister his license. He would never do it but once."
               "I do not see how you could reach him at all. He has no need to tell
                     you all the motives of his conduct; and for the
                     act itself, he did but what it was his privilege, nay, he will
                  declare, it was his duty to do. Let us look at it a moment. We will
                  suppose a case, merely to test the extent of the power of discipline which is in
                  the hands of the membership, the Church, or society, or whatever you may choose to
                  call it. We will suppose that this minister is a hypocrite—a thing, to my mind,
                  not very improbable; that he is determined to shut young Markman out
                  of the Church for the two years he is likely to remain in charge. He talks with
                  the class-leader; and if he finds one too favorable to the young man, he
                     changes him, until he finds one that will reverently obey
                     him, as he has promised to obey his chief
                     ministers This class-leader may be
                  an unconverted man—there are such people in the Methodist Churches.
                  To give a show of justice to the proceeding, he may conceive and report to the
                  preacher some vile slander affecting the young man's religious if not his moral
                  character. And the young man comes to the Church for redress; demands that the
                  slanderer shall be tried and excluded. Do you think he could accomplish any thing
                  against the preacher and the class-leader? Do you think the society could lift a
                  finger for the young man's rights?"
               "Certainly," exclaimed Theodosia; "the Church will call the slanderer to account,
                  expel him from the society, and thus vindicate the character of the innocent."
               "Not at all, madam; the Church has no such power. She can accuse, or
                  any member of her can accuse; but she cannot try or expel any more
                  than she can receive."
               "Certainly you must be mistaken, Mr. Percy. Did we not read, on page 96 of the
                  Discipline, that an accused member should be brought to trial 'before the society
                  of which he is a member, or a select number of them, in the presence of a bishop,
                  elder, deacon, or preacher. And if the accused be found guilty by the decision of
                  a majority of the members before whom he is brought for trial, and the crime be
                  such as is expressly forbidden by the Word of God, and sufficient to exclude a
                  person from the kingdom of grace and glory, the minister or preacher in charge is
                  to expel him?"
               "Certainly we read, or might have read thus; but what does it amount to? As I said
                  before, it seems to give the Church some shadow of authority; but
                  look at it closely, and the illusion vanishes. The power is all in the hands
                     of the preacher."
                  *
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The members of the society have the same right to control the discipline of
                     their own body that a recent letter-writer says the people in France have
                     to vote. He says, "We have entire freedom to
                        vote. A ticket is prepared for us by the government, and we may
                     vote it if we please. But if we do not like the ticket, we can abstain from
                     voting."
               
               "I do not see how that can be, when the accused is to be tried by the
                  society."
               "Let us trace out the progress of the trial in the case we have supposed, and you
                  will see not only how it can be, but how it must be. As a lawyer, I
                  have had some experience in these things.
               "Young Markman accuses the class-leader of slander. To whom must the accusation be
                  made? To the preacher in charge. It is his duty to try members. And what if he
                  refuse to entertain the charge? What if he say, 'Young man, go along about your
                  business; I do not believe a word you say. It is much more likely that you, a mere
                  probationer, should lie, than this good and pious class-leader.' There the matter
                  will rest. The leader is responsible only to the preacher, and if
                  this slander were a part of his report as leader, there is no one else who has a
                  right to intermeddle in the business.
               "The preacher may try or refuse to try, as he sees best. Here is the decision of
                  the Conference, as given by Gorrie, page 325, sec. 32: 'Is a preacher at liberty
                  to refuse to call an accused member to trial, when charges have been preferred by
                  respectable members of the Church? He is, if there are sufficient reasons existing
                  why he should not do so.' And of that he is to be sole judge.
               "But what if he should feel compelled by the force of public opinion to permit a
                  trial? The trial must be before the society, or a select number of
                     them. The preacher decides on bringing it before a select
                     number. It is his privilege to do so; and he determines how
                  many and of whom that select number shall consist. He sounds his men beforehand,
                     and chooses such as are suited to
                  his purpose. And if a majority of the committee thus chosen by himself do not
                  bring in a verdict in accordance with his wishes, it will be strange indeed The
                  accuser has no right to object to any one whom the minister may select; and
                  lawyers know that clients never expect full justice from a 'packed' jury.
               "But he not only selects his jury with the opportunity to sound every member of it
                  beforehand; he also presides as judge. If the accused or the accuser
                  object to any of the jury, it is his province to overrule his objections, if he
                  see fit, and to pronounce them unreasonable. (See Gorrie, p. 323.) If any evidence
                  come up which he prefers shall not be introduced, he is to decide the
                  question whether it shall be admitted. (See as above, p. 327.) 'Are questions
                  relating to the admissibility of testimony questions of law? They are, and
                  consequently the president or chairman of a trial must decide on the
                     admissibility of the testimony.'
               "Now, with power to select the jury, determine all questions of law, and decide on
                  the admissibility of the testimony, what prospect is there that he will not have
                  the case decided as he determines? But if it should be otherwise, 'Who is to
                  determine and award the punishment? The preacher.' (See Gorrie as
                  above, p. 323.)
               "So, even if convicted, the case is still in the hands of the preacher, who is to
                  determine what the punishment must be, and himself inflict or forbear to inflict
                  it, as he may see best.
               "But if the decision of his own 'packed jury,' with himself presiding as judge of
                  the law and the admissibility of testimony, should be against his wishes; if he be
                  so disposed, he can either simply refuse to carry out their
                  verdict—for he is sole executive—or he can take the case out of their hands and
                  carry it for a new trial before the Quarterly Conference, consisting of his
                  brother preachers—who will find it hard to think him in the wrong—and
                  of stewards, exhorters, and class-leaders, appointed by himself. The Church or
                  society has no power at all to DECIDE any case, unless they decide
                  according to the wishes of the preacher; for we read in chapter iv., section 3,
                  question 2, answer 4: 'Nevertheless, if in any of the above-mentioned cases
                     the minister or preacher shall differ in judgment from a majority of the
                     society, or the select number, concerning the innocence or guilt of the accused
                     person, the trial in such case may be referred by the minister or preacher to
                     the ensuing quarterly meeting Conference.'
               "Now, I ask, in all kindness and respect—but still I cannot help asking—if the
                  semblance of power given to the society, in the trial of members, is not the
                  veriest shadow, deluding them with the idea of authority, when they have none
                  whatever? Let me, as a lawyer, have the choosing of my jury from persons whom I
                  have already sounded; let me be the judge of the law, and receive or reject the
                  testimony as it may seem best to me, and then let me decide concerning the
                  punishment, and let it devolve on me to inflict it, and it will be very surprising
                  to me if I should be at all desirous to appeal. But let me, in case I should be
                  dissatisfied, have the second chance before a tribunal interested in
                  sustaining my authority, and a majority of whom had been appointed by
                  myself, and with all of whom my official position would give me
                  influence and importance, and I am sure I should not fail to get a verdict which
                  should be perfectly satisfactory to my desires."
               "But," exclaimed Theodosia, "if you, as a Methodist preacher, should act as you
                  have supposed this one to do, the Church would take up your case, and
                  convict you of connivance at sin and unfaithfulness in duty."
               "Not at all. The Church, that is, the society, can no more try a preacher than it
                  can try Queen Victoria. The preacher is sent to govern the Church,
                  not to be governed by it. It has no
                  sort of control over him. He is not responsible to it either for his official or
                  his personal misconduct. It can only call the attention of his presiding elder or
                  his bishop to the case. And then, if it were some crime expressly
                  forbidden by the word of God, the elder or the bishop would call together three
                  other preachers and proceed to try him; and, if convicted, suspend him from
                  preaching until the meeting of the Conference, when the preachers assembled would
                  finally decide his case. A preacher, you see, can only be tried by
                     preachers. But mere maladministration of Church discipline,
                  attended, as it would be in the case supposed, by earnest declarations that he was
                  all the time actuated by a sincere desire for the welfare of the Church, and had
                  no sort of selfish feeling in the case, would hardly be regarded by his
                  fellow-preachers as a crime. It would be a mere error of judgment. If
                  it were noticed at all as a wrong, it would come under the head of 'improper
                  tempers, words, or actions.' See Discipline, chap. iv., sec. 1,
                  ques. 5: 'What shall be done in cases of improper tempers, words or actions?'
               "'Answer. The person so offending shall be reprehended by his senior
                  in office. Should a second transgression take place, one, two, or three ministers
                  are to be taken as witnesses. If he be not then cured, he shall be tried at the
                  next Annual Conference, and if found guilty and impenitent, shall be expelled,'
                  etc.
               "So you see that all the preacher would have to fear for this, his first offence
                  of the kind, would be a private scolding from his presiding elder.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *If any one should doubt that it was the express intention of
                     the makers of the Discipline to place the whole power of retaining or
                     excluding members in the hands of the preachers, he can easily be satisfied
                     by consulting the explanatory notes at first appended to the Discipline, and
                     at one time published with it. These notes were prepared by Bishops Coke and
                     Asbury, who presided in the Conference which formed the Church, and made, or
                     rather adopted, the Discipline. In reference to this matter, the bishops
                     say, "The grand point to be determined is this: whether the final judgment
                     of an offender, in respect both to the guilt and the censure, should be
                     invested in the minister or in the people? We
                     shall therefore take a view of this part of our economy; first, in the light
                     of Scripture, and secondly, in that of reason." Then from Matthew xviii. 15,
                     17, "If thy brother shall trespass against thee," etc., they come to the
                     sage conclusion that "here is not a word said of the Church's
                     authority, either to judge or to censure. On the contrary, the
                     WHOLE AUTHORITY IS EXPRESSLY DELIVERED INTO THE HANDS OF THE MINISTER." So
                     that, if they intended by the provisions of the Discipline to place
                     any part of the authority in the Church, they
                     belied their own convictions and stultified their own explanation of the
                     word of God.
                  "But it may be urged," they go on to say, "that the offence must be
                     first mentioned to the Church before the offender can be
                     scripturally excluded. 'Tell it to the Church,' says our Lord. And so we do.
                     It is merely for the sake of convenience that in large societies we tell it
                     only to a committee, or representation of the society, or do abundantly
                     more—even make them witnesses of the whole trial. But if such
                     societies were to desire it, we would tell the whole unto the Church at
                     large. But still, we must declare from the plain sense of the word of
                        Goa that our Lord invests the minister WITH THE WHOLE
                     AUTHORITY BOTH OF JUDGMENT AND OF CENSURE."—(Notes on
                        Discipline, chap. ii, sec. 8, as quoted in Emory's History
                           of the Discipline, pp. 331-338.)
               
               "That it was the real intention of the Discipline to keep all actual power out of
                  the hands of the people, and vest it exclusively in the preachers, is
                  further evident from the fact that the bishops give it as a reason, a sort of
                  apology, for permitting an appeal to be made to the Quarterly Conference, that it
                  is mostly composed of preachers. Here is their language; let the
                  people mark it:
               "'An appeal is allowed in all the cases mentioned in this section to the following
                  quarterly meeting. For though the power of appeal be not mentioned in the last
                  clause, which relates to the sowing of dissensions, yet it is certainly implied.
                  Our work is at present in its infancy, in comparison to what we trust it will be, through the blessing
                  of God. Our ministers, who have the charge of circuits, may not
                  always be so aged and experienced as we might wish them. The appeal to the
                  quarterly meeting is, therefore, allowed to remedy this defect. And this no one
                  can object to. No one, we think, can imagine that the members of a
                     class, or the members of the largest society, would form so
                  respectable or so impartial a court of judicature as the presiding elder, the
                  travelling and local preachers, and the leaders and stewards, of the whole
                     circuit. But the point is quite out of the reach of debate, in respect
                  to those who believe the sacred writings and sincerely reverence them. The
                     New Testament determines, beyond a doubt, that judgment and censure, in the
                     cases before us, shall be in the MINISTER. Nor could we justify
                     our conduct in investing the Quarterly Conference with the authority of
                  receiving and determining appeals, if it were not almost entirely composed
                     of men who are more or less engaged in the ministry of the word, the
                  stewards being the only exceptions.'
               "Remember, this is what the bishops themselves say, in explanation of
                  the Discipline; and shows how much authority the 'people' were to have. (See as
                  above, pp. 337, 338.)
               "You see, therefore, that the society, so far from being herself the independent
                  executive of the laws of Christ, has nothing to do but pay the
                  preachers and quietly submit to their control. So far from being
                  independent, she is dependent on the bishop to say who shall preach in her pulpit,
                  and who shall administer her ordinances, or whether she shall have any preaching
                  or any ordinances. She is dependent on a preacher who is not of her number, who is
                  not chosen by herself, and not responsible to her for his personal or his official
                  conduct, to decide for her who shall be members of her communion, who shall be
                  received, who shall be retained, and who expelled. Or if this power of his be in
                  some slight degree shared with others, it is not with the society, or the
                  representatives of the society, but with the Quarterly Conference; that is, with
                  other ministers equally independent of them, and with exhorters, stewards, and
                  class-leaders, none of whom are appointed by the Church, but chosen over it by the
                  ministers."
               "But their subjection is voluntary, is it not?" said the Rev. Mr.
                  Stiptain "They are not compelled to this abject submission, as you
                  seem to consider it. Their bishops and preachers rule by their free consent."
               "So," replied Mr. Courtney, "is the subjection of the Roman Catholic to the Pope a
                  voluntary subjection—in this and, at least. But he must submit, or
                     cease to be a Catholic; and the Methodist must
                  submit, or cease to be a Methodist. Your system, you will permit me
                  to say, IS A SYSTEM OF RULE for the ministry and subjection for the
                  people. They may rebel. They may ask for the authority in God's word which demands
                  that they should bow the neck to the clerical yoke. They may ask what Jesus meant
                  when he said, 'Call no man on earth your master!' They may inquire who gave the
                  bishop authority to lord it over the heritage of God. They may demand to know by
                  what right the Discipline has taken the authority from the Church—the
                  local society of faithful men—and given it to the ministers, the bishops, or the
                  Conference; but if any one does this, he is liable to expulsion. He must, as a
                  Methodist, be governed by the Discipline. Let any Church steadily refuse to
                  receive the preacher sent by the bishop, or venture to employ one whom the bishop
                  has not sent, or refuse to carry into execution any of the decrees of the
                  Conference as contained in the Discipline, and you know she will not long be a
                  part of the Methodist Church. If she does not submit, she goes out of
                  the connection. This is all the compulsion, thank God, that any
                  religious organization can employ in this land of freedom. But enough
                  of this. I presume that you, sir, will not contend tend that a Methodist society is a local,
                  independent organization, or that the Methodist Church is made up of such
                  organizations; and we may, therefore, go on to our next mark."
               "Which is," said Theodosia, "that a true Church has Christ alone for its
                     King and Lawgiver, and submits, in matters of religion, to no authority but
                     his.
               "Does the Methodist ecclesiastical establishment, whether we consider it as the
                  collective whole, which is called 'the Church,' or as local congregations, called
                  'societies,' recognize any other lawgiver but Christ alone?"
               "That question," said Mr. Percy, "resolves itself into this other, namely, Does
                  she recognize the authority of the General Conference to make rules which she, as
                  a Church, is bound to obey? Are her ministers and her societies at liberty to
                  disregard and pass by the discipline ordained by the Conference, and go to the
                     Bible only for instruction, in regard to Church affairs? I would
                  be glad, sir," (addressing the presiding elder,) "if you could direct us to some
                  reliable authority which would enable us to decide this question determinately
                  before we go any farther."
               "I can hardly suppose it necessary," replied the Rev. Mr. Stiptain, "to remind you
                  that Methodists go to the Bible for their faith and their practice. We appeal
                  continually to the word of God, and it is our desire, in all things, to obey the
                  Lord rather than men. For this we have been reviled. For this we have been
                  persecuted. For this to-day our names are cast out as evil. No people have
                  suffered more for conscience' sake than the poor, despised, and slandered
                  Methodists."
               "Then I understand you to say that you, as Methodists, owe no
                     obedience to any law which was not enacted by Christ or the apostles,
                  and which is not recorded in the word of God. So far, therefore, as the Discipline
                  differs from the Scriptures, you are, as Methodists, under no
                     obligation to obey its requirements, and, refusing to obey,
                  would still be retained in the connection, and permitted to enjoy all the
                  privileges of other Methodists. I am glad to hear it; for I confess we had formed
                  a different opinion concerning this matter. We had imagined that a Methodist
                     preacher especially was bound to 'remember' and 'mind every
                     point in the DISCIPLINE, great and small,' whether he could
                  find that point made out in the word of God or not; that he was not to 'mend
                     the rules, but keep them,' whether he could find them in the Bible or
                  not. In some Churches they have a custom of giving the young preacher
                  a Bible when he enters upon his work, with instructions to study
                     it, and be governed by its teachings. We were under the impression
                  that in yours 'the Annual Conference receives him as a probationer, by giving him
                  the form of DISCIPLINE, inscribed thus: To A. B.: You think it
                     your duty to call sinners to repentance. Make full proof hereof, and we shall
                     rejoice to receive you as a fellow-laborer.' (Discipline,
                  chap. ii., sec. viii., ques. 1, ans. 3.) And that when you 'receive him into full
                  connection, you do it by giving him another copy of the DISCIPLINE, inscribed
                  thus: As long as you freely consent to and earnestly endeavor to walk by
                     these rules, we shall rejoice to acknowledge you as a fellow-laborer.'
                     (Discip., chap. ii., sec. viii., ques. 3, ans. 1.) We thought
                  you never asked him whether he had studied the BIBLE or
                     not; but that you were careful to inquire if 'he had read the form of
                  DISCIPLINE,' 'and was willing to conform to it;' 'if he knew the
                     rules of the society, and of the bands, and if he
                  conformed to them.' In short, it has been our impression that it was
                  made his duty to obey the Discipline, rather than the Bible. We are
                  rejoiced to hear that it is not so. We are glad that every member and every
                  minister is free to consult the Bible for himself, and only regard the
                     Discipline so far as he finds its requirements enacted in the
                  Bible."
               "I wish, sir," exclaimed Mr. Courtney, "that all your ministers isters and all your members could be made to
                  understand it in this way. It might cause some of them to take the
                  trouble to search the Scriptures, for those proof-texts on which the
                  compilers of the Discipline rested its authority, and to which they have neglected
                  to give us any reference. If they could all be induced to do this,
                  with a firm determination to receive nothing as binding which they
                  could not find plainly put down in the Bible, the system could not
                  live a year. I would like, for example, to see them all begin to search for that
                  text which confers the authority on your preachers to shut out from the Church
                  those who give good evidence that they are true believers for six long months, (on
                  the supposition that probationers are not members;) or to admit the unconverted
                  seekers to Church-membership, on the supposition that they are. Of course, you
                  believe there is at least some ONE such text, or else
                  you could not consider this regulation of the Discipline as of any
                  binding force. If it has NO scriptural authority, it
                  must be null and void as a binding law upon the Church of Christ; and if it
                     is actually OPPOSED to the scriptural law, then to enforce it, or obey
                  it, is a fearful sin against God. It is organized, deliberate,
                  systematic, and persistent rebellion against the express requirements
                  of Him who alone has the right to make laws for his Church."
               "That is strong language, sir," replied the Rev. Mr. Stiptain, "to apply to the
                  ministers and members of a Christian Church, which, I will venture to say,
                  embodies as much of earnest piety, and gives evidence of as sincere love for the
                  Saviour, and as much readiness to obey his will, as any body of people upon the
                  earth."
               "I know it is. I made use of strong language because the sense demands it. I mean
                     all that I said; and neither you, nor any conscientious man, will
                  venture to deny that all I said is strictly and literally true,
                  according to the plain and natural meaning of the words. I would respectfully ask
                  you to say for yourself whether it would not be A FEARFUL SIN—an act
                  of HIGH-HANDED REBELLION against Christ—for the ministers of
                     his Church to take it upon themselves to admit people to
                  Church-membership whom HE did not authorize them to admit, and to
                  shut out those whom he required to be admitted. And if you have a right to shut a
                  true believer out six months, you have the same right to shut him out sixteen
                  months or sixty months. It devolves, then, on you, as a Methodist minister, to
                  show your authority, not in the Discipline, but in the
                  WORD OF GOD. Of course, you think you have such authority. Such good
                  and pious people as the Methodists would not knowingly rebel against
                  the laws of the King in Zion. I would like to see you look for it. With your
                  permission, I would like to help you look for it now! Here is the
                  Bible. Will you point me to the text which is relied upon by Methodists as their
                  authority for this law of the Discipline?"
               So saying, Mr. Courtney handed him the Bible, and all waited for him to open it,
                  and find the text.
               "The makers of the Discipline," replied the Elder, without opening the Bible, "did
                  not see fit to encumber it with references to the chapter and verse which
                  contained what they considered the authority for each of its provisions, and
                  consequently different persons might now rely upon different texts—some upon one
                  and some upon another. Upon what texts the greatest number of Methodists would
                  rely I do not know."
               "Well, I will be very easily satisfied: I only ask for some one upon
                  which any of the Methodists can rely. I only ask for one
                     command to admit the unconverted, or one command to shut
                  out for six months the converted, who desire admission; or, in case that cannot be
                  found, I only ask for one example in which saint or sinner, seeker or
                  believer, was, by the apostles, admitted on six months' probation. I only ask for one mention of or
                     one allusion to a Christian Church, in which a part of the members
                  were probationers and a part were full members."
               "Why, sir," exclaimed the Elder's lady, "I can give you an example of the
                  admission of three thousand members before they had professed
                     conversion. The Pentecostal penitents were only convicted.
                  They were pricked in their hearts, and cried out, 'Men and brethren, what shall we
                  do?' Now, Brother Gorrie, in his History of Methodism, page 172, says, 'It is
                  evident that these persons were not believers in the sense of being regenerate,
                  unless regenerating faith precedes repentance for sin; for they were first to
                  repent, and then to be baptized, for, that is, in order to the
                  remission of sins, and thirdly, as the result of such repentance and baptism, they
                  were taught to expect the gift of the Holy Ghost.' Now, if Peter received the
                  inquiring penitent, and baptized him into the Church to make him a Christian, why
                  cannot we? We ask the sinner who desires salvation, to come into the Church and
                  find it in the use of the sacraments, and the other means of grace; but if he does
                  not find it in six months, we take it for granted that he is not in earnest, and
                  so send him away, unless he feels that he would like to try for six months
                  longer."
               "I wonder," said Theodosia, to herself, "if she could not show us how many of
                  these three thousand were dropped by Peter's
                     class-leader at the end of six months; and how many were
                  recommended by him for full membership?" But she was too polite to speak her
                  thoughts aloud, and Mr. Courtney simply replied:
               "The passage you refer to, madam, is itself convincing evidence that
                     true repentance and a saving faith always go together; for
                  although Peter commanded them to repent and be baptized, he did not
                     baptize or receive into the Church any except those 'who
                     gladly received the word;' and the glad reception of
                  the word supposes faith in the word. Peter did not
                  receive them as mere anxious, convicted sinners, inquiring what they
                  must do—as your Church does They were already serious; already anxious; already
                     inquiring most earnestly; already they were crying
                     out as most determined seekers. But this was not enough.
                  They must not only be convicted of sin, they must also repent
                     of sin, and true repentance implies true conversion, and
                  necessarily implies true faith either as preceding or accompanying it. For
                  salvation is again and again promised to the penitent, and yet the
                  Lord expressly says, 'He that believeth not shall be damned.'
               "But the question before us now is not whether Peter received unregenerate sinners
                  and made them Christians by baptism, but whether he received them or any one
                     on six months' probation? with the understanding that, if all
                  parties were not satisfied, they might quietly withdraw or as quietly 'be
                     dropped' at the end of that time.
               "But still that people were not, as sinners, taken into the Church by the apostles
                  to be regenerated there, and made the children of God and the heirs
                  of glory by some Church ceremony, but were added to the Church
                  because they gave evidence that they were already converted, regenerated,
                     and saved, you may learn from the last verse of the same chapter to
                  which you referred, (Acts xi.,) where you read, 'The Lord added daily
                  unto the Church,' not seekers, not probationers, but
                  'such as should be saved,' which reads in the original simply 'the
                     saved.' They were first made safe by faith in Christ, and
                  then admitted to the privileges of the Church, because they were already of the
                  number of the saved, and not in order that they might become such. As these were
                  added daily, of course it did not then require sir
                     months to get into the Church, and if any such regulation was ever made by the apostles, it must have been
                  made after this.
               "If we go to Samaria, and read that the multitudes of men and women believed and
                  were baptized at once, we may be sure that there was no six months' probation
                  there. Nor de we hear of any thing of the kind at Antioch, or at Corinth, or at
                  Ephesus, or at any place where any Church is mentioned in the Scriptures. Peter
                  did not receive Cornelius on probation; Philip did not receive the eunuch on
                  probation; Paul did not receive Lydia on probation; nor did he receive the jailer
                  on probation. So soon as they gave evidence of faith in Christ, they
                  were admitted at once to full membership, and until they
                     had done this, none were admitted to membership at all.
               "Now, madam, your good husband here thinks that, as a Methodist, neither he nor
                  the bishops above him, nor the preachers below him, are bound by any law of the
                  Discipline which is not based upon the word of God. I hope you will persuade him,
                  therefore, never again to sanction the admission of a mere seeker to
                  Church privileges as a probationer, and at once to admit every applicant who gives
                  evidence of real faith to full membership. Though, if he
                  should determine thus to obey the Bible rather than the Discipline, I foresee that
                  it will cost him not only his eldership, but his membership. He
                     cannot do it and stay in the Methodist Church; and no one knows
                  that fact better than he does himself."
               "Of course, sir, I would not desire to remain in the Methodist Church
                  unless I could conscientiously agree with it in doctrine, and conform to its
                  rules. Every voluntary association has a right to determine for itself the terms
                  of its membership, and require of those who come into it of their own accord that
                  they shall continue to conform to its rules."
               "No, sir; I ask your pardon for seeming to contradict your assertion. But the
                  Church of Jesus Christ has no authority to make or mend the terms of
                  admission or of continuance in her membership. They were made for her by her Lord;
                  she was constituted upon his terms, and must be always governed by
                  them. If any association called a Church has made other terms of
                     admission than those which HE made, it is certainly not his
                     Church, for into his Church all his people may
                  surely come upon HIS terms.
               "But, sir, this is only one point in regard to which you are bound to
                  obey the Discipline rather than the Bible, the Conference rather than the Lord
                  Jesus. Will you permit me to call your attention to another?"
               "Certainly, and with great pleasure; I love to hear you talk. It is a satisfaction
                  to know just what you Baptists think of us. I have never heard it told so freely
                  before. I hope you will keep back nothing that is in your heart, for, if I am not
                  self-deceived, I sincerely desire to know and to obey the truth."
               "Then you will not get angry with me, sir, if I ask you to show me in the
                  Scripture some authority for making attendance upon the class-meeting
                  a condition of continuance in the Church, even after admission to
                  full membership. Observe, it is not the institution of the class-meeting that I
                  speak of, but the making attendance on it a condition of
                     Church-membership. Did the Lord Jesus, by himself or his apostles,
                  at any time or at any place enact this as a condition of membership
                  in HIS Church? Did he or they ever by precept or example authorize you to drive
                  one of his children out of HIS Church for not attending class? That
                  the Discipline not only authorizes but requires you to do so, you
                  will see by turning to chapter iv., section 3:
               "'QUESTION 1. What shall we do with those members of our Church who wilfully and
                  repeatedly neglect to meet their class?'
               
               "'ANSWER 1. Let an elder, deacon, or one of the preachers visit them whenever it
                  is practicable, and explain to them the consequence if they continue to
                  neglect—namely, exclusion.'
               "'2. If they do not amend, let him who has the charge of the circuit, or station,
                  bring their case before the society, or a select number, before whom they shall
                  have been cited to appear; and if they be found guilty of wilful neglect, by the
                  decision of a majority of the members before whom the case is brought, let them be
                  laid aside, and let the preacher show that they are excluded for a breach of
                     our rules, and not for immoral conduct.'"
               "Yes, sir, you quote it correctly; you seem to know our rules almost as well as
                  though you had been yourself a Methodist. And I will candidly state, for the
                  information of your friends, that we are accustomed to enforce the rule wherever
                  occasion may require; and have ever found it a most essential part of our Church
                  discipline. If a member wilfully and pertinaciously neglects 'class,'
                  he makes, as a general rule, a miserably poor Methodist; we have but little use
                  for him."
               "But the question with us just now is this: You say that, as a Methodist, neither
                  you nor your members are bound to obey any law but that of Christ; and yet you say
                  one cannot be permitted to remain in your Church who does not obey this law, which
                  requires weekly attendance on the class-meeting. It follows, therefore, either
                  that you are utterly mistaken in regard to the matter, or else that Christ Jesus,
                  by himself or his apostles, instituted the class-meeting, and made regular
                  attendance on it a condition of membership in his Church. If he did
                  not, then you have made for your Church different terms of membership
                  from those which he made for his; and your Church,
                  consequently, must be one thing, and HIS Church another, and in one respect, at
                  least, a very different thing
               "It is certain you make this a term of membership. It is certain that one cannot
                  wilfully refuse or neglect to attend 'class,' and not be subject to
                  exclusion from the Church; and the only question that remains for us to settle is,
                  whether class-meetings were ordained by Christ, and regular attendance on them
                  made essential to Church-membership."
               "If it will relieve your mind of any anxiety upon that subject," replied the Rev.
                  Mr. Stiptain, "I will candidly confess to you that we, as Methodists, have never
                  pretended that the institution of the class was of Divine authority. Our writers
                  have again and again declared that it originated in a suggestion made by Captain
                  Foy, one of the early converts to Methodism, and adopted from him by the venerable
                  Wesley. Our brother, J. Miley, in his work called 'Class-meetings,'
                  expressly says, that 'we regard our class-meetings simply as a prudential
                  regulation. Mr. Wesley himself so regarded and styled them. They are a usage which
                  our Church has herself instituted.' P. 73.
               "So, also, our Brother Charles Key, in his 'Class-leaders' Manual,'
                  declares very plainly that 'it is not contended that this institution is of Divine
                  appointment, or that in the specific form in which it prevails among Methodists,
                  it had any existence in the primitive Church.' P. 19.
               "Our Brother Gorrie, in his excellent 'History of Methodism as it was and
                     is,' says, 'that the question whether Mr. Wesley ever designed to
                  establish class-meetings as a term or condition of Church-membership, is a
                  question which has not been largely discussed nor finally settled.' Nor does it
                  seem now of any consequence what Mr. Wesley designed. It certainly is
                  a condition of membership, whether he designed it to be so or not; and we contend
                  for it simply on the ground of its utility and necessity to the purity and
                  prosperity of our Churches."
               "But what authority have you to make it a condition
                  
                  of membership, when Christ did not require it?" asked Theodosia.
               "Those who become Methodists, madam, know our rules, and by uniting with us they
                  agree to conform to them, and have no cause of complaint if they refuse and are
                  expelled.'
               "If you claimed to be no more than a mere human society," said Mr.
                  Courtney, "like the Sons of Temperance, or the Free-Masons, or Odd-Fellows, you
                  would certainly have the right to fix your own terms of membership, and those who
                  did not choose to conform to them might stand aside. But you claim to be the
                     Church of Christ and of God. The law of Christ requires all
                  his people to unite with his Church, and requires his Church to
                  receive and retain them on certain conditions established by himself.
                  HE HAS DETERMINED what qualifications shall entitle them to admittance, and
                     for what disqualifications they shall be expelled. But you seem to feel
                  that you are wiser than your Master, and not only venture to make new terms and
                  times of admission, but new conditions of continuance. you may call
                  this wisdom; you may excuse it by saying that it is, in your opinion, for the good
                  of the Church. But Christ will say to you, as you do to your preachers, 'Do
                     not mend MY rules, but keep them.' You can never better the
                  plans which Infinite Wisdom devised, and to add to or take from HIS conditions of
                  membership in his Church, is wicked rebellion against the authority
                  of the King. If your Church is the Church of Christ, then, when your Conference
                  changes the conditions of membership, it changes the conditions of membership in
                  the Church of Christ—the conditions which Christ himself established.
                  It sets itself above the King. It claims the authority to undo what
                  Christ has done in his own Church. It abrogates and nullifies the law of Christ.
                  It may have done it with the best intentions, but it is no less
                  rebellion for all that. My overseer who disobeys my positive orders, and causes my
                  servants to do so, may plead that he thought my orders were unwise or
                  imperfect, and that he was sure my interests would be best promoted by his
                  arrangements. But it is no less disobedience on this account. It is
                  his business to obey, and he must take it for granted that I am
                  competent to take care of my own interests, and know what it is that I desire to
                  have done.
               "You may think you are wiser than your Master; you may think you are
                  more competent to decide upon the terms of membership in his Church than he was
                  himself; and so you may honestly endeavor to mend his plan and improve upon his
                  requirements; but when you do it you reject his authority, you rebel
                  against his government, nay, you usurp to yourselves the prerogatives of the
                  Lawgiver, and put yourselves in the place of God."
               "But has not Christ," asked Mrs. Stiptain, "given a certain liberty to his
                  ministers to change and modify the unessential rites and ceremonies of his Church
                  at their discretion?"
               "I think not, madam; but if he had, these things, which determine the very right
                  to membership, do not belong to unessential rites and ceremonies. They are vital
                  to the very existence of the Church. Whatever Christ may have left undetermined
                  concerning his Church, it is certain he did not leave undetermined
                  the terms of admission or the conditions of membership. These were fixed and
                  positive. These must be at all times and everywhere the same.
               "If his ministers have a right to add one condition, they have equal
                  right to add ten. If they may require attendance on 'class' once a week, they may,
                  with equal propriety, require confession to the minister once a week, or the
                  reading of a certain chapter of the Discipline once a week, or the taking of the
                  Christian Advocate and Journal, or the observance of every Friday as a fast-day
                  And if they may add any new conditions, so they may change or
                  dispense with the old They may dispense with the profession of faith, and not
                     only change the act of baptism but
                  dispense with it, or any substitute for it, altogether. If they may change the
                  terms of admission and the conditions of membership once, they may do
                  it twice, or thrice, or seven times, or seventy times seven. To-day they may admit
                  one class of people, and to-morrow declare them ineligible. To-day they may permit
                  a portion of their members to enjoy all the privileges of the Church unconscious
                  of any wrong, and to-morrow may pass a law that shall cast them out into the world
                  and deliver them over unto Satan."
               "But you cannot suppose, sir," replied the lady, "that there is the slightest
                  probability that the Methodist Church would thus arbitrarily trifle
                  with the privileges of her members."
               "If you will promise, madam, that you and your good husband will not get angry
                  with me for my plainness of speech, I will engage to prove to you
                  that they have done it again and again. I will show you from the
                  different editions of your own Discipline that you have changed the
                  terms of admission, or the conditions of membership, at least half a dozen times
                  already, in the few years of your existence as a Church."
               "I am sure, sir, our curiosity itself will keep us in a good humor."
               "Certainly," exclaimed her husband, "we will be very much obliged to Mr. Courtney
                  for any information which he may be able to give us concerning the history of the
                  Methodist Church; and as for his plainness of speech, we have already given him
                  full proof that we are not offended by it. The truth is, I enjoy it:
                  I love to hear a man speak right out all that is in his heart."
               "Then," continued Mr. Courtney, "I will go on to talk freely. I know I am
                  sometimes blunt, nay, almost rude of speech, and I thank you for your good-natured
                  endurance of the hard things (as they may seem to you) which conscience requires
                  me to say."
               "Never mind apologies, Mr. Courtney, go on with your argument."
               "Well, sir, your Church, as a Church, dates its existence from
                  Baltimore, Maryland, about Christmas of the year seventeen hundred and
                  eighty-four; it is yet, therefore, much less than a hundred years old. It was
                  created then and there by sixty preachers, who say in the Minutes of the
                  Conference published in 1785, "At this Conference it was unanimously agreed that
                  circumstances made it expedient for us to become a separate body, under the
                  denomination of the 'Methodist Episcopal Church.' And again they say, 'We formed
                  ourselves into an independent Church.' From this time, therefore, I will count the
                  changes. If you claim an earlier origin, and will permit me to go back to what in
                  your Discipline is called 'the Rise of Methodism,' in 1729, I will find many
                  others. But as you did not claim to be a Church of
                     Christ until 1784, I think it fair to make that our starting-point.
               "Now here is a little book of 364 pages, published by Lane & Scott, No. 200
                  Mulberry street, New York, in 1851, styled the 'History of the Discipline,
                     by Robert Emory,' who was, as I learn from the preface, himself a
                  Methodist, and a Methodist minister, and who has certainly made a most valuable
                  contribution to the literature of your denomination. That our friends here may
                  understand precisely the character of the work, and see how much reliance should
                  be placed upon its statements, I will read to you a portion of the 
                     "'PREFACE.
                  
               
               
                  "'When a young Methodist preacher enters, in accordance with the requirements
                     of the direction of his Church, upon the study of its Discipline, he is curious
                     to know when and by whom that Discipline was framed. He learns, indeed, from the book itself, that the General
                     Conference has "full powers to make rules and regulations," under certain
                     "limitations and restrictions;" but who imposed those "limitations and
                     restrictions," and to what extent has the General Conference used its powers?
                     There is internal evidence that the present Discipline was not composed at one
                     time. At what periods, then, were its several parts introduced, and what
                     modifications have they undergone? These are points not only of curious
                     inquiry, but essential often to right interpretation; but they are points on
                     which students, generally, can obtain no satisfactory information. In our civil
                     governments the statutes are scattered through the several volumes of laws
                     which have been published from time to time, and therefore these are all
                     preserved; but in the Methodist Episcopal Church, the Discipline, as revised at
                     each General Conference, being in itself complete, supplants all that had gone
                     before it, and the previous editions are cast aside as of no further use. This
                     has continued until now nearly sixty years have elapsed since the organization
                     of the Church, and the Discipline has undergone about twenty distinct
                     revisions. Where, then, shall the student go to find these successive editions?
                     If he resort to the libraries of the oldest preachers, they are not there : to
                     the library of the Book Concern, they are not there : to the archives of the
                     General Conference, still they are not to be found. Despairing of success in
                     this pursuit, he may, perhaps, examine the Journals of the General Conference,
                     (though, from the nature of the case, this is a privilege which few can enjoy;)
                     but here he will find that all prior to 1800 are missing, and that those
                     subsequent to that date convey no accurate information as to the changes in the
                     Discipline; because in the alterations references are made to the chapter,
                     section, question, page, etc., which cannot be understood without having a copy
                     of the then Discipline in hand. And, moreover, because at each General
                     Conference the subsequent publication of the Discipline is intrusted to a
                     committee invested with powers (often largely discretionary) as to the
                     selection, arrangement, and wording of the several parts; and no report of
                     their proceedings is entered on the journal.
                  "'The embarrassment which is here supposed in the mind of the student of the
                     Discipline, is precisely such as the author himself experienced. In such a
                     dilemma he endeavored to collect for himself a set of the different
                     Disciplines. Having his lot cast amid the earliest seats of Methodism in this
                     country, he had the good fortune of rescuing one old Discipline after another
                     from its obscure resting-place, until at length, with one exception, the series
                     was completed, and the rich gratification was enjoyed of tracing, in the
                     original documents themselves, the progress of the Discipline from the first
                     simple series of questions and answers to its present more elaborate structure
                     of parts, chapters, and sections. The collection thus made could not be
                     rendered universally accessible. The author has thought, therefore, that he
                     would be doing a service to students of the Discipline generally, and
                     especially to his brethren in the ministry, by publishing the results of his
                     investigations in a condensed form. Such was the origin of the present work. In
                     the preparation of it the author has aimed at nothing more than the most
                     perfect accuracy in the statement of facts, and the most lucid arrangement
                     which the nature of the case admitted. . . . The changes in the form and
                     arrangement of the Discipline are noticed in the first book, and in the second,
                     the changes in its contents. That these last might be stated as precisely as
                     possible, the very words of the Discipline are quoted.'
               
               "You see, therefore," said Mr. Courtney, looking up from the book, "that we have
                  here the very words of the Discipline, quoted by a Methodist minister for the
                  instruction of his own brethren, and showing precisely what changes have from time
                  to time been made. I propose to follow up these changes only so far as they modify the terms of admission
                  into the Church, and the conditions of membership after admission.
               "Let us now turn to page 26, and examine the Discipline of 1784, which was the
                  first. And here at the very beginning is an announcement which shows how little
                  the authority of Christ was regarded, and proves that though it was now to be
                     called a Church of Christ, it was as much as ever the Church of
                  Wesley.
               
                  "'QUESTION 2. What can be done in order to the future union of the
                        Methodists?
                  
                  "'ANSWER. During the life of the Rev. Mr. Wesley, we acknowledge
                        ourselves his sons in the gospel, READY, IN MATTERS OF CHURCH
                     GOVERNMENT, TO OBEY HIS COMMANDS.'
                  "This neglect of all reference to the word of God or the authority of Christ,
                     was in perfect harmony with the action of the first Conference held in America,
                     some eleven years before. (See page 9.) 'The Methodist societies were
                     originally governed by the General Rules drawn up by the Wesleys in 1743, and
                     by the regulations adopted in the Conferences which were held yearly from 1744.
                     These regulations were first published in the Minutes from year to year. They
                     were afterwards collected together and printed, with some slight alterations,
                     in a tract entitled "The Large Minutes." The same rules and regulations, so far
                     as applicable to their condition, governed the Methodist societies in America
                     from the time of their first formation, in 1766. At the first Conference
                        in 1773, the preachers formally recognized "the doctrine
                     and discipline of the Methodists," as contained in the English Minutes, to be
                        "the SOLE rule of their conduct.'" (Ans. to quest.
                     2, page 10.)
               
               "So, in determining their form of government, they made no reference to the
                  Scripture, but say that, 'Following the counsel of John Wesley, who
                  recommended the episcopal form, we thought it best to become an episcopal
                  Church.'
               "But this is nothing to our present purpose. We want the changes in the terms of
                  admission, and conditions of membership. And, first, it appears on page 17, that
                  those coming into the society were to be received only after three
                  months' probation; but as soon as the Church was formed she changed
                  this law; and on page 35 we read, 'How shall we prevent improper persons from
                  insinuating into the society? Ans. Give tickets to none till they are recommended
                  by a leader with whom they have met at least two months.' This
                     was all that was requisite for Church-membership for the first five
                  years. Any one could be a member without further ceremony if the leader certified
                  to his good conduct for two months, and the preacher
                  would receive him. There was no baptism, no profession of
                     faith, no examination before the society—nothing at all but the
                     two months' probation; but in 1789, the Conference decreed that
                  they must wait four months longer, and the probation was lengthened to
                     six months, where it now stands; but still there was no
                     baptism, no profession, no examination before the society.
                  No one was consulted but the preacher, and he decided on the recommendation of the
                     leader after six months' probation in the observance of the
                     rules; and these rules, though they require strict morality, and
                  the observance of external religious forms, say not a word about true
                  repentance towards God, or faith in the Lord Jesus Christ."
               "Surely, Mr. Courtney, you must misunderstand the writer. He cannot mean to say
                  that the Methodist Church admitted members without baptism, or any
                  profession of faith, for five years."
               "Yes, madam, it did so—not for five years only, but FOR OVER FIFTY
                  YEARS. It extended the probation at the end of five years; but it was not till
                     fifty-two years after its organization at Baltimore, in 1784—not
                  until 1836, that baptism was required as a term of membership. This doubtless
                  seems very strange to you. It is strange, even to astonishment;
                     but it is, nevertheless, most
                  woefully true. Here is the book; you can read it for yourself. (P. 182.)"
               
                  "'1836. It was now made a requisite for admission into the Church that
                        the candidates have been baptized.'"
               
               "If it had been a requisite before, how could it then, in 1836, have been 'made a
                  requisite?'
               "So, you see, for fifty-two years the Methodist Church required, as terms of
                  membership, only the two months' probation for the first five years, and the six
                  months for the other thirty-seven years; but during all the time, no baptism
                     and no profession. And it was not until 1840, four years after
                     baptism had been made a term of admission, that any profession of
                  faith was required; for you may read on the same page, 182:
               
                  "'1840. The following was added to the requisites for admission into the
                     Church:
                  "'And shall, on examination by the minister in charge, before the Church, give
                     satisfactory assurances, both of the correctness of their faith and their
                     willingness to observe and keep the rules of the Church.'
               
               "Now, without inquiring any further, we have three times seen a
                  fundamental change in the conditions on which members could be
                     received. How many more they may have made we need not now take
                  time to examine. I will, however, call your attention to at least one more, which
                  you will find on page 44, sec. 5: 'No person holding slaves shall in future
                     be admitted into society or to the Lord's Supper, [they would not even
                  admit him on probation,] till he previously complies with these rules.' That is,
                  the rules which we shall presently give at length, and which positively require
                  the emancipation of the slaves, whether they desire it or not. This rule was
                  suspended the next year after it was made, (see page 80,) but was not repealed
                  till twelve years afterwards, when it was enacted that 'No slaveholder should be
                  received into society till the preacher who has the oversight of the circuit has
                  spoken to him freely and faithfully on the subject of slavery.' (Page 275.) It
                  does not appear what the preacher was to say, nor whether it was necessary that
                  what he said should have any particular effect on the slaveholder's mind or
                  conduct. But he could not come in till he had been talked to.
               "But now, let us look at the conditions of continuance in the Church
                  after members have actually been admitted. How many times these have been changed
                  I cannot positively say; but I am sure I can point you to more than you would
                  believe except upon the testimony of your own brother minister.
               "In the first Discipline, adopted in 1784, we have already seen that to
                     become a member, it was necessary to have been two months on
                  trial; but now, what was required to remain a member? It would seem,
                  from page 37, that members 'must not marry unbelievers or unawakened
                     persons.' 'Question 21. What can be done to put a stop to this? Answer.
                  Let every preacher publicly enforce the apostle's caution: "Be not unequally yoked
                  together with unbelievers." 2. Let him openly declare that whoever does this
                     will be expelled from the society,' etc.
               "So here, at first, the penalty was expulsion; but, in 1804, (see page 187,) 'the
                  punishment for violating the rule was changed from expulsion to putting back on
                  trial for six months.' And after thirty-two years more, the penalty was, in 1836,
                  (see page 188,) 'entirely done away with.' So, what was a sin demanding expulsion,
                  was so much less sinful after twenty years, that it only required a
                  second probation to atone for it; and after thirty-two years longer, had ceased to
                  be a sin at all deserving punishment. She who married an unawakened man for her
                  first husband, must have been expelled; and for marrying the second of the same
                  sort, put back upon probation; and for marrying the third of the same sort, had she lived long enough to do so, would
                  have not even been reproved. Surely men are wiser than their Master! But excuse
                  me; I will show you another of these changes in the condition of membership.
               "Let us now turn to page 43 of this valuable book, and see what were the
                     rules adopted by the Church, at the time of its
                  organization, on the subject of slavery, and see if we can ascertain
                  how many times slaveholding was and was not made a condition of expulsion. We have
                  already seen how it affected the terms of admission; we wish now to
                  inquire how it operated on those of continuance. I will read:
               "'Question 42. What methods can we take to extirpate slavery?
               "'Answer. We are deeply conscious of the impropriety of making new terms of
                     communion for a religious society already established, excepting on the
                  most pressing occasion; and such we esteem the practice of holding our
                  fellow-creatures in slavery. We view it as contrary to the golden law of God, on
                  which hang all the law and the prophets, and the unalienable rights of mankind, as
                  well as every principle of the Revolution, to hold in the deepest debasement, in a
                  more abject slavery than is to be found in any part of the world, except America,
                  so many souls that are capable of the image of God.
               "'We therefore think it our most bounden duty to take immediately some effectual
                  method to extirpate this abomination from among us, and for that purpose we
                     add the following to the rules of our society, namely:
               
               "'1. Every member of our society who has slaves in his possession, shall, within
                  twelve months after notice given to him by the assistant, (which notice the
                  assistants are required immediately and without any delay to give in their
                  respective circuits,) legally execute and record an instrument whereby he
                  emancipates and sets free every slave in his possession who is between the ages of
                  forty and forty-five, immediately, or, at farthest, when they arrive at the age of
                  forty-five.
               "'And every slave who is between the ages of twenty-five and forty, immediately,
                  or, at farthest, at the expiration of five years from the date of the said
                  instrument. And every slave who is between the ages of twenty and twenty-five,
                  immediately, or, at farthest, when they arrive at the age of thirty. And every
                  slave under the age of twenty, as soon as they arrive at the age of twenty-five at
                  farthest. And every infant born in slavery, after the above-mentioned rules are
                  complied with, immediately on its birth.
               "'2. Every assistant shall keep a journal, in which he shall regularly minute down
                  the names and ages of all the slaves belonging to all the masters in his
                  respective circuit, and also the date of every instrument executed and recorded
                  for the manumission of the slaves, with the name of the court, book, and folio, in
                  which the said instruments respectively shall have been recorded; which journal
                  shall be handed down in each circuit to the succeeding assistants.
               "'3. In consideration that these rules form a new term of communion,
                  every person concerned who will not comply with them, shall have the liberty
                  quietly to withdraw himself from our society within the twelve months succeeding
                  the notice given as aforesaid, otherwise the assistant shall exclude him
                     from the society.
               "'4. No person, so voluntarily withdrawn or excluded, shall ever partake of
                     the Supper of the Lord with the Methodists, till he complies with the
                  above requisitions.
               "'5. No person holding slaves shall in future be admitted into society, or to the
                  Lord's Supper, till he previously complies with these rules concerning
                  slavery.
               "'N. B. These rules are to affect the members of our society no further than they
                  are consistent with the laws of the States in which they reside. [That is, if the
                     instrument of emancipation could not
                  be legally made and recorded, and would be of no binding force, it need not be
                  done.]
               "'And respecting our brethren in Virginia that are concerned, and after due
                  consideration of their peculiar circumstances, we allow them two years from the
                  notice given to consider the expedience of compliance with or non-compliance with
                  these rules.'
               "Now did ever the veriest despot of any nation on the globe use language more
                  peremptory than this? 'Every member who has slaves shall legally
                  execute and record,' etc.; and, to be sure that the order is obeyed, the
                  circuit-rider, as provost-marshal, is to keep a book with every name recorded;
                  and, if they do not comply within the year, must cast them out—except the dear
                  brethren in Virginia, who, I suppose, had no chance to hide behind
                  the State laws, and they are graciously 'allowed' to live in sin
                     two years instead of one.
               "But it is not for the arrogance, or folly, or unscripturalness of the law that I
                  called your attention to it; but to show you that they themselves openly
                     avowed and fearlessly exercised the right to legislate for
                  the Church of Christ, even to the extent of making new terms of
                     communion, which Christ or his apostles never thought of making, and
                  which they themselves presently receded from.
               "I would like to have been present when the 'assistant' started round his circuit,
                  with copies of the law and the slave-book in his hand, to make his 'record.' He
                  comes to the house of a good old Virginia planter, who loves his servants, and who
                  loves his Saviour, and has long been a member of 'the society.'
               "'My dear brother,' says the 'assistant,' 'I suppose you are aware that we are now
                  no longer societies, but a Church of Jesus Christ.'
               "'Yes, I have heard so, and think it a very good plan.'
               "'I have called in to get the names and ages of your servantsvants.
                  You know WE passed a law that you must set them free so soon as they arrive at
                  certain ages, specified in the document, a copy of which I now present you for
                  your instruction.'
               "'You passed a law commanding me to free my slaves!'
               "'Yes, sir; and if you don't promptly comply, I am positively instructed to
                     excommunicate you from the Church, unless you will quietly
                     withdraw, which you are at liberty to do if you see fit. Moreover,
                  it is by this law made my duty to take down the names and ages of all the slaves
                  belonging to all the masters in my circuit; so, as I am in haste this morning, you
                  will please furnish me the catalogue at once.'
               "So saying, he draws up to a table, opens his book, gets out his pen and pocket
                  inkstand.
               "'Now, sir, if you please, I am ready. Begin with the oldest, and let me have
                  names and ages in regular order, down to the infants; and, remember, those born
                  hereafter are born free; for so WE have determined it.'
               "'WE? whom do you mean by WE?'
               "'The Conference, sir, consisting of the travelling preachers and bishops.'
               "'My dear brother, you know I have always been a consistent Methodist?'
               "'Yes, Brother A., I can certify to that.'
               "'And you had no fault to find with me until you passed this law, which could
                  justify my exclusion from the Church?'
               "'Certainly not; nor have we now, if you will comply with our demands, and
                  promptly free your slaves.'
               "'But my slaves and I have grown up together. I received them from my parents, and
                  feel bound to care for them; and I conscientiously believe I can do more for their
                  temporal and spiritual good, as slaves, bound to obey me, than I could if they
                  were turned loose to prey upon society, as, like a set of lazy vagabonds, they
                  would be sure to do. For a slave's idea
                  of freedom, you know, is mere release from any obligation to labor.'
               "'I cannot help what your conscientious convictions may be; OUR law
                  must be obeyed, or you must leave the Church—quietly, if you will,
                  forcibly if we must.'
               "'But, my dear brother, my slaves will most of them prefer to stay in their
                  present condition. They are not only better off than "free negroes,"
                  but they have the sense to know it. You may go out and ask them, one by one; and
                  if you can find any that are willing to leave their old master, you may take them
                  with you, and let the Conference provide for their wants, temporal and spiritual,
                  as faithfully as I have.'
               "'It does not matter, sir, whether they desire freedom or not; or whether they
                  would be worse or better off by being free. You must set them free, or leave
                     our Church; for so WE have decreed.'
               "'Well, my dear brother, this takes me somewhat suddenly, and I would like to
                  think about it.'
               "'Certainly, we give slaveholders in other States only a year, but to
                     Virginians we allow two years, during which you may
                  consider, and withdraw if you don't choose to comply with our law, or
                  be excommunicated.'
               "'O, I don't want two years, I only want just time enough to search the
                     Scriptures. I understand that the Methodist Church is the Church
                     of Christ. Is that not so?'
               "'Certainly, we are the Church of Christ and of God.'
               "'But I have somehow gotten hold of the idea that Christ himself was the author of
                  the laws of HIS Church. I am an old man, and may be old-fashioned in my opinions,
                  but I don't exactly feel that I am bound by your law, though I am
                  entirely willing to submit to the authority of Christ. Did you find
                     in the Bible that slaveholders could not be members of
                     Christ's Church? You are in a great hurry, I know, but please take
                  a few minutes to show me the texts. I was a master, and had been for
                  years, when it pleased God to convert my soul and make me a Christian. I very
                  naturally went to the Bible to learn my duty as a master: I don't see
                  where else I could have gone. I read there that I must treat my servants kindly
                  and justly, and this, you know, I have always tried to do. But I did
                  not see any thing which seemed to contemplate the dissolution of the relation of
                  master and servant, or, as it is in the original, master and slave. On the
                  contrary, I found that the Christians who were slaves were to be
                     obedient to their masters, and to do them good and faithful
                  service; and especially they that have believing masters.'
               "'But, brother, you know the Conference has made the law, and the
                  Churches must obey.'
               "'But what if I choose to obey God rather than the Conference? What if I deny the
                  right of Conference to compel me to free my servants? What if I ask them to read
                  the language of Paul to Timothy, sixth chapter, first and second verses: "Let as
                  many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor,
                  that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed; and they that have
                     believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are
                  brethren; but rather do them service, because they are faithful [literally,
                     "believing"] and beloved, partakers of the benefit."
                     Paul said if any man taught otherwise than this, (verse 3,) "he is
                  proud, [or, literally, a fool,] knowing nothing, but doting about
                  questions and strifes of words," etc. What if I say that not only Paul but Peter
                  recognizes the relation of masters and servants among Christian people and Church
                  members, just as plainly as he does that of husbands and wives? What if I ask them
                  to show me where Jesus ever sent his ministers out with a book under
                  their arm to take an inventory of his people's slaves, so that the Church might
                  know if they were freed; or where Peter, or Paul, or John, or James, or any other
                  apostle, made the manumission of slaves
                  a prerequisite to communion with the Church of CHRIST.'
               "'O, as to that, we grant that it is a new term of communion, not
                  made by Christ or the apostles. We expressly state in
                  the law itself that it is new, and express our regret at the
                  necessity for its enactment.'
               "'Then what if I respectfully decline to acquiesce in your new terms of
                     membership, and prefer to be governed by the old law of Christ?'
               "'Then, sir, after two years you can no longer commune with the Methodists; and if
                  you lived in any other State but Virginia, we would turn you out in
                     one year. You may be thankful, sir, that you live in
                  Virginia.'"
               "I wonder," said the Planter, musingly, "how it happened that Paul forgot, when
                  writing to Philemon about his slave Onesimus, to tell him that if he did not file
                  a deed of manumission in the county clerk's office within one year, or in two
                  years at most, he would be excommunicated from the Church, unless he saw fit in
                  the meantime quietly to withdraw, and go back among the wicked people of the
                  world."
               "Perhaps the Assistant found too many who preferred excommunication to obedience;
                  for though the law was put forth with so much force of words, the next Conference
                  resolved to suspend its execution for the present, and
                  the matter stood thus for over ten years, when the Conference declared that they
                     were more than ever convinced of the great evil of the African
                  slavery which yet exists in the United States, and decreed as follows. Here is the
                  law already referred to requiring the slaveholder to be talked to:
               
               "'No slaveholder shall be received into society till the preacher who has the
                  oversight of the Church has spoken to him freely and faithfully on the subject of
                  slavery.'
               "It seems that after being told of the sin, he might bring it with
                  him into the Church, and keep it there if he saw fit. But slaveholders could not
                  occupy official stations in the Church without giving security for
                  the emancipation of their slaves so soon as the laws of the State would permit;
                  and if any member sold a slave, he was to be excluded.
                  If any one bought a slave, he was to execute a writing to set him free at the
                  expiration of a time fixed by the Quarterly Conference, or be
                     excluded.
               "In 1804, the Conference passed an act declaring that 'the
                  members of our societies in the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
                  and Tennessee shall be exempted from these rules.' So that what in
                     other States was so great a sin as to exclude
                     men from the Church of Christ, was in these four favored
                  States no sin at all, or at least none that required the attention of
                  the Church of Christ.
               "This law was changed again in 1808, so as to permit and authorize each of the
                     Annual Conferences to make their own regulations relative to
                  buying and selling slaves.
               "And in 1820 this was repealed, and other enactments made, which have since been
                  remodelled again, until the chapter on slavery as it now stands in the Discipline
                  was ordained. When the Conference North or South will see fit to enact some
                     other new terms of membership in relation to this subject, no one
                  can tell."
               "Let us thank God," exclaimed Mr. Percy, "that the terms of communion in the true
                  Church were made by the Lord Jesus Christ himself, and must be always what they
                  have ever been. The Church that changes them is not a Church of Christ. But what
                  has all this long story about slavery to do with our investigation?"
               "I introduced it," said Mr. Courtney, "merely as one of many
                  instances in which the Conference has claimed and exercised the right to
                     make laws and change laws for the Church, affecting even the right
                  to membership, and in which the Church
                  had recognized its right, and thus I show that she has OTHER
                     lawgivers besides Christ.
               "I might have showed you this from her changes of her laws concerning baptism. In
                  her first Discipline the Conference said, 'Let every adult person and
                  the parents of every child to be baptized have their choice either of immersion or
                  sprinkling,' [nothing said of pouring,] and let the elder or deacon conduct
                  himself accordingly.
               "Some years after this, in 1786, it was decreed that pouring also
                  might be used; and the same authority that left out pouring at first,
                  may, if pouring be a mode of baptism, with equal propriety leave out
                     immersion at the next meeting.
               "In their first Discipline a law was made authorizing and
                     requiring the rebaptism of certain persons, but
                     now you have no such law.
               "'Question 46. What shall be done with those who were baptized in infancy, but now
                  have scruples concerning the validity of infant baptism?
               "'Answer. Remove their scruples by argument if you can; if not, the office may be
                  performed by immersion or sprinkling, as the person desires.'
               "In 1786 this was repealed; so that if a Methodist preacher should
                     now venture to be an Anabaptist, [rebaptizer,] he does it on his
                  own responsibility, and without authority of either the word of God or the
                     Discipline.
               "But why need we delay upon the application of our test? The Roman Catholic Church
                  itself is not more abjectly subject to the popes and councils than is the
                  Methodist Episcopal Church to the bishops and Conferences. In fact, in almost
                  every essential feature of their organization there is a remarkable
                  resemblance between the two."
               "I have," said Mr Percy, "been struck with that fact as we have gone along, and
                  have amused myself by drawing a parallel between them, thus:
               
                  
                     
                        THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
                        THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1. Its government is episcopal, or the rule of
                              bishops.
                        1. Its government is episcopal. It is ruled by bishops.
                     
                     
                        2. Its laws are made for it by the popes and councils.
                        2. Its laws are made for it by the bishops and Conferences.
                     
                     
                        3. Its laws are executed by the agency of the priests.
                        3. Its laws are executed by the preachers.
                     
                     
                        4. The people have no share in the making or the execution of their
                           laws.
                        4. The people have nothing to do with the making or the execution of
                           their laws.
                     
                     
                        5. The pope is elected by the cardinals.
                        5. The bishop is elected by the preachers.
                     
                     
                        6. The pope sends the priests to any congregation he sees fit.
                        6. The bishop sends the preachers to any appointment that pleases
                           him.
                     
                     
                        7. The people must have the priest that is set over them, or
                           none.
                        7. The society must receive the preacher sent by the bishop, or have
                           none.
                     
                     
                        8. The people have no voice in determining who shall be received as
                           members. It is decided by the priest.
                        8. The people have no voice in deciding who shall be received as
                           members. It is done for them by the class-leader and the preacher. For
                           although since 1840 there is an examination in the presence of the
                           society of the candidate for full membership, he must have
                           been recommended by the leader, and it is the
                           preacher who decides whether the examination is
                           satisfactory, and receives him."
                     
                  
               
               "Well, I declare," exclaimed the Methodist lady, "we ought to be obliged to you
                  for your good opinion of us. I have always understood that we did not stand
                     very high in the estimation of Baptists, but had no idea before
                  that you counted our bishops no better
                  than the pope, and our people no better than Roman Catholics."
               "Excuse me, madam, but I neither said nor meant any such thing. I say nothing at
                  all of the personal goodness of badness of your bishops or your
                  people. They may be, and I have no doubt many of them are, devotedly pious,
                  self-denying men. It is not the personal character of your ministers
                  or members that I am speaking of, but of the constitutional character
                  of that organization called the 'Methodist Episcopal
                  CHURCH.' And of that I do say, and I wish that every
                  Methodist in all the land could hear me say, and would by hearing be led to
                  examine into the subject, and see for himself if I do not tell the simple truth
                  when I say that in these eight particulars, at least, it is remarkably similar to
                  that of the Roman Antichrist, the MAN of SIN, and SON of PERDITION
               "I might extend the parallel much farther, but I have confined it to the point we
                  are now investigating, that is, whether the Methodist societies, as such,
                     have any other lawgiver but Christ, and are obliged to submit to any
                     other government than his."
               "I think, sir," said the Reverend Mr. Stiptain, "that you rather exceeded your
                  authorities when you added your last item to the parallel which you
                  arranged with so much lawyerlike ingenuity. The testimony, sir, will not sustain
                     that allegation, whatever may be the case with the other seven.
                  Look at the Discipline, sir: you cannot surely be so blind as not to discover that
                  it gives to the society itself the right to judge as to who shall be full Church
                  members; for otherwise, why should the Discipline provide that the
                  candidates should be examined 'before the society?' If the preacher
                  is sole judge of the matter, why bring it to the notice of the society at
                  all?"
               "I do not know, sir, unless it were for the mere purpose of deluding the members
                  with the idea that they have some sort of power, while, in fact, they have none.
                  If you think I misunderstand the purport of the Discipline, perhaps you will admit
                  the explanation of your own bishops. In their notes on the Discipline, (chap. i.,
                  see. 10,) as quoted by your own brother, Emory, in this 'History of the
                  Discipline,' pp. 304-307, we read, '5. He [the minister] is also to receive
                  members on trial, and into society, according to the form of Discipline. If
                     this authority were invested in the society, or any part of it, the
                  great work of revival would soon be at an end.'
               . . . 'Glory be to God, all our societies throughout the world, now
                  amounting to upwards of one hundred and sixty thousand, have been raised under
                  grace by our ministers and preachers. They and they only
                  are their spiritual fathers under God, and none can feel for them as
                     they do. It is true that on great revivals the spiritually halt,
                  and blind, and lame, will press in crowds into the Church of God; and
                  they are welcome to all that we can do for their invaluable souls, till they prove
                  unfaithful to convincing or converting grace. And we will not throw back their
                  souls on the wicked world, while groaning under the burden of sin, because many on
                  the trial quench their convictions, or, perhaps, were hypocritical from the
                  beginning. We would sooner go again into the highways and hedges and form new
                  societies, as at first, than we would give up a privilege so essential to
                     the ministerial office, and to the revival of the work of God.' . . . .
                  'The Master of the house [God] said to his servant, Go out quickly into the
                  streets and lanes of the city, and "bring in hither the poor, and the
                  maimed, and the halt, and the blind; and the servant said, Lord, it is done as
                  thou hast commanded, and yet there is room." He obeys his God without asking
                     permission of ANY SOCIETY whether he should obey him or not. And the
                  Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel
                     them to come in, that my
                  
                  house may be filled. Luke xiv. 21-23. The servant answers not his
                  Lord, I will comply with thy command so far as MY SOCIETY or my leaders and
                  stewards will permit me.' . . . . Again: 'Now what pastors called and owned of God
                  would take upon themselves this awful responsibility [that of the pastoral office]
                  if OTHERS could refuse to their spiritual children the grand, external privilege
                  of the gospel, or admit among them the most improper persons to mix with and
                  corrupt them? Truly, whatever the pastors of other Churches may do, we trust that
                  ours will never put themselves under so dreadful a bondage. It is in vain to say
                  that others may be as tender and cautious as the pastors; for the
                     pastors are the persons responsible to God, and, therefore, should
                  by no means be fettered in their pastoral care.' And again: 'If ministers are to
                  be the judges of the proper subjects of baptism, which is the grand
                  initiatory ordinance into the visible Church, how much more should they have a
                  right to determine whom they will take under their own care, or whom God has given
                  them out of the world, by the preaching of his word. For ministers to spend their
                  strength, their tears, their prayers, their lives, for the salvation of souls, and
                  [then] to have both themselves and THEIRS under the control of those who never
                  travailed in birth for them, and, therefore, can never feel for them as their
                  spiritual parents do, is a burden we cannot bear. Thus it is evident that both
                  reason and Scripture do, in the clearest manner, make the privilege or power now
                  under consideration [that of receiving members into the Church]
                     essential to the gospel ministry.'
               "I trust you will not accuse your own BISHOPS of misapprehending the design and
                  the practical working of the system."
               "I think," said Dr. Thinkwell, "that we may venture to pass on to our next
                     test or mark. We are spending more time than we need
                  to occupy with this. The main fact, that is, that the Conference has
                  power to make laws which the members must obey, or cease to be members of the
                  Church, will not be disputed; and that is all that is essential to our present
                  purpose."
               "What is our next test, Mrs. Percy?"
               "It declares that in a true Church all its members must have become such, not by
                  birth, not by the act of their parents, not by a law of the State, but by
                     their own voluntary act."
               "If, as we have seen, infants are made members of this Church by baptism, it is
                  certain that she has not this mark; but, as she virtually repudiates her own act,
                  and denies in practice her own teachings, I hardly know," said Mr. Percy, "whether
                  to mark her black or white on this test."
               "We have determined already," said Mr. Courtney, "from their own authorities, that
                  they themselves consider the baptized infants as Church-members; and it is on this
                  ground, and for the very purpose of making them Church-members, that they baptize
                  them. Now, if they make them Church-members, and then practically disown them, by
                  refusing to permit them to enjoy the privilege of membership, this shows their
                  inconsistency; but it cannot disannul the act which makes the children of the
                  Church members, or make them not Church-members. We,
                  therefore, must count them members, although they who received them, and made them
                  such, see fit to ignore their own act, and treat them in all respects as though
                  they were not and never had been.
               "It is only one of the many inconsistencies into which Pedobaptism drives those
                  who practice it. The Methodist Church is guilty of the double inconsistency of
                  receiving to her communion, and treating in all things as though they
                     were Church-members, those whom they say are not, namely,
                  the seekers, and of shutting out from their communion, and treating in all
                  respects as though they were not, those who they say are Church-members, made such by
                  baptism in their in fancy. We cannot stop to reconcile them to themselves; and
                  they would not probably thank us for our trouble, if we should try to do so. Let
                  us hasten on with our investigation.
               "What is the next mark, Mrs. Percy?"
               "It requires that a true Church shall hold as articles of faith the
                     fundamental doctrines of the gospel."
               "Here," said Dr. Thinkwell, "we shall need your assistance, neighbor Stiptain,
                  unless my friends are more familiar with the doctrines of your Church than I am. I
                  know that it is generally counted among the so-called evangelical or orthodox
                  Churches, and that many of its ministers and members give evidence of devoted
                  piety; but what your standards may teach as Christian doctrine, I am not so well
                  informed; and you know, in such a discussion as this, we can only recognize those
                  as the doctrines of any Church which that Church herself acknowledges and
                  publishes by her own acts. Perhaps you will do us the kindness to tell us where we
                  can find a statement of your acknowledged doctrines."
               "With the greatest pleasure, sir. You will find our articles of faith in the
                  Discipline; and what are not mentioned there, in Wesley's Sermons and Watson's
                  Institutes, and other works published by consent or order of Conference. Our
                  Brother Gorrie has well said, in his History of Methodism, (p. 135:) 'The
                  doctrines of the Methodist Episcopal Church are principally embraced in the
                  twenty-five Articles of Religion, found in the Book of Discipline. These articles
                  are nearly the same with those of the Church of England and the Protestant
                  Episcopal Church in the United States.'
               "'When the Reverend John Wesley set apart Dr. Coke to the office of Superintendent
                  of the societies in America, and instructed him to organize said societies into an
                  independent Church, he prepared a Prayer-book, or Sunday service, for the use of
                  the infant Church, in which Prayer-book the Articles of Religion were contained as
                  now found, excepting the one relating to rulers, which was framed at the
                  organization of the Church in 1784, and shortly after was printed in the form of
                  Discipline; since which time no change of any importance has been made in the
                  articles referred to.' 'We have stated in substance,' our brother goes on to say,
                  'that these Articles embrace the most of the doctrines of the
                  Methodist Episcopal Church. We do not say that all the doctrines of the Methodists
                  are clearly set forth in the same. . . Still, what is not clearly stated and
                  taught in the same is stated and taught in the other standard writings of
                     the Church, such as Wesley's Sermons, and Watson's Institutes.'"
               "It occurs to me," said Mr. Percy, "that in regard to the other claimants whom we
                  have already tried by our rules, we asked but one question under the present head,
                  and that was, Whether they held that salvation is by faith alone, or whether they
                  held to a sort of sacramental salvation through or by the observance
                  of the ordinances of the Church? It is very true that this is not all that is
                  essential to Christianity; but as this doctrine is contained in the very
                  annunciation of the gospel, we have taken it for granted that if this were
                  wanting, all else would be but vain pretension. Now, in the Roman Catholic Church
                  there is an open avowal of the necessity of works and sacraments for salvation.
                  And while the Church of England, in the form of words used in her Articles of
                  Faith, teaches that we are justified by faith only, and not for our own works or
                  deservings, her liturgy and many of her ministers evidently teach, and her people
                  believe, that we can come into that relation to Christ which is expressed by
                  faith, and which secures salvation, only by means of the sacraments of the
                     Church; and as this exalts the reception of the sacraments to the
                  condition of an essential means of salvation, so that no one can have
                  any assurance of eternal life who has not been baptized, and thus properly
                  qualified for heaven by
                  
                  the priest and his ceremonies, we were disposed to doubt whether the
                  High-Church party of the English Church really could be said to hold this
                  fundamental gospel truth; and, consequently, we marked her but half white. Now,
                  the question may arise, whether a large portion of the Methodist Church do not
                  hold the same error, in much the same form. Do they not hold, for instance, that
                  baptism, instead of being the sign that the person baptized professes
                     already to have been born again, is the means or
                     instrumentality by which he is born again? Do they
                  not hold and teach the doctrine of baptismal. regeneration, and consequent
                  baptismal salvation?"
               "I never heard that they did," said the Doctor, "and do not see why you should
                  have any suspicion that such is the case."
               "Simply," replied Mr. Percy, "because I find this doctrine plainly taught in
                  express words in those books which they are constantly publishing, and their
                  preachers are daily scattering all over the country, as their standards of
                  doctrine."
               "I wish you would tell us what books," said the Reverend Mr. Stiptain, "for I am
                  sure no Methodist author could publish such sentiments without being
                  at once repudiated by the Conference. Baptismal regeneration is certainly no part
                  of our creed."
               "So Mr. A. Campbell says it is no part of his, and yet
                  he uses such words in telling what he does believe that candid
                  inquirers cannot understand him to mean any thing else. And just so, you will
                  permit me to say, the acknowledged standards of your Church use language of the
                  same sort; insomuch, that if it does not mean to teach the doctrine that
                     baptism is for the ACTUAL washing away of sins, (and
                  not merely the symbol which signifies that they have been washed
                  away,) I do not know what it does mean.
               "If I should tell my people that by baptism they were
                     admitted into the Church, they would understand that I meant what
                  I said; that I intended to affirm, and did affirm, that it was by baptism that
                  they were made Church members, and that in such a sense, that if they had
                     not been baptized they would not have been Church-members. And then if I
                  should go on and say, further, that in the ordinary way there was no other means
                  but baptism of entering into the Church, or into heaven, they would
                  still understand that I meant what I said, and that I intended to teach, and
                     did teach, that as they could not enter the Church
                  without baptism, no more could they enter heaven without it. If
                     I should say that we, who were by nature the children of wrath,
                  were made the children of God by baptism, you and all who heard me
                  would think I meant just what I said.
               "If I, or any Baptist, should say that we are
                     regenerated and born again by the water of
                     baptism, people would think we meant what we said; and I am sure they
                  would have good reason to suppose that we believed in and taught baptismal
                  regeneration.
               "If I, or any Baptist, should say that infants in the ordinary way
                  could not be saved unless their original sin be washed away by baptism, you would
                  think we meant to teach the doctrine of baptismal salvation.
               "And now, if I should write a tract, or a sermon, and the Baptist Churches should
                  direct it to be printed and published, and should instruct their ministers and
                  their people to give it as large a circulation as possible, and should send forth
                  one edition of it after another, earnestly commending it to the
                  Church and to the world, would you not think that these Churches held and taught
                  the same doctrines which you would have understood me to teach?"
               "Of course we could not help thinking so."
               "How then, let me ask, can you help believing that the Methodist Church holds
                  these same doctrines? for what I have supposed myself to say, Mr. Wesley
                     actually did say. I merely
                  transposed the words. And what I have supposed our Churches to have done, the
                     Methodist Church has actually done, and is still doing every
                     day. The Conference has directed Mr. Wesley's tract on baptism to be
                  published; they encourage if they do not actually require all their preachers to
                  circulate it, and their members to read it. This tract contains such language as
                  this. I will read it to you, or you may read it for yourself. You will find it on
                  page 251 of the volume of Doctrinal Tracts, published by the Book Concern:—
               "'If infants are guilty of original sin, then they are proper subjects of baptism,
                     seeing IN THE ORDINARY WAY THEY CANNOT BE SAVED UNLESS THIS BE
                  WASHED AWAY BY BAPTISM. It has already been proved that this original stain
                  cleaves to every child of man, and that hereby they are children of wrath and
                  liable to eternal damnation. It is true the second Adam has found a remedy for the
                  disease which came upon all by the offence of the first. But the benefit of
                     this is to be received through the means which he hath appointed,
                  THROUGH BAPTISM IN PARTICULAR, which is the ordinary means he hath appointed for
                  that purpose, and to which God hath tied us, though he may not have tied himself.
                  Indeed, where it cannot be had, the case is different; but extraordinary cases do
                  not make void a standing rule. This, therefore, is our first ground: infants
                     need to be washed from original sin, and, therefore, they are proper subjects
                     of baptism.'
               "If Mr. Courtney, or I, or any Baptist, should thus teach that children or grown
                  people could only be cleansed from sin (whether original or actual) by
                     baptism, and could not ordinarily be saved without it, we
                  would certainly be accused of teaching salvation by water. But when
                     Mr. Wesley does it some people can see no harm in it.
               "So on page 248 you may read as follows:
               "'BY BAPTISM we who were by nature the children of
                  wrath ARE MADE the children of God. And this
                     regeneration which our Church in so many places ascribes to
                  baptism, is more than barely being admitted into the Church, though commonly
                  connected therewith; being grafted into the body of Christ's Church, we are made
                  the children of God by adoption and grace. This is grounded on the plain words of
                  our Lord, "Except a man be born of water, and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into
                  the kingdom of God." John iii. 5. By water, AS A MEANS, the
                     water of baptism, WE ARE REGENERATED OR BORN AGAIN.'
               "Let any Baptist talk thus, and he would surely be thought to teach
                  that men were regenerated and made the children of God and the heirs
                  of glory 'by water,' by 'THE WATER OF BAPTISM.' And I cannot help
                  thinking that this is what the words mean as Mr. Wesley wrote them, as the
                  Conference approved them, as the preachers circulate them, and as the people read
                  them. I presume that Mr. Wesley and the Conference understood the English
                  language, and knew what these words would signify to those who read them; and I
                  suppose, therefore, that they meant to teach what the words express;
                  and, therefore, that the Methodist Episcopal Church does hold, as an article
                     of faith, the doctrine of baptismal regeneration."
               "But, my dear sir," said the Rev. Mr. Stiptain, "you have overlooked the foot-note
                  at the bottom of page 249, which shows that the Conference did not
                  intend to endorse Mr. Wesley's views on this point."
               "No, sir, I did not overlook the foot-note; I can see nothing in it which denies
                  that they heartily coincide with Mr. Wesley in doctrine, though they
                  don't seem to like his frank and open expression of it. I will read
                  the note, that we may see what it amounts to:
               "'That Mr. Wesley, as a clergyman of the Church of England, was originally a
                     High-Churchman in the fullest sense, is well known. When he wrote this treatise, in the
                  year 1756, he seems still to have used some expressions in relation
                  to the doctrine of regeneration which we at this day would not prefer. Some such
                  in the judgment of the reader may perhaps be found under this second
                  head. This last sentence, however, contains a guarded corrective. It explains also
                  the sense in which we believe Mr. Wesley intended much of what goes before to be
                  understood.'
               "Now, does this sound to you like a bold and absolute disapproval of
                  the false and abominable doctrine? Does it say, This, though asserted by Mr.
                  Wesley, is not scriptural nor true? Does it say we are not
                  regenerated and born again by water baptism? No, sir; they very cautiously say he
                     seems to have used some expressions which they at
                     this day (when the doctrine has become odious to many) would not
                     have preferred. The reader may be like us, one who
                  abominates the wretched and soul-destroying delusion; and, therefore, they seem to
                  think HE may, perhaps, think there are some objectionable sentences.
                  Is this the way honest men and earnest men would have expressed their dissent from
                  the doctrine if they had not connived at it?
               "But the last sentence, they say, 'contains a guarded corrective,' and explains
                  the sense in which they think Mr. Wesley should be understood. What
                     that sentence, therefore, does not correct, they leave
                  uncorrected; and except so far as that sentence modifies his meaning,
                  they leave the reader to suppose that they agree with and approve of Mr. Wesley's
                  doctrine. Now what is that 'last sentence?' It is this: 'Baptism doth
                  now save us if we live answerable thereto—if we repent, believe, and obey the
                  gospel: supposing this, as it admits us into the Church here, so into glory
                  hereafter.' Let us see now what is the force of this explanatory 'last sentence.'
                  If you repent, believe, and obey the gospel, will your obedience, your faith, and
                  your repentance save you? No; but if you have these, your baptism
                  will save you. It is not the penitence, faith, or obedience, but the
                     baptism, that admits us into the Church here, and it is baptism
                  that is to admit us 'into glory hereafter.'
               "This sentence does not intimate that any one can ordinarily be saved without
                  baptism as a means, but only that baptism of itself is not
                     all that is needful to salvation. It does not contradict or
                  nullify the statement made before, that 'by baptism we are made the children of
                  God;' that by the water of baptism we are regenerated or born again; that 'herein'
                  (that is, in baptism) 'a principle of grace is infused which will not be wholly
                  taken away unless we quench the Spirit of God by long-continued wickedness;' but
                  it only intimates that this new birth, this principle of grace, this son-ship to
                  God, obtained by water baptism as the means, will not be of any use to
                     us unless we repent, and believe, and obey the gospel, while it leaves
                  us to infer that the repentance, faith, and obedience, would be of just as little
                  use without the baptism.
               "But to show, once for all, that the Conference did not intend to
                  expurgate the writings of Mr. Wesley, and free them from this heresy,
                  but that they continue heartily to commend them, including those
                  which teach this perversion of the gospel with the rest, look at the volume of his
                  sermons published for the Conference, and specially required to be studied by
                  every minister of the denomination. The doctrine is there as plainly as here, and
                  it is there sent forth entirely unguarded by any note of explanation or denial.
                  See p. 405, vol. i., Wesley's Works, Sermon XLV.:
               "'From the preceding reflections we may, secondly, observe, that as the new birth
                  is not the same thing with baptism, so it does not always accompany baptism. They
                  do not constantly go together A man may possibly be born of water, and yet not be
                  born of the Spirit. There may sometimes be the outward sign where there is not the inward grace. I do not
                  speak now with regard to infants. It is certain our Church supposes that all who
                  are baptized in infancy are, at the same time, born again; and it is allowed that
                  the whole office for the baptism of infants proceeds upon this supposition. Nor is
                  it an objection of any weight against this, that we cannot comprehend how this
                  work can be wrought in infants; for neither can we comprehend how it is wrought in
                  one of riper years.' Now what could be made plainer than this—that as regards
                  infants they are always born again, and, consequently, made heirs of
                  God when they are baptized? An adult may possibly be baptized without
                  being regenerated, but can he be regenerated without being baptized, or without
                  having been baptized? Is not baptism the means by which the adult
                  must be born again, if he be born again at all? Is there one way by which infants
                  are regenerated, and another by which adults are regenerated? But if Methodists
                  could accomplish what they desire, and this teaching of their standard sermons is
                  true, there would be no such thing as being born again in adult age, unless one
                  can be born again the second time; for they would, if possible, regenerate
                     all while they are yet infants.
               "But to make the matter still plainer, and, if possible, set it for ever at rest,
                  I will show you that what Wesley taught so plainly a hundred years ago, and the
                  Conference has been publishing and commending, and absolutely
                     requiring her ministers to study, in order that they might preach,
                  ever since the Methodist Church has had any existence, is taught, in substance, in
                  one of the most recent and most popular works of the denomination; which, though
                  not published by order of the Conference, must have received
                     their approbation, since it is expressly provided in the
                  Discipline, part 2d, sec. 8, that 'Any travelling preacher who may publish any
                  book of his own, shall be responsible to his Conference for any obnoxious matter
                  or doctrine therein contained;' and this work has not only called for
                     no censure from the Conference, but has been specially
                     commended by two presiding elders, and by the Conference papers. I refer
                  to the book which has been so often quoted in our conversation—The History of the
                  Methodist Church, by the Rev. P. Douglass Gorrie. I will show you that he, in
                  1851, teaches baptismal regeneration, though not as plainly, yet
                  quite as really and unmistakably as did Mr Wesley in 1756. Mr. Gorrie teaches just
                  as Mr. Wesley and Mr. A. Campbell teaches, that baptism, instead of
                     following faith in Christ, to signify, symbolize, and seal the new
                  birth already experienced and now openly professed, IS THE INSTRUMENT OR MEANS by
                  which sins are actually remitted, and pardon actually obtained. He says, (p. 173,)
                  speaking of those baptized upon the day of Pentecost, 'Now it is evident that
                  these persons were not believers in the sense of being regenerate,
                  unless regenerating faith precedes repentance for sin; for they were first to
                  repent, and then to be baptized for, in order to, the remission of
                  sins. And, thirdly, as the result of such repentance and baptism, they were taught
                  to expect the gift of the Holy Ghost.' Now this rendering of the little
                  preposition 'eis,' for, 'in order
                     to,' is very significant. When Christ told the leper whom he had
                  cleansed, to go and show himself to the priest, and offer the gifts that Moses
                  commanded, ('eis,') for his
                  cleansing, no one understands him to mean that the gifts were to be offered
                     in order to procure his cleansing, but as an expression of the
                  fact that he was already cleansed, and for the formal public and
                     official recognition and proclamation of that fact. So, when Peter
                  says, 'Repent and be baptized for the remission of your sins,' it is
                     not in order to obtain the remission of their sins, but to give
                  public expression to the fact that their sins had already been remitted on their
                  true repentance, which is always accompanied by true faith; since the Lord has
                  expressly said, that without faith no one can be saved, and yet has promised
                  salvation to the true penitent. The
                  baptism was like the offerings of the leper—for the formal public and
                     official recognition and proclamation of the fact that their sins had
                  already been remitted, and for their consequent public reception into the number
                  of the children of God. This is the explanation which is given and received by
                  those who deny the doctrine of baptismal regeneration. But those who, like Mr. A.
                  Campbell and Mr. Wesley, teach that baptism is the means of
                  regeneration, or that it is itself regeneration, or that in some way or other
                  there is some such connection or relation between them, that regeneration and
                  remission of sins are experienced in or by baptism—these persons are all
                  accustomed to render this word as Gorrie has done, 'in order to,' so
                  that it may signify that it is by baptism as a means, or medium, that
                  remission of sins is secured. And that this is what he means in the passage we are
                  considering, is evident from the object for which he introduces it, which is, to
                  prove that the unconverted penitent, that is, the convicted sinner,
                  may be baptized while unregenerate; for Peter, as he thinks, told these
                  unregenerate sinners to be baptized 'for,' that is, 'in
                  order to' obtain the remission of their sins. But in speaking of the case of Paul
                  in the same connection, he expressly declares that it does prove that
                     baptism is the means or instrumentality by which pardon is
                  obtained. By a penitent Mr. Gorrie has explained (p. 172) that he
                  means persons who are convicted of sin, but yet unregenerate; and now he says,
                  'Another example of the baptism of penitents is given in the case of the Apostle
                  Paul. After being arrested by the light and voice from heaven, he fasted and
                  prayed in blindness, natural and spiritual, for three days. In this condition
                  Ananias finds him. His natural sight returns, but spiritual darkness remains; and
                  then Ananias says to him, Why tarriest thou? Arise and be baptized, and wash away
                  thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord. From this example it appears that
                  baptism is both a means and seal of pardon and consequently that true
                  penitents may and ought to be baptized.
               "Now no one denies that true penitents, in the sense of
                     regenerate penitents, ought to be baptized; but in that case how
                  can baptism be the means of their pardon, since they have been
                  already pardoned the moment they repented? But he would have us understand that
                  Paul, though penitent, had not been pardoned, and could only be by baptism as
                     the means."
               "You have all, it seems to me," said Mr. Courtney, "given yourselves a great deal
                  of needless trouble. If your object had been merely to determine whether the
                  Methodist Episcopal Church believes and teaches the doctrine of baptismal
                  regeneration, either as regards infants or adults, you need not have gone outside
                  the Discipline itself. Mr. Wesley, in the passage you have cited, does not more
                  clearly avow it in regard to infants, than the Discipline teaches it in regard to
                  adults."
               "It is very strange, sir," said the Reverend Mr. Stiptain, "that you can see
                  things in the Discipline which Methodists themselves have always been ignorant
                  of."
               "Methodists, my dear sir, may have read the words or heard the words so
                  carelessly, that they have never attended to their natural and necessary meaning;
                  but you yourself have taught, and your people have heard you teach the doctrine of
                  baptismal regeneration every time you have gone through your office
                  for the ministration of baptism, either for an infant or adult. But not to waste
                  our time in talking about the infants, since Mr. Wesley settles that beyond all
                  cavil, let me call your attention to the formula for the baptism of such as are of
                  riper years, chap. v., sec. 2. Remember, the question about which we are at issue
                  is this: Whether baptism is to follow regeneration as an open and
                  formal profession of it on the part of the candidate, and an official recognition
                  of it on the part of the Church, or whether it is to be employed as the
                     means or instrumentality strumentality by which, or upon which, or in connection with which,
                  regeneration is either effected or secured. Now, as Wesley says that the whole
                  office for infant baptism proceeds on the supposition that infants are regenerated
                  when they are baptized, so I say that the whole office for the baptism of those of
                  riper years proceeds on the supposition that those coming to baptism are yet
                     unregenerate, and that it is expected and understood that by
                  baptism, or in baptism, they may and will become regenerate.
               "1st. 'The minister shall use the following, etc.: Dearly beloved brethren,
                  forasmuch as all men are conceived and born in sin, (and that which is born of the
                  flesh is flesh, and they that are in the flesh cannot please God, but live in sin,
                  committing many actual transgressions,) and that our Saviour saith, None can enter
                  into the kingdom of God, except he be regenerate and born anew of water and of the
                  Holy Ghost, I beseech you—' What? To thank God that he has in his great mercy
                  already renewed and regenerated these persons, and so fitted them to be received
                  as members of his kingdom? Not at all. 'I beseech you call upon God the Father,
                  through our Lord Jesus Christ, that he will grant to these persons
                  that which by nature they cannot have: that they may be baptized with water and
                  the Holy Ghost, and received into Christ's holy Church, and be made lively members
                  of the same.'
               "2. Having thus entreated the brethren to help him pray, he goes on, and in their
                  name offers the following prayer: 'Almighty and immortal God, the aid of all that
                  need, the helper of all that flee to thee for succor, the life of them that
                  believe, and the resurrection of the dead—' We return thee hearty thanks
                     that thou hast regenerated these persons and freely remitted all their sins, in
                     token whereof they have come to be baptized according to thy
                     appointment? No such thing. But, 'We call upon thee for these persons
                  that they [in] coming to thy holy baptism MAY RECEIVE REMISSION OF THEIR SINS BY
                  SPIRITUAL REGENERATION.'
               "Do they not come unregenerate that they may in baptism receive
                  regeneration and remission of sins? And then again, after giving God thanks that
                  they themselves, the Church, have been called to the knowledge of his
                  grace and to faith in him, and praying that this may be increased and confirmed,
                  the prayer turns again to the candidates as follows: 'Give thy Holy Spirit
                     to these persons, THAT THEY MAY BE BORN AGAIN, and be made heirs
                     of everlasting salvation, through our Lord Jesus Christ,' etc.
               "Now, on the supposition that 'these persons' are still in sin, still
                     unconverted, still unregenerate, and that baptism is
                  the ordinary means appointed by God for their conversion and
                  salvation, the whole thing is very appropriate. In that case it is very proper and
                  fitting that the minister should pray that they may now be born again, and, coming
                  to baptism, may receive spiritual regeneration and the remission of their sins.
                  But on the supposition that they were already regenerate, had already been born
                  again, and had already received the actual remission of their sins, this is all
                  simple foolery. Nay, it is worse: it is a solemn mockery. It is not merely absurd,
                  it is absolutely wicked. It is asking God to do in baptism what the candidates
                  expressly profess by their coming to his holy baptism has been done
                  for them already, and which they come thus to acknowledge before the
                  world, and have it officially recognized by the Church."
               "But," said Theodosia, "you do not suppose the Methodists as a general thing
                  believe in this sacramental salvation?"
               "It is likely," replied Mr. Courtney, "that they as a general
                  thing never have cared or thought any thing about it. They
                  leave their preachers to do their thinking for them and the preachers as a general thing are content to
                  repeat the thoughts of Mr. Wesley, without giving themselves the trouble of
                  deciding whether they were right or wrong. But they ought to think;
                  and if they do not believe and are unwilling to teach what their standards
                  express, it is a duty which they owe to God, to their people, and themselves, to
                  expurgate their Discipline and their standards of this pernicious error; and until
                  they have done it, we must take it for granted that they do believe
                  and heartily endorse what they permit to remain as the public and acknowledged
                  teachings of their official documents.
               "But let us go on; we are making but little progress. What is the next mark in our
                  little tablet?"
               "The true Church is that which began with Christ, and has continued to the
                     present time."
               "Is this true of the Methodist Church?"
               "As I am here by request of my friend and neighbor merely to give such information
                  as I may have and you may need," said the Rev. Mr. Stiptain, "I do not feel and
                  have not felt that I am called upon to make any defence of the Methodist.
                  Episcopal Church; but if I should feel disposed to engage in any discussion of the
                  main question which seems to engage your attention, I am sure I would object to
                  your tests, and especially to this. Why, sirs, there is no Church in existence
                  now, except the great Church universal, which began with Christ and has continued
                  to the present time. The Church of Rome did not begin, according to Protestant
                  computation, until the year 606. The Church of England began in the reign of Henry
                  the Eighth; the Presbyterian Church dates from John Calvin, at Geneva; and we are
                  proud to say that the Methodist Episcopal Church began with John Wesley in 1739,
                  if we count his societies as the beginning of it, and the Church proper was first
                  organized at Baltimore in 1784. Though the others may be older than she is, they
                  are none of them so old as your test requires, in order that they may
                  be considered as true Churches of Christ."
               "Our test," replied Mr. Courtney, "is based upon the prophecies, which foretold
                  that Christ's Church should be perpetual until he came again. We know nothing of
                  any visible universal Church, and, therefore, we suppose there must
                  be yet upon the earth, and always have been, some examples of that local visible
                  Church which Christ established by himself or his apostles. We do not mean to say
                  that any particular local society of Christian people must have existed from the
                  days of Christ in order that it may be counted as a Church. We know that the
                  Church at Jerusalem has been supplanted, the Church at Antioch has long ago been
                  destroyed, the Church at Rome has apostatized, and Satan's seat is now where once
                  Christ reigned. But just such Churches, in all essential
                  characteristics, as these were in the days of their purity, we believe have,
                  according to the prophecies both of the Old Testament and the New, been in
                  existence all the time since Christ, and still exist. To them he has
                  all the time intrusted the execution of the laws and the administration of the
                  ordinances of his visible kingdom. Now, as the jury may very properly be said to
                  have begun at a certain time in England, and to have continued ever since,
                  although no individual jury has, perhaps, ever continued for a year, and most of
                  them only for a day; so the Church, as an institution of Christ,
                  might be said to have continued to the present time, although no particular
                  example of it had continued for a year. What we mean, therefore, is, that the true
                  Church for which we are looking must be an example of that institution which
                  Christ set up, and which he and the apostles called the Church, and
                     not something entirely different from it, originating with some
                  one else long since that time, and called by the same name. Now, if your
                     Methodist thodist Churches were each
                  one independent of the Conference, and independent of all other Churches; if they
                  consisted of believers only, and these believers had all been baptized; if they
                  had the same membership, the same terms of communion, the same ordinances, the
                  same organization, and held the same doctrines with the Church at Jerusalem, and
                  the Church at Antioch, and the Church at Ephesus, and the multitude of Churches
                  that in the apostles' days were scattered throughout all Judea, and Samaria, and
                  Asia, we would concede to you that you began with Christ; for in that case you
                  would have nothing that you got from Wesley, and nothing that Wesley got for you
                  from the Church of England, but only what you got for yourselves from the Bible;
                  and you would not be what Wesley made you, or what your sixty preachers made you
                  at Baltimore in 1784, but what Christ made you when he gave in his word the
                  constitution of his Church. But now you are what Wesley made you, and
                  what the Baltimore Conference of preachers made you. You have received the
                  constitution and the laws which characterize you as the Methodist Episcopal
                  Church, and distinguish you from other so-called Churches, not from Christ, but
                  from Wesley and the Conference. The simple fact that you recognized the authority
                  of Wesley and the Conference to make laws for you, is itself conclusive evidence
                  that you do not as a Church belong to Christ, but to Wesley and the
                  Conference."
               "You are entirely mistaken, sir," said Mrs. Stiptain, "if you think the Methodists
                  are bound to follow Mr. Wesley any further than he followed Christ. It is true, we
                  have a great regard for his memory, and a great respect for his teachings; but it
                  is because we consider him such an able expounder of the Scriptures that we
                  receive his doctrines. It is not, however, on his authority, but on the authority
                  of his Master and ours, that we are ready to obey his requirements and those of
                  the Conference. If they could not give us good scriptural proof of all that they
                  taught, I am sure we should be under no obligations to obey."
               "Then, madam, it has never occurred to you that the very things about which the
                  Discipline made for you by Mr. Wesley and the Conference is most rigid in its
                  demands are those concerning which there is least Scripture to sustain them?"
               "No, sir, it never did, nor does it now."
               "Permit me, then, to call to your mind that there are several scriptures which
                  teach, both by precept and example, the duty of attending on the regular meetings
                  of the Church, to worship God upon the Sabbath. And there are several which at
                  least strongly intimate the duty of Christian people to assemble for social and
                  united prayer in the prayer-meeting; and not a single text which commands or
                  intimates the existence or the necessity for the class-meeting. And
                  yet your Discipline permits people to stay away from the meeting for public
                  worship, and from the prayer-meeting, with perfect impunity. You have no rule
                  which requires them even to make an excuse for their absence; but if they venture
                  to stay away from the CLASS-MEETING, you are bound to exclude
                     them from the Church.
               "Permit me to remind you further, that since your Conference has, in some years,
                  required conditions of membership and terms of admission into the Church which
                  they have abrogated or changed in other years, they could not possibly have
                  Scripture authority for their varying and contradictory requirements, unless the
                  Scriptures are changeable and contradictory. If, for example, it was such a sin to
                  hold slaves in 1784, that no one by Scripture authority could be permitted to come
                  into the Church of Christ until he had made a deed of manumission, and had it
                  recorded in the county clerk's office, and no one who was in the Church could
                  remain there more than a year, or two years at farthest if such was the Scripture
                  requirement in 1784, it must have been
                  the same in 1785, when the preachers were advised to suspend the execution of the
                  law; which, on the supposition that the law was founded on God's word, would be to
                  refuse obedience to God's word. And the same rule will apply to every instance in
                  which they have made terms of admission or conditions of membership, and then have
                  set them aside or changed them. The word of God is not thus double-tongued; what
                  it once says it stands to for ever; and the same terms and conditions
                  upon which people were received and permitted to remain as Church-members in the
                  days of the apostles, must be the terms and conditions of membership now and ever,
                  till Christ comes again. If the Conference have changed, them six times, then it
                  is certain that five times at least they must have departed from the
                  Scriptures; and yet, as a Methodist, you must have followed them every time. But
                  this is wandering from our subject We were going to look at the origin of the
                  Methodist Church, though I do not know but we have seen enough already to govern
                  the application of our test."
               "I find in my mind," said Theodosia, "some little confusion of ideas about this
                  matter. You constantly speak of the Methodist Church as originating with Mr.
                  Wesley; and when I associate it with Mr. Wesley, I locate it in England. And yet
                  you all agree that it began in 1784, at Baltimore, in Maryland, in this country.
                  How could it begin with Mr. Wesley, in England, and yet begin in Baltimore?"
               "Your difficulty," replied Mr. Courtney, "arises from your not making the
                  necessary distinction between Methodism and the Methodist Episcopal
                     Church. The Discipline dates the rise of Methodism
                  from 1729, when John and Charles Wesley are said to have first discovered that
                  people could not be saved without holiness, and began to try to be holy and induce
                  others to be so. This was nine years before the conversion of either of them. John
                  had already been for some time a minister of the Church of England, and Charles
                  was also made one before his conversion. Now, the simple fact that these two
                  unconverted young men began, in 1729, to try to get to heaven by an exact and
                  regular method of living, has caused this to be received as the
                  beginning of the system of Methodism. And there are some people who think that, as
                  a system, it is now what it was in the beginning, namely, a
                     methodical attempt to get to heaven by external observances and
                  strictness of living. The first society of Methodists was composed of
                  Mr. Wesley and two or three students at the university, who agreed to associate
                  together for the more effectual prosecution of their classical studies, and the
                  better attainment of a correct moral and religious character. These other young
                  men, we presume, were, like himself, yet unconverted. They used to meet, not so
                  much to pray and praise God, and read his word, as to study the classics and read
                  to each other passages of the heathen poets of Greece and Rome. These young men,
                  because they studied by rule, were nicknamed Methodists. The society
                  does not seem to have laid any claim to be regarded as a religious
                  society. Whether Mr. Wesley formed any more such I do not know. In 1738, some nine
                  years after this, by the advice of a Moravian bishop, or pastor, he and a few
                  others formed a religious society, which was composed partly of
                  Moravians and partly of Church of England men; and shortly after this, he was led
                  to see that he could not make himself holy, and to trust his soul to
                     Christ for salvation, as was also his brother Charles, about the
                  same time. In 1739 the first regular society was formed, the foundation of the
                  first Methodist preaching-house was laid in England, and the
                     class-meetings were instituted; and this therefore should
                     be regarded as the beginning of the system. The object of the
                  class-meeting was to collect so much a week from every member, to pay for the
                  chapel.
               "At first, societies were formed wherever Mr. Wesley preached, and all who chose united with them. They
                  only condition was a desire to do so. But, in 1743, Mr. Wesley prepared and
                  published his 'rules for the societies.'
               "In these rules he says, 'There is only one condition previously required of
                     those who desire admission into these societies, namely, a desire to flee from
                     the wrath to come, and to be saved from their sins.' But it was expected
                  of those who would continue in the society that they should continue to give
                  evidence of this desire by a life of strict morality, and the observance of the
                  external requirements of religion.
               "These societies were not Churches of Jesus Christ; their members did not so
                  regard them. Mr. Wesley was very careful that they should not be so considered.
                  They were no more Churches of Christ than a temperance society, or a missionary
                  society, or a Bible society, is a Church of Christ. Mr. Wesley was a member and a
                  minister of the Church of England, and he regarded his societies, not as a rival
                  Church, but as a part of that Church.
               "But how can that be ascertained? Why, in the first place, it has never, that I
                  know of, been denied; and, in the next place, Mr. Wesley himself said it was so
                  again and again. Here, in the 'History of the Discipline,' which we
                  have had occasion to refer to so often, (page 57,) you may read the official
                  instructions which he gave to his preachers: 'Exhort all who were brought up in
                  the Church to continue therein. Set the example yourself, and immediately change
                  every plan that would hinder their being at Church at least two Sundays in four.
                  Carefully avoid whatever has a tendency to separate men from the Church; and let
                  all the servants in our preaching-houses go to Church once on Sunday, at
                  least.'
               "'Is there not a cause? Are we not unawares, by little and little, sliding into
                  separation from the Church? O, use every means to prevent this. 1. Exhort all our
                  people to keep close to the Church and sacrament. 2. Warn them against all
                  niceness of hearing, a prevailing evil. 3. Warn them also against despising the
                  prayers of the Church. 4. Against calling our society the Church. 5.
                  Against calling our preachers ministers, our houses meeting-houses: call them
                  plain preaching-houses, or chapels,' etc.
               "'Question. But are we not dissenters?'
               "'Answer. No. Although we call sinners to repentance in all places of God's
                  dominion, and although we frequently use extemporary prayer, and unite together in
                  a religious society, yet we are not dissenters in the only sense which our law
                  acknowledges, namely, those who renounce the service of the Church. We do not, we
                     dare not, separate from it.'
               "Thus Mr. Wesley talked in England. How did the preachers talk in America? Let us
                  turn to page 10: 'At the first Conference, held in Philadelphia, June, 1773, the
                  following rules were agreed to by all the preachers present:
               "'1. Every preacher who acts in connection with Mr. Wesley and the brethren who
                  labor in America, is strictly to avoid administering the ordinances of baptism and
                  the Lord's Supper.
               "'2. All the people among whom we labor to be earnestly exhorted to attend the
                  Church, [of England,] and to receive the ordinances there.'
               "And, six years later, on page 13:
               "'Question 10. Shall we guard against a separation from the Church, directly or
                  indirectly?
               "'Answer. By all means.'
               "And again, in 1780, page 14: 'Question 12. Shall we continue in close connection
                  with the Church, [of England,] and press our people to a closer communion with
                  her?
               "'Answer. Yes.'
               "But after the Revolutionary War the Church of England was not so popular as it
                  once was in this country. Most of its ministers, on the breaking out of
                  hostilities, had taken sides with England, and had been obliged to leave
                     America, or remain under a load of
                  odium which would prevent their usefulness. And it was now conceived that it was
                  necessary to constitute these Methodist societies into a CHURCH;
                  which was done partly by Mr. Wesley, and partly by the sixty preachers who met in
                  Baltimore in 1784. They had, as members of the Church of England, been accustomed
                  to think that there could be no Church without a bishop; and, consequently, Mr.
                  Wesley furnished them a Prayer-book and Liturgy, and made a bishop for them, and
                  authorized him to make another. This was his part. Then the two bishops called
                  together their clergy into a Conference at Baltimore, and the bishops and the
                  sixty preachers unanimously determined that they were a Church; and,
                  as a Church, laid down the rules by which the bishops and the preachers were to
                  govern the people. These rules were put forth as the form of Discipline, and
                  published in 1785, and, with sundry modifications, are what is now known as the
                  Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church. This Discipline, for the most part,
                  was that by which Mr. Wesley and his preachers had before governed the
                     societies. So that the Methodist Church, as first formed, was
                  simply the Methodist preachers with the addition of a pair of bishops, who
                  resolved that they were a Church, and thus became one. And so it was decided in
                  the great Methodist lawsuit that the bishops and travelling preachers are now the
                  Church.
               "What had before been the rules of the societies, now became the
                  rules of the Church. What were before the terms of admission into the
                  societies, became the terms of admission into the Church.
               "As it had been only needful for one to profess a desire of salvation, to come
                  into the society, so this was all that was needful to come into the
                     Church.
               "As they had not been permitted to continue in the society over three months
                  unless they gave evidence of a continuance of he desire, so it was determined that
                  they should not continue in the Church; but the term of probation was shortened to
                  two months; and, after some years, lengthened again to six.
               "In one thing the societies had been, as the new-made Church thought, very guilty.
                  They had, apparently, connived at slavery. Slaveholders, who desired to escape
                  from hell, had been as welcome to come into the societies and try to
                  get religion as other people. But the Church would none of them. It
                  resolved that no slaveholder should come in, even upon probation,
                  however earnestly he might desire salvation, until he had first made a deed
                  manumitting all his slaves; and that no one who was in society, and had passed
                  probation, could remain over a year, except in Virginia, and not over two years
                  there, unless he made the deed of manumission and had it recorded. This was the
                  most important change which the Church made in the previous arrangements of the
                  societies; and from this they fell back before a year had passed.
               "The Methodist Church, therefore, may be regarded as the continuation of Mr.
                  Wesley's societies, with the Church of England left off, and the bishops added on.
                  As societies, they date from Mr. Wesley, in England; as a
                     Church, from the two bishops and sixty preachers in Baltimore,
                  Maryland."
               "I thank you, sir," said Theodosia. "I now see how it was that my mind was
                  confused. Shall we go on to our next test?"
               "In one minute, if you will. I only want to call attention to the fact that the
                  bishops themselves acknowledged, soon after the organization of the Church, and up
                  to the present time continue to acknowledge, that the Discipline and order of
                  their Church is not only of modern date, but is not founded on the word of God,
                  nor formed with any reference to the teachings of the Scriptures. In 1789, five
                  years after the Discipline was formed, the bishops sent out with it an 'Address
                  dress to the Methodist Societies in the United States,' commencing as
                  follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'Dearly-beloved Brethren: We esteem it our duty and privilege most
                              earnestly to recommend to you, as members of our Church, our form of
                              Discipline, which has been founded [not on Scripture,
                              but] on the experience of fifty years in Europe, and of twenty years
                              in America, as, also, [not on what they had learned from Jesus in his
                              word, but] on the observations and remarks we have made on ancient and
                              modern Churches.
                           
                              "'Signed by
                              'THOMAS COKE,
                              'FRANCIS ASBURY.'
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Now, in the Address appended to the Discipline of the Church, North, published in
                  1854, we find the following:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'We esteem it our duty and our privilege most earnestly to recommend
                              to you, as members of our Church, our FORM OF DISCIPLINE,
                              which has been founded on the experience of a long series of years;
                              as, also, on the remarks we have made on ancient and modern
                              Churches.
                           
                              "'Signed by
                              'BEVERLY WAUGH.
                              'THOMAS A. MORRIS.
                              'EDMUND S. JANES.
                              'LEVI SCOTT.
                              'MATTHEW SIMPSON.
                              'OSMON C. BAKER.
                              'EDWARD R. AMES.'
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "And in the Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, published in
                  1846, there is a similar Address, in which the same remarkable acknowledgment is
                  made:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'We esteem it our duty and privilege most earnestly to recommend to
                                 you, as members of our Church, OUR FORM OF DISCIPLINE,
                              which has been founded on the experience of a long series of years;
                              as, also, on the observations and remarks we have made on ancient and
                              modern Churches.
                           
                              "'Signed by
                              'JOSHUA SOULE.
                              'JAMES O. ANDREW.
                              'WILLIAM CAPERS.
                              'ROBERT PAINE.'
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "The Methodists are, therefore, taught by their own bishops, both the first and
                  the last, that their Discipline is based not on the Bible, but on the
                     'experience of a long series of years'—explained by the first of
                  them to be fifty years in England and twenty in America—and 'on the
                     observations' which the bishops had made 'on ancient and modern
                  Churches.'
               "I am now ready, Mrs. Percy, for the next test."
               "It is," said she, "that no true Church of Christ ever persecutes for
                     conscience' sake."
               "As the Methodist Church was organized in this land of religious freedom, and has
                  never had the power to persecute, we need not take any time to settle the fact
                  that she has not been a persecutor, and may at once pass on to the next."
               "Which is," said Theodosia, "that no apostate Church can be a true Church of
                     Christ."
               "It seems to me," said Mr. Percy, "this need hardly require more time than the
                  test we have just passed. Like the Church of England, out of which she came, the
                  Methodist Episcopal Church has never possessed the characteristics of a true
                  Church, and, therefore, could not have lost them; she never had any other baptism,
                  or ordination, than she could get from the Church of England, and which England
                  got from Rome, and that, as we have seen, (pp. 245-256), is that of Antichrist
                  itself.
               
               
                  
                     DIAGRAM OF THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
                     
                        SIGNS OR MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE METHODIST CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        It consists in part of baptized infants, and of unconverted seekers.
                           See pp. 306-317.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith in Christ.
                        
                        Most of its members have not been baptized at all, since sprinkling
                           and pouring are not baptism; or, if at all, in infancy, without personal
                           profession of faith. See pp. 317-330.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization, recognizing no authority above its own
                           but that of Christ.
                        
                        It is subject to the preacher. It cannot even decide who shall be its
                           own members. It is subject to the bishop. It cannot even choose its own
                           pastor. It is dependent for its very existence as a Church. Pp.
                           330-342.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver.
                        
                        It is obliged to submit to the Laws of Conference in matters affecting
                           even the right of Church-membership. See pp. 342-374.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members were made such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        It regards baptized children as members; and so far, they do not come
                           in, but are brought. Its acting members, however, are those
                           who have been received again with their own consent. See p.
                           375.
                     
                     
                        6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        It holds and teaches salvation by faith; but this doctrine is
                           disguised and partly nullified by that of baptismal regeneration. See pp.
                           376-378.
                     
                     
                        7th. It was founded by Christ, and has continued to the present
                           time.
                        
                        It was conceived and established by Mr. Wesley and other
                              men, and began in 1784, by the authority of two bishops
                           and sixty preachers.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        It has never had the power to persecute.
                     
                     
                        9th. No apostate Church can be a Church of Christ.
                        
                        It was, as coming out of the Church of England, apostate in its very
                           origin. See p. 401.
                     
                  
               
               "We may, therefore, pass at once to the Presbyterian Church, as soon as I have
                  finished my diagram of this."
               "The principles which we have already settled and illustrated," said Mr. Courtney,
                  "will enable us to dispose of the other claimants with but a few words upon each
                  of our tests; we need, indeed, scarcely do more than show their real marks in the
                  diagram.
               "The PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, for instance, we all know, does not consist of believers
                  only; for it is true, as Dr. Samuel Miller, formerly professor in the Presbyterian
                  Theological Seminary at Princeton, New Jersey, said: (p. 257 of his Letters on the
                  Constitution and Order of the Christian ministry:)
               "'Every one who has read our Confession of Faith, knows its doctrine on this
                  subject to be that all who profess the true religion are members of the visible
                  Church; that the children of such persons, by virtue of their
                     birth, and of course anterior to baptism, are also members of the
                     Church, and baptism is only the appointed seal or solemn recognition and
                  ratification of their membership.'
               "We all know, moreover, that if sprinkling and pouring are not baptism, few of the
                  members of this Church have been baptized at all, and scarcely any have ever been
                  poured upon or sprinkled upon a personal profession of their faith;
                  and, according to this plain declaration of Dr. Miller, neither the profession of
                  faith nor baptism is necessary to Church-membership. It is only
                  necessary to have been born of parents professing the true religion.
               "Our first two tests, therefore, can very readily be applied. Nor need the third
                  give us much more trouble, for the CONFESSION OF FAITH expressly teaches that the
                  local societies, commonly called Churches, are not separate and
                  independent organizations, but parts of the whole establishment which
                  is known as the Presbyterian Church. See chap. x., p. 418. 'the Church being divided into
                     many separate congregations these need mutual counsel and assistance, in
                  order to preserve soundness of doctrine, regularity of discipline, etc.; hence
                  arise the importance of presbyterial and synodical assemblies.' Again, on p. 425,
                  chap. xii., see the explanatory note:
               "'The radical principles of Presbyterian Church-government and discipline are:
                  That the several different congregations of believers, taken collectively,
                  constitute one Church of Christ, emphatically called the
                     Church; that a larger part of the Church, or representation of it,
                  should govern a smaller, or determine matters of controversy which arise therein;
                  that, in like manner, a representation of the whole should govern and determine in
                  regard to every part, and to all the parts united, that is, that a majority
                     shall govern; and, consequently, that appeals may be carried from lower
                  to higher judicatories, till they be finally decided by the collected wisdom and
                  united voice of the whole Church.'
               "So far, therefore, is each separate congregation from being an
                     independent Church, that it is, by the very genius of
                  Presbyterianism, necessarily considered as but a part of that whole which is
                  emphatically called the Church, and which is to decide for them all questions of
                  doctrine and discipline which may arise in any of these parts. It is, simply, an
                  integral part of a great confederation, having no separate rights of its own, but
                  in all things subject to the control of that assembly which claims to be the
                  representative of the whole Church.
               "And so in regard to the fourth of our tests. We can very readily decide from the
                  CONFESSION OF FAITH itself, and with but little loss of time, that
                     each of the local Churches, and every member of them, is bound to
                     receive and obey the decrees of the judicatories
                  above them.
               "The truth is, a Presbyterian society, as such, has little if any more
                  ecclesiastical power than an Episcopal, a Methodist, or even a Roman Catholic
                  society possesses. It cannot determine mine for itself who shall be received as
                  members of its own communion. It cannot determine for itself whether a wicked
                  violator of God's laws shall or shall not continue in their number and fellowship.
                  It cannot decide for itself who shall be called to preach the gospel in its own
                  pulpit. It cannot decide for itself that one who has proved himself unworthy, and
                  alienated their affections, shall not, in spite of their most earnest protest
                  continue to sustain to them the relation of a pastor."
               "Surely," exclaimed Theodosia, "you must express yourself somewhat too strongly. I
                  was for months a member of the Presbyterian Church, and did not become conscious
                  of any interference with my liberties, or those of others."
               "And I," said Mr. Percy, "was a member of it still longer than you, and I never
                  felt that there was any restraint upon my liberties; and yet it does not follow
                  that the power to restrain did not exist. Many a citizen may live and die in the
                  dominions of a despot without ever having been the victim of despotic power; but
                  the power existed nevertheless. Our question is, whether the local Presbyterian
                  Church, like the Church at Jerusalem, or the Church at Corinth, or the Church at
                  Ephesus, can, under Christ, decide for itself all questions of order
                  and discipline relating to its own internal affairs; or whether there
                  is a power outside itself, and above its own, that can determine these things for
                  it, and to the decisions of which it must submit, or cease to be a Presbyterian
                  Church? The way to find the true answer to this question is not to refer to our
                  personal experience or observation, but to look at the written constitution of the
                  Church. We have learned from the Scriptures that it was the ekklesia, the Church in her assembled capacity as an
                  official body, which was to receive members to her own communion and fellowship;
                  but the constitution of the Presbyterian Church places this power in the hands of
                  the pastor and his advisory council, the elders, of whom there may be only one or two. It is not
                  the Church, but the session, consisting of the pastor and two ruling elders, (if
                  there be as many,) which 'is charged with maintaining the spiritual government of
                  the congregation.' The session is 'to receive members into the
                  Church, to admonish, to rebuke, to suspend, or to exclude from the
                  sacraments those who are found to deserve censure.' Pp. 416, 417. And for its
                  faithfulness or unfaithfulness, it is responsible not to the
                     Church, but to the presbytery.
               "And except in the first particular, the reception of members, the session has not
                  final jurisdiction, for the presbytery has power to hear appeals from their
                  decision, to examine, approve, or censure what they have done, and reverse what it
                  does not approve. But the presbytery is responsible not to the
                  Church, but to the synod, which may examine into and censure
                  or repeal its decisions. And the synod is not responsible to the
                     Church, but to the General Assembly, whose decision
                  alone is final.
               "It is, therefore, the General Assembly that has the power to decide who shall and
                  who shall not be members of the separate and particular Churches. It can
                     never in any instance be finally
                  determined by the Church herself, but must be decided for her either
                  by the session, presbytery, synod, or General Assembly.
               "And now in regard to the calling or the dismissal of a pastor, nothing can be
                  plainer than the requisitions of the constitutional rules. The Church may
                  earnestly desire a certain minister to take the charge of them. That minister may
                  be very anxious to do so. The Church may meet and give expression to their desire
                  by a formal vote, and embody it in a written request to the said minister to come.
                  But they cannot send it to him; they dare not so much as officially
                  to ask him to come until they have received the gracious consent of
                  the presbytery under whose care the preacher may be, and also of that in which the
                  Church may be located. See page 439, sec. ix.: 'The call, thus prepared, shall be
                  presented to the presbytery under whose care the person called shall be; that if
                  the presbytery think it expedient to present the call to him, it may
                  be accordingly presented; and no minister or candidate shall receive a call but
                  through the hands of the presbytery.' . . .
               "'If the call be to the licentiate of another presbytery, in that case the
                  commissioners deputed by the congregation to prosecute the call, shall produce to
                  that judicatory a certificate from their own presbytery, regularly attested by the
                  moderator and clerk, that the call has been laid before them, and that it is in
                  order.'
               "So again on pages 444, 445, we may read, 'No bishop [that is, pastor] shall be
                  translated from one Church to another, nor shall he receive any call for that
                  purpose, but by the permission of the presbytery.' . . . 'The
                  presbytery being met, and having heard the parties, shall, upon the whole view of
                  the case, either continue him in his former charge, or translate him, as
                     they shall deem to be most for the peace and edification of the
                  Church.'
               "Then turn to page 448, and read as follows: 'When any minister shall labor under
                  such grievances in his congregation as that he shall desire leave to resign his
                  pastoral charge, the presbytery shall cite the congregation to appear by their
                  commissioners at their next meeting, to show cause, if any they have, why the
                  presbytery should not accept the resignation. If the congregation fail to appear,
                  or if their reasons for retaining their pastor be deemed by the presbytery
                  insufficient, he shall have leave granted to resign his pastoral charge, of which
                  due record shall be made . . . If any congregation shall desire to be released
                  from their pastor, a similar process, mutatis
                     mutandis, shall be observed.'"
               "I think," said Dr. Thinkwell, "you have clearly made out your case, and we may pass to the next mark upon
                  our tablet."
               "Which is the fifth," said Theodosia, "and requires that the members
                  of a true Church should have become such by their own voluntary
                  act."
               "But in this Church, as we have seen," said Mr. Courtney, "they are, according to
                  the testimony of Dr. Miller, to which I might add that of others of their standard
                  writers, born into the Church, if they chance to be born of parents
                  who professed the true religion. It may be more satisfactory to us, however, to
                  look at the Confession of Faith for ourselves. If you will turn to
                  page 146, you may gain further evidence."
               "'Not only those that do actually profess faith in and obedience unto Christ, but
                  also the infants of one or both believing parents are to be
                  baptized.'
               "But does this baptism make these unconscious and involuntary recipients of it
                     Church-members? and that, too, without any additional and
                  voluntary act of their own? Turn to page 456, and you will see: 'ALL BAPTIZED
                  PERSONS ARE MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH—are under its care and subject to
                  its government and discipline; and when they have arrived at the years of
                  discretion, they are bound to perform all the duties of Church-members.'"
               "That certainly is as plain as words can make it," said the Doctor; "and we may
                  pass on to the next test, which is, if I do not forget, that 'A true Church
                     must hold as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                  gospel.'"
               "And here, I am happy to say," said Mr. Courtney, "we can mark this claimant all
                  white. If every thing about her were as unexceptionable as her system of theology,
                  we would have little to find fault with. But when we come to our
                     seventh test, and ask for her beginning, we can only
                  trace the Presbyterian Church of the United States back to 1789, or five years
                  later than the organization of the Methodist Church, at Baltimore. It was in that
                  year that the establishment was completed or finished, by adding on
                  to what it had before, that which now constitutes its peculiar characteristic,
                  that is the GENERAL ASSEMBLY, which previous to that time had no existence.
               "In the year 1788 the Synod of New York and Philadelphia arranged the present plan
                  of government, by sessions, presbyteries, synods, and a General
                     Assembly, and, dividing itself into four synods, gave place to the
                  General Assembly, which met the next year; and thus began the present order of
                  Presbyterianism in America."
               "But how, then," asked Theodosia, "can the Presbyterian Church be said to have
                  begun with John Calvin, at Geneva?"
               "Just as the Methodist Church began with Wesley, and yet began at Baltimore. John
                  Calvin suggested, defended, and put in practice, to some extent, the outline of
                  the system, and the doctrines that have generally been associated with it These
                  were condensed and embodied by the famous Westminster Assembly of Divines; and
                  Presbyterian churches—that is, churches governed by presbyters and synods—were
                  established in Switzerland, Scotland, and England; and the ministers and members
                  coming to America brought their principles with them. Societies were organized
                  here, and sessions and presbyteries, and then synods, appointed to rule over them;
                  and the arrangement was completed at length in 1789, by the formation of the
                  General Assembly. But, whether we date the beginning of the system in Philadelphia
                  with the first General Assembly, or at Geneva with John Calvin, or somewhere else,
                  a hundred or a thousand years before John Calvin was born, is of no consequence at
                  all to our present argument. It is enough for us to know that no such system was
                  established by Christ or the apostles. The Church at Jerusalem was not a
                     part of something 'called emphatically phatically the Church;' but was
                  complete within itself. So was the Church at Antioch, and at Corinth, and at
                  Ephesus; and so were all the Churches of which we read in the Scriptures. They
                  each one ruled its own members, and did not submit to the control of any
                  ecclesiastical bodies outside themselves. They were subject alone to Christ and to
                  the apostles, speaking in the name of Christ, and by inspiration of his Spirit:
                  when they performed an act of discipline, there was no presbytery, no synod, and
                  no general assembly above them to reverse or confirm the sentence given in the
                     'ekklesia' itself. The brother aggrieved was
                  to tell the 'ekklesia'—not the session, or the
                  presbytery, or the synod, or the general assembly: such things as these did
                     not exist. Christ did not ordain them, and gave no authority to them.
                  When the ekklesia—the local Church—had decided,
                  that was the end of the matter; nor could its decision be reversed by any
                  authority but its own. If any of these judicatory bodies, high or low, existed
                  outside the local Church in the apostles' days, the writers of the Scriptures
                  neglected to mention them. We may be sure, therefore, that whenever or wherever a
                  Church was first organized, consisting of a multitude of local societies, so
                  confederated as to form collectively that thing called the Church,
                  which was ruled by presbyteries, synods, and a general assembly, it was some time
                  after the completion of the Scripture-record; and that is all our argument
                  requires."
               "Our next test," said Theodosia, "is the eighth: It never persecutes for
                     conscience' sake."
               "The Presbyterian Church of the United States, or, perhaps, I should say
                     Churches—for there are now three of them, commonly called the 'Old
                  School,' the 'New School,' and the 'Cumberland'—have none of them, since the
                  completion of their organization, had the opportunity or inclination to persecute.
                  The Presbyterian Churches in Europe, where theyhad the power, have
                  been thus guilty; and so the Presbyterians who settled New England were at one
                  time largely imbued with the spirit of persecution. But the Presbyterian Church
                  proper of the United States, I am happy to say, has from the first declared that
                  her judicatory 'assemblies ought not to possess any civil jurisdiction, nor to
                  inflict any civil penalties. Their power is wholly moral and spiritual, and that
                  only ministerial and declarative. . . . The highest punishment to which their
                  authority extends is to exclude the contumacious and impenitent from the
                  congregation of believers.'
               "We give them our hand on this, and pass to the next and last of our tests.
                     Is it an apostate Church? It is not apostate in the
                  sense that it was once a true Church, and has since lost the characteristics that
                  made it such; but, like the Episcopal and Methodist Churches, it was apostate in
                  its very origin. It came out of Rome as truly as either of the others; and when it
                  came out, it brought with it the baptism of Antichrist, and the ordination of
                  Antichrist. As the popish councils had introduced the baptism of babes, with the
                  substituted professions of sponsors, so they went still farther, and baptized them
                     without any profession at all, but only on a promise
                  from those who brought them. The pope had by his decree changed immersion into
                     pouring, and they, instead of restoring Christ's baptism, went
                  still farther, and, on the authority of that 'godly, learned man, John Calvin, of
                  Geneva,' changed pouring into sprinkling, which was never used for
                  baptism before. (See Dr. Wall, as quoted in first volume, p. 177.)
                  They reformed upon the doctrine, and reformed upon the manners, and reformed upon
                  the morals of the Church of Rome; but they did not cast Rome away and go back to
                  the Bible and search there for the original model, as we have done, and confine
                  themselves to it; or look for the Church in the wilderness, where Rome, the great
                  dragon, had driven her, and
                     receive from her that Christian baptism and that Christian
                  ordination which Rome, as ANTICHRIST, could not confer.
                  They were content to protest against Rome, and denounce its fearful hierarchy, as
                  the very man of sin and son of perdition; but to this very day they dare not
                  officially declare that the baptism and ordination of this Antichrist
                  are not true and valid Christian baptism and good and lawful
                     Christian ordination; for to do so would be utterly to invalidate
                  their own, since Calvin and his co-presbyters were all baptized and all ordained
                  by Antichrist. The question came up in 1854, in the New School
                  General Assembly, which met at Buffalo, whether, as Presbyterians, they could
                  recognize the baptism of the Roman Catholics as valid Christian
                  baptism; and while they denounce that Church as the very ANTICHRIST
                  foretold in the Word—while they know that it has been in every age the great enemy
                  and bitter and bloody PERSECUTOR of the true followers of Jesus—they did not
                     dare to decide that it could not and did not confer the
                     sacraments of Christ. Its hands, all reeking with the blood of martyred
                  saints, conferred the only baptism which those men ever received who
                     gave baptism to the Presbyterian Church; and when they venture to
                  decide that this was not and could not be true Christian
                  baptism, they, by that act, decide that they have never been themselves
                     baptized.
               "The facts concerning this discussion should not be forgotten. The question which
                  had been referred to the Assembly for its decision was a very simple one, and to
                  an uninterested spectator would have seemed very easy of solution. It was in
                  substance this: Is baptism and ordination conferred by the Church of Rome valid
                  and lawful Christian baptism and ordination? It was referred to a special
                  committee to examine and report. The majority of this committee reported that our
                  standards declare the pope to be Antichrist, and the baptism or
                  ordination of Antichrist could not beChristian baptism
                  or Christian ordination. But a majority of the Assembly voted for the indefinite
                  postponement of the whole subject, which was simply a refusal to decide the
                  question either way. And the reasons given for this course were, that if they
                  ventured officially and authoritatively to deny that Rome was a true Church, and
                  her baptisms and ordinations lawful and valid, they would by that act
                     officially unchurch themselves, since their own ordinances came to
                  them through Rome. If the baptisms and ordinations of Rome are invalid, then
                  Luther and Calvin were neither baptized nor ordained, and so of all who
                  constituted the first Churches of the Reformation. If they were
                     unbaptized, then they were not true Churches, since no company of
                  unbaptized believers, however pious, has ever been regarded as a
                     Church. If their ministers were unordained, then, according
                  to Presbyterian usage and authority, they had no right to baptize or to ordain
                  others; so the Churches never could have received through them the ordinances of
                  Christ, and therefore must be now without them.
               "If they had said, We cannot tell: the people would ask them,
                     Why? for to the simple common sense of any honest mind it must
                  seem plain as the sunlight that the enemy of Christ, the beast, the dragon, the
                  man of sin, foretold as Antichrist, who should usurp the seat of Christ, and by
                  his assumed authority wear out his saints and destroy his people, could not be
                  Christ's executive, could not be authorized by HIM to confer HIS sacraments.
               "They therefore determined to postpone the further consideration of the whole
                  subject, and cut all notice of it out of their permanent records, so that
                     the people might forget it. But the people will not forget
                  it. The question will come up again. It must be true that popish
                  baptism either is or else that it is not true and valid
                  Christian baptism. If it is, then the Roman Catholic is the true
                  Church of Christ, and
                  they were excommunicated in the persons of their founders, the
                  Reformers. If it is not, then they came out of an apostate Church,
                  and as it had no power to confer Christian baptism, it could not have given it
                  them, and they had no other. If Roman Catholic popish ordination was
                  not true Christian ordination, then Luther and Calvin, and the other
                  ministers of that day, were not ordained, and if unordained could not
                  ordain others, nor confer Christian baptism. If it was true
                  ordination, then Rome was the true Church, and Luther and Calvin and their
                  associates were deposed and excommunicated, and no
                  longer authorized to act officially, and all their official acts are, therefore,
                  null and void. In either case their followers have no baptism,
                     no ordination, no sacraments, and no
                  Church, unless that may be a Church which has no baptism, or that be baptism which
                  is conferred by one who is not a minister, which is contrary to the teaching of
                  the 'Confession of Faith,' page 498, 'Baptism is not to be administered but by a
                  minister of Christ,' etc.
               "But we need not dwell on this. We have seen enough to understand that from the
                  very first this Church had not the scriptural characteristics of a true Church of
                  Christ. Let Mr. Percy finish his diagram, and we will pass on to the LUTHERAN
                  CHURCHES.
               "We need not stop to examine the Methodist Protestant Church, for it is younger
                  than its mother, whom we have examined, and does not differ from her in any thing
                  essential to our argument. Nor need we give any separate consideration to the
                  Cumberland Presbyterian, of which the same thing is true. And the Lutheran
                  Churches need occupy but little more time than will be necessary to construct the
                  diagram to show at a single glance just what they really are.
               "Those in this country are the descendants of those in Europe, and like them, so
                  far as differing circumstances will permit. From them they received their
                  ordinances and their
                     DIAGRAM OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
                     
                        MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        It consists of believers and their offspring, and all persons baptized
                           in infancy. See p. 403.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith.
                        
                        The children of Church-members are regarded as members even without
                           baptism at all. P. 403-408.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization and independent of all others.
                        
                        It is a great confederation, of which each local society is but a
                           part. P. 404.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and recognizes no
                           other authority but his above its own.
                        
                        It is ruled by sessions, by presbyteries, by synods, and a General
                           Assembly. Pp. 405 to 407.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        Its members are most of them born such without their
                           knowledge or consent. P. 403.
                     
                     
                        6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        It holds for the most part to all the fundamental doctrines of
                           salvation. P. 408.
                     
                     
                        7th. It began in the time of Christ, and has continued to the present
                           time.
                        
                        It is comparatively modern origin, and came through John Calvin and
                           the Reformers of Geneva out of Rome. The American organization was
                           completed in 1789. P. 409.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        In Calvin's day, and afterwards in Europe, it persecuted, but the
                           American organization proper never has. P. 410.
                     
                     
                        9th. No apostate Church can be a Church of Christ.
                        
                        It was apostate in its origin, as coming out of Rome, and has never
                           had the characteristics of a true Church of Christ. See pp.
                           411-414.
                     
                  
                   organization, and if
                     they are not true Churches, these cannot be. We need only say of
                  them what we presume their most devoted members will not deny: they not only
                  receive infants as members, but where they have the power, as in Germany and
                  Sweden, compel the parents by force of fines and imprisonments to
                  bring their infants to be made members. They cannot, therefore, endure our first
                  two tests, nor yet the fifth or eighth.
               "The local societies are not independent, but each makes a part of a confederacy,
                  which, where it is practicable, is coëxtensive with the nation. They have not,
                  therefore, our third mark. And, like the Presbyterians, they are subject to the
                  rule of ecclesiastical assemblies above the local Church, and where it is
                  practicable they are joined to the state, and, like the Church of England, own
                  subjection to the civil power. Christ is not, therefore, their only
                  king and lawgiver. Its confession teaches baptismal regeneration as
                  plainly as the Prayer-book of the Church of England, Wesley's Sermons, or the
                  Discipline. And the body of her communicants in Europe (though not in this
                  country) evidently rely upon a sacramental salvation. It did not begin with
                  Christ, but came out of Rome in the time of Martin Luther. It was, like the Church
                  of England, a persecutor in its very beginning, while Luther himself yet lived,
                  and gave direction to its action. And, like those we have examined, though it has
                  not apostatized since it began, it was apostate in its very origin. It has not
                     lost the characteristics of a true Church of Christ, because it
                  never had them. It has from the first been destitute of all the characteristics of
                  a true Church but one: it did at one time hold the fundamental
                  doctrines of the gospel, and many of its members do hold them still."
               "I can hardly feel satisfied," said Theodosia, "with the character you have given
                  us of Luther. He may have been led into occasional acts of violence, but that he
                  was a systematic
                     DIAGRAM OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH.
                     
                        SIGNS OR MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        It consists, so far as practicable, like the Church of England, of the
                           whole population, made members by baptism in their infancy.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith.
                        
                        Its members have mostly been made in infancy, before they knew there
                           was a Christ.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization, and independent of all others.
                        
                        Each society is but a part of a great ecclesiastical
                           establishment.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and recognizes no
                           other authority but his above its own.
                        
                        It is subject to ecclesiastical judicatories, and in Germany, where it
                           originated, and in Sweden, is connected with the state.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members were made such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        Its members are made such in infancy, and, where it has the power, by
                           compulsion of the law.
                     
                     
                        6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        It once held to salvation by faith alone. Some of its members do so
                           still, but its standards teach baptismal regeneration, and many of its
                           members trust to the sacraments for salvation.
                     
                     
                        7th. It began in the time of Christ, and has continued to the present
                           time.
                        
                        It began with Martin Luther, and came out of Rome.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        It persecuted even in Luther's day; and in every country where it has
                           the power, it fines and imprisons Baptists to the present
                           day. Pp. 416-422.
                     
                     
                        9th. It cannot be a Church that has apostatized.
                        
                        It was, as coming out of Rome, apostate in its origin, and never has
                           had the marks of a true Church.
                     
                  
                   atic and deliberate
                     persecutor, or that he sanctioned by his precepts or example the
                  claims of those who have since endeavored to compel men to receive his doctrines
                  by the penalties of the civil law, I can hardly believe."
               "Luther," said Mr. Courtney, "was a very great and, in some respects, a very good
                  man; and his persecution of others serves to show how very far good men and wise
                  men may go astray from the requirements of God's word, even while they hold and
                  teach that it, and it alone, is to be the guide of every man, both as regards his
                  faith and practice.
               "I wish this blot were not upon his name. I wish that neither he nor Calvin had
                  procured the death of others, for doing what they themselves had done and
                  commended; that is, for simply thinking and deciding for themselves
                  in regard to the teachings of the Word concerning their religious faith and
                  practice. We may excuse them if we can, or as we can;
                  but the facts are recorded in letters of blood, and must remain for
                  ever a perpetual monument of the truth that the Churches founded by either one or
                  the other were not and could not be true Churches of Christ; since they both began
                  in blood; and when they had the power to wield the secular sword, did not spare to
                  plunge it to the heart of those who ventured to read the Scriptures for
                  themselves, and differ from their masters.
               "But if you doubt about the facts, you will find an admirable summary of them in
                  Luther's case recorded in 'Orchard's History of the Foreign Baptists,' and
                  sustained by references to the most reliable historical authorities:
               "'Luther had no great objection to the Baptists in his early efforts. He
                  encouraged the Muncer of notoriety, who was a Baptist minister, and so highly
                  esteemed by Luther as to be named his Absalom. Their united efforts greatly
                  increased persons of the Baptist persuasion. When the news reached Luther of
                  Carolstadt rebaptizing, [that is, baptizing those that had only received popish
                  baptism,] that Muncer had won the hearts of the people, and that the Reformation
                  was going on in his absence; he, on the 6th of March, 1522, flew like lightning
                  from his confinement, at the hazard of his life, and without the advice of his
                  patron, to put a stop to Carolstadt's proceedings. (Maclean's
                     Mosheim, vol. iii., p. 45.) On his return to 
                     Wittemburg
                     Wittenberg
                  , he banished Carolstadt, Pelargus, More, Didymus, and others, and only
                  received Melancthon again. (Ivimey.) . . . . The success and number
                  of the Baptists exasperated him to the last degree. He became their enemy,
                  notwithstanding all he had said in favor of dipping, (while he contended with
                  Catholics on the sufficiency of the word of God;) but now he persecuted them under
                  the name of re-dippers, rebaptizers, or Anabaptists. . .
                  . . His half measures, his national system, his using the Roman liturgy, his
                  consubstantiation, his infant baptism, without Scripture or example, were disliked
                  by the Baptists. Yea, the Picards or Vaudois hated his system, and he hated all
                  other sects.' (Pp. 344, 345.)
               "And again: 'The tones of authority assumed by Luther, and his magisterial conduct
                  towards those who differed from him, made it evident that he would be the
                     head of the Reformers.' (Robinson's Researches, p.
                  542.) He and his colleagues had now to dispute their way with hosts of Baptists
                  all over Germany, Saxony, Thuringia, Switzerland, and other kingdoms, for several
                  years. Conferences on baptism were held in different kingdoms, which continued
                  from 1516 to 1527. The support which the Baptists had from Luther's writings made
                  the Reformers' efforts of little effect. At Zurich, the [Lutheran] Senate warned
                  the people to desist from the practice of rebaptizing; but all their warnings were
                  in vain. These efforts to check the increase of Baptists being ineffectual, carnal
                  measures were selected. The first edict against Anabaptism was published at
                  Zurich, in 1522, in which there was a
                  penalty of a silver mark set upon all such as should suffer themselves to be
                  baptized, or should withhold baptism from their children. And it was further
                  declared that those who openly opposed this order should be more severely treated.
                     (Ger. Brandt's Hist. Ref., vol. i., b. ii., p. 57.) This being
                  insufficient to check immersion, the Senate decreed, like Honorius in 413, that
                  all persons who professed Anabaptism, or harbored the professors of the doctrine,
                  should be punished with death by drowning. (Miln. Ch.
                     Hist., chap. xvi. Neal's Hist., vol. v., p. 127.) It had
                  been death to refuse baptism, and now it was death to be baptized. Such is the
                  weathercock uncertainty of state religion. In defiance of this law, the Baptists
                  persevered in their regular discipline; and some ministers of learned celebrity
                  realized the severity of the sentence. MANY BAPTISTS WERE DROWNED AND BURNT.
                     (Milner, Brandt, Ivimey.) These severe measures, which continued
                  for years, had the consent of the Reformers, which injured greatly
                  the Lutheran cause. (Rob. Res., p. 543.) It was the cruel policy of
                  Papacy inflicted by brethren. Wherever the Baptists settled, Luther played the
                  part of a universal bishop, and wrote to princes and senates to engage them to
                  expel such dangerous men.'"
               "But was it not against the so-called madmen or fanatics of Munster, commonly
                  called Anabaptists, that these severe measures were directed? Was it not against
                  the disturbers of the public peace, rather than those who held to adverse
                  sentiments in religion, that these sanguinary measures were directed?"
               "Not at all, madam. All this was years before the Munster rising; and
                  consequently could have had no reference to that affair. These laws were passed in
                  1522. In 1525 there was an insurrection of the peasants, but they were
                     Papists, and not Baptists. In 1529, Erasmus, the friend of Luther,
                  said of the Anabaptists, (that is, those whom we now call Baptists,) 'These
                     persons are worthy of greater commendation than others, on account of the
                     harmlessness of their lives; but they are oppressed by all other sects.'
                  And it was not till 1535 that the famous rising at Munster occurred. The
                  disturbances began two years before, (see Orchard, p. 361,) between
                  Lutherans and Papists; and 'while things were in this confused state, some persons
                  of a fanatical character came into Munster, who gave out that they were messengers
                  from heaven, invested with a Divine commission to lay the foundations of a new
                  government, a holy and spiritual empire, and destroy and overturn all temporal
                  rule and authority, all human and political institutions.'
               "These were the people who are called Anabaptists by the historians of those
                  times; and whose excesses and fanatical proceedings were the occasion of great
                  distress to the Baptists in the succeeding years, and of much reproach to the
                  denomination even to the present time; and yet it does not appear that they had
                  more than one single article of faith or practice in common with those with whom
                  they have been so generally confounded. They were no more Baptists than the
                     Mormons of our day are Baptists. The Mormons immerse those whom
                  they receive into their community, and the Baptists immerse those whom they
                  receive; yet the Mormons and the Baptists are very far from being the same people.
                  So it was with these madmen of Munster: they baptized anew all who
                  came from other sects to them, and so do Baptists rebaptize, if infant sprinkling
                  is to be counted baptism; but here the resemblance ceases. 'They were for
                  repeating even adult baptism, not performed among them; yea, that
                  which was administered among themselves when they removed from one society to
                  another; nay, even in the same community when an excommunicated person was
                  received again. Besides, if what is reported of them is true, as it may be, their
                  baptism was performed by
                  sprinkling, which we cannot allow to be true baptism. It is said that
                  when a community of them was satisfied with the person's faith and conversation
                  who proposed himself for baptism, the pastor took water into his hand and
                  sprinkled it on the head of him who was to be baptized, using these words: I
                     baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
                     Ghost.' See Ivimey, vol. i., p. 15.
               "But whether these madmen were Baptists or not, it was not against
                     them that these bloody laws were passed, at the request of Luther;
                  for they were made, and many by their authority were drowned and burnt, before the
                  disturbances at Munster had been dreamed of. And under similar laws, our brethren
                  are liable to-day to suffer persecution in every nation where the Lutheran Church
                  by union with the state has power to persecute."
               "But what do you say to the so-called CONGREGATIONAL CHURCHES, which are scattered
                  throughout our country?" asked the Rev. Mr. Stiptain. "Do they come up to your
                  high standard, or rather down to your low standard?"
               "They come nearer to it than any we have examined," said Mr. Courtney, "but yet
                  they are not true Churches. In so far as they make members of little babes, they
                  cannot have our first, second, or fifth mark. They have
                  the third and fourth, and some of them the
                     sixth, though many hold to a sort of sacramental salvation; and
                  some have fallen into Unitarianism, and denied the Lord that bought them.
               "Consisting, as they do, of professed believers, and their children,
                  they are not full examples of the Church founded by Christ, for the first
                  Churches, as we have seen, were not composed of such materials; and, therefore,
                  they have not the seventh.
               "Some of them, in the early settlement of New England, were bitter persecutors of
                  the Baptists and the Quakers; and they, at least, had not the
                     eighth. And as they all received their baptism and ordinances from
                  the hands of those who bad no other than the ordinances of the apostate Roman
                  Church, and, moreover, have none of them had all the
                  characteristics of a true Church at any period of their existence, we will be
                  obliged to count them as we have the other claimants, as apostate in their
                     very origin."
               "It seems to me," said the Rev. Mr. Stiptain, "that you have now wound yourselves
                  up so completely in the web of your own tests, that you can never get out. You
                  have already cut off almost all that claim to be the Church of Christ, and
                  unchurched almost the whole of Christendom; and if you apply your rules, and
                  require that a true Church shall be in all respects what those tests
                  call for, you will cut off every other; and it must follow that Christ has now no
                  Church on earth, and never has had since the great Roman apostasy. The Greek
                  Church, and the Armenian, can, of course, expect no more favor than the Roman
                  Catholic and the English, and not quite so much as the Presbyterian, and the
                  Methodist, and Lutheran."
               "As they do not belong to this country," replied Mr. Courtney, "we will not need
                  specifically to consider their claims, except we should fail to find any example
                  of a true Church here."
               "You are not hopeless then? Well, I trust you may succeed; but, for my own part, I
                  can see no prospect of your doing so. It is time for us to return home; but if you
                  will all come over to my house on Monday, I will gladly do what I can to help you
                  look, and would like to be present at the finding," said the Rev. Mr. Stiptain
               "If you will go to meeting with us to-morrow," said Theodosia, "perhaps we may be
                  able to show it to you."
               "I cannot do that, as I must attend my own appointment; but we expect you all to
                  dine with us on Monday, and tell us what you have seen. If it is a Church which
                     has
                  
                     DIAGRAM OF THE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCHES.
                     
                        MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH OF CHRIST.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCHES.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        They consist in part of the baptized children of believers.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members must have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith.
                        
                        If sprinkling or pouring is not baptism, they have not been baptized
                           at all, and if at all, not on profession, but in their infancy.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization and independent of all others.
                        
                        Each Church controls its own affairs, and makes no part of any
                           ecclesiastical establishment.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and owns no
                           authority but his above its own.
                        
                        It is not responsible to any Lord but Christ, and knows no laws but
                           his.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        Its members were mostly made such before they could know what was done
                           to them.
                     
                     
                        6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        Some do hold the true doctrines, and some have Unitarianism, and some
                           sacramental salvation, baptismal regeneration, etc.
                     
                     
                        7th. It began in the time of Christ, and has continued ever
                           since.
                        
                        The Church which began with Christ had no infant or involuntary
                           members. These, therefore, cannot be examples of it.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        Some of them have persecuted, most of them never had the power, and
                           now would have no disposition to do it.
                     
                     
                        9th. No apostate Church can be a Church of Christ.
                        
                        They were apostate in their origin, having never had all the
                           characteristics essential to a true Church.
                     
                  
                  all your marks, I am almost willing to promise to join it
                  myself."
               This was on Saturday evening. The Doctor had been accustomed to go into the city
                  upon the Sabbath to the Episcopal church; but, in compliment to his guests, he had
                  ascertained that it was the time of the regular monthly meeting at a little
                  Baptist meeting-house not far from his residence, and had determined to go
                  there.
               The services had already begun, and they were singing the first hymn when our
                  party arrived. After singing, the pastor read a portion of the Scriptures in a
                  plain and simple manner, and then offered an extemporaneous prayer in a subdued
                  and earnest voice, which showed by its natural and beseeching tones that he was in
                  solemn earnest, as he plead with God that he and his people might not only be led
                  to know but heartily to do the will of God as made known to us in his most blessed
                  word.
               Then, after another hymn had been read and sung, not by a choir, but by the whole
                  congregation, he commenced his sermon.
               Up to this time, the attention of Dr. Thinkwell had been somewhat distracted by
                  the contrast which the rude and simple building, the uncarpeted aisles, the
                  uncushioned and unpainted pews, or rather benches, and the unfashionable and cheap
                  attire of most of the hearers, presented to the luxurious and tasteful adornments
                  of his city church. Nor was the contrast less striking between the free and
                  natural outgushings of the heart in earnest and simple words of praise and prayer,
                  and the artistic musical parade, and the formal reading to God a select portion of
                  the Prayer-book.
               But from the moment that the preacher announced his text there was no more
                  wandering of his mind. There was a strange fascination in the tones of his low yet
                  most intensely earnest voice, and in the gaze of his large eyes—which, instead of being fixed upon his manuscript,
                  seemed to be looking right into the very souls of those who sat before him—that at
                  once enchained all his faculties in an attitude of undivided attention. The
                  subject, too, was one in which, just at this time, he could not but feel a most
                  absorbing interest: 
                     AVOIDABLE IGNORANCE IS NO EXCUSE FOR ERROR OR FOR SIN.
                  
                  
                     "There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
                        thereof are the ways of death."
                     —PROV. xiv. 12.
                  
               
               The preacher began by saying, "It is a common opinion, that it matters little what
                  a man believes, if he is only sincere; and that it is of not much
                  consequence what he does, so that he does what he thinks
                  to be right. But such is not the teaching of the word of God; and however
                  plausible it may seem at the first glance, it has no more foundation in reason
                  than it has in Scripture. Reason as well as revelation requires right faith, right
                  opinions, and right conduct, since ignorance will no more excuse a man, or procure
                  for him an exemption from punishment, if he break the natural laws of
                  God, than if he violate his moral obligations. To illustrate this,
                  take an event in common life.
               "A merchant was about to venture on a distant voyage. He had been reared on the
                  land, and knew but little of the perils of the sea. His mind had been engaged in
                  other studies, and he knew little of the art of navigation, or of the qualities
                  and capabilities of ships. He trusted to his agent to purchase and
                  equip the vessel, and to employ the officers and crew. He sent on board his
                  precious freight, designed for traffic in the distant lands; and when all was
                  ready, one lovely summer day he went on board himself, and a fair and gentle
                  breeze wafted them quickly out to sea. O, it was delightful to sit upon the
                  vessel's deck, and gaze abroad far as the eye could reach upon the bright expanse
                  of waters; to mark the ripple of the waves, and watch the parting foam about the
                  prow, which told how fast they were progressing towards their destined port. O, it
                  was grand to watch the setting sun sink slowly down until he almost rested his
                  glowing cheek upon the placid ocean, sending across its surface the gorgeous
                  yellow light which, mingling with the waters, caused them to resemble that
                  wondrous vision of the Revelation, 'a sea of glass mingled with gold.'
               "It was a glorious sight, when the sun was gone and the red twilight had faded, to
                  look up and see the stars of God come out, one after another, and take their
                  places in the blue canopy of heaven, till all the sky was bright with twinkling
                  glory, and then to look down and see another heaven reflected in the deep—not
                  still and quiet as the one above, but trembling in the gently-moving flood—'As if
                  each wave had leaped up to the sky and caught a star, and held it struggling in
                  its cold embrace.'
               "The wind is fair, and only strong enough to waft them on in safety. The merchant
                  is happy; he feels that he is on the way to fortune. He sleeps in quiet; no dream
                  of storms, of rushing waters, of great sea-monsters, and dark caverns in the
                  bottom of the deep, disturb his slumber. He counts his gains, he builds his
                  splendid house, he spreads his sumptuous feast, he enjoys the applause of his
                  numerous friends. He is a rich, and consequently a great and a happy man. Such is
                  his pleasant dream.
               "But while he sleeps the wind has lulled. That deep and ominous stillness, which
                  to the sailors' watchful senses always forebodes the storm, has spread itself over
                  the sea. The sails flap idly on the mast. The ship rocks lazily in the slight
                  swell of the subsiding waves.
               "The man upon the lookout sees a little cloud. It rises and spreads with a
                  thousand strange fantastic shapes. All hands are called to fit
                  the vessel for the coming storm, and scarcely have they done so when down it comes, screaming and
                  howling across the waves. He hears its shrieks as it tears its way through the
                  rigging of the vessel; he starts from his pleasant dream of wealth and grandeur;
                  he rushes out to see what is the cause of all the commotion which has startled
                  him.
               "The storm is upon them in all its terrible strength; but if his ship were sound,
                  if his officers were competent and his sailors true, there is no danger, for the
                  sea is wide. There is no hidden rock, and there is no danger of running ashore;
                  set her before the wind, and let her drift. But now, for the first time, he
                  discovers that his vessel is old, her timbers sprung, her planks rotten, and the
                  first blow of the storm has opened her seams so that the water rushes in on every
                  side. He finds that the officers, incompetent and timid, have lost all presence of
                  mind, and know no more what to do than he does himself.
               "Now tell me, will God hold back the wind? Will God sustain the vessel? Will God
                  preserve the merchant or his wealth because he verily thought in his
                     heart that his agent had been honest, that his officers were skilful,
                  that his ship was sound, and all things safe?
               "Never! never! The natural laws will have their course. The ship goes down at sea:
                  fishes feed upon the men who risked their lives so heedlessly, and her rich
                  freight is added to the treasures of the deep. God will not change his laws
                  because the man was ignorant of them, or because he disregarded them. If he would
                  have gone safely, he should have provided securely. His vessel should
                  have been staunch, and his officers competent. He may have thought
                  they were so; but to insure his safety, they must have been so in
                     fact.
               "So in the gospel of salvation, God requires certain conditions to be fulfilled in
                  order to make safe the voyage of life. If he would reach the haven of the sons of
                  God, become a king and priest in the heavenly Jerusalem, he must comply with the
                  conditions of the gospel. It is not enough for him to do whathe
                     thinks right; he must do what is right in fact. It is not
                  enough for him to think that he does right, but he must
                     actually do it. If he risks his deathless soul in any other vessel
                  than the good 'old ship of Zion,' if he sails under any other officer than Jesus,
                  the true and only Captain of our salvation, he has no right to hope that he will
                  escape the storms and tempests of God's wrath. It is not enough that he
                     means to go safely; it is not enough that he thinks
                  he is safe; it is not enough that he really believes
                     that he is in the gospel ship and has Jesus
                  for his Captain—it must be so as a matter of actual fact. If he
                  deceives himself, or is deceived by Satan, or deluded by his spiritual advisers,
                  it matters not how honest or how confident may be his conviction that he is safe.
                  His hopes may be as bright, his confidence as firm, and his conscience as easy as
                  that of the real Christian—his sun may shine brightly, his breeze may seem fair,
                  the sea gentle and calm; but when the dark clouds rise, when God appears in the
                  thick darkness of his anger, and blows upon him with the horrible tempest of his
                  wrath, 'then the expectation of the wicked shall perish, and his hope shall
                     be like the giving up of the ghost.'
               "But we are not left to infer this doctrine from what we see in nature: God
                  teaches it, as plainly and as forcibly as words can speak, in every part of the
                  Scriptures of truth.
               "The Bible gives no license to men to set up their own standard of
                  duty or of faith, of doctrine or of practice. It is the common complaint of the
                  Scriptures against those whom God condemns, that they walked every one according
                  to the imagination of his own heart; that they followed after
                     their own devices. They substituted other things for the
                  commandments of God. They may have been sincere; they may have been
                     honest; they may have thought they were right: 'For
                  there is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.' But it is not
                  enough that the way seems right, it must be right in
                     fact. It must not only seem right in their
                     sight, but it must be right in the sight of
                  GOD.
               "His language is, 'If thou wilt diligently hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy
                  God, and wilt do that which is right in his sight.' Exod. xv. 16. And
                  again, 'Thou shalt do that which is right and good in the sight of the
                     Lord, that it may be well with thee.' Deut. vi. 18. And again, 'Ye shall
                  not do after all that ye do this day, every man what is right in his own
                     eyes.' Deut. xii. 8. 'Thou shalt observe and do all these words
                     which I command thee, . . . that it may be well with thee when thou
                  doest that which is right in the sight of the LORD THY GOD.' Deut.
                  xii. 28.
               "God requires certain express and specific acts as the condition of salvation. If
                  man substitutes some contrivance of his own, however honest may be his conviction
                  of the efficacy of the substitute, he will assuredly perish. It may
                     seem right, but the end thereof are the ways of
                  death.
               "God says, 'Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved.' And, to
                  show the nature of the faith, he further says, 'that it works by love
                  and purifies the heart;' that 'If any man be in Christ,' by this faith, 'he is a
                  new creature: old things are passed away, and all things have become new.' 'Except
                  a man be born again, he shall not see the kingdom of God.' This is
                     God's way.
               "But man says, 'If you will confess to the priest, and perform
                  penance, you shall be saved.' Another says, 'If you will be sprinkled in your
                  infancy, and confirmed by the laying on of the hands of the bishop when you are so
                  many years of age, and keep all the outward forms and ordinances of
                  the Church, as set forth in the Book of Common Prayer, you shall be
                  saved.' Another says, 'You have no more to do but to go before the Church, declare
                  your belief that Jesus is the Son of God, be immersed in the
                  baptismal waters, and so wash away your sins, and you shall be
                  saved.'
               "Others, rejecting even the outward and external form of godliness, as well as
                  denying the power thereof, say, 'It is enough that you are correct in your general
                  deportment; that you do not steal, or lie, or cheat, or swear; that you are no
                  murderer or extortioner, nor guilty of any vile, abominable, and outrageous sins.
                  It is enough, in short, that you are a moral and a respectable man.'
               "Thus men substitute their own devices for God's
                     requirements. Thus they forsake the fountain of living waters, and
                  hew out for themselves broken cisterns that can hold no water. Thus they make the
                  gospel of God of no effect, by their own contrivances. They may be
                     honest, they may be sincere: they may really
                     think and be fully persuaded that in these things they have eternal
                  life; but it is still true that he that believeth not on the Son of God shall
                     perish. It is still true that without holiness no man shall see
                  the Lord. It is still true that except a man be born again he shall not see the
                  kingdom of God. It is still true that he who is not renewed in the temper and
                  disposition of his mind; who does not live soberly, and righteously, and godly-
                  -denying himself all ungodliness and every worldly lust—trusting in Christ, and in
                  him only, for salvation, shall not be saved. This is
                     God's way. God's way is the way of penitence and of faith. God's
                  way is the way of love and of obedience. No human substitute will answer in the
                  place of this. 'Thou requirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. The sacrifices
                  of God are a broken spirit; a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not
                  despise.'
               "Man may imagine that many things would be agreeable to God, and would propitiate
                  his favor, but God will himself dictate his own terms of peace; and
                  we have nothing to do but to follow, implicitly, the very letter of his
                     commandments. While we do
                  this we are safe. When we go beyond this, or fall short of this, or turn aside
                  from this, we are in great danger of the wrath of God.
               "'If any man,' says John, 'shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the
                  plagues that are written in this book; and if any man shall take away from the
                  words of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and
                  out of the holy city, and from the things that are written in this book.'
               "'What things soever,' said God to his people, 'I command you,
                  observe to do it. Thou shalt not add thereto, nor diminish
                  therefrom.' And you will find, by examination of the word of God, that some of the
                  most remarkable and most terrible inflictions of summary punishment by the direct
                  interference of the hand of God were for sins of thoughtlessness, forgetfulness,
                  or ignorance; cases in which the offenders might very plausibly have pleaded that
                  they meant no harm; if, indeed, they may not have claimed that they really thought
                  they were doing God service.
               "Look at the case of Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron. God had brought his
                  people out of Egypt, and had led them through the wilderness to the foot of Sinai.
                  There he gave them his law, and there he instructed Moses in what manner he should
                  order the visible worship of God.
               "As they were yet to wander many years, they could build no permanent temple; but
                  in its place they had erected a most extensive and magnificent tent,
                  which they called the tabernacle, or tent of the congregation. Its curtains were
                  of blue, and purple, and fine-twined linen and needle-work, so arranged that it
                  could be easily set up and taken down, and carried with them in their journeys.
                  Within it was the ark of the covenant, covered with gold; the mercy-seat of pure
                  gold; the cherubims of gold overshadowing it with their wings; the table and the
                  bowls and dishes, spoons and covers, all of gold. There was the golden
                  candlestick, the golden altar of incense, and the great altar of burnt-offering,
                  overlaid with brass. All now were finished; so were the splendid garments of the
                  priests—of blue and purple and needlework, woven in with gold; the ephod, the
                  breastplate, and the signet, all were complete. And Moses had set all in order:
                  had consecrated Aaron and his sons; and now, for the first time, the regular daily
                  sacrifice was to be offered up according to the ordinance of God, which was to be
                  repeated till the great Sacrifice should come.
               "When Aaron, assisted by his sons, had offered it, he lifted up his hand towards
                  the people and blessed them. God accepted the sacrifice, and showed himself with
                  most peculiar glory in the sight of all the people. And there came fire from
                  before the Lord and consumed the offering upon the altar.
               "The people had been gazing on this scene with the most intense interest. It was a
                  time of wonderful things with them, and this was not the least wonderful. When
                  they saw it they shouted, and fell on their faces in adoration of the God who had
                  thus accepted their early worship.
               "All this was well. Thus far all had been done as God commanded
                  Moses, and farther than this he had not commanded. But two of
                  Aaron's sons took each of them a censer, and would make an additional
                  offering, which the Lord commanded not, strange fire which God had
                  not directed or required. They were priests as well as Aaron.
                     They had been sanctified and consecrated at the same time that he
                  was; and they might have thought that while the people were in a devotional frame
                  it would be well to continue the worship a little longer, and give it some slight
                  variety. God had not forbidden it, and they might not see any harm in
                  it. But no sooner did they wave their censers before the Lord than God smote them,
                  and they died. Fire came out from
                  before the Lord, and devoured them there in the sight of all the people.
               "A similar event happened to Uzzah some ages afterwards. The same ark which was
                  here for the first time placed in the tabernacle had been carried about with the
                  people in all their wanderings. It had stood in Jordan while the people filed past
                  it on their entrance into Canaan. It had remained there in the place which God
                  appointed, until, for the wickedness of the people, God gave them into the hand of
                  their enemies, and the ark of God was taken. God afflicted the Philistines. They
                  were so much distressed, that of their own accord they sent it home. The cattle
                  which drew it stopped on the borders of Israel, at Bethshemesh; and some years
                  after David the king went to bring it up to his own city with a splendid retinue
                  of thirty thousand chosen men, the flower of his army. They set the ark upon a new
                  cart and brought it out. And when they came to a rough place in the road, the oxen
                  shook the ark, and Uzzah thought it was about to fall, and he put forth his hand
                  and took hold of it to steady it; forgetting that, according to God's law, none
                  but a priest might touch it, and even a priest only after such purification and
                  preparation as God had commanded; and for this forgetfulness, for acting on the
                  impulse of the moment, and touching with unhallowed hand the ark of God, God smote
                  him that he died.
               "And a much more fearful punishment than this was inflicted upon the people of
                  Bethshemesh, where the ark stopped first on its way home from the land of the
                  Philistines.
               "The people received it with great joy, and offered sacrifices and
                  burnt-offerings, but there were some whose unhallowed curiosity led them
                  familiarly to look into the ark. They were probably not conscious of
                  any great crime. It was a strange sight; they had never seen the like before, they
                  might never have another opportunity; and what great harm could there be in simply
                  looking into the ark to see if possible what was the secret of its wondrous power?
                  Yet for this, God smote them that they died, even fifty thousand and seventy men;
                  and the people of Bethshemesh said, 'Who is able to stand before this holy Lord
                  God?'
               "Another instance teaching the same great lesson is to be found in the history of
                  Saul. True, the punishment was not immediate death, as in the other cases; but it
                  was the departure of the favor of God, the loss of his kingdom, and his final
                  death by the hands of the Philistines.
               "This history may be found in the fifteenth chapter of first Samuel.
               "God sent Samuel the prophet to Saul the king with an express and positive
                  command, 'Go, smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them
                  not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and
                  ass.' Saul might have thought the command unreasonable. He might have pretended to
                  be more merciful than his Maker, as some infidels have done since his day, and
                  said that it seemed hard and cruel; but he could not and did not fail to
                  understand the nature and extent of the commandment.
               "He set himself with great earnestness to carry it into execution. He gathered an
                  army of more than two hundred thousand, and set out on his mission. They smote the
                  Amalekites with a great slaughter; but so far from doing all that God
                  commanded, he spared Agag the king, and all the best of the cattle.
               "And Saul returned again to Samuel and said, 'Blessed be thou of the Lord: I have
                  performed the commandment of the Lord.'
               "He thought he had really done all that was important
                   which the command required. He had
                  slain the people, wasted their country, and had only saved a few sheep and cattle,
                  and even these he spared for a religious purpose.
               "'The Lord,' said Samuel, 'sent thee on a journey, and said, Go,
                     utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them
                  until they be consumed. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord,
                  but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of the Lord?'
               "And Saul said, 'Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and
                     have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have
                  brought Agag the king of the Amalekites, and have utterly destroyed
                  the Amalekites. But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the
                  things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto the Lord
                     thy God in Gilgal.'
               "Now, what said the answer of God to him? Was it sufficient that he had done all
                  that he thought important, and in the trifle that he
                  left undone he had so good a motive? Was it enough to say he had done what
                     he thought was for the best? No such thing. 'Nay,' said Samuel,
                  'hath the Lord as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as in
                     obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is
                  better than sacrifice, and to hearken is better than the fat of rams;
                  for rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as
                  iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath
                  rejected thee from being king.'
               "Thus does God teach, both by precept and example, that what he requires is simple
                  obedience to his commandments; that which is right in itself, right in point of
                  fact, right in the sight of God; and not what sinful, ignorant,
                  fallible man may fully believe to be right.
               "God requires right faith, right opinions,
                     right views of duty, and right practice. And he does
                  not leave us to blunder on in the dim light of our own conceptions of
                  duty, but requires us to come up to the truth of the gospel, and walk in the
                  glorious sunlight of his revelation.
               "He requires us to exert our reason, to employ our talents, to use our learning,
                  and by every means which he has placed at our command to learn what is the
                     true meaning of the Word; but when we can once learn what God
                     commands, no reason of expediency, no suggestion of propriety, no
                  authority of Church or state, of kings or bishops, priests or pastors, can justify
                  even a momentary departure from the very letter of his
                  requirements.
               "We may not substitute our reasonings for simple faith, or our self-will for
                  unquestioning obedience. We may not see any good reason
                  for the command; but it is not our province to ask why God commands,
                  but only to inquire if he does command. We may think we
                  see strong and numerous reasons in opposition to what he ordains; but
                  it is not our place to sit in judgment on our Maker. We are but
                  creatures of a day, and we know nothing. he is the infinitely wise
                  God, and knows all things. Our business is not to
                     question, but simply to obey. This is, in fact, the
                  HIGHEST REASON. For if God governs his rational and moral creatures at all, it is
                  as a moral governor. He takes cognizance of their character as right or wrong. His
                  government is a government of law; and being infinitely wise and good, he
                     cannot make a law which is not infinitely right; and, of course,
                     any substitute for it must of necessity be wrong,
                  however better it may seem to our weak and sinful
                  reason. If God is wiser, and holier, and better than we are, then it
                  is in accordance with the highest reason that we should do what is right in
                     his sight, and not what is right in our
                     own sight, or what would seem best according to
                     our judgment. It follows, then, that if he has required that all
                  believers shall be immersed, in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost; if
                     this is the act which was performed by John upon the Saviour; if this was the
                  act performed by his own disciples, under his direction, when the Pharisees heard
                  that he made and baptized more disciples than John; if this is the
                  act which he directed his disciples to perform on all who should believe even to
                  the end of the world, there must be the best of reasons for it; and who will have
                  the temerity to say that it is inconvenient; that it is not
                     genteel, that it is indelicate; or that from
                     any other cause it is IMPROPER, and may be dispensed
                     with? Have men grown better and wiser than their Saviour? Are they more
                  sensitive to any impropriety or any indelicacy than the immaculate Son of God?
                  Will they venture to change the ordinance of God, and
                  make the command of God of no effect by their extreme
                     gentility?
               
               "If God commands immersion, will men pretend to say that
                  sprinkling or pouring a little water on the head is better, because
                  it better symbolizes what God meant to represent? as
                  though they could tell better than God himself what was the most fitting emblem of
                  the thing which baptism was meant to signify.
               "If God commands immersion, and the apostles and early Christians practiced it; if
                  pouring first, and sprinkling afterwards, were substituted in its place by man, by
                  the authority of popes, and cardinals, and bishops, who will have the hardihood,
                  when he has been informed that such is indeed the fact, to continue to obey
                     man rather than God? O, not for worlds would I take such
                  responsibility upon my soul. And whether it be either right or wise
                  to obey man rather than God, judge ye.
               "If God commands to baptize only believers, who will have the
                  presumption to add their infant children also to the law? We may see
                  a hundred reasons for it; but if God commanded it not, do we not
                  stand on the same ground with Nadab and Abihu? To the law and to the testimony: if
                  it be not according to this word, if it be not in the commandment,
                  who will venture to perform in the name of the Lord that which he hath not
                  required at your hand?
               "If God has instituted only ONE ORDER of pastors or
                     ministers of his word, and has placed them all on an equality, who will
                  have the audacity to lord it over God's heritage? to set up a class of bishops
                  above their fellows, to rule and govern in the Church of God according to
                     their sovereign will and pleasure?
               "If God placed the spiritual authority in the Churches, in the
                  assemblies of believers; if they are authorized to receive members,
                  or to expel, who will undertake to improve upon his plan, and place
                  the authority in the hands of sessions of ministers, of class-leaders, of priests,
                  of deacons, of bishops, or popes? Men may see many
                     reasons of convenience or propriety for one course or another; but
                     they have no right to think what is most
                     convenient; they have no right to think what is most proper;
                     they have no right to think what is best fitted to any particular
                  people, or any particular time. All they should dare to do, all they have any
                     right to do, is to determine WHAT DID GOD ORDAIN; what was
                     the teaching of JESUS CHRIST the King; what was the
                  practice of the apostles and those whom they instructed.
               "Do not tell me that these are trifles—that they are non-essentials. The word of
                  God knows nothing of any trifling commandment of Almighty God. I know
                  nothing of any non-essential which makes any part or parcel of God's
                  laws. Who authorized you to determine what part of God's commandment
                  is essential, and what is non-essential? If God thought any thing sufficiently
                  important to mention it in his law, who authorized you to say that it
                  is not sufficiently important to require your obedience?
                  Surely you are not wiser than the Omniscient! Shall I set up my puny intellect,
                  and try to grasp the eternal bearings
                  of the most trifling precept of God's law?
               "But the very expression 'unessential' is, in this connection, a
                  fearful perversion of language; since what God has once commanded
                  becomes, from that very fact, most tremendously essential, for it is terribly
                  essential that God shall be implicitly obeyed. Saul thought, if he slew the people
                  he might spare the cattle. They had not sinned, and it could not be very important
                  about them. This was to him, it seems, a non-essential; but it lost
                  him the favor of God; it lost him his kingdom, and cost him his life. It was not
                  for him to say what he must do, and what he might leave undone. God
                  meant what he said; he meant all he said. He had doubtless a good
                  reason for every part of the commandment, whether Saul could see it or not. It was
                  not for Saul to inquire for reasons; God's command is enough, without
                  reasons; God's command is enough, against reasons; or, rather, God's
                  command is of itself the highest conceivable reason for every thing, small or
                  great, which he commands. Never tell me then of essentials, or unessentials. Every
                  thing that God commands is of necessity essential. There is, there can be,
                     no such thing as an unessential in the religion of the Bible. If it is
                     not commanded, it makes no part of religion. If it
                     is commanded, it is not for you, or me, or any mortal man on
                  earth, or any angel in the court of heaven, to say that it is unimportant and need
                  not be observed.
               "Let us then, my hearers, be careful that we conform both in our religious
                  experience and in our Church order to the very letter and spirit of the law of
                  God. And to do this with any assurance that we are doing it, each man
                  must study for himself this holy book. Here is the law; here is the ordinance.
                  What is not here may be indeed a non-essential. But if it be here, we
                  may not question; we need not ask for reasons; we may not conform to the counsels
                  of priests or of pastors; we want no argument of convenience or propriety for or
                  against. It is enough for us that we can find a 'thus saith the Lord.' But at the
                  same time it is right and necessary that we should not only look but
                     search for the true meaning of God's word. The Saviour says not,
                     Read the Scriptures, but 'Search the Scriptures,'
                  examining with the greatest care and most intense scrutiny. Dig in its mines of
                  wealth, as for hidden treasures; avail yourselves of all the helps within your
                  reach; compare scripture with scripture; obtain the sense of the word as it was
                  written in the original language, so far as it is practicable to do so; and learn
                  it not to gratify a prurient curiosity, but simply that you may obey.
                  Let the language of your heart and of your life be, 'Lord, what wilt thou have me
                  to do?' 'All that the Lord hath said, that we will obey.' 'Ye shall not do that
                  which is right in your own eyes, or in the eyes of priests, pastors,
                  teachers or bishops, cardinals or popes; but ye shall do according to this
                     commandment—that which is right in the sight of the Lord thy God, that
                  it may be well with you, that you may live and not die.'
               "God grant us all obedient hearts, and a true knowledge of his way, for Christ's
                  sake! Amen."
               When the preacher had finished his discourse, he remarked that there was some
                  business requiring the action of the Church. While the congregation sang a hymn he
                  came down from the pulpit, and took his place as president or chairman of the
                  Church-meeting, and announced that at the last meeting a certain brother had been
                  found guilty of unchristian conduct, and he had been instructed to see and
                  converse with him, and ascertain whether he showed any symptoms of repentance, and
                  induce him, if possible, to appear before the Church, and make such confession as
                  would remove the scandal of his
                  offences from the Church He had seen and conversed with him, but he pertinaciously
                  refused to make any acknowledgment of wrong, or to appear before the Church.
               "I move, then," said an aged brother, "that we, as a Church, formally withdraw
                  from him our fellowship, and count him as no longer one of us."
               The motion being duly seconded, and briefly discussed, was unanimously carried,
                  and the clerk so entered it upon his record.
               "If there are any persons present," said the pastor, "who desire to unite with us
                  by letter from other Churches, or by profession of their faith and baptism, let
                  them come forward while we sing."
               One young man came up and took a seat near the chairman. He was much affected by
                  the responsibility which attended the act he was about to perform, and could not
                  restrain his tears.
               When the singing had ceased, the pastor remarked, probably for the information of
                  the strangers who were present, and who might be presumed to be ignorant of
                  Baptist usage, That the word of God required but one prerequisite for admission
                  into the visible kingdom and Church of Christ, and that was personal and
                     saving faith in Jesus Christ the Saviour. But as—according to Romans
                  xiv. 1, "Him that is weak in faith receive ye"—it is the duty of the Church to
                  decide whether they have this faith, and not to reject any, even though their
                  faith be weak, so it is the duty of the Church to refuse those whom she may judge
                  to have no faith. We are, therefore, accustomed to require of those
                  who ask admission among us such an explanation of their views and feelings, and
                  such an account of their religious experience, as will enable the Church to judge
                  whether they truly have any portion of that real and saving faith which works by
                  love, and purifies the heart, and brings forth good fruit in the life. This is the
                  more needful, since persons are often self-deceived, mistaking a temporary concern
                  about their soul's salvation for genuine conversion to God, and the regeneration
                  of the Spirit. We do not receive people into the Church or baptize them in order
                  that they may be born again, and made the children of God; but because they give
                  us satisfactory evidence that they have already been born of God, already belong
                  to Christ, and are already qualified, by their love to him and to his people and
                  his cause, to take part in the privileges and responsibilities of his visible
                  kingdom. Baptism is with us a mere formal, official, and public
                     recognition of a previously existing fact, which is symbolized in
                  the ordinance, namely, that the person baptized has died unto sin, as Christ died
                  for him, and has arisen to a new life of righteousness, as Christ came forth from
                  death.
               He then proceeded to ask the young man such questions as would elicit the evidence
                  of his conversion to God. And when his answers were not loud enough to be heard by
                  all the Church, he repeated the substance of them, so that all might be capable of
                  judging.
               When he was satisfied for himself, he inquired if any member wished to ask any
                  thing more; and, as no one spoke, a motion was made and seconded, to the effect
                  that the pastor be authorized to baptize him, and that after his baptism he be
                  received as a member of the Church. The votes being taken, and found unanimous,
                  the congregation adjourned to the neighboring stream, and there he was baptized in
                  the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost; and on coming up from the water, the
                  members gave him at once the right hand of fellowship, in token that henceforth
                  they counted him as one of themselves.
               Scarcely a word was spoken by our little party as they returned home. The solemn
                  scene which they had witnessed called
                  up to the minds of Mr. Percy and Theodosia a crowding host of sad yet tender and
                  pleasing recollections and emotions, which could find no utterance in words. Dr.
                  Thinkwell was debating in his own mind whether he had not done wrong by refusing
                  at once to go up and unite with this little company, as the true Church of Christ;
                  but while he could see at a glance that it had most of the marks
                  which in the Scriptures they had found to characterize a true Church, yet there
                  were one or two which he could not at the moment, and with the information he then
                  possessed, feel certain that it could certainly claim; but when he came to
                  reflect, he found that these were such as did not depend ENTIRELY
                     upon the Scripture, though they were scriptural marks, and it had
                  been distinctly understood and expressed, when they were making up the tablet,
                  that a true Church, though it must possess these marks, could be easily known
                  without them. These were the last three tests, each of which requires some
                  knowledge of history to make its application certain. He comforted
                  himself, however, with the reflection that one month's delay would not probably be
                  of very great consequence, and would give him the opportunity to make his
                  investigation complete in every particular, and his decision, as a consequence,
                  final, and subject to no annoying doubts; and doubts had thus far
                  been the bane of his religious life—not doubts about his own acceptance in Christ,
                  but uncertainty about what was his duty to believe and to
                  perform.
            
            
               TENTH DAY'S TRAVEL.
               
                  In which the Church is found and identified.
               
               THE Presiding Elder owed his high standing and influence as much to his
                  never-failing suavity of manner, his imperturbable good - humor, and the
                  possession of a comfortable estate, as to his intellectual vigor or his extensive
                  information. He had a ready mind, and could usually give a plausible reply to any
                  argument that seemed to bear against the opinions he espoused; and it was not to
                  him a matter of much moment whether others were satisfied with his reasoning or
                  not. He cared very little, in fact, what opinions other people held: he had no
                  conception that it was of any great consequence whether they or he were right or
                  wrong. Indeed, he thought it doubtful whether all were not wrong. He
                  was sure that there were inconsistencies and contradictions in his system, but yet
                  he had never thought of abandoning the system; and as the more he examined it, the
                  more its inconsistencies appeared, he would not earnestly and carefully look into
                  it, but contented himself by defending those points which others assailed; and
                  this he usually did by a resort to raillery and ridicule, rather than to sober
                  reason and earnest logical argument.
               As he had no hope of making a Methodist of any of the company with whom he met at
                  Dr. Thinkwell's, he was not very much concerned about the result of their
                     investigations, and was prepared to
                  hear, with equal indifference, that they had decided that any one or another of
                  the branches of the Church was, in their estimation, the true
                     ekklesia of Christ.
               It was, therefore, a source of no annoyance to him, when they met at his house on
                  Monday, to hear the Doctor say that he was almost convinced that he
                  had at last discovered the object of his search, in the simple, unpretending body
                  of Christian people with whom he met upon the Sabbath.
               "I grant you," said the elder, "that if your marks or
                     tests are reliable, the Baptist Church has more of them than any
                  other; and I suppose, as the majority of your company are Baptists, you purposely
                  framed them so that they might admit that organization, and exclude all others. I
                  will not contend with you, or these friends, upon the applicability of your tests;
                  but if I had been with you from the beginning, I would have objected to the tests
                  themselves."
               "There were those with us, sir, who did object to them. Nay, we ourselves at first
                  objected to some of them, and we received and entered on our tablet not one until
                  we had carefully examined the word of God in regard to it, and were compelled to
                  admit that it was in strict accordance with the requirements of the Scriptures;
                  and so, I think, you would have done had you been present.
               "In the first place, we could not avoid conceding that the apostles must have
                  known what Christ desired and intended concerning the institution which he called
                  the Church; and that in every thing essential to its existence and its order, its
                  constitution and its membership, they would conform the Churches which they
                  founded to the model they had received from him."
               "Certainly, sir, that is all self-evident."
               "Then, sir, we could not help seeing that the Church of Christ is, and must
                     be now, in its organization and membership, in its constituent
                  materials, and in its constitutionalorder, its permanent offices and
                  ordinances—in short, in all that necessarily belongs to it as a
                     Church, just such an institution as those which the apostles founded,
                  and of which we have the accounts in the New Testament Scriptures."
               "I grant all that," said the Rev. Mr. Stiptain. "I see that, so far, you stood
                  upon solid ground. It is not worth while to question that which is self-evident.
                  But, then, there are still two sources of error into which you may have fallen,
                  and by which your conclusions may have been vitiated. You may, in the first place,
                  have mistaken what was merely accidental and temporary,
                  and, consequently, unessential, for what was designed to be
                  perpetual, and always and everywhere the same. Then, in the second place, you may
                  have misapprehended what were the real characteristics of the
                     apostolic Churches."
               "We were conscious, sir, of both these dangers, and endeavored to guard against
                  them with most scrupulous care. First, in regard to what was really
                     essential, we determined that there could be no Church without
                     members. Members were, therefore, essential. And as these
                  members must have a certain character, there must be
                     something that distinguishes them from other people who are not
                  members. Therefore, we concluded that the character of the membership
                  was another essential, at least in those particulars in which the first Church
                  members invariably differed from those who were not Church members. Thus far,
                  surely we were safe. Then it seemed to us self-evident, as it must have done to
                  you, and every other man of common sense, that there could be no Church without
                  some sort of organization. The members must be united upon some
                  formal basis. The Church was a body—a community, a society. It was not only an
                  assembly, but an official assembly, with certain duties to perform,
                  certain privileges to enjoy, certain objects to accomplish; and this, of
                  necessity, required some basis of organization tion, or, in other words, some written
                  or unwritten constitution. This constitution must determine the
                  conditions of membership, the relations of the members to each other, and of each
                  of the local societies to each of the other local societies and to all of them,
                  and of each and all of them to Christ their head. Whatever the Master determined
                  in regard to such matters as these must evidently be regarded as perpetually
                     essential; for it is inconceivable that human wisdom should
                  ever be able to mend that system by which the apostle says the wisdom
                     of GOD was made manifest to the principalities and powers in heavenly
                  places. You may take our tests now, one by one, and see if any one has reference
                  to a matter that was not essential to the being, the
                     constitution, or the continuance of the Church.
               "Then, to guard against all danger from the other source which you
                  indicate, namely, that we might have mistaken what were the real
                  scriptural characteristics of the apostolic Churches in regard to these essential
                  points, we took care first to exclude all the testimony of mere
                     tradition, or even of history, and then all the assertions of even
                  the most learned doctors, as to what these characteristics were, and
                  regarded no one as established until we had found it for OURSELVES
                  plainly and unmistakably recorded in the word of inspiration. What
                  better could we possibly have done?"
               "But, my dear sir, do you not admit that you are fallible, and that
                  your friends are so; and, consequently, you and they may have
                     thought you found in the Word things which really are not
                  there?"
               "Suppose that were the case. We must still trust to our own
                  conclusions, and act upon our determinations; since God has made each
                  one of us responsible for himself. Religion is a personal and individual thing.
                  Every man must believe for himself, and decide for
                     himself, and carry out in his religious obedience what he
                     himself has found to be the will of God as revealed in his holy
                  Word. The Word is addressed to me and I must study it:
                     I must endeavor to understand it for myself, and for
                     myself I must obey; and if I fail, God will hold me
                  individually and personally responsible. So that, unless I have so
                  much more confidence in my pastor's judgment, or in the judgment of some other
                  person, than I have in my own, that I am willing, uninquiringly, to risk my soul's
                  eternal interest in his hands, I must be governed by my own
                     determination.
               "But, so far from deciding carelessly or inconsiderately, we have explored, with
                  all the helps at our command, every inch of the ground, and are ready now, if it
                  would not take up too much time, to point you to the chapter and verse in which
                  each mark is designated in the Word."
               "If you should do so," said the Presiding Elder, "we would be no nearer an
                  agreement than we are now; for I should doubtless differ with you about the
                  meaning of the passages, or should be disposed to point you to others teaching a
                  very different doctrine."
               "One would think, to hear you talk," replied the Doctor, "that it is impossible to
                  know any thing certainly about what the Scriptures mean; but we have found them
                  very plain, and all the time consistent with themselves, and feel that we may be
                  as certain that they do contain these essential characteristics of a true Church
                  of Christ, as we can be that they contain any system of doctrine or
                  of duty. If they are ambiguous and double-tongued on this subject, it seems to me
                  that men may as well at once despair of finding what they mean to teach on any
                  subject; and as we have examined carefully and earnestly, and found the teaching
                  plain and unmistakable, we must be governed by them, and consequently must abide
                  by the result of the application of our tablet."
               "I see, then, there is no room for argument against the Baptist Church, except on
                  some two or three points."
               
               "It is probably on those same points that I still have some lingering doubts. I
                  saw at a glance, yesterday, that the Baptist Church with which I met consisted
                  only of professed believers. There are none born into it, as Dr.
                  Miller says they are into the Presbyterian Church. There are none
                     baptized into it without their knowledge or consent, and without
                  any previous confession of their faith, as infants are into the Roman Catholic,
                  Episcopalian, Methodist, Presbyterian, Lutheran, and Independent or Congregational
                  Churches. It therefore has the first mark of our tablet. Its
                     members are all professed believers upon Christ.
               "It also has the second. Its members have all been baptized
                     upon a profession of their faith; and as all denominations agree that
                  immersion is baptism, there can be no doubt about this, arising from the nature of
                  the act performed.
               "So, also, it has the third. It is an independent, local
                  organization, a complete Church in itself, and independent of all others."
               "I do not know so well about that," said the Presiding Elder. "I was at a Baptist
                  Association last summer, and for the life of me I could not see much difference
                  between the relation which it sustained to the Churches, and that
                  sustained by a presbytery or a conference. It is merely another name for a great
                  ecclesiastical court. The Methodists have their quarterly conferences, their
                  annual conferences, and their General Conference. The Presbyterians have their
                  presbyteries, and their synods, and their General Assembly; and so the Baptists
                  have their local associations and their general associations, and their great
                  Convention, which, like our General Conference, only meets once in several years.
                  The local Churches are no more independent in the one denomination than in the
                  other. In all they are under the control of the assembled delegates, which
                  represent the combined wisdom of all the Churches."
               This was a new phase of the subject to the Doctor, and he knew not what to say,
                  but turned inquiringly to Mr. Courtney.
               "A Baptist Church," said the schoolmaster, "is, in all that concerns its own
                  members, as independent of the associations as it is of the Methodist conference,
                  or of the grand lodge of Odd-Fellows. When a candidate applies for admission,
                     it alone decides to receive or reject him. When a member has been
                  guilty of some offence, it tries, condemns, and excludes him, and
                  from its decision there is no appeal to any association, local or
                  general, or to any convention or other body outside itself. What it decides is the
                  decision of the Church, and ends the matter, unless it can be
                  persuaded to revoke its decision, as Paul besought the Church at Corinth to
                  restore one whom it had cast out.
               "The Church is under no necessity to belong to any association, and is neither
                  more nor less a Church when she does belong to one. Every association and
                  convention in the land may be dissolved to-morrow, and no single Baptist Church
                  will have either more or less authority than she has to-day. But if you dissolve
                  the Conference, that great ecclesiastical establishment called the Methodist
                     Church is dissolved. Dissolve the General Assembly, and you have
                  dissolved that great confederation known as the Presbyterian Church,
                  and of which each local society is but an integral part. A Methodist
                  society cannot be a Methodist society except as a part
                  of the great body that is subordinate to the Conference. A Presbyterian society
                  cannot be a real Presbyterian society except as it makes a part of that great body
                  which is subject to the General Assembly. Let either withdraw all connection with
                  or deny all obedience to the powers thus set over them, and they become
                  Independents. But a Baptist Church is not of necessity a part of any association
                  or convention. It gives up no part of its authority when it sends a messenger, and
                     retains no more when it refuses or neglects to send."
               
               "What then, let me ask, is the Association, and what relation
                     does it sustain to the Churches and their members?"
               "Some Baptist associations and conventions," replied Mr. Courtney, "are organized
                  for one purpose, and some for another. They are simply voluntary organizations
                  outside the Churches, formed, like a Bible society, or a missionary society, for
                  the accomplishment of some specific object, in which the Churches may or may not
                  take a part, as they see fit. Sometimes this object is to sustain a system of
                  missionary operations so extensive that some concert of action is required to
                  secure its success; sometimes it is to build up and sustain an institution of
                  learning; sometimes to provide young ministers with the means of acquiring a
                  better theological education; sometimes it is for the arrangement and support of
                  some plan for the distribution of the Scriptures or of other religious books;
                  sometimes merely for mutual counsel, and to learn, by messengers or letters, what
                  progress each Church is making, what is the number and condition of her
                  membership, and what she is doing to promote the cause of Christ; and sometimes it
                  combines several or all of these objects. But whatever objects it may have, it
                  never can have the right to interfere with the domestic economy or discipline of
                  the Churches, whether of those who send messengers to it or of others."
               "But let me ask you," said the Presiding Elder, "whether these associations are
                  not often called on to decide cases of difficulty in the discipline of the
                  Churches, which are sent up to them for adjustment?"
               "No, sir; the Churches often send up some notice of cases of difficulty and ask
                  for advice, and sometimes they send questions of difficulty and ask
                  for information concerning matters either of faith or practice, and
                  the advice is given and the information granted; but neither the one nor the other
                  is binding as a law to the Churches Each Church may receive or reject the advice,
                  as it sees best."
               "But may not the association punish the Church by exclusion, if it should fail to
                  heed the advice so kindly given?"
               "That would depend upon the relation of the matter to the constitution of that
                  particular association. You will observe that each association is a
                     voluntary organization. It makes no part of the Churches, and has
                  no control over the Churches, except in regard to such matters as are provided for
                  in the constitution adopted by itself, and voluntarily agreed to by the parties
                  coming in. And no Church has the right to give up to the association
                  any of those prerogatives with which Christ has invested her. She dare not give up
                  to the association, or to the minister, or to anybody else, the power of
                     discipline, which is by the authority of Christ vested in the ekklesia alone. The constitution of the association
                  determines the conditions of membership in its own body: they are as various,
                  almost, as the associations themselves. In some, for instance, no Church can be
                  represented that does not send a certain sum of money; and if she fails to make
                  the contribution, she cannot be a member of the association, but she is no less a
                  Church, and a Baptist Church, than she would have been if she had sent it. In most
                  of the associations, it is made a condition of membership that the Church must be
                  an orderly Baptist Church, and must hold certain doctrines which are
                  common to the denomination. This is essential for the harmonious mutual
                  coöperation of them all in the educational or missionary enterprises for the
                  conducting of which the association was formed. And when they have such a
                  constitutional basis, and any Church has ceased to be an orderly Baptist
                     Church, or to hold the doctrines specified, they may refuse to recognize
                  her any longer as a member. But this is no ecclesiastical, no
                     Church action. It is not an excommunication on the assumed
                  authority of Christ, and exercised by
                  the association as his Church, or as a part or a
                     branchof his Church; it is the mere dissolution of a
                  voluntary compact, when one of the parties has violated the terms of the compact.
                     The authority of the association can never go behind its OWN
                  CONSTITUTION.
               "It may be possible that associations sometimes forget this, and act as though
                  they were not merely advisory, but legislative or judicial bodies; but if they
                  ever do, they violate all regular Baptist usage, and thoughtful and intelligent
                  Baptists will at once disown them.
               "The truth is, the associations and conventions are the mere creatures of the
                  Churches, formed for the more effectual execution of the plans which the Churches
                  entertain for the furtherance of the great objects of Christian benevolence;
                  objects so vast that individual Churches cannot alone accomplish them. What
                     one cannot do, some twenty, or fifty, or a hundred can, and they
                  agree to work together; and that they may work harmoniously together, each sends a
                  delegate or more, as may be agreed upon, to carry funds, assist by his counsel,
                  and bring back word to the Church as to how the work goes on. The association is
                  not, therefore, like the Conference or the Presbytery, the lord and
                     master of the Church, but is its creature and its
                     servant, and so responsible to it for its proceedings, that if it
                  does not conduct in all things in such a way as to give satisfaction, it
                     withdraws from it and gives it no more countenance or support. But
                  whatever the association may be, or whatever power it may have, it is sufficient
                  for our present argument to know that every Baptist Church is so far independent
                  of it, that it is entirely free to unite with it or to stand apart from it. It is
                  no more bound to belong to an association or convention, than it is to represent
                  itself in the Grand Division of the Sons of Temperance, or to belong to the
                  American Bible Society, or the American Sunday-school Union."
               "Then I can understand," resumed the Doctor, "that it has also the fourth mark
                  upon our tablet. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and
                     recognizes no authority but his above its own. If the associations and
                  conventions cannot make laws for it, or exercise discipline for it or in it, I
                  suppose no others will attempt to do so, unless it be their pastors; and I
                  observed yesterday that the pastor took no other share in the exercise of
                  discipline, than simply as the president of the assembly, to put the question and
                  gather the voice of the members. And, moreover, as the pastor is not sent to them
                  by bishops, conferences, or presbyters, but chosen by the Church, and holds his
                  office at their pleasure, he must of necessity be the servant and not the master
                  of the Church. He may rule, but his government must be founded in love, and his
                  control such as the faithful performance of his duties as a good minister of Jesus
                  could not fail to give him in any assembly of earnest-hearted, Christ-trusting,
                  and Christ-loving people.
               "And so, also, I can testify that its members come voluntarily and ask for
                     membership, and are not brought by their parents and compelled to be
                  initiated, even though they cry out against it as loudly as a little babe
                     can cry.
               "Nor do I see any reason to doubt that it holds to the fundamental doctrines
                     of the gospel as its articles of faith. And I have never heard of any
                  Baptist Churches being engaged in persecution, though all the
                  histories of them that I have read are almost continuous records of the distress
                  which they have endured from other so-called Christian Churches.
               "I yield them, therefore, the possession of our fifth and
                     sixth and also our eighth mark; but now when I come
                  to ask about the seventh and the ninth, I must wait for
                  further information."
               "And if you wait," said the Reverend Mr. Stiptain, "until you have traced its
                  continued existence down from the time
                  of Christ, or ascertained its regular succession in a line of Churches that never
                  in any age became even temporarily apostate, you will wait till you
                  have joined the Church above! I have not studied particularly the history of the
                  Baptist Church; but I will venture to promise that if you will make out this
                  regular succession for them, I will at least never laugh at them again as the
                  modern progeny of the Munster men in Europe, and Roger Williams in America."
               "It was our understanding, I believe, when we entered these historical marks upon
                  our tablet," replied the Doctor, "that each of the bodies claiming to be Churches
                  should be considered as having descended regularly from the apostles, unless the
                  contrary should appear from their own records We have seen for each of the others
                  a historical origin in comparatively modern times. We know when the Lutheran, the
                  English and American Episcopalian, the Presbyterian, and the Methodist Churches
                  were first organized. We can trace them back to a certain point, and beyond that
                  they had no separate existence. They were all merged in Rome, and only existed as
                  component parts of the great Roman Catholic antichristian Hierarchy. We have
                  traced this mother of them all back still farther, and found a time long after
                  Christ or the apostles when there was not only no Roman Catholic Church, but
                     no such organization as that afterwards became.
               "Now, if we can do the same by the Baptist Church—it we can go back and find a
                  time since Christ when it had no existence—we must concede that it has not this
                  test. But unless this can be done, we must take it for granted, as we were ready
                  to do in regard to the other claimants, that it has existed from the days of
                  Christ and the apostles. We need not put it upon the Baptists to show the record
                  of every age, and trace upon it the history of their Church."
               "In the sense in which you employ the term," said Mr. Courtney, "there is not and
                  never has been such a thing as 'the Baptist Church.' There cannot be.
                  Each Baptist Church stands alone and independent of all other Baptist Churches. As
                  the Church at Jerusalem, and the Church at Antioch, and the Churches of Judea, and
                  Galilee, and Samaria, were not combined together in any great
                     confederation called the Church, but each one was
                     the Church, in and of itself, and neither more nor less the
                     Church for the existence of the others, so every particular Baptist
                  Church that is organized upon the same model, having the same sort of members, the
                  same organization, the same ordinances, and the same doctrines, is itself
                     the Church. It is not a confederation of Baptist
                  Churches nor a continued succession of Baptist Churches that is the
                  Baptist Church; but every local, independent body of baptized believers, holding
                  the doctrines of the gospel, and having the ordinances of the gospel, that now
                  exists, or has at any time or in any place existed, is and was the Baptist
                     Church in the only sense that there can be any such thing as the Baptist
                  Church, or that there was any such thing as the Church in the days of
                  the apostles. And now with this understanding of the term, I am ready to take
                  either plan to show our continuity from the time of Christ. I will prove, by the
                  most unexceptional historical authority, by the concessions of our bitterest
                  opponents and persecutors, that our Churches have existed in every
                  age. Or I will undertake, as a shorter method of reaching the same conclusion, to
                  show that there is no other history of their first beginning but that which we
                  have in the New Testament itself. And if I can do either one or the other, it will
                  be more than enough. Now, to settle the question at once, I will take it upon me
                  to trace the Baptist Churches on the chart of history, either backwards or
                  forwards. We may begin here to-day and trace them back to John in Jordan; or I
                  will begin in Jordan and trace them downward till to-day. I anticipated this
                  difficulty. I knew that a true Church could be known without this test, and would not have introduced it but at
                  the suggestion of the Episcopal bishop; but since we have it, I will not shrink
                  from its most rigid application. Try us as you will, and you will not find us
                  wanting in any scriptural feature. I have here a brief sketch of dates and
                  authorities, which I have arranged merely to assist my memory, and by its aid I
                  will give you such testimony as cannot fail to satisfy any reasonable man that
                  Churches have all the time existed, having every essential
                  characteristic of the little assembly with which we met on yesterday. I do not say
                  they were called Baptists, or even Anabaptists, which is an older
                  name, as applied to the Churches; but names are nothing. It is the
                     thing, and not the name, that we are looking for; and the
                     thing is an official assembly of Christian people, having each of
                  the marks which we have recognized as the characteristics of the Churches of
                  Christ in the apostles' days. Their names have usually been given by
                  their enemies, and do not designate their character. Their names have
                  been changed for them in almost every century, but their peculiar
                     character has been the same, and by this, not the
                  name, we must discover and point them out upon the page of history."
               "I think," said the Doctor, "I would a little prefer to begin at the present, and
                  trace them backwards. Thus we did with the other claimants, and found them all to
                  end in Rome, at the time of Luther's Reformation."
               "Very good: this is a little past the middle of the nineteenth century. I suppose
                  no one will question the existence of the Baptist Churches now, and since the year
                  eighteen hundred.*
                   Both in this country and in Europe, there are hundreds, nay, thousands of
                   Churches, and hundreds of thousands of members.
               
                  
                  *A. D. 1700 to 1800.
               
               "Nor will it be doubted that they existed in the eighteenth century. A letter,
                  dated Philadelphia, August 12th, 1714, written by a Baptist minister, Mr. Able
                  Morgan, to a friend in England, will show their existence in this country at that
                  time: 'We are now,' he says, 'nine Churches;' alluding to those in the vicinity of
                  Philadelphia. 'In these Churches there are alone five hundred members, but greatly
                  scattered,' etc. (Crosby, vol. i., p. 122.) And we will presently see
                  that there were many of them long before this in the New England States. I suppose
                  it will hardly be necessary to do more than to say that hundreds of our Churches
                  existed from A. D. 1700 to 1800, in the British Empire, and on the Continent.
                  Their history in that country is too recent and too well known to admit of cavil
                  or denial. But when we enter the next age in our travels up this stream of time,
                  there may possibly be need of reference to authorities. It was during this century
                  that the first Baptists came to America.*
                   They were members of a Church of English Baptists in Holland,
                  having by persecution been driven out of England, and who came over here in 1620.
                  Cotton Mather, the historian of the early colonists, says of them, 'Having done
                  with the Quakers, let it not be misinterpreted if into the same
                  chapter we put the inconveniences which the New England Churches have suffered
                  from the Anabaptists, albeit they have infinitely more of
                  Christianity among them than the Quakers. . . . Infant baptism hath been scrupled
                  by multitudes in our days, who have been in other points most worthy Christians,
                  and as holy, watchful, fruitful, and heavenly people as, perhaps, any in the
                  world. Some few of these people have been among the planters in New
                  England from the beginning, and have been welcome to the communion, which they
                  have enjoyed, reserving their particular opinion to themselves.'
               
                  
                  *A. D. 1600 to 1700
               
               "'But at length it came to pass that while some of our Churches used, it may be, a
                  little too much cogency toward the brethren which would weakly turn
                  their backs when infants
                  fants were brought forth to be baptized in the
                  congregation, there were some of these brethren, in a day of temptation, broke
                  forth into schismatical practices that were justly offensive to all the Churches
                  in this wilderness.'
               "'Our Anabaptists, when somewhat of exasperation was begun, formed a Church at
                  Boston, on May 28th, 1665, besides one which they had before at
                  Swanzey. Now they declared our infant baptism to be a mere nullity, and they
                  arrogate unto themselves the title of Baptists, as if none were
                  baptized but themselves.'
               "In another place, Mr. Mather says that more than a score of
                     ministers had come to the country who were so obnoxious to the
                  body of the colonists that they could not be tolerated, but that some of them were
                  deserving of a place in his book for their piety. 'Of these there were some godly
                     Anabaptists,' whom he mentions by name. (Crosby, vol.
                  i., pp. 112-116.)
               "The existence of our Churches in England, during this century, is attested by
                  several books which were published by their ministers. One in 1615, to prove that
                  every man has a right to judge for himself in matters of religion, and show the
                  invalidity of the commonly received baptism; and for their opinions on several
                  points of doctrine they refer to their Confession of Faith, published in 1611.
                  They published another book defending Baptist sentiments, in 1618, and many from
                  that time on. But they have not only given this testimony concerning themselves,
                  but we can trace them in the laws enacted for their destruction, in
                  their petitions and complaints, in the records of the
                     courts and the prisons in which they were condemned
                  and confined; and one of them, at least, was burned at the stake. It
                  was about the middle of this century, moreover, that Cromwell made religion free,
                  and thousands of Baptists came forth into the light, who before had been obliged
                  to hide from the sword of persecution 'Persons of this persuasion,' says Russell,
                  'filled the army with preaching, and praying, and valiant men.' When Cromwell
                  afterward, under the influence of Presbyterians, determined to repress the
                  Baptists, they sent him a memorial or remonstrance, in which they ask 'if Baptists
                  have not filled his towns, cities, provinces, islands, castles, navies, tents,
                  armies, and court.' But under Charles the Second, they were again subject to
                  persecution, but still continued to protest against the Hierarchy, and the other
                  corruptions of Christianity.
               "Now let us go back another century.*
                   We have found Baptists in great numbers from 1600 to 1700. How is it from
                   1500 to 1600?
               
                  
                  *A. D. 1500 to 1600.
               
               "The Baptists in the early part of this century were for the most part called
                     Lollards in England, and Anabaptists and Mennonites
                  upon the Continent. But they were Baptists in fact, though known by
                  other names. They were in England many of them foreigners who had been led to
                  expect, from the rupture between King Henry the Eighth and the Pope, that they
                  might there be free to enjoy their religion; a mistake of which King Henry
                  hastened to cure them, as soon as he became the Head of the
                  Church.
               "Styrpe, the historian of those times, says, 'The Baptists pestered the Church,
                  and would openly dispute their principles in public places. In 1539, a general
                  pardon was granted to all religious offenders, but the Baptists were
                  specially exempted. So numerous were they, and so rigorously persecuted, that the
                  records show that over seventy thousand of them were, in King Henry's
                  time, punished by fines, by imprisonment, by banishment, or by burning.
               "On the Continent, their existence is shown by the persecutions which they
                  suffered from the Lutherans, as we have already seen.
               
               "Then let us go back another hundred years. How was it from 1400 to 1500?*
                   We have now you see, gone back of the times of the
                     Reformation, which occupied the early part of the century we have
                  just past. We are now where we can find no Church of England, no Lutheran, no
                  Presbyterian Churches. The Protestants had at this time not yet protested, and
                  were quietly resting in the polluted arms of their mother of Rome.
               
                  
                  *A. D. 1400 to 1500.
               
               "Now if we still find the Baptists outside of Rome, refusing to recognize her as a
                  Christian Church, denouncing her as the very Antichrist foretold in the Word, and
                  by her denounced and persecuted, we will have proved, at least, this
                  much, that the Baptist Churches are older than Protestantism in any
                  of its sects or creeds, and that they did not, as charged by Dr. Featly, and
                  reiterated by almost every Pedobaptist writer since his day, begin with the madmen
                  of Munster."
               "Why do you not go back at once to Peter Bruis and his co-laborer Henry?" asked
                  the Rev. Mr. Stiptain. "Dr. Wall, you know, admits that they were
                  Baptists, and expressly says, 'they were the first preachers that
                  ever set up a Church or society holding that infant baptism was a
                  nullity, and rebaptizing such as had been baptized in infancy.'"
               "I thank you for your suggestion, sir, though this will take us back at one step
                  for over two hundred and fifty years. But in all those two hundred and fifty years
                  the followers of Peter and Henry can be traced as Baptists, and their
                  societies as Baptist Churches. It was some years before 1150 that
                  they appeared.*
                   We learn their doctrines from their enemies. One who wrote against them,
                  the Catholic Abbot of Clugny, says that they taught that 'infants are not baptized
                  or saved by the faith of another, but ought to be baptized and saved by their own
                  faith; or that baptism without their own faith does not save, and that those that
                  are baptized in infancy, when grown up should be baptized tized again, nor are
                  they then rebaptized, but rather rightly baptized.' (Magdeburg Centuriators, Cent.
                  xii., c. 5, p. 332. Ivimey, vol. i., p. 22.) The Lateran Council,
                  under Pope Innocent the Second, in 1139, according to Dr. Wall, did condemn Peter
                  Bruis and his follower Arnold of Bresica, for rejecting infant baptism. The
                  followers of these men were called Petrobrussians, Henricans, and Arnoldists, and
                  a portion of them, at a later day, Lollards, from one Lollardo, who
                  brought their doctrine into England. They and those who held the same doctrines,
                  namely, the Paternines and Puritans, or Cathari, from the Province of Bulgaria,
                  spread over the south of Europe, and, notwithstanding all the terrific
                  persecutions to which they were subjected, maintained their separate societies
                  even in parts of Italy. They owned the Scriptures for their only rule of faith and
                  practice, administered baptism only to professed believers, and that by one
                  immersion. See Orchard's History of Foreign Baptists, p. 160.
               
                  
                  *A. D. 1150 to 1500
               
               "It is stated by the learned Magdeburg Centuriators, and by Wall, that the
                  followers of Peter Bruis, and of Henry, were about eight hundred thousand strong
                  when Waldo, of Lyons, appeared and joined them, a few years after their
                  condemnation by the Roman Catholic Council. He became a great leader among them,
                  and thence, some say, they were called Waldenses, or Lyonists. Before the close of
                  this century they had become a mighty host, and embraced among them persons of
                  rank and power. In France, where they were strongest, they were called Albigenses.
                  The ordinary means for the extirpation of the heresy not availing for their
                  destruction, Pope Innocent the Third determined to bring to bear upon them all the
                  military power of his dominions. He raised an army of from three to five hundred
                  thousand men, and sent for their destruction. Two hundred thousand fell in one
                  short campaign in the year 1209. An other army was sent the coming year: cities
                  and towns were burned, the country
                  desolated, and every man, woman, and child that could be found, destroyed or
                  banished. This was repeated year by year until the death of Innocent in 1216, and
                  the same sanguinary course was followed up by his successor until about 1229, when
                  the heretics had been so completely crushed that scarcely any could be found to
                  glut the Roman thirst for blood. A great multitude had, however, escaped to other
                  lands and carried the true gospel with them. They gathered in Switzerland and
                  Germany, and among the valleys of the Pyrenees; and after all the wicked waste of
                  life for the quarter of a century, it is conceded that there still remained at
                  least eight hundred thousand of these persecuted people, concealed in
                  various countries of Europe. (Perin.)"
               "But is it certain," asked Theodosia, "that these Albigenses were Baptists?"
               "It was for denying infant baptism and the sacraments of the Roman Catholic
                  hierarchy," replied Mr. Courtney, "that they were condemned. Their own confessions
                  of faith, the accusations of their enemies, and the concurrent testimony of
                  historians, all unite in showing that they were Baptist Churches. See
                     Orchard's History of the Foreign Baptists pp. 226-229.
               "The same people in England were called Lollards, from the eminent Walter
                  Lollardo, who left his native land to preach this gospel to the British; but the
                  doctrines had gone there before him Archbishop Lanfrane wrote a book against them
                  shortly after the doctrine was condemned by the Lateran Council in 1139. About
                  this time Lingard says a colony of people came into England belonging to the
                  fanatics who invested the north of Italy, Gaul, and Germany, and who were called
                  Puritans. Usher calls them Waldenses. They said they were Christians, and followed
                  the doctrines of the apostles; they denied purgatory, prayers for the dead, and
                  invocations to the saints. It was from these people that Wyckliffe first, and
                  Tyndale afterwards, were indoctrinated in the truth. History records the death of
                  thousands of them up to the very time of the Reformation, as it is called, under
                  Henry the Eighth, though by that time their name had been changed to
                  Anabaptists.
               "We might trace the same people in Bohemia, in Poland, in Moravia, and elsewhere;
                  but it is not needful for our purpose. We have seen that, according to the
                  testimony of Dr Wall, there were Baptist Churches from 1139 or before, when Peter
                  Bruis and Henry set them up. Wall says they were the first, but I
                  will show you now that Wall was mistaken. These men laid no claim to the
                     originating of a system. They but embraced and preached doctrines
                  already known, and united with a people who were already in being, and had
                     long been persecuted for the maintaining of the very same
                     doctrines and practices. If we will go back to the time of Pope Stephen
                  the Second, about 750,*
                   we will find in history numerous accounts of a people called Paternines, who denounced infant baptism, and maintained that a Church should
                  consist only of Christian people, and must not persecute, and who baptized by
                  immersion, as indeed all parties did at that time. (See
                     Robinson's History of Baptists, pp. 428-430.) They were called
                  Paternines from the patience with which they suffered for the cause of Christ. In
                  1040 they had become very numerous. Their principal city was Milan. They had no
                  connection with the Church of Rome. They rejected the authority of
                  the Fathers. They said the sign of the cross was the mark of
                     the Beast. Their Churches were numerous all over Europe, their meetings
                  being held during times of persecution in the residences of the brethren, and it
                  was to these people that Peter Bruis, and Henry, and Arnold of Bresica joined
                  themselves, and gave their learning and their eloquence to advance their cause.
                  They, indeed, became so conspicuous among
                     
                     *A. D. 750 to 1150.
                   them that portions of their communities were called by their names; but though
                  they were the means of giving them new names, they did not give them
                     new doctrines. They left the Church of Rome, and
                  joined these people who were never in the Church.
               "But the Paternines were no new sect. They had simply been new
                     named, for they belonged to the people who were before called Paulicians, or Publicans, and who began about the year 650,*
                   and who are well known to the history of those times. Robinson says they
                     rebaptized those who came to them by immersion.
                  Mosheim says they rejected the baptism of infants, and Dr. Allix
                  calls them Anabaptists. Because they had no rulers and
                  condemned the hierarchy, they were sometimes called the Acephali,
                  from a Greek word signifying the Headless. So numerous were these
                  people, that even after portions of them had come to be called Paternines and by
                  other names, one hundred thousand martyrs of them died in nine years
                  by the most horrid tortures, during the reign of that female devil incarnate, the
                  Empress Theodora."
               
                  
                  *A. D. 650 to 750
               
               "I am glad," said Mrs. Percy, "that her name was not Theodosia."
               "From Italy," continued Mr. Courtney, "the Paulicians sent colonies,
                  according to the testimony of Mosheim, and Gibbon, and others, into almost every
                  nation of Europe, and formed a number of religious assemblies, who adhered to
                  their doctrine, and who suffered every conceivable indignity from the Church of
                  Rome. In Italy they were called Paternines, or Puritans; ('Paterni,'
                  or 'Cathari,' from a Greek word signifying the pure;) in France Bulgarians, because they came from Bulgaria, and sometimes Publicans
                  and Boni-Homines, or the Good Men; but they were mainly known as the
                     Albigenses, from Alby, the name of a chief town in
                  the region where they dwelt.
               "But though the Paulicians were called a new sect, and did have in
                  one sense an independent origin, from one Constantine, who was afterwards called
                  Sylvanus, and who was converted to Christ by reading the Gospels and the Epistles
                  of Paul, which were brought to him out of Syria by a deacon of a Christian Church,
                  and after his conversion became a noted preacher of the truth, until he was, at
                  the instigation of the Greek Church, stoned to death; yet his doctrine was not
                  new, and before his day and after it, there were thousands who, like
                  him, rejected infant baptism and the authority of the hierarchy, and were in all
                  essential particulars Baptist Churches of Christ.
               "For if we now go back to the year 300,*
                   we will find all the Churches to be Baptist Churches in
                  regard to baptism, except a few in Africa, though many of them had
                  become apostate in regard to the episcopacy.
               
                  
                  *A. D. 300 to 650
               
               "The accession of Constantine to the imperial throne in 306 has commonly been
                  regarded as a blessing to Christianity. It was, in fact, so far as human wisdom
                  can discover, its greatest curse. It degraded and polluted the Church by combining
                  it with the state, and it made that thing which people have ever since called
                     the Church, the murderer and persecutor of the followers of
                  Christ. It was a matter of policy in Constantine to profess the Christian faith.
                  He did it to cement his worldly power. He was no friend to Jesus. He had never
                  learned of him how to be meek and lowly. He knew nothing of the humble and
                  forgiving and long-suffering spirit of the true disciples of Jesus. Like Henry the
                  Eighth of England, his ambition was to become the HEAD of the Church;
                  and as its head, so soon as his ecclesiastical power was firmly established, he
                  adjusted his creed and issued his edicts of conformity. His clergy were
                  notoriously corrupt, and the people who would not submit to their rule were
                     most grievously oppressed; yet they
                  continued to ask, 'What has the Emperor to do with our religion?' The
                  councils of prelates by imperial authority strove in vain to bring into subjection
                  the Cathari, the Novationists, and the Ærians, (not Arians,) who opposed their doctrines and rejected their authority, and continued
                  to baptize anew all who came from their apostate communion. For they regarded the
                  so-called Catholic Church, now claiming all the power of Christ's kingdom, but as
                  a worldly community, while Christ's Church must, they
                  said, consist only of the converted. There was not at the beginning
                  of this period in the Eastern Churches any question concerning
                     baptism, for all parties immersed, and we have no
                  record of the baptism of a child until 370, when the son of the
                     Emperor Valens was thought to be dying, and was baptized by command of
                  the emperor. Nor is there any official requisition for the baptism of children
                  until the decree of the Council of Carthage in 401. But we have nothing to do with
                     this establishment, world-wide as it was, which recognized the
                  emperor for its head. By that one act, if in no other way, it had
                     apostatized from Christ. We must look for the Baptist Churches
                  among those who would not even on pain of death yield to its usurped authority,
                  who would not obey its decrees, and who held on to the liberty with which Christ
                  had made them free. We have nothing to do with the so-called Arian heresy, or its
                  Trinitarian opponents. The apostate Church of the emperor may fight
                  its own battles—they do not concern the Churches of Christ. These never came
                     into the ecclesiastical establishment called the Church by those who
                  write Church history. That establishment was mostly made up of those
                  who had apostatized before Constantine entered it and was elevated to its
                  headship. They had already recognized the authority of bishops and councils to
                  make laws for them. They had already become worldly and corrupt, and there were
                  those who had long refused communion munion with them on this account. They said
                  to any who came to join them, 'If you be a virtuous believer, and will concede to
                  our confederacy against sin, you may be admitted among us by baptism, or, if any
                  Catholic has baptized you before, by rebaptism.' It was on this account that they
                  were at a later day called Ana-Baptists, or rebaptizers. They soon
                  obtained the name of Cathari, or Puritans, because they thus insisted
                  on maintaining the purity of their communion. There is mention made
                  of these people in France fifty years before the time of Constantine. Their
                  Churches were scattered all over the Roman empire when Constantine came to the
                  throne. Constantine sought to unite them with the Catholics, but they obstinately
                  refused to pollute their communion even at the command of the emperor, who then
                  professed to be their friend. He therefore turned against them, destroyed their
                  books, drove them out of their Churches, and, by his oppressive measures,
                     scattered them as precious seed among those countries in the west
                  of Europe where they afterwards produced those trees of righteousness, the
                  Paternines, Albigenses, Waldenses, and others of the same faith and order, though
                  called by various names. Claudius Seysell, the popish archbishop,
                     traces the rise of the WALDENSIAN HERESY to a pastor named
                     Leo leaving Rome at this early period, and taking up his abode in the
                  valleys.
               "The succeeding emperors continued the persecution which Constantine began. In
                  375, the Puritan ministers were banished by Valens; but Theodosius, a few years
                  after, restored their liberties, and showed them so much favor, that at the close
                  of this century they had several Churches in Constantinople itself, under the very
                  eye of his imperial majesty.
               "In 412, however, their Churches were closed again, and by a decree of the Lateran
                  council, in 413, they were banished as heretics, and the emperor doomed all who
                  should rebaptize or be rebaptized, to death. Under this
                  law, so like to that of the Lutheran
                  senate, in 1522, many were slain, and others driven into the valleys of Piedmont,
                  where they were after wards called Waldenses. Another council, at Mela, in 416,
                  held them accursed as denying that infant baptism conferred
                  forgiveness and salvation, and two years after, the curse was repeated by a
                  council at Carthage. These persecutions drove them into retirement, and from the
                  patience with which they endured it, caused them to be called Paternines, and
                  under this name we have already traced them. The accounts given of them by
                  Eusebius and by Socrates, the historians of the early Churches, enables us easily
                  to identify them, even after their name was changed.
               "Now, to complete our chain, we have only to go back to the time when Jesus began
                  to be about thirty years old, and bring down our history to the year 300.*
                   John at that time had prepared or was preparing a people made ready for
                  the Lord. He rejected all who did not give evidence of true repentance, and
                  profess their faith in him who was to come. After Jesus had been baptized by him,
                  he, by his disciples, continued to baptize. Out of these a Church was formed, as
                  the model for others. The apostles formed many like it in various places. We have
                  already examined them, and found that they were Baptist Churches, with every
                  single mark included in our tablet. Such Churches as these would, of course,
                  succeed them for a time. We have already ascertained that neither infant baptism
                  nor the rule of prelatical bishops was recognized among them for many years; and
                  that when they were sought to be introduced, there were some at least, whose
                  history we have traced, who would accept of neither. All the so-called Christian
                  Churches, for the most part, were separate and independent
                  organizations for the first three hundred years; the exceptions being, as we have
                  seen in our examination of episcopacy, in the cities where the hierarchy first
                  began by the recognized supremacy of the pastor of the first  principal
                  Church. Infant baptism, we have seen, was not so much as mentioned till the time
                  of Tertullian, and then promptly rejected; nor have we any record of the baptism
                  of any infant till after Church and State were joined. In those
                  early days all baptized by immersion, as all historians
                  concede; so that we have no possible room to doubt that from Christ to the
                  separation of the Puritans or Novationists, the great multitude of the Churches
                  were independent local societies, consisting of professed believers who had been
                  baptized by immersion upon a profession of their faith, and of course had
                  voluntarily united with them; and that almost all these societies rejected the
                  authority, in matters of religion, of all lawgivers but Christ, and were, in fact,
                  just such communities as the Baptist Churches are now."
               
                  
                  *A. D. 30 to 300.
               
               "Your succession is very ingeniously made out," said the Reverend Mr. Stiptain,
                  "and it seems a pity to sever such a beautiful chain, and let all fall that hangs
                  upon it; but the truth of history requires it; and much as I regret the ruin in
                  which it must involve your whole scheme, I must call your attention to one
                     very important fact, which you, undesignedly no doubt, forgot to
                  mention."
               "And what is that, pray?"
               "It is, simply, that the Waldenses were not Baptists, but, like the
                  Methodists and Presbyterians, baptized their infant children."
               "That would not, even if it were true," said Mr. Courtney, "sever the chain of our
                  succession; for I have shown that the first Churches, for two hundred
                  and fifty years, did not baptize infants, and were in other things like Baptist
                  Churches. Then I have shown that similar Churches, disowning the hierarchies and
                  denying all baptisms but that administered by themselves to professed believers,
                  called Novationists and Cathari at first, and Paternines afterwards, continued to
                  exist down to the time of Peter, and Henry, and Arnold, and that they afterwards became so numerous under the name
                  of Albigenses as to require immense armies, year after year, for near
                  a quarter of a century, to extirpate them in France alone These Albigenses, I have
                  shown, were Baptists; and it was by one of these that their doctrines were brought
                  into England. The Lollards were descendants of these people, and the
                  Lollards continued to be drowned and burnt in England for denying infant baptism
                  and the hierarchy, up to the time of the Reformation, and were in all respects
                  similar to these ancient Baptist Churches. If those upon the continent ever
                  apostatized, and fell into the baptism of infants, it was not till after
                     they had sent believers' baptism into England, and any defection
                     afterwards would not affect our cause.
               "Let it be true that some of the people called Waldenses by others,
                  or even by themselves, did baptize infants; it is enough for us that there were
                  others of them who, as Dr. Wall says of the Petrobrussians, whom he counts as a
                  sect of the Waldenses, 'did reckon infant baptism as one of the corruptions of the
                  Church of Rome, and accordingly renounced it, and preached only adult baptism.'
                  (Hist. Inf. Bap., part ii., chap. 7, §§ 5, 6, 7.) Mosheim says of Peter Bruis,
                  that 'it is certain that one of his tenets was, that no persons whatever were to
                  be baptized before they were come to the full use of reason.'
               "Brandt, in his History of the Reformation, says that 'some of the
                  Waldenses rejected infant baptism;' and this is certain from the testimony of
                  those who killed them because they did deny infant baptism. Now if
                  there were some of them who were Baptists, and Lollardo was of these,
                  as he must have been, since those whom he instructed in England were afterwards
                  killed for entertaining Baptist sentiments, it does not matter if many others of
                  them were degenerate.
               "But besides this, we have traced the Baptists of England only through this
                     one channel: we could trace them with equal ease through the
                  Mennonites, and these we can trace back to the times of the apostles by a channel
                  which has no suspicion of infant baptism. Then we have not yet examined the
                  history of the original baptism which is said to have been brought
                  into England by Paul himself, and which certainly was introduced at a very early
                  day, and before the corruptions which made the Eastern Churches apostate.
               "But merely for your satisfaction, I will show you that you have been imposed upon
                  when you were taught to believe that the main body of the so-called Waldensian
                  Christians baptized their infants, or were in any thing other than true Baptist
                  Churches according to our tablet."
               "I do not know," replied the Presiding Elder, "how that can be, when we have their
                  own express declaration in their official Confession of Faith."
               "In a body of people so numerous as the Waldenses," said Mr. Courtney, "comprising
                  not only many separate communities, but extending over different countries, and
                  speaking various different languages, we may well suppose some diversity of faith
                  and practice; and if some one of these communities should for
                  themselves have stated that they believed and practiced infant baptism, it would
                  not follow that all the Waldenses did so. But I doubt if you can show any such
                  concession."
               "Most certainly I can, sir. It is in the confession entitled 'A Confession of
                  Faith of the Waldensian Brethren,' and is addressed to King Uladislaus, in
                  Hungary, presented in 1508; and which has been so often quoted and referred to,
                  that I wonder how a gentleman of your intelligence upon these subjects could be
                  ignorant of it."
               "I am not ignorant of the existence of the document you refer to; but I do not
                  believe that it was ever made by Waldenses. It was made, probably, by
                  some of the followers of Huss, commonly called Calixtines."
               
               "But why do you not believe they were Waldenses?"
               "Simply because, in the first place, the document itself declares that
                     they WERE NOT. It begins by informing the king that 'they
                     were not Waldenses, though by their enemies they were
                     called Waldenses, and persecuted as such.' Now, the
                     real Waldenses were not very likely to be ashamed of their
                     name, nor to deny it, even to shun persecution and death. In the second
                  place, there is a real Waldensian confession, of a later date, which is in direct
                  opposition to this. In this which you refer to, and which is called
                  theirs, they are made to say that 'children, by an apostolic canon, as Dionysius
                  writes, ought to be baptized;' but in the later, and real one, they say, 'By this
                  ordinance we are received into the holy congregation of God's people,
                     previously professing our faith and change of life;' and not a
                  word is there about the infants. (Jones's Ch. Hist., vol. ii., pp.
                  59, 60. Orchard's Hist. F. B., p. 278.) But even allowing it to
                  have been made by true Waldenses, it is evident they must have
                     changed their sentiments and practice; as nothing can be more
                  certain than that at one time they were destroyed as pestilent
                     Anabaptists."
               "But did they not readily unite with Luther and Calvin, and become incorporated
                  into their Churches?"
               "It is certain," replied the schoolmaster, "that many of them did.
                  They were not all prepared to suffer death for their religion, either
                  at the hands of Luther or the pope; and large bodies of them came over to Luther,
                  and more still to Calvin; yet so many remained faithful, that Mosheim says
                  'prodigious numbers of them were devoted to death in its most dreadful forms.' 'In
                  almost all the countries of Europe an unspeakable number of Baptists
                  preferred death in its worst forms to a retraction of their sentiments.' 'They
                  suffered death,' says the same author, 'not on account of their being considered
                  rebellious subjects, but merely because they were judged to be incurable
                     heretics; for, in this century, [the sixteenth,] the error of limiting
                  the administration of baptism to adult persons only, and the practice of
                  rebaptizing such as had received the sacrament in infancy, were looked upon as the
                  most flagitious and intolerable of heresies. Those who had no other marks of
                  peculiarity than their administering baptism to the adult, and their excluding the
                  unrighteous from the external communion of the Church, ought to have met with
                  milder treatment.'
               "But now let us suppose, for a moment, that all the Waldenses had from the first
                  been Pedobaptists; then it would follow of necessity that there were some
                     other people who had existed and been persecuted all the time as
                  Anabaptists; for Cardinal Hosius, the Roman Catholic president of the Council of
                  Trent, expressly recognizes the existence of some such people, and
                  his authority in the matter is unquestionable: 'If the truth of religion were to
                  be judged of by the readiness and cheerfulness which a man of any sect shows in
                  suffering, then the opinions and persuasions of no sect can be truer or surer than
                  those of the Anabaptists; since there have been none, for these
                     twelve hundred years past, that have been more grievously
                  punished.' This was in 1570, and twelve hundred years back carries us to the
                     very year in which the first infant baptism is
                  recorded. And Mosheim says, 'that when the Mennonites [or Dutch Baptists] assert
                  that they are the descendants of the Waldenses, Petrobrussians, and other ancient
                  sects, who are usually considered the witnesses of the truth in the
                  times of universal darkness, they are not entirely mistaken; for, before Luther
                  and Calvin, there lay concealed in almost all the countries of Europe many persons
                  who adhered tenaciously to the doctrines of the Dutch Baptists.' Some of the
                  followers of Menno, who had collected and reörganized the ancient Waldensian
                  Baptists, settled in Holland. After the Reformation in England, some who embraced
                  Baptist sentiments, but had among them no one whom they considered
                  
                     DIAGRAM OF CHURCH HISTORY.
                     EXPLANATION OF THE DIAGRAM.
                     THE period which has elapsed since his Church was organized by the Lord
                        Jesus shortly after A. D. 30 down to the present time, we have divided into
                        FIVE great historical periods, as indicated by the braces (})
                        in the left-hand column, which represent the succession of the Baptist
                        Churches.
                     The 1st of these periods, it will be seen, extends from the year 30 to 250,
                        during which time almost all the Churches had the marks
                        required by our tablet. The figures after pp. refer to the pages of this
                        work in which their history is briefly recorded.
                     The 2d period extends from 250 to 650. P. 466.
                     The 3d from 650 to 1150. P. 465.
                     The 4th from 1150 to 1500. P. 462.
                     The 5th from 1500 to the present time. P. 458.
                     In each of these periods we have distinctly, though very briefly, shown the
                        existence of the genuine and true Christian Church, conforming in all things
                        to the Scripture pattern, and called by the names indicated in the Diagram.
                        If our space would permit, we could make their history much more complete.
                        Our object is merely to prove their existence.
                     The GREAT APOSTASY, foretold in the Scripture as the Mystery of Iniquity,
                        the Man of Sin and the Son of Perdition, and Antichrist, is represented by
                        the lines that go off at right-angles from the year 250 to 400. This
                        Apostasy was of gradual growth, and was mainly characterized by the
                        substitution of the Hierarchy, or the rule of the bishops and councils, for
                        the independence of the Churches, by the union of Church and State under
                        Constantine, and the introduction of unauthorized members by the baptism of
                        infants, or rather of minors. It claimed to be the Holy
                        Catholic or universal Church, and from the first became a
                           bloody persecutor of those in the left-hand column.
                     A little after 1500 it gave off, during what was called the Reformation, the
                        bodies which were organized respectively by Luther, Calvin, and King Henry
                        VIII., since known as the Lutheran Church, the Presbyterian Church, and the
                        Church of England. These have each given off several others, only a few of
                        which are indicated on the Diagram, with the dates of their
                        organization.
                  
                   sidered as authorized to baptize, sent
                  to Holland one of their number to be baptized and qualified; and thus true baptism
                  came into England again from these Mennonite Churches. And it was
                  from these Churches, and not directly from England, that the first
                  Baptists came to this country and formed the Churches at Swanzey and Boston, as we
                  have seen.
               "It does not follow that because some in England sent to these ancient Churches
                  for their baptism, they might not have found it nearer home. There is, to say the
                  least, a very strong probability that the original, pure Christianity
                  brought into England in the apostles' days was never quite
                  extinguished, but that true Churches have existed, at least in Wales, from the
                  very first; and it is certain the Lollards found a lodging there. In this country
                  we have had ministers from England and Wales, and from Germany and Holland,
                     all bringing with them the baptism which came down from the
                  ancient Churches."
               "I think," said Mr. Percy, "I could make this matter plainer by means of a
                  diagram, or chart, which will bring the prominent facts before the eye at one
                  view. Thus, let the straight lines upon the left of the page show the succession
                  of true Churches, and those on the right the several departures from them, while
                  on the margin we may put the dates of each important change."
               (See Diagram of Church History, on page 476.)
               "Now, if you, or any one else, should feel dissatisfied with this brief but
                  comprehensive history of the Baptist Churches, let me commend to your reading,
                  Jones's Church History, Robinson's History of Baptism, De Anvers' History of the
                  Baptists, Ivimey's History of English Baptists, Crosby's History of the English
                  Baptists, and last, and best of all, because they contain the essence of their
                  statements in a smaller compass, those monuments of historical industry, Orchard's
                  History of the Foreign Baptists, and Orchard's History of the English lish
                  Baptists. These works are the result of thirty years of careful and
                  earnest study by one who had opportunities which very few possess of learning all
                  that can now be known concerning these so long despised and persecuted people; and
                  it is hard to say whether he deserves more credit for what he has written than for
                  what he has left out. For if he had recorded all, his work would have been too
                  large for many to read, or any to remember; but, with most admirable judgment, he
                  has selected what was of most importance, and has arranged it with so much skill,
                  and authenticated every statement by such abundant references to the most
                  unexceptionable authorities, that it will be difficult for any candid mind, after
                  reading these two works, to doubt that there have been Baptists all the time, from
                  the day that Jesus was baptized (eis) into the
                  river of Jordan, as recorded by Mark, in the beginning of the gospel of Jesus
                  Christ, down to the present time.
               "Now, as the present Baptists hold the same doctrines, have the same organization,
                  the same officers, and the same ordinances with the first Churches,
                  and as we have traced such all the way, independent of the great apostasy, we may
                  give them the last mark also. And therefore Mr. Percy may now finish his diagram
                  of the Baptist Churches."
               "I do not know so well about that," said Theodosia, smiling. "I well remember when
                  my husband, for a little time at least, had very serious doubts as to whether
                  these were true Churches of Christ, upon a ground very different from any you have
                  mentioned He will recollect that one of his friends almost persuaded him that
                     those could not be the Churches of Jesus Christ which starved his
                  ministers, or, what is the same thing to the Churches, compelled them to forsake
                  their sacred calling and engage in other labors for their subsistence."
               "Yes, indeed," said Mr. Percy, "I do remember it; and
                  
                     DIAGRAM OF THE BAPTIST CHURCHES.
                     
                        MARKS OF A TRUE CHURCH.
                        
                        MARKS OF THE BAPTIST CHURCH.
                     
                     
                        1st. It consists only of professed believers in Christ.
                        
                        It consists of those only who have publicly professed their faith in
                           Christ.
                     
                     
                        2d. Its members have been baptized upon a profession of their
                           faith.
                        
                        After public profession of their faith they are immersed, and so
                           baptized.
                     
                     
                        3d. It is a local organization and independent of all others.
                        
                        Each Church is like those formed by the apostles, independent of all
                           others.
                     
                     
                        4th. It has Christ alone for its King and Lawgiver, and recognizes no
                           other authority but his above its own.
                        
                        No priests, bishops, or confederacy can give laws to it, or control
                           its discipline. It calls none on earth its master.
                     
                     
                        5th. Its members have become such by their own voluntary act.
                        
                        Its members were not brought in by others in their infancy, but came
                           in of their own desire.
                     
                     
                        6th. It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                        
                        It holds as articles of faith the fundamental doctrines of the
                           gospel.
                     
                     
                        7th. It began with Christ, and has continued to the present
                           time.
                        
                        The apostolic Churches were Baptist Churches, and just such have been
                           continued, even until now. See Historic. Chart, p. 477.
                     
                     
                        8th. It never persecutes for conscience' sake.
                        
                        It has in every age been the advocate of religious freedom; has asked
                           it for others as well as itself; and though always persecuted, never
                           persecutes.
                     
                     
                        9th. No apostate Church can be a true Church of Christ.
                        
                        It has not apostatized, nor has it ever been connected with the great
                           apostasy.
                     
                   though, for my own part, I have found nothing to complain
                  of, yet, to this day, I cannot help feeling a sort of doubt as to any Church which
                  I find pursuing this suicidal and ignoble policy. They may be right in doctrine,
                  but they are surely very wrong in practice."
               "If you will take the trouble to observe a little more carefully," replied Mr.
                  Courtney, "you will find that whenever and wherever a minister has had the
                     faith and courage to risk all and give himself
                     entirely to his proper work, he has been provided for. The Lord
                  does not intend that his ministers shall get rich; and when they
                  leave their work to engage in money-making, he often blasts all their hopes, in
                  various ways of his providence. But he does intend and has plainly and repeatedly
                     promised that they shall have enough for the supply
                  of their necessities; and this they will have in the ministry, if
                  they will devote themselves entirely to it. I am ready to assure to
                  any young man whom the Lord has qualified and called to preach, a comfortable
                  support, provided he will give up all his powers of body and mind to the one work
                  of his calling. I can do so because the Master has promised, and I can do so
                  because I have been watching for years, and have not found his promise fail to any
                  one who kept himself within the order of God's providence—that is, who was ready
                  to go and labor wherever God by his providence seemed to call him. I could, for
                  the encouragement of such, relate the personal history of several, the beginnings
                  of whose ministerial life were most unpromising, but who had determined to know
                  nothing but Christ, and do nothing but preach; and are now enjoying in a green old
                  age as many comforts as their neighbors, who have made it the business of their
                  lives to get rich. But while I say this, I know very well that our Churches are
                  most shamefully negligent of their duty. They give nothing near what they should
                  give for the support of the ministry; but for this there are two reasons besides
                  the parsimony simony of the brethren. I
                  grant that this is one; and if it is not repented of, God will shortly take our
                  candlestick away and leave our Churches to die out, as some Baptist Churches are
                  already doing, and many others have done in the last thirty years. But I do not
                  believe this is the principal reason. That is to be found in the
                     early history of our Churches, when we were taxed to
                  pay other preachers than our own, to preach another gospel which we did not
                  believe. The people felt the injustice of such taxation; our ministers declaimed
                  against it; and, to show that they were of a different class, that
                     they did not care for the pay, so that they had their love and
                  saved their souls, they took a pride in preaching without compensation, and
                  Providence, as it then might have been their duty, enabled them to do
                  it, and yet not to suffer. The people came gradually to think that what was thus
                  done for a particular purpose, under peculiar circumstances, was something
                     required by the gospel, and that ministers were bound
                  to preach without any regular provision for their support. The
                  ministers had only done as Paul did—waived their rights for the time being, that
                  their gospel might not be reproached. Paul labored for his own support and that of
                  those who were with him. Sometimes he would not be chargeable to the Churches for
                  his support, but he was careful to maintain all the time that he had a
                     right to it. He was careful to show that it was the express command of
                  the Lord Jesus that 'those who preached the gospel should live by the gospel;' and
                  that he and others might forbear working if they would. It is not unlikely our
                  preachers might have been less careful in this particular, and so the people came
                  to feel at length that preachers should have no regular support, and if any one
                  claimed it they were disposed to class him with their oppressors, whom they
                  counted but as wolves, seeking to devour their substance, or, at least, mere
                  hirelings who labored only for the pay.
               "Such opinions and feelings, deeply infused into a great mass of minds, would be
                  eradicated but slowly, even by the most sedulous efforts of succeeding ministers.
                  But here is the third reason: These efforts have been wanting. I
                  blame our preachers more than our people for this state of things.
                  They have pandered to this corruption in the Churches, instead of boldly reproving
                  it as they should."
               "But, my dear sir, to have boldly reproved it would have lost them the confidence
                  and the affections of the flock, and prevented them from doing good in any other
                  way."
               "So perhaps it might if they had begun by complaints concerning
                     themselves. I would not have a minister always grumbling about
                     his own support. To do so will leave the impression
                  that it is for the gratification of his selfishness that he seeks to
                  cure others of being selfish. A wise man who understands human nature will adopt
                  another and more successful plan. He will show the people that the
                     Lord requires them to give, not to him, the preacher,
                  but to the cause of Christ. He will present frequent opportunities to
                  them for giving to others than himself. He will plead the cause of
                  the destitute, and of the heathen. He will present the claims of missions, and of
                  Bible societies, of Sunday-schools, and other objects of Christian benevolence,
                  until they have acquired a habit of giving. He will explain the
                  teachings of the Word concerning ministerial support, and thus preach the
                     whole gospel, but without making any application of it to
                     his own case. Let him do this, and his people will spontaneously
                  begin to feel that they have done too little for their own pastor. Let
                     all our ministers begin at once to preach thus
                     prudently and kindly the whole gospel, and the
                  Churches will soon show that the fault was less in them than in the preachers
                  themselves that they have been apparently so parsimonious."
               
               "I have already seen enough in my own experience," said Mr. Percy, "to convince me
                  of the truth of what you say."
               "I wish," said Dr. Thinkwell, "we could have finished this conversation last
                  Saturday, so that I might have gone into the water with that young man who was
                  yesterday baptized. My last lingering doubt is gone. I thank
                  you all for the patience with which you have borne with my slowness of faith, and
                  the readiness with which you have assisted my inquiries."
               "We are more than repaid," said Mr. Percy, "by the happy result."
               "And I," said the Reverend Mr. Stiptain, "am heartily glad that you have come to
                  some conclusion. Of course I had rather you had determined to be a Methodist; but
                  any branch of the Church is better than none. Let every man be fully persuaded in
                  his own mind, and be able to give a reason for the faith that is in him. I trust,
                  sir, you will now enjoy that peace which arises only from a consciousness of doing
                  your duty."
               "I wish, my dear friend, I could persuade you to unite with me, and do your
                     duty also."
               "O, as to that, I have always enjoyed myself very well among the Methodists. You
                  know I glory in the name, and among them I expect to live and die; but I
                  acknowledge, after what I have learned of the Baptist Churches, I shall hereafter
                  feel a little more respect for them than I have."
               On their way back to the Doctor's residence, Theodosia reminded him that as they
                  had now finished the investigation of the question, What is the Church? he was
                  under promise to relate to her the means, or rather the arguments by which he was
                  recovered from his infidelity and atheism, and led to receive the Scriptures as
                  the word of God.
               But as this conversation has no connection with the subject treated of in the
                  present volume, we must postpone it for the present,*
                   and only inform the reader that Doctor Thinkwell was baptized into the
                  little Church at their next regular meeting, much to the joy of all God's people
                  there; and that our travelling party pursued their way to the mountains, where Mr.
                  Percy's strength was soon so far restored that he felt that he must hasten back to
                  his flock in the South, where he is still residing, preaching Jesus, beloved by
                  his people, and admired by the world. Theodosia is indeed his helper in the Lord.
                  Her influence is felt in every department of his work; nor does he preach less
                  touchingly, or labor less hopefully, since the dear little boy came to amuse his
                  hours of relaxation with its childish prattle. Mrs. Ernest and old Aunt Chloe are
                  the assistants of Theodosia in her domestic labors, and all of them delight to
                  show how much they love their Saviour and his Church.
               
                  
                  *The reader will find it in the forthcoming volume styled "The Infidel's
                     Daughter."
               
            
         
      
      
         
         
            COMPREHENSIVE INDEX
            TO THE ARGUMENT IN THE FIRST VOLUME OF THEODOSIA; OR, THE TEN NIGHTS'
               STUDY OF SCRIPTURE BAPTISM.
            
               PART I.
               Baptism, the Act, or "Mode," pp. 25-188. 
                     what? the question stated, 26.
                     value of Lexicons, 29-31.
                  
               
               Baptizo, meaning of, 26-156. 
                     generic or specific, 26.
                     transferred, not translated, in King James's version, 27.
                     its meaning fixed by the Lord himself, 20.
                     testimony of the Lexicons, 28-32, 40. 
                           of Dr. Albert Barnes, 42-54.
                           of Dr. James McKnight, 55-58.
                           of Dr. Thomas Chalmers, 58.
                           of Calvin, 64.
                           of Prof. Stuart, 61, 134.
                           of John Wesley, 61-63.
                           of Martin Luther, 63.
                        
                     
                  
               
               Baptism of John immersion or not immersion? 80-92. 
                     
                        with water versus in water, 83-92.
                     of the Holy Ghost, 96-107, 151-153.
                     of the three thousand, 108-110, 114-120.
                  
               
               Baptizo, New Testament use of, peculiar, 124-156. 
                     Luke xvi. 24; 134.
                     John xiii. 26; 135.
                     Rev. xix. 13; 135.
                  
                  
                     cups, beds, and tables, Mark vii. 4; 135-142. 
                           washing after market, 137-142.
                           Matt. iii. 5, 6, 16; 142, 143.
                        
                     
                     Paul baptized standing, Acts ix.; 145, 147.
                  
               
               
               Baptism of Cornelius, "forbid water," 148. 
                     of the jailer, Acts xvi. 33; 149.
                     of the eunuch, 150.
                  
               
               Nebuchadnezzar dipped in dew, 181.
               Baptizo, argument from its figurative use, 151-155. 
                     in the sea, baptized unto Moses, etc., 152-154.
                     buried with Christ, 154.
                  
               
               Baptism, HISTORY of the change from immersion to pouring and sprinkling,
                  160-188. 
                     testimony of Mosheim, 163
                     of Neander, 164.
                     of Coleman, 164.
                     of Scharf, 165.
                     of Justin Martyr, 167
                     of Tertullian, 168.
                     of D'Aubigné, 168.
                     of Moses Stuart, 169.
                     of Dr. Samuel Miller, 170.
                     of Martin Luther, 170.
                     of John Calvin, 171.
                     of Dr. Whitby, 171.
                     of Thomas Stackhouse, 171.
                     of Bishop Taylor, 171.
                     of Richard Baxter, 172.
                     of Yeipeg and Dermout, 173.
                     of Bishop Bossuet, 173.
                     of the Edinburgh Encyclopedia, 175.
                     of Dr. Wall, 176-178.
                     of the American Encyclopedia, 178.
                     about Roger Williams, 187.
                  
               
            
            
               PART II.
               Infant baptism, or subjects of baptism, 201-341. 
                     not commanded in Scripture, 201-219.
                     not in the commission, 202-207.
                     "Suffer little children," etc., Matt. xix. 13, 14; 207-210.
                     "You and your children," Acts ii. 38, 39; 210-212.
                     "Else were your children unclean," 1 Cor. vii. 14; 212-218
                  
               
               No example of infant baptism, 220-240. 
                     The family of Cornelius, 227.
                     of Lydia, 228.
                     of the jailer, 231.
                     of Crispus, 232.
                     of Stephanas, 235.
                  
               
               Circumcision no ground of infant baptism, 279-299.
               Infant baptism a wicked falsehood, 302.
               Infant baptism is wicked rebellion against God, 304.
               Infant baptism leads to persecution, 308.
               Infant baptism is impious sacrilege, 309.
               Infant baptism, when and how introduced, 320-341.
            
            
               PART III.
               Close Communion considered, 352-389. 
                     of Presbyterians, 356-365.
                     required by Christ, 365-382.
                  
               
               Claims of Christian courtesy, 382-380.
               Claims of Church discipline, 385-388.
            
         
         
            
            INDEX
            TO THE ARGUMENTS IN THE SECOND VOLUME OF THEODOSIA ERNEST.
            
               The use of fictitious narratives to illustrate or enforce religious truth, pp.
                  1-10.
               The characteristics of a true Church may be known by the Scriptures,
                  16-24.
               The Church has no branches, 17-21.
               The CHURCH of Christ is not the same as the KINGDOM of Christ, 32-50,
                  68-70.
               What is the KINGDOM? 33.
               The kingdom did not exist before Christ came, 34-36.
               The nature of the kingdom, 36-38.
               Terms of citizenship in the kingdom, 39-44.
               A visible and an invisible kingdom, 44-46.
               The CHURCH is the executive of the visible kingdom,
                  47-49.
               Common meaning of the word Church, 70.
               Scriptural meaning of the word Church, 70-76.
               Proof that the Church was an independent, local assembly, 76-90.
               There is no UNIVERSAL Church, 90-130.
               "On this rock," (Matt. xvi. 18,) 97-104.
               "Tell it to the Church," (Matt. xviii. 15, 20,) 104-117.
               Other texts commonly thought to refer to a Church universal, 117-130.
               How shall we find the true Church? 133.
               It does not consist of believers and their children,
                  134-154.
               No society of unbaptized Christians can be a Church, 154.
               The Church is a local organization, 156.
               It is independent, not subject to any conference, presbytery, or the like,
                  158.
               It is a voluntary society, 161.
               It holds to the faith of the gospel, 162.
               It is an official body, 163.
               It is executive, not legislative, 165.
               Does history or the Bible decide what is the Church? 168-172.
               True value of historical tests, 173-176.
               The TABLET, or nine short Scripture rules by which to try a Church, 183,
                  184.
               The ministers or officers of a Church, 186.
               THE CHURCH OF ROME TRIED, 187-256.
               Rome has changed Christ's baptism, and substituted sprinkling and pouring for
                  immersion, 187-194.
               Did the Roman Catholic Church begin with Christ, 199.
               Episcopacy, the origin of, 208-241.
               Rome apostate, 245.
               The Protestant Churches consequently without baptism or ordination,
                  246-256.
               DIAGRAM of the Roman Catholic Church, 257.
               Infant baptism, when introduced, 258-271.
               THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND TRIED, 273-304.
               DIAGRAM of the Church of England, 305.
               METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH TRIED, 306-401.
               Are infants members? 307-326.
               Are seekers members? 326-329.
               The independence of Methodist Churches, 330-341.
               Have they Christ alone for king? 342-374.
               Teaches baptismal regeneration, 378.
               History of Methodist Church, 394-399.
               DIAGRAM of Methodist Church, 402.
               PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH TRIED, 403-415.
               DIAGRAM of Presbyterian Church, 415.
               LUTHERAN CHURCH TRIED, 416.
               DIAGRAM of Lutheran Church, 417.
               Luther a persecutor, 418-422.
               The Madmen of Munster not Baptists, 421.
               CONGREGATIONAL CHURCHES TRIED, 422.
               DIAGRAM of Congregational Churches, 424.
               Avoidable ignorance no excuse for sin, 426.
               No non-essentials in religion, 439.
               The Church in session, 441.
               THE BAPTIST CHURCHES TRIED, 445.
               DIAGRAM of Church History.
               DIAGRAM of the Baptist Churches, 480.
            
            THE END.
         
         
            
            CATALOGUE OF THE SOUTH-WESTERN PUBLISHING HOUSE.
            J. R. GRAVES.—W. P. MARKS.—S. C. ROGERS.—E. F. P. POOL.
            GRAVES, MARKS & CO., NASHVILLE, TENN.
            
               PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS.
               
                  THE TENNESSEE BAPTIST.
                  ISSUE 12,000 WEEKLY.
                  J. R. GRAVES, EDITOR,
                  ASSISTED BY AN ABLE CORPS OF CONTRIBUTORS, AMONG WHOM IS G. H. ORCHARD OF
                     ENGLAND, THE MOST EMINENT CHURCH HISTORIAN OF THIS AGE.
                  This paper contains the largest amount of original matter of any paper in the
                     South or South-west. Its character is well known as a staunch
                        Baptist paper.
                  It is either edited with unusual ability, by the editor and his correspondents,
                     or the doctrines and practices it advocates are tremendously true,
                     since it has obtained an unparalleled circulation in a short time, which is
                     rapidly increasing.
                  It is designed to make the Tennessee Baptist just such a paper as the
                     denomination needs, and the exigencies of the times demand. One paper of
                     universal circulation in the South and South-west, for purposes of
                     intercommunication, is greatly needed. The Tennessee Baptist is becoming that
                     paper.
                  TERMS.—$2.00 per annum, in advance; $3.00 if payment is delayed
                     longer than twelve months.
               
               
                  
                  THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST REVIEW.
                  (ISSUE 1500.—QUARTERLY, $2 00 PER ANNUM.)
                  
                     Editors—J. R. GRAVES, Nashville. J. M. PENDLETON,
                        Union University, Tenn. N. M. CRAWFORD, University of Miss.
                  This work entered upon its third volume January 1st, 1857. It has already
                     secured a high position as a Theological and Literary work; and as a staunch
                        denominational publication, it has no equal. The publishers
                     will spare no expense in the typographical department, and confidently appeal
                     to the Baptist ministry and membership, South, to extend to it a liberal
                     patronage.
                  The following notices reflect the opinion of the Baptist press, South:
                  
                     Biblical Recorder, N. C. The work is decidedly a Baptist work:
                     it sets forth and defends their views of scriptural doctrine with a clearness,
                     pungency, and power which we have seldom seen equalled. We most heartily
                     recommend this Review as an able exposition of Baptist orthodoxy.
                  
                     Religious Herald, Richmond, Va. SOUTHERN BAPTIST REVIEW.—We have
                     received No. 1 of Volume II. 
                        of of
                        of
                      this Review—Graves, Marks & Rutland, Publishers, Nashville—Elder
                     J. R. Graves, J. M. Pendleton, and N. M. Crawford, D.D., Editors. It is much
                     more Baptistic than the Christian Review, being devoted more exclusively to
                     Baptist literature, to the maintenance of our tenets and practice, and to
                     refuting the objections of gainsayers. It is an able and practical work, is
                     doing good service, and ought to receive a liberal patronage.
               
               
                  THE CHILDREN'S MONTHLY BOOK.
                  EDITED BY UNCLE ROBIN AND AUNT ALICE.
                  $1 00 PER ANNUM—IN ADVANCE.
                  JUST THE THING FOR YOUR CHILDREN!
                  
                     "Tender Grass for little Lambs."
                  This is a Southern publication, beautifully illustrated, and edited by Uncle
                     Robin and Aunt Alice, with special reference to its moral and intellectual
                     influence upon the young mind.
                  It is pronounced the best publication for children that has yet appeared
                        in America. Specimen copies sent if desired.
                  Address GRAVES. MARKS & CO., Nashville, Tenn.
               
            
            
               BOOK PUBLICATIONS.
               THE GREAT IRON WHEEL;
               OR, METHODISM SHOWN TO BE REPUBLICANISM BACKWARDS AND CHRISTIANITY
                  REVERSED.
               BY J. R. GRAVES, Editor of Tennessee Baptist.
               576 pages; price $1.00, sent by mail; or $75 by the hundred copies.
               This work in twelve months from its publication reached its twelfth edition
                  without the usual appliances of publishers to push their publications. The demand
                  for it is still unabated, and is exhausting an edition per month.
               It is considered in all respects the most thorough review and expose
                  of government and peculiar doctrines of Methodist Hierarchy ever published. It is
                  not an attack upon individuals, but upon principles—the
                  POPISH features of American Methodism.
               Every American Churchman and Christian ought to read this work
               
                  OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                  
                     New York Recorder and Register, New York. This volume is a
                     popular and effective onslaught upon Methodism as taught in the
                     Discipline, and illustrated practically in the South-west. * *
                  This book illustrates the whole subject of Methodism as seen from such a
                     position and under such lights, and makes an exposure which cannot but be felt
                     with immense damage to a system so utterly without warrant of scripture or
                     antiquity. A system of bishops, like a system of monarchy, must be very old to
                     be respectable.
                  
                     The Watchman and Reflector, Boston. In contrasting "Cook's
                     Centuries" with the GREAT IRON WHEEL, the editor says: "In such a 'formal
                     estimate of Methodism,' it is certainly surprising that the author, [Mr. Cook,]
                     who is an able defender of Congregational polity, should have passed over as he
                     has the governmental framework of the Methodist Church— its essential monarchy
                     and consequent incongruity, as flourishing in the soil of democratic
                     institutions. This argument, which the author of the 'Great Iron Wheel'
                        has used with decided cogency and effect, is displaced in Dr. Cook's
                     book by points such as we have enumerated, but which all put together have, as
                     compared with this one, far less metal and weight."
                  
                     Report of Committee appointed by the Publication Society of N.
                        Ca. With greatly increased confidence in the truthfulness of the
                     positions discussed in the Great Iron Wheel, and more than ever convinced that
                     its circulation will have a tendency to correct error, and to disseminate
                     sound, scriptural views upon the subject of Church Government,
                  
                     We remain your faithful servants,
                     JAS. McDANIEL,
                     A. McDOWELL,
                     G. W. JOHNSON.
                  
               
            
            
               
               THEODOSIA ERNEST; OR, THE HEROINE OF FAITH.
               Volume I.; pp. 400; $1.
               THEODOSIA ERNEST; OR, TEN DAYS' TRAVEL IN SEARCH OF THE CHURCH.
               Volume II.; pp. 485; $1.
               IT has been said by those well acquainted with our religious literature, that
                     no two denominational works of equal ability and value have
                  ever been written in America. The first volume treats of the Act and Subjects of
                  Baptism, in connection with the Conversion and Baptism of Theodosia,—and of
                  Restricted Communion,—to relieve the doubts of several of her near relatives and
                  friends. The second volume treats exclusively of Church Polity; or
                  which, of all the rival sects in Christendom, is the Church of Christ, or like the
                  church at Jerusalem, or the churches of Judea, Samaria, and Galatia, or are they
                  all equally scriptural churches? The essential characteristics of a scriptural
                  church are first ascertained by a thorough examination of the Scriptures, and the
                  organization, polity, doctrines, and history of all the so-called "evangelical
                  churches," tried by these scriptural characteristics. It is a text-book on Church
                  Polity, as volume first is upon the Act, the Subjects of Baptism, and the
                  Communion Question. The logic is irresistible, and the style of the works of such
                  inimitable freshness, that whoever reads one page will never stop satisfied short
                  of a perusal of the entire series. Christians of all names read them with equal
                  avidity.
               If it is said they are novels, that the characters and narrative part
                  are fictitious, let it be answered, So are the parables of the Saviour,—of "The
                  Prodigal Son," of "The Rich Man and Lazarus," of "The Wicked Husbandmen;" let it
                  be answered. So is the narrative of Bunyan's immortal work, and of Milton's
                  Paradise Lost. The Saviour's hearers understood as well as Bunyan's and Milton's
                  readers understand, perfectly well, that these were fictitious narratives,
                  employed to gain attention to a real truth. Such fiction is no falsehood. It is
                  not intended to deceive, and it does not deceive. Its object is accomplished when
                  it has won the attention to the truth of which it is made the vehicle.
               These volumes are admirably suited to be the pastor's assistants. With a little
                  effort to bring them to the notice or place them within the reach of his people,
                  they will be read, and especially by the young, when no other religious book would
                  be opened.
               They are beautiful gift-books from parents to children, and from one Christian
                  friend to another. Their interest will continue while opposing sects exist.
               14,000 copies of the first volume were sold in the first six months after its
                  appearance, and it is believed that the second volume will obtain a still larger
                  circulation in the same period.
               The argument is complete in each volume, upon the subject treated, so that either
                  may be read without the other.
               
                  From the Biblical Recorder, N. C.
               
               THEODOSIA; OR, THE HEROINE OF FAITH.
               We have read with no little interest this most excellent book. It possesses all
                  the seriousness of truth, in tracing step by step the progress of a sincere
                  inquirer after her duty. We can no better express the high estimate we place upon
                  it than by saying, that if its author should ever write another book, it will call
                  forth his highest skill to make one that shall equal in interest his Theodosia
                  Ernest.... The spirit which Theodosia discovers in her search for the right
                  way—her struggles in breaking from old connections—the giving up the church in
                  which she was early received, in order to discharge a duty, will find a response
                  in the bosom of thousands who have been similarly situated.
               
                  From the True Union, Baltimore.
               
               This work first appeared in the Tennessee Baptist, and now comes out in a handsome
                  volume, with a portrait of Theodosia. It is a series of strong and conclusive
                  arguments upon the mode and subjects of Baptism and the close communion question,
                  with a very slight veil of fiction to impart additional interest to the work.
               
                  From the Texas Baptist.
               
               As thousands fall in love with the "Heroine of Faith" upon first sight—as the
                  publishers find it almost impossible to supply the demand for the book—as it has
                  produced such an immediate and wide-spread enthusiasm—the philosopher, as well as
                  the theologian, should inquire into the causes of its powerful effects. So far as
                  we have seen, the multitude of critics and reviewers have only admired the
                  foliage, flower and fruit, without analyzing the soil, or seed, or root. Why will
                  Theodosia accomplish immensely more good than any other book upon the baptismal
                  controversy?
               We believe it is Macaulay who says that the Pilgrim's Progress will be read by the
                  child for the story, by the Christian for the piety, and by the genius for the
                  literary merit. This will equally apply to Theodosia. We ventured to prophesy
                  several years since of a class of teachers who shall arise from the future, to
                  adapt moral instruction to grown people, in the same natural and attractive style
                  in which Sunday-school books interest and instruct children; and the author who
                  may, with graphic power, represent ethics and theology in persons, acts, and
                  scenes, will be read by excited millions, and will bless each delighted reader. To
                  prove this statement we need only refer to Bunyan. This prophecy, which we uttered
                  several years since, has its fulfilment commenced in Theodosia. We hail "The
                  Heroine of Faith" as "the morning star" of that brighter day, when moral truth
                  shall be addressed to the aptitudes and capacities of the mind in histories,
                  memoirs, biographies—in parables, narratives, illustrations—in books adapting
                  "moral instruction to grown people in the same natural and instructive style in
                  which Sunday-school books interest and instruct children."
               
                  From the Commission, Richmond, Va.
               
               [This notice was written by A. M. Poindexter, Editor.]
               THEODOSIA ERNEST; OR, THE HEROINE OF FAITH. Nashville, Tenn.: Graves, Marks &
                  Rutland. New York: Sheldon, Blakeman & Co.
               We have received from the author this interesting and valuable work. We read
                  portions of it as they were issued in the Tennessee Baptist, and since the
                  publication of the book had occasionally looked over some of the chapters. Since
                  receiving the copy from the author, we have found time to give it a thorough
                  perusal. We had before been pleased with what we had read, but had no just
                  appreciation of the interest and value of the work. It attracts the mind with the
                  fascination of a novel, but the interest of the narrative only fixes the attention
                  upon the argument. The author has evidently no mean capacity as a writer of
                  fiction, but he displays even superior ability for close analysis and correct
                  reasoning. It is one of the fairest and most conclusive, and certainly the most
                  attractive, arguments we have read upon the subjects—Baptism and Communion. It is
                  written in a kind and courteous spirit. There is nothing to offend the most
                  refined taste or delicate sensibility.
               Buy the book and read it, and we are sure you will desire to promote its
                  circulation.
               
                  From the Home and Foreign Journal.
               
               [Review by Elder James B. Taylor, Richmond, Va.]
               This is one of the books to be unconditionally recommended.
               
                  From the Louisiana Baptist.
               
               It teaches the truth in a forcible and agreeable manner. In point of argument few
                  works on baptism excel it, while it has the advantage of being so plain that all
                  can comprehend it. It is, upon the whole, a masterly production—a remarkable
                  book.
            
            
               
               PENDLETON'S WORKS.
               
                  Three Reasons Who I am a Baptist.
                  A NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION.
                  BY J. M. PENDLETON.
                  This work has already passed through FOURTEEN EDITIONS, and been translated
                     into Welch. The author has revised it, and added a defence of the terms of
                     Communion as observed by Baptists. It is now the most valuable, as it is the
                     most popular, of all our Baptist publications. Price 45 cents, post paid.
                  
                     From the Southern Baptist, Charleston, S. C.
                  
                  It is often remarked by those not of their own denomination, that the Baptists
                     have the best polemical literature to be found among all the branches of the
                     Protestant family. Whether they are chargeable with a love of controversy, can
                     hardly in fairness be urged—for there is the least of an esprit du corps among them, that is possible to
                     exist among so large a body of Christians. It has probably been in default of a
                     compact system of churchism, that so many Baptist writers have undertaken to
                     manage controversial topics, each in his own way. Nor is this to be regretted.
                     The numerous original American works on Baptism and its concomitants, have all
                     been called for, and have had a local mission, at least, to accomplish. This
                     book of Mr. Pendleton, however, is more than local in its influence. It has
                     already reached its twelfth thousand; and widely as its author is known at the
                     West and the South-west, it is likely to pass through many more editions at no
                     distant day.
               
               
                  An Old Landmark Reset!
                  NEW EDITION.
                  BY J. M. PENDLETON,
                  Editor of the Southern Baptist Review.
                  It has awakened an unparalleled amount of interest and discussion. It discusses
                     the most important practical question of the age. The author has lately
                     materially enlarged it, reviewing all the objections that have appeared against
                     it Sent by mail, pre-paid, 10 cts. per copy, or $1.00 per dozen.
               
               
                  SOON TO BE PUBLISHED.
                  THOUGHTS ON CHRISTIAN DUTY
                  ALSO,
                  QUESTIONS TO THE IMPENITENT,
                  FROM THE PEN OF THE SAME AUTHOR.
               
            
            
               VALUABLE THEOLOGICAL AND DENOMINATIONAL BOOKS
               SOLD AT THE PUBLISHING HOUSE AND BY OUR AGENTS.
               THE BAPTIST LIBRARY, a republication of Standard Baptist Works. 1 vol.
                  18vo.—Sheep, $3.
               This valuable collection is truly a Library in itself.
               ENCYCLOPEDIA OF RELIGIOUS KNOWLEDGE. $5.00.
               DOWLING'S HISTORY OF ROMANISM. New Edition, continued to the present
                  time. $3.00.
               All Christians and politicians should procure this work. It is a full and
                  authentic history of the Papacy, of its creed, its claims and its practice.
               LORD'S LITERARY AND THEOLOGICAL JOURNAL. 6 vols.—Valuable Library work.) Bound in
                  half calf, $18.00.
               THE LAWS OF PROPHETIC SYMBOLS. By Elder Winthrop. 75c.
               THE LAWS OF FIGURATIVE LANGUAGE. By N. Lord. $1.00.—By mail.
               The above two works are invaluable in the study of Prophecies and the Figurative
                  portions of the Scriptures.
               LETTERS ON PROPHECY. By E. Winthrop. 40c.
               THE VOICE OF THE CHURCH in all ages touching the Millennium and Personal Reign of
                  Christ. A new and rare work. By D. T. Taylor. $1.25.
               What were the views of the Christians and martyrs of the first six centuries of
                  the church, respecting the Millennium and the reign of Christ? Those who wish to
                  be thoroughly versed in the faith of the church and the true doctrine of the
                  Millennium are advised to study this work, which is highly commended by the best
                  millennial writers of this age. Sent by mail.
               GEOGNOSY; OR THE FACTS OF GEOLOGY AGAINST THE THEORIES OF GEOLOGISTS. By David N.
                  Lord. $1.50. Sent by mail.
               This is a new work just from the press, and never was a work more needed It can be
                  no longer denied that the geological theories set forth in the text books of our
                  Schools and Colleges, are in direct conflict with the Scripture Records; and thus
                  through the theories of Geology the faith of hundreds in the authenticity of the
                  Scripture has been shaken.
               This book is a rational exposure of all such theories, while as a work on the
                  structure and formation of the earth, it is truly valuable, proposing, as it does,
                  an entirely new theory for the formation of strata, etc., etc. It certainly must
                  reconstruct theoretical Geology.
               THE PROGRESS OF BAPTIST PRINCIPLES, FOR THE LAST HUNDRED YEARS. By T. F. Curtis.
                  $1.25.
               CAMPBELLISM EXAMINED. By J. B. Jeter, Richmond, Va., $1.00
            
            
               
               TRULY VALUABLE BOOKS
               KEPT FOR SALE AT THE SOUTH-WESTERN PUBLISHING HOUSE.
               (Sent by Mail on receipt of the price annexed.)
               THE BAPTIST LIBRARY. A republication of standard Baptist works. 1 vol., 8vo.
                  Sheep, $3. (Not mailable.)
               ENCYCLOPÆDIA OF RELIGIOUS KNOWLEDGE. $5. (Not mailable.)
               THE CHARACTERISTICS AND LAWS OF FIGURATIVE LANGUAGE. By DAVID N. LORD. Designed
                  for Bible Students, Bible Classes, and Bible Readers. Price $1.
               THE PREMIUM ESSAY ON THE CHARACTERISTICS AND LAWS OF PROPHETIC SYMBOLS. By EDWARD
                  WINTHROP, A.M. "There is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets and maketh known
                  what shall be in the latter days." Daniel ii. 28, Price 75 cents. The above two
                  works are invaluable in the study of Prophecies and the figurative portions of the
                  Scriptures.
               THE VOICE OF THE CHURCH IN ALL AGES touching the Millennium and Personal Reign of
                  Christ. A new and rare work. By B. T. TAYLOR. $1 00. What were the views of the
                  Christians and martyrs of the first six centuries of the Church, respecting the
                  Millennium and reign of Christ? Those who wish to be thoroughly versed in the
                  faith of the Church and the true doctrine of the Millennium, are advised to study
                  this work, which is highly commended by the best millennial writers of this
                  age.
               GEOGNOSY; OR, THE FACTS OF GEOLOGY AGAINST THE THEORIES OF GEOLOGISTS. By DAVID N.
                  LORD. $1 50. Sent by mail. This is a new work lately from the press, and never was
                  a work more needed. It can be no longer denied that the geological theories set
                  forth in the text-books of our schools and colleges, are in direct conflict with
                  the Scripture records; and thus through the theories of geology the faith of
                  hundreds in the authenticity of the Scripture has been shaken. This book is a
                  rational exposure of all such theories, while as a work on the structure and
                  formation of the earth it is truly valuable, proposing, as it does, an entirely
                  new theory for the formation of strata, etc. It certainly must reconstruct
                  theoretical theology.
               DOWLING'S HISTORY OF ROMANISM. A new and enlarged edition, compiled from the
                  Romish authorities; brought down to the present time. 1 volume; pp. 800. $3 00.
                  The New York Evangelist thus speaks of it: "It abounds in facts and incidents, and
                  is better adapted to furnish a vivid and impressive portraiture of Romanism as it
                  is, than any book we know of."—This is a period in the history of the religious
                  and political world when Romanism ought to be well understood by every Christian
                  and American patriot. To such we commend this History. It is needed just at this
                  time.
               THE BAPTIST DENOMINATION: its History, Doctrines and Ordinances; its Polity,
                  Persecutions, and Martyrs; Facts and Statistics of its Missionary Institutions,
                  Schools of Learning, &c.; the indebtedness of the world to Baptists, and their
                  duty to the world. By D. C. HAYNES—with an Introduction, by JOHN DOWLING, D.D.
                  Price $1 00.
               CAMPBELLISM EXAMINED, AND RE-EXAMINED; in one volume—new and enlarged edition. By
                  J. B. JETER, of Richmond, Virginia.—This is a clear, logical, and "admirably
                  received" exposition of the errors of Campbellism, and which Mr. Campbell has
                  clearly shown he cannot meet. Price $1 00.
               POPULAR HISTORY OF ENGLISH BIBLE TRANSLATION, with specimens of the Old English
                  Versions. By Mrs. H. C. CONANT.—This is a faithful history of the English Bible
                  translation, and is a source replete with information on that subject. Every
                  Christian, every voter, and every politician, should be conversant with this book.
                  Price $1 25.
               PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES OF BAPTISTS. By Pres. WAYLANT. Price $1 00.
               OLSHAUSEN'S COMMENTARY. Price $2, per vol. by mail.
               BAPTISTS THOROUGH REFORMERS. By J. Q. ADAMS. Price, 25 cents bound—12 1/2 in
                  covers.
               THE PROGRESS OF BAPTIST PRINCIPLES IN THE LAST ONE HUNDRED YEARS. By T. F. CURTIS.
                  Price $1 25.
            
            
               SMALL BOOKS ON GREAT SUBJECTS.
               REFORMATION; or, The Church of Christ cannot be Reformed—and therefore Pædobaptist
                  Societies are without a ministry—without valid ordinances or a valid
                  ecclesiastical existence. By J. L. Waller, L. L. D., late Editor of the Western
                  Review and Western Recorder. It is one of the Tracts for the times. Sent by mail
                  pre-paid. 10 cts. per copy or $1 per doz.
               LETTERS TO A REFORMER ALIAS CAMPBELLITE. By J. L. Waller.
               This is a most scathing exposure of Campbellism—and saving two Greek criticisms,
                  was fully endorsed by Mr. Waller just before his death. Price 20 cents.
               Both of the above bound in one volume, 30 cents.
               "BAPTISM OF JESUS," by N. M. Crawford, Mercer University, Ga. 10 cents by
                  mail.
               "APHESIS AMARTIOON," or the Baptism of Repentance for the Remission of Sins; by N.
                  M. Crawford, Mercer University, Ga. This is the ablest and most
                  satisfactory discussion of this subject that the controversy on the remission of
                  sins has yet elicited. 10 cents per copy or $1 per dozen.
               Both of the last bound in one volume, 20 cents.
               THE ABRAHAMIC COVENANT NO GROUND FOR INFANT BAPTISM, by Mat. Hiltsman, with
                  valuable extracts from the long suppressed work of John Milton, poet. pp. 119,
                  price 25 cents, free of postage.
               REASONS FOR BECOMING A BAPTIST, by Wm. L. Slack. With an Essay on Communion. Price
                  10 cents, free of postage.
               DESIRE OF ALL NATIONS, a Sermon by J. R. Graves. pp. 83, price 10 cents; free of
                  postage.
               THE WATCHMAN'S REPLY, or the Signs of the Times and the Necessity of the Churches,
                  by J. R. Graves. pp. 93, price 15 cents, free of postage
               CAMPBELL AND CAMPBELLISM EXPOSED. This is a work of—pages; and contains all the
                  articles that appeared in the discussion between A. Campbell and J. R. Graves.
                  They were published in the Tennessee Baptist fact Mr. Campbell denies, although he
                  has seen them in the Baptist!
               To cap the climax of all that is unprincipled in controversy, Mr. C. has published
                  his Review of Mr. Graves' SECOND article! in tract form, in which he repeatedly
                  denies that his articles ever were published in the Tennessee Baptist by Mr. G.,
                  and this tract he has, and is circulating throughout the South West. Mr. C. has
                  not even allowed Mr. Graves' article reviewed by him to appear in this tract!!
               The man as well as his system is exposed in this work. Let the lovers of
                     truth get a copy for preservation to meet the charges
                  of Mr. C. and his followers, with the facts. Sold at cost of
                  publication—15 cents.
            
         
      
   
