
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. History of the Mulligan Guard ... .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6752
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            History of the Mulligan Guard ...
             
                 HISTORY OF THE Mulligan Guard ILLUSTRATED. NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY COLLIN & SMALL 118 FULTON ST. 1874.     THE BEQUEST OF EV[ffl HANSEN WENDELL Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 14, by COLLIN & RMALL, h UXho oft  to Librarian of Congress  Washington.   The  History of the Mulligan    Guard. Who has not heard of the renowned Mulligan Guard3  But how few there are who know the history of that celse brated organization. That's so. It is even more than a target company, more than a political !land; neithler is it a shootsenfest. Its members are earnest, hlldt, enthusiastic men, and the Guard will undoubtedly be tlhe llltl, s of a crack infantry regiment one of these days. But \V'll tlh4n it nmay be questioned whether it will allow its name t, 1* : m'llatedl, so proud ate they of their patron, TerrTence Mul. '* it, tirm Assistant Alderma n of the red-hot Seventh, whose ipoltrait, fromll a late photograph, is given herewith. The Gulard was organized about a year ago, mainly through the l:nslotlad exertions of Michael Hussey, a late arrival from tlhe 4 Ould Dart," anld he has had the honor of commanding it eveur ice, "Ed. IIarvtigan to the contrary notwithstandinig. The idea struck Mike one evening while he and Paddy McGloin were playing "forty-fives" for a " cint," at the little grlocery store kept by Widow Mahoney, in the aforesaid Seventh- Ward. Says Paddy, as he was shuffling the greasy pack of cards, "An' surle, did yees hear ov the VO'Whackerty Guards as wer out p'radin' the day?" I did not.   What's O 'Wh ackety (uards?" "Wlhy, a mess ov fellers as is hired }y Jerry O'Whackerty to kape his name afore the public, so that he can run for Alderman ov the Fourth Ward." "An' fat do they do; guard his body P"     4     TH1E I1STo)!: OF T'ilHE MULLIGAN GUARD. THE ION. TERRENCE MULLIGAN, N HOSE HONOR Tugs GUARD WAS NAMED.   TiTE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN GUARD.     6 "Why, sure, they are sojurs, an' carry guns. Did yees niver see a target company? "Faith I have. Do yees take me for a granehorn?  Mrs. Mahoney, would yees be afther givin' us another sup " "Indade, I wud," replied the portly widow, who kept a bot- tle for the benefit of her pocket and the throats of her friends, and she proceeded'to draw them a " sup " each, in a pair of dirty tumblers. "Whist!" said Mike, after he had scorched his throat with the "Widdy's" liquid friendship; "did yees iver know, Paddy, that I wuz a sojur?" "Faith I did not. Is that so?" "It is. I belonged to the crack regiment of Tipperary." "How long?" "About a week; until after they tuck a vote, an' thin my enemies went agin me, and I cum to Ameriky, so I did." "Well, fat ov that? "Whist! I have a 8same!" "A skame! An' fat's that?" "Lit's form a guard!" whispered Mike. "Fat ov?" "Ov oursilves, sure, an' faith, thin we can have all the offices Let us be the originals, an' thin we can do as we plaze, so we can." "Be jabers, but I'd like that- Who shll we ncmoe it rther v "Whist!  Afther my friend Terrence Mulligan, the best Irishman in Ameriky!" "That's so!" put in Mrs. Mahoney. "Will yees agree to it?" "I will." "Give us yer fist on it!" and they shook. "Look here, now, b'ys; if yell onlv ake my store yer head.     Tmss IIIXSTORY OF TII MULLIOAN (GARBD, #1 THE FIRST CONCEPrION OF THB GUARD. u BE JABERS, PADDY, LET'S FORM A GUARD," SAID HUSSEY, TO ms rRIEND McGiorN. quarthers, I'll be afther givin' ten dollas for yees," said Mrs. Mahoney, with an eye to business. "Good An' I'll give twinty-five for bein' captin," said Mike, leaping to his feet and waving his long arms around. "An' I'll give foive dollars to be fust lieutenant," replied "Good!" said the Widow; " now have a drink wid me." "Faith, Widdy Mahoney, we'll do anything in the world wid yees."   THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIOAIN GUARD.     7 The tumblers were filled. "Three cheers for the Mulligan Guard!" shouted Mike. and they were given with a will, and were taken up by the gamins in the street. "Now, I'll go an' see Mr. Mulligan, an' tell him fat we're afther doin', and perhaps he'll give us somethin' han'sum," said Mike, with a wink. Thi3 being agreed to, the party broke up, and started in dif- lerer- directions, with the exception of Widow Mahoney, who remained at her battery, and proceeded to turn water enough into her whiskey bottle to make up for the treat she had stood. Dickens has said that Barkis was willing; well, let it also be recorded that Mulligan was willing. When Captain Hussey poured into his ear the contents of his heart he jumped at the proposition as a terrier goes for a rat. He did more than this, he gave Mike fifty dollars towards arming and equipping the Guard, and the bold Captain turned away almost too happy to" contain himself. In fact, he was too happy to contain all of that fifty dollars, and so he proceeded to take several " sups," and to drink health and success to the "Mulligan Guards" Who and what are the Mulligan Guards?" was already, being asked in Captain Hussey's wake. But let us stick close to the history we are writing. After getting over his spree a bit, Captain Hussey found Paddy McGloin, and together they visited Simpson's, the eele. brated armorer, in the Bowery, for the purpose of purchasing equipments for the Guard. The artist has given a graphic representation of the scene, to which words are almost superfluous. Both Captain Hussey and Lieutenant McGloin are there displayed in all their glory, as is also the world-renowned Simpson, who is showing them relics of past wars, and offering them for "a song."       THE HSTORY OF THE -MULLOAN GUARD.     9 Captain Hussey was very much taken with a jagged sabre which Simpson informed him, upon his word and honor, "s'elp me," was worn by the Duke of Wellington at the battle of Bos- worth's Field. Having a tinge of romance about him, as well as a love for old heroes, Captain Hussey determined to arm and ornament himself with this historic weapon. As for Lieutenant McGloin, he being so far the only other member of the Guard, he was obliged to put up with a musket; yet to satisfy his ambition and inborn pride, Simpson assured him that it was borne bravely in the thickest of the battle of Waterloo, and that one of Napoleon's Old Guard fell, clasping it to, his bosom, and shouting for the iAmperial laglas, Thus satisfied, the Captain paid the bill, and away they went, whistling "Le Sabre de Mon Pere," the Captain drawing his sword, and the "Guard " shouldering his Waterloo musket and marching along behind, greatly to the delight and astonishment of the Bowery pedestrians. That night the Guard had its first drill at the grocery store of Widow Mahoney. Captain Hussey had pl:'ovided himself with a book of Hardee's Tactics, and was fully prepared to put the 1"Guard " through in a way to bring out the sweat. Although several people watched the drill, no one took part in it for quite a while save Paddy McGloin; but after watehing progress, some gamins applied for admission to the ranks, and two or three of the best-looking ones were accepted. Then the drill began again in earnest; Captain Hussey waved his sword in one hand and his book of tactics in the other. "Why the divil don't yees shoulder arms?" he yelled, as the "Guard" gave evidence of indifference to his orders. "Bekase I'm tired," replied Paddy. U Out }! a oj;r laucl niver bef tired!"     o10    'rT trisTOuY OF THE MULULIAN OLUARD. Ertl CAPTAn IItHUEYss , AS I APPEAREPi IN YUIL UNTFORM ANIMED WITrrH TE DUKE OF WLLNxU'ON SWORD.   THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGANQ GUARD.    " "Hould on, Captain Hussey i" put in Widow Mahoney; "wait till I'd give him a sup." "Och, Widdy, darlint! it's yersilf that knows a man's nades. Faith I'd loike to have yees for a captain," said the "Guard," bringing his musket to a " rest." "Och, but yer grane, Paddy, and want nussin a bit." "Fait, Widdy Mahoney, I wiah yees wud nuz me wid some ov that same," said the Captain. "An' so I will, bless yer sowl!"Faith yees looks foine enough to stale away the heart ov onny lady in the land;" saying which she proceeded to nuss" him' Then the drill was resumed, but it soon became evident that. Paddy had been " nussed" too much, for he was a trifle un. steady on his pegs, and kept the party roaring by attempting to obey orders. Even the Captain was showing the effect of the "milk" he had taken, and was giving impossible orders, mixing the members of his command up in a fearful mess. But the boys enjoyed it hugely, as with brooms and mop-handles they were going through the manual of arms. "Bedad, I can do betther than that mysilf," said Mrs. Ma- honey, coming out from behind her counter. "Come on, thin, Misthress Mahoney!" said McGloin. "Will yees try a drill, Widdy?" asked the Captain?" "Faith I will," she replied loudly. "Begorra, yees shall be the Daughther of the Regiment!" shouted Paddy, whereat the others all laughed, and shouted, "Bully for the Widdy!" "Faith, it's mysilf as can tach yees how drillin is done," she replied, seizing one of her new brooms and taking her place by the side of Paddy McGloin. "Och, Widdy, yer don't make me fale aisey," said he. "Whist, now! what's the matter wid yees?" "Yer too near to me wid ver inticin' self," said he.     12  1TE HSTOIY OI,' TiHlE IULLIGAN GUMAD.   THE HSTORY OF TIiE MULLIGAN GUARD.     18 "Be aisey, now," said she. "Now, go ahead wid yer drillin' Captain." "'Tintion!" "Fat's that?" asked the widow. "That's lookin' at me, so it is," said Hussey. "I'll do that same." "Shoulder arms!" The command was obeyed pretty well, only Paddy McGloin felt so good at the close proximity of the "widdy" that. he thrust his bayonet into the ceiling overhead as he was shoulder- ing his musket. "Kape down yer murtherin' tool," said the widow. "About, face! March!" In executing this order, the Widow Mahoney was so much taken up that she tumbled over one of the smaller members of the "Guard," and catching at Paddy to break her fall she brought him to the floor with her, tipping over a tub of pickles, a box of smoked herrings and a basket of potatoes, in the midst of which the demoralized "Guard" floundered, swashed and cussed for a few moments before regaining its feet. But the "widdy" had been badly used while down, to say nothing of the ruin to her stock of goods, and she was as mad as a short- tailed cow in fly time. Seizing Paddy McGloin by the hair, and managing to get on top of him, she banged his "nut" up and down in the briny confusion, making a pestle of his head to mash the pickles and potatoes which lay upon the floor be- neath them. In vain he shouted that he had enough; in vain he shot for help, and it was only when Captain Hussey attempted a rescue that she left Paddy and went for him. But he leaped upon the counter, and drawing his sword, managed to keep her away. "Bad luck to yees for a pack of batea 1" ahe yelled.      "    T  IIISTORY OF TIE MULLIGAN GUAID. THE RUCTION AT WIDOW MAIIONEY'S. TiH WIrDOW AiEAD. "Faith, I think I'm bate," said Paddy, struggling out of the mash and rising to his feet. "Git out ov this!" shouted the enraged widow. At this moment, a policeman, attracted by the crowd that had gathered around the door of the little grocery, entered to inquire the cause of the rumpus. It's just nothing at all, at all," said Mrs. Mahone-, suddenly comprehending the situation. "We wus afther havin a bit of a drill, Mr. McGuire, that's all." "That's all. Be gob, but I thought ye wur tearin' the house down," replied the officer, looking around. "Och, 'twas Paddy an' I havin' a bit of a love spat, that's all We're the Mulligan Guard, so we are." "Well, don't get so lovin' ony more wid yer guard," said the policeman, as he turned to go. "Faith, we won't."   THAI HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN GUARD.    15 This slight interruption to the drill resulted in the interest of the organization after all, for Jerry O'Rourke and Teddy Sul. livan came into the store and at once enrolled themselves as privates, subject to drill, of the Mulligan Guard. Each of them borrowed a bearskin cap and musket from their friends, and thus equipped they returned to finish the evening's drilL By this time the widow had put up the shutters of her little grocery store, and the "Guard " had put down a goodly quantity of her bad whiskey. So things were in easy working order. Then the drill began again, the boys being kept in the back. ground, and particular attention paid to the men. But some- how things were continually getting mixed, and presently Teddy Sullivan, in shouldering his weapon, got it wrong end to, and banged "Widdy "Mahoney on the none with the butt end of it, as she was approaching with a "sup " for the gallant Captain. Teddy got put out of doors by the indignant "widdy," and didn't get in again that night. However, the drill broke up, by all hands going to sleep in the grocery and remaining there until the next morning. The next night another drill was had, at which the Hon. Mr. Mulligan was present, and expressed himself as very proud of his namesake. Then he treated all hands, left a ten-dollar bill with Widow Mahoney for future "sups" for the "b'ys," and took his leave. The next thing on the programme was to carry out the pro. posed target excursion. A band, consisting of a concertina and banjo player, was engaged, and also a huge darkey to carry the target. The turnout created a great excitement in the Seventh Ward. There was a tremendous crowd gathered around Widow Ma honey's grocery, and when the bold and gallant Captain Hussey led his "Guard" into the street, one long, loud shout rent tl e     THE HSTORY OF THE 3IULLW(AA N OIARD.     18    TUIE HSTORY OF THE MULL1GAN (UAiDU. air, which caused the Captain to straighten up with a deeper bend in his back than ever. A crowd followed them, while the police found considerable trouble in keeping a road open for the march. But when the Guard halted in front of the residence of the Hon. Mr. Mul- ligan, and Mistress Mulligan came out and presented Captain Hlussey with a huge wreath, the shouts of the throng and the noise of the band was perfectly deafening. Mrs. Mahoney had followed them up to this point, and so full of happiness was she now that she shouted vociferously, and knocked down two or three other women who presumed to laugh at the appearance of the Mulligan Guard. But away they went, " through Jackson Street up to Avenue A," still followed by a shouting crowd of admirers. It was a great day for the East Side. After a long and triumphant march, the Guard at last reached Jones' Woods, where a halt was made and preparations entered into to prepare for shooting at the target. There were several prizes to be had for the various grades of marksmanship, and all hands were anxious to get a crack at the target The darkey was to boss the, target, and, feeling his import- ance, he at once started off with and set it up about fifty yards from the spot selected for shooting. The Captain was the first to go for the bull's eye. He took an ordinary musket, but, after firing, the darkey reported no sign of the bullet. This made Hussey feel rather bad, and when a few of the crowd laughed he turned upon and offered to fight them all for a cent apiece. Then Paddy McGloin braced up for a shot. But his bullet did not record itself in the target, and again the crowd howled, and Paddy got revenge by kicking a little boy. Then Teddy Sullivan took a shot-at something, probably not the target, for he did not hit it, and the crowd yelled, and   THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN GUARD.    19 Captain IIussey began to feel that he was not alone in his misery. The darkey by this time concluded that he was in as much danger of getting hit where he was as he would be behind the target; so by the time Jerry O'Rourke got ready to fire he had taken the target and waa holding it in his hands. When Jerry fired that darkey dropped like a bullfrog, and a cry went up that he had been killed. A rush was made for him, when he got up and began to search for the hole in his anatomy. But it was not found or felt, but a hole was found in his old felt hat, whereat Jerry was hailed the victor, and award. ed the first prize, he having shot nearest to the hull's eye. Then the crowd shouted again, and a fight was imminent and greatly needed. But Captain Hussey seized the target and ran away, followed by the Guard. Arriving at a convenient place, he procured a small auger and began boring holes in the target. "Fat's that for, Captain?" asked private McGloin. "Be jabers, this is to save the reputation of the Mulligan Guard," exclaimed the Captain, vehemently. "How's that?" asked the Guard. "Faith, wud yees have the bull's eye go back widout beil' hurted widin ten feet?" The members of the Guard saw the point, and at once com. mended their bold leader's ingenuity. The target was handsomely "fixed," the name of each mem. ber written opposite of a certain hole, and the reputation of the Mulligan Guard made secure. Then began the preparations for dinner, and it was a regular Seventh Ward lay out, and no mistake. A pound of crackers, a pound of cheese, and a square gallon of whiskey composed it. Of course, there was too much cheese and too many crackers, but, being generous men, they gave this surplus to the boys who accompanied them to see the sport and absorbed the red eye themselves     sO  THE HSTORY OF THEJ MULLIGAff GUARD.   TH HSTORY OF THE MUIGAu OUARD.      21 It was nearly night before this portion of the day's sport, in- cluding speeches and toasts, was concluded, and then prepara- tions were made for the homeward march. During the dPay the leader of the band entered into negotia. tions with an itinerant drummer whom he found on the grounds, out of a job. He filled him full of whiskey and engaged him. The fact of being drowned by the vociferations of the public made the leader feel cheap, and hence the addition. But that homeward march! How shall it be described? The glories of the day culmin- ated in that tramp, and the writer lacks the eloquence of pen to place it properly before the reader. To begin with, Captain Hussey was in high feather. The target had been crammed full of glory and the Guard crammed full of whiskey. The additions to the band in the shape of the snare drum touched the martial heart-strings of every partici- pant; and when the word was given, "Forward, march!" and the band began to play, it seemed as though each man was gifted with wings and a ten-horse power pair of lungs. There are momentsof inspiration in this life. There are times when that inspiration will expand. There are great and momentous occasions when the spirit of a people will culminate in a song or hymn that will decide their destinies and create character for the future historian. The "Mafrselaise," "God Save the King," "Yankee Doodle," "Watch on the Rhine," "Shoo Fly," "Tramp, Tramp, Tramp," and other immortal hymns, are' evidences of this spasmodic in. spiration. So also in this instance. The words of the "Mul- ligan Guard" were not writen; they sprang into wild and burning existence on this occasion. As the Guard left Jones' Woods the band played a lively march (and it is supposed that the band was momentarily in- spired) and the members of the Guard, yea, even the enthusi-     22    TIlE HtSTOIRY 0'F TIE MULLUIAN GUAID. Private McGloin, as he appeared a moment after firing the an- cient musket, so eloquently recommended to him by the enthusiastic Simpson. Speaking aftenrwrda of the senaationa he experienced while whirling around in the air like a Fourth of July pin-wheel, Private McGloin said lie telt sure that he had been kicked by the father of mules. The truth was, that old gun had been loaded for a great many years, and Private McGloin added another charge without knowing it, so, after all, the old tube wasn't so much to blame for kicking as it did.   THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN GUARD.      23 astic gamins who followed it, all joined in the chorus of the hymn which was born of the genius of the occasion: "We shouldered guns, And marched, and marched away, From Jackson Street Way up to Avenue A; Drums and fifes did sweetly, sweetly play, As we marched, marched, marched in the Mulligan Guards." Isn't there whole hunks of inspiration in that chorus? It was certainly a grand sight to see them march on their return home. The tramp to the field of glory did not equal the return therefrom. In the first instance they lacked the ia- -- ---  HO THE DARKEY SHOWING HS HAT AND THE MARK OF McGLOIN'S SHOT.     24    THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGA GUARD. spiration of success and whiskey, two of the greatest incentives of our natures. And the crowds which followed them when they went out to victory were nothing to those which hailed and accompanied their return. Old and young caught the spirit and melody of the newly hatched hymn, and all the way from Jones' Woods back to Jackson Street, were those grand, heroic words taken up and given breath. Loud huzzas greeted the Guard on every side, and even the policemen, who are generally ready to put down anything in the shape of a low-pressure riot, forgot the requirements of duty, and took up the glorious song, joining in it with a will, and swinging their hats to fan the fires of the general enthusiasm, But if all this glory attended the Guard on its way home, what shall be said of its reception at the grocery store of Widow Mahoney? The "Widdy " was fairly beside herself. Had it not been for some of her female friends she would have stood on her head; in fact, she attempted it several times, and was exceedingly in. dignant that she was not allowed to have her own way in ex- pressing her excessive delight But the " headquarters" was a lively place during the remain- der of that day and night Widow Mahon y no longer put a price upon her liquid oh-be-joyful, but all who could. crowd their way up to her counter were welcome to partake, provided they drank to her pets, the Mulligan Guard. In fact, every- thing she had in her store was at the disposal of anybody who was or pretended to be friends of her " h'y."   THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN GUARD. 25     26    THE HSTORY OF THE MTLLIGAN GUARD. Night was already fooling around the Seventh Ward, and excitement centered around the little grocery of Widow Ma- honey. The prettiest girls in the neighborhood sought the place; and if ever heroes were laurel and love-crowned, it was that valliant Mulligan Guard. Presently the band, mounted upon some barrels, began to play "Donnybrook Fair,'" and then there was excitement and selecting of partners. Such music as that could not run to waste, and before many bars of it had been gone over, it was being put down upon the sandy floor of that little grocery as only live Irish lads and lasses can put it down. Captain Hussey took the buxom Widow Mahoney, and they proceeded to rattle the dust out of the cracks of that floor. The Widow weighs only a trifle less than two hundred pounds, and at dancing a jig she owns to no equal in the land. "Hi I " she screamed, as she footed it; " how's this for hoigh?" u Good enough I " shouted everybody. "Hi I where's the man that can give me a dance?" "I'm not done wid yees yet, Widdy Mahoney," said the gal- lant Captain, puffing like a porpoise. "Och faith, yer played out, Mike; where's yer step? Git out o' this, and lave me a man as ken dance! Whoop!" "I'll try yees one turn, Widdy," said Teddy Sullivan, taking his place in front of her. "Come on, thin; I'll bate yees out o' yer breeches!" "Come on 1" shouted Teddy, as he took into the step of the jig, and went for that bouncing widow.   T  ME HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN GUARD.   27 Captain Hussey seated himself upon a barrel, and waited for a return of wind. Whew! The Widow and Teddy Sullivan kept up the dance until everybody else was down and off their pins. Finally, Teddy be- gan to weaken, and yet Mrs. Mahoney seemed to be as fresh as a daisy, and kept up her rub-a-dub-dub in good old Irish fash. ion, making the floor creak and bend at every step, while the dust rose in choking quantities and kept the remainder of the party coughing and sneezing, or wetting what dust they swal- lowed-wetting it down, so to speak, by taking free drinks of the festive widow's whiskey. And yet Teddy hated to acknowledge himself beaten. The eyes of the entire party were on him, and he was determined to put in his very last step. But fate was against him, and at last he spoke to his partner. "Are yees there yet, widdy?" "Be gob, I am; don't yees see me?" she asked, crossing over and planting one of her big feet quite near to one of Teddy'a "Faith, I do; I sa yees and I fale yees, too." "Bully for Widdy Mahoney " said the company, whereat there arose an encouraging cheer in her behalf "Whoop i" yelled the widow. "Go in, Teddy!" shouted some one. But Teddy felt more like going to bed. At length he appealed to her. "Have yees enough, Widdy?" he plead, breathlessly. "No, be gob, I've not enough; I've only a taste. Git out wid yersiltf Where's the man as'll give me satisfaction? Whoop!"     28     THE HSTORY OF TIlE MULLIGAN GUARD.  THE HSTORY OF THE ULLIGAN GUABD.     9  Lave me at her!" shouted Captain Hussey, again coming forward. "Be jabers, I'll give yer satisfaction, or lave mysilf a corpse at yer feet." "Bully for you!" shouted the crowd. "Come on!" shouted the widow. "Whoop!" "Hi! ya!"And at it they went, all others giving way, and all interest centering on the now perspiring widow and the gallant Captain. Round about, forward and back, rub a.dub dub went their feet for the next half hour, and yet that fat widow showed no signs of giving up the contest. The room was crowded, and every door and window was full of interested looking faces But at length the Captain began to "cave." There was a curious indecision noticed in his step, a languidness in his break. down, and finally he retired, and Widow Mahoney was hailed a the jig queen of the Seventh Ward. Then followed refreshments, and a merry night was had of it in the widow's little back room. Stories were told, songs sung, pretty girls kissed and courted, the Widow complimented, and everybody voting it the happiest occasion that ever was, and a fit finale to the first day's triumph of the Guard. It was past midnight when the party broke up, and then they did so with the full song and chorus of the now celebrated "Mulligan Guards." It was a great occasion, and ended with noise enough to waken the soundest sleeper in the ward. The band did its duty, after which the drummer fell over into a barrel of soft soap and slept soundly until morning. #      30     1TIE: HSTORY OF TIIE MULLIGAN GUARD.  THE FINAL SCENE.  GRAND CONTEST FOR JIG SUPERIORITY BFr TWEEN WIDOW MAn    hNEY AND CAPTrAI  HUSSEY. This is the song they sang: We crave your condescension, And we'll tell you what; we know Of marching in the Mulligan Guards, From the Seventh Ward below; And our Captain's name was IIussey- A Tipperary man- He carried his sword like the Russian Duke, Whenever he took command. CHORUS. We shouldered guns, And marched, and marched away, From Jackson Street Way up to Avenue A; Drums and fifes did sweetly, sweetly play, As we marched, marched, marched with the Mulligan Guards.   THE HSTORY OF THE MULLIGAN OUARD.        81 When the band played Garryowen Or the Connemara pet, With the rub, dub, dub, we marched in the mud- To the military step- With the green above the red, boys, To show where we came from; Our guns we'd lift, with the right shoulder shift, As we marched to the beat of the drum. We shouldered guns, &o. When we'd get home at night, boys, The divil a wink we'd sleep; We'd all sit up and drink a sup Of whiskey, strong and neat. Then we'd all march home together, As slippery as lard; The solid men would all fall in, And march in the Mulligan Guard. We shouldered guns, &c.     THE by Na ILLUSTRATED. Containing over One Hundred New and Sparkling Songs, together with Act Pieces, Dialogue Songs, Banjo Acts, Recita. tions, Original Conundrums, also several first-class Acting Parlor Dramas, either of which is worth the price of the book. The Song Book is superbly illustrated by over fifty beautiful wood cuts; and even without this feature it is thoroughly and entirely new and entertaining from cover to cover. It Is she captati of Soas Boob 1 FOR SALE BY BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSMEN EVERYWHERE PRICE 25 COENTS. Enclose price, and sample copy will be sent, post paid, by return mail  Address COLLIN & SMALL, "3 Fulton Street, N. T.     
         
      
   
