
    ----CITATION----
        Currier, Sophronia.. Alice Tracy, or, Faint, Yet Pursuing .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6205
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               ALICE TRACY; 
               OR, FAINT, YET PURSUING. 
               A SKETCH FROM REAL LIFE. 
             
             
               
                  "Hitherto hath the Lord helped me."
                
             
            BY MRS. SOPHRONIA CURRIER.
             
            
               E. P. DUTTON AND COMPANY, 
               BOSTON: 135 WASHINGTON STREET. 
               NEW YORK: 762 BROADWAY.
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by E. P. DUTTON AND COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 
            
               RIVERSIDE, CAMBRIDGE: 
               STEREOTYPED AND PRINTED BY H. O. HOUGHTON AND COMPANY.
             
          
          
             
            TO THE LADIES OF ST. PETER'S CHURCH, SYCAMORE, ILL., This little Volume IS MOST RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED BY 
            
               THE AUTHOR.
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I. THE DESERTED CHILDREN. 7
                
               II. OUR FATHER WHO ART IN HEAVEN. 16
                
               III. THROUGH THE WILDERNESS. 21
                
               IV. UNTO THE HILLS. 31
                
               V. UNCLE FRITZ. 41
                
               VI. THE SCHOOL-ROOM. 46
                
               VII. REMEMBER THE SABBATH-DAY. 51
                
               VIII. TRIED, BUT NOT TEMPTED. 61
                
               IX. KEPT BACK PART OF THE PRICE. 73
                
               X. IN THE PATH. 82
                
               XI. UNTO HOREB. 91
                
               XII. UNCLE FRITZ'S PRESENTS. 101
                
               XIII. OVER THE RIVER. 111
                
               XIV. TAKEN AND RESTORED. 125
                
               XV. MR. TRACY. 138
                
               XVI. A NEW HOME. 153
                
               XVII. AND NEW EMPLOYMENTS. 172
                
               XVIII. HIDDEN IN THE ROCK. 189
                
               XIX. AFTER THE STORM. 201
                
               XX. AT THE WILLOWS. 219
                
               XXI. A GREAT WAY OFF. 234
                
               XXII. DR. MERLE VINTON. 252
                
               XXIII. THE RETURN. 266
                
               XXIV. SIDE BY SIDE. 285
                
               XXV. CONCLUSION. 293
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Alice Tracy, or, Faint, yet pursuing 
             
             
            ALICE TRACY; 
            OR, FAINT YET PURSUING. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE DESERTED CHILDREN. 
               THE town of West Grove-it received another name when it gave promise of becoming the large and prosperous village it now is-contained, at the time our story commences, not more than a score of inhabitants. 
               The region in which it is situated, one of the northern counties of Illinois, was, indeed, then only sparsely populated; but West Grove had formerly been, in point of population, quite in advance of the neighboring towns, a dozen or more families having moved into it at an early period in the history of the county. 
               For certain reasons, however, it matters not what they were, the settlement had not been a permanent one. One after another, the families moved away, until only three, all German, who had come to West Grove somewhat later than the other settlers, remained, and no new comers speedily appeared to take possession of the forsaken log-cabins, or to cultivate the rich plots which the breaking plough had made ready for tillage, and no little reluctant feet buried themselves in the tall grass which grew about the low-roofed schoolhouse. 
               The Germans were very quiet, industrious people. Early and late, the men and boys were toiling in the fields, while the women and girls, besides helping their husbands and brothers as much as they were able, looked after the cows and pigs, tended the poultry, and labored in the vegetable garden. 
               Every Saturday one or more of them went to the neighboring village to make a few trifling purchases, and to see the relative who had resided there for some years, and who had become quite wealthy; and every Sabbath all met at one or another of the cabins to tell the little news they had learned the day previous, and to read over the infrequent letters from the fatherland. 
               Only one of them could speak a word of English, and his knowledge of the language was very imperfect indeed; and their style of dress and their mode of life had not been changed in the least respect during their brief residence in their new home, for their former neighbors had had no intercourse with them. 
               Very primitive that mode of life was, even for the log-cabin of the early settler, and very coarse and scanty the attire, for they had come from the poorer class of German peasantry; but the elder people had kind and honest, though toil-worn faces, and the blue-eyed, light-haired children were the very pictures of health and contentment. 
               Wonderfully in contrast with the little six-year-old chub, Karl Uhlmann, and his sister Margaret, who was eight years his senior, as, on one pleasant June afternoon, they were wandering together through the tall grass, following the footsteps of the grazing cows, plucking the bright flowers which were springing up everywhere beneath their feet, and carolling to the birds in the neighboring grove,-wonderfully in contrast with the round, ruddy-faced, and merry-voiced children, were the girl and boy of about their own ages, whom they had almost stumbled over, in coming suddenly out of the tall grass, into the highway. 
               The strangers were sitting upon the ground, the boy softly crying, and the girl, who had drawn his head upon her lap, endeavoring in a dull listless way to quiet him. The old straw hats had fallen from their heads, and the hot June sun was shining brightly on the browned, dusty faces, and the bare hands and feet. The faces were very thin and worn, the elder apparently with toil and care, and the younger with illness. Any one would have known, at a glance, that they must be brother and sister, so much did they resemble each other. They had the same dark, curly hair, very dusty and disordered now, but pretty and nice if well arranged; the same black eyes, and small, not particularly handsome, but delicate features; and weariness and illness had given to their countenances the same pitiful, half patient, half hopeless expression. 
               The strangers had not observed the two children who were gazing with such intense wonder upon them, though little Karl had drawn his sister very near them. They seemed to see nothing about them,-the weary, half-closed eyes scarcely lifting themselves from the ground. 
               Half a mile from the spot where they had dropped down, though on the smooth prairie it seemed much nearer, a lazy little stream was gliding along beside a dense grove; the clear water, in the bright sunshine, seeming like a gilded frame to the beautiful but sombre picture. An emigrant wagon had halted by the creek, and a pair of old, weary-looking horses, which had been unhitched from the vehicle, stood refreshing themselves in the water; while their driver, shading his eyes with his hand, was looking towards the western horizon. 
                
               He was about forty-five years of age, a dark, bony, hard-featured man, with the marks of long-continued dissipation deeply impressed on his countenance. Indeed he appeared, at the time, under the influence of strong drink, for his eyes seemed not to take in the object at which they were so fixedly gazing,-one of the deserted log-cabins,-though it was at no very great distance; and his stout, square-built figure swayed backward and forward, as he walked along the stream to find a suitable place for crossing. 
               The wagon was an old, crazy affair, corresponding very well with the poor, worn-out horses which had already drawn it hundreds of miles, and whose destination was California, as the black letters on the torn, dirty canvas told, though one would hardly have believed that either horses or vehicle would last through another week's journey, even over the smooth prairie track. There were very few articles in the wagon; a diminutive stove, some cooking utensils, a small sack of flour, and an old mattress, were about all it contained. It had been much better furnished when it first set out on its long journey, but a little black jug which was empty now, had swallowed up most of the other things. 
               The ford was at length found, and the horses hitched to the wagon, and then the man looked around for his children. They had fallen asleep, and his voice, owing to the distance, did not arouse them; but the little Germans, who were watching his proceedings as well as the sleeping children, when they saw him preparing to cross the ford, ran up to the strangers, and waked them suddenly. 
               The girl sprang to her feet, with a look half of terror and half of defiance; while the boy, whose eyes were not yet opened, clutched at her dress, and moaned feebly; but the pleasant countenances which met the girl's glance, and the earnest gesticulations of the children-for they knew very well that their words would not be understood-caused such a grateful smile to overspread the girl's face, that Margaret Uhlmann became her fast friend in a moment. And when she stooped to take the boy into her arms, for it appeared that he could not walk without assistance, Margaret reached out her strong arms, caught up the little emaciated figure, and ran briskly away, while the sister and little Karl followed as rapidly as the weary feet of the former would permit, in the direction of the emigrant wagon. 
               When they came near the vehicle, however, which had halted when the driver saw the children approaching, Margaret relinquished her charge, and her brother drew closely to her side, both of them wondering if that ugly-looking man who spoke so loudly and crossly could be the children's father. But the girl, whom he called Alice, took little notice either of his looks or words, only replying that she could go no farther that day, Willie could not bear the motion of the wagon, and she was too weary to carry him any longer; and, besides, what was the use of travelling any farther in that direction? 
               "At the place you stopped at last," she said, in a reproachful, hopeless tone, "the boy who filled the jug told you that Mr. John Richardson did not live at West Grove now; that much of the land in that town had been bought by an old gentleman whom he pointed out to you, and that the Richardson farm was part of what Mr. Kuhn had purchased; and what was the use of leaving the rest of the emigrant teams, and coming a day's journey out of our way, when you knew aunt had gone? You might have cared for the poor horses, father, if you had not thought of Willie and me. How do you suppose we can overtake the other teams to-morrow? They will not wait for you, I am sure; we have troubled them enough." 
               "We overtake them! well, that is a good one," said the man, with drunken emphasis, "you don't suppose I am fool enough to think of taking you and that sick young one to California, do you? Come, let's have no more of your stuff, and tumble yourselves into the wagon, or get through the creek as you can. I'm going ahead!" and after several ineffectual attempts he succeeded in gaining his seat in the vehicle, in the back part of which Alice had already ensconced herself and Willie, promising the child that she would lift him out again as soon as the creek was crossed. 
               But her father would not allow her to do so, and urged his horses forward, replying so angrily to her request to be allowed to descend from the vehicle, that the little boy, though tortured with pain, dared not utter a sound, but crept into his sister's arms and laid his pallid face on her shoulder. The remainder of the ride was, however, soon over. 
               At a log-cabin half a mile distant from the creek, the team was stopped and the children ordered to climb out, their father tumbling the contents of the wagon out after them, and bidding Alice take them into the cabin; and then, without descending himself, a feat which his increasing helplessness might have made it difficult for him to perform with safety to his neck, he took up the lines and turned his horses' heads towards the east, preparatory to retracing his course. 
               For a moment a sense of the wrong he was doing the wearied, helpless beings he was deserting, seemed to cross his mind, and he told them, in a softer tone than that in which he had before addressed them, that they must stay where they were a day or two. He knew, as they had said, they were too tired to ride farther now, so he would go and find their relatives, whose place of residence he had ascertained, and in two days at the outside, either he or their aunt would come and take them away. 
               And then the team passed slowly out of their sight. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               OUR FATHER WHO ART IN HEAVEN. 
               THE first feelings which Alice experienced after their father had disappeared from their view, were those of intense relief, for beyond the quiet rest of a few hours for herself and Willie, she could not immediately think; and taking up her brother, she carried him into the cabin and placed him on the old mattress, which she had arranged into as comfortaable a bed as possible. 
               But Willie could not sleep. The little limbs were cramped and nervous, the heated, throbbing head turned from side to side, and the pulse was hurried and irregular; and Alice, forgetting her own fatigue, hastened back to the creek, and brought water to bathe the wearied form. The cool wet hand, as it had often done before, soon quieted him, and the sweet, almost baby smile, which a sense of comfort, and of his sister's care, brought at length to his face, the slowly closing eyes saw reflected in the countenance bent lovingly over him. 
                
               But when the eyes were fully closed in quiet sleep, the smile passed away from the girl's face, and a very hard, defiant expression settled on her features. Some words which Willie had tried to utter at the moment he was passing into a state of unconsciousness, and which, one might have thought, were still trembling on the smiling, parted lips, though Alice had heard them very often before, brought such a train of thought to her mind that her fatigue was all forgotten, and the hard, strange look had come to her face. 
               And yet they were very sweet words, the sweetest words which human lips have ever uttered; words which have soothed and comforted myriads in days which are gone, words which will soothe and comfort myriads in days to come; the first which the Christian child is taught, the last which the dying Christian would utter. 
               Alice had herself taught the baby brother to lisp them, and this was the first time her voice had not been joined to his in their repetition. 
               She rose from the floor where she had been kneeling to bathe Willie, and seated herself in the cabin door, which opened towards the west. 
               It had been a very bright, clear day, but, as the sun was going down, the clouds came rolling up from the western horizon; great, purple billows, crested with crimson and gold, with partings here and there, through which the eye seemed to look very far away upon a smooth tranquil sea, dotted with pearly islands, and watched over by eternal Peace. The ever restless prairie air, so cool and grateful after the heat of the day, was gathering perfume from the dewy grass and closing flowers; very sweet it was, as, coming through the little clump of locust trees, full-blossoming, it fell softly on the sun-browned face that looked out from the cabin door. 
               From out the graceful foliage, and rich creamy blossoms of the overhanging branches, the "mourning dove" was cooing to his mate; farther away were heard the whirring sounds of innumerable prairie fowls, and many a monotonous but pleasant note came up from the neighboring pond. Not a human sound was to be heard, and looking towards the west, not a vestige of human habitation was visible. 
               Nothing but a seemingly illimitable expanse of waving grass, thickly studded with gem-like flowers, and here and there a little pond where the lilies were just beginning to unfold their yellow and white blossoms-nothing but nature and nature's God were there, and Alice was thinking of a text of Scripture she had read and pondered on many a time before. 
                
               "And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day." 
               Many a time had she thought of it, when looking timidly through the elegant and costly inclosure of a rich man's garden in the great city where her home had formerly been, and had wondered much if, among the sculptured gods and goddesses standing there on their marble pedestals, the great, pure God was, in an especial manner, walking, and if any ear, through the hum of gay voices and the sound of merry music, was listening for His voice. And Alice thought, looking on the scene before her, that this seemed more like the garden of the Lord than any place she had ever seen, only she was outside the Eden wall, and there was no voice calling there to her. 
               "Our Father, who art in Heaven!" 
               Strange thoughts had been trying, for many days past, to enter her mind, and she would not receive them; but to-night, when Willie's thin, pale lips murmured the words, she opened her heart to the evil visitors, and mentally responded: 
               "Yes, in Heaven, and no nearer to you and me, Willie!" 
               The boy turned on his couch, and partially awoke. The daylight was fast fading, and the moon's soft beams were finding their way through the strip of woods which shut out the eastern horizon. 
               "Is it night, Allie?" said the little feeble voice; "well, I don't want any supper; so we will say our prayers, and go to sleep. Come!" 
               She went to his side, and silently took the outstretched hands in hers. 
               "'Our Father!' Speak louder, Allie, I don't hear you, and God will not listen to a poor little boy like me, unless you speak too. 'Our Father who art in Heaven!'"-and the heavy eyes again closed in quiet slumber. 
               Alice bowed her head on their joined hands, and tried to sleep too; but she had not said-"Our Father!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THROUGH THE WILDERNESS. 
               SLEEP would not come. Now that the aching feet were still, the wearied but restless thought would wander up and down the rough path which the girl had trodden for nearly nine years past. Alice Tracy had been a very carefully nurtured infant. She could well remember her handsome home; her beautiful, loving mother; her once kind, indulgent father; her fine clothing; her pretty toys, and the nurse who so petted her. But a change had come, very suddenly, it seemed to her. 
               In her thoughts, but one brief night had intervened, though there had been two long, weary years, between that winter's evening when she was waked at a late hour by the caresses of her parents, who had come to her bedside on their return home from a grand party, her mother so richly dressed, and so adorned with jewels, and with such beauty and bloom on her features, and her father with his proud, happy face, who had taken her up in her night drapery, and danced with her in his arms about the warm chamber, where everything was so nice and comfortable,-between that evening, and the cold, stormy morning when she had stood on the dark filthy landing of a third flight of stairs, clinging in terror to the skirts of a pale, feeble, slatternly-looking woman, and peering down at a badly dressed, half-crazed, half-stupefied man, who came stumbling up the steps, his mouth filled with oaths, and his breath vile with poisonous drink. The man and woman were her father and mother! 
               Alice was then only six years old, but she remembered, all too well, the scenes which transpired in her miserable home, on that wretched day, which was, however, but a sample of many days which followed. Idleness, want of food, insufficiency of clothing, abuse from one parent, and the negligence and continual fault-finding of the other, made up the sum of her daily life until Willie was born; then the child woke to a new existence. 
               From baby's birth, his mother was an invalid, and soon after he had completed his first twelve-month, she became so enfeebled that she rarely left her bed for the remaining three years of her life, and her mind, for weeks, and sometimes for months together, was as diseased as her body; and as his father seemed positively to dislike the child, since it was another mouth for him to supply with food, the care of Willie was left entirely to his sister, whose new life became in some respects harder than before, but with no more lack of employment, no more dearth of love. 
               Poverty, and the neglect of her husband, had made Mrs. Tracy a very selfish woman, her own discomforts and grievances causing her to be almost entirely unmindful of those of her little daughter; but when sickness and the near prospect of death came, she awoke to a sense of her responsibilities as a mother, and endeavored, at the intervals when her health would permit, to prepare her child for the life of toil and struggle which was evidently before her; and this preparation, she thought, was in learning well the lesson of self-abnegation, and of trust in Heaven. 
               For Alice to deny herself for Willie, was very easy; it was no self-denial at all to watch over the one dear little object all her own to love, and who was loving her so much,-no self-denial to tend him till her little arms were weak and weary, to give up to him her own scanty clothing, to take the bread from her own hungry mouth for baby, to perform the most menial services for others to procure a trifle to be expended for Willie, and, what was hardest of all, to go into the street to beg for him. 
               But poor little eleven years! how could it trust in Heaven, and think that everything was for the best, when she looked on her drunken, cruel father, and knew that the mother who was now so kind and good, would soon die,-when she saw her brother needing care which she could not bestow, and the time when she would be a great, strong girl, to work and get money to buy nice things for him, was so far away. 
               In her enfeebled state of mind, Mrs. Tracy forgot how young the little, active, energetic creature still was, and she could not clearly realize the great discrepancy between her teachings and the daily experience of the child. She had, herself, let go her hold on earth, and was trying to cling to Heaven, and she endeavored to inspire her child with the feelings which were sustaining her. 
               Propped up in her bed, with the Bible lying open before her, she read and talked of its great truths, until the sacred histories seemed, sometimes, to Alice, almost like passing events; and when she saw no such great deliverances coming to herself as were there told of, nor experienced the speedy fulfilment of the precious promises, the poor heart grew very heavy, and the anxious eyes looked around for a human helper. But none was to be found. 
               They were strangers in the city where they lived, for Mr. Tracy had changed his place of abode soon after he experienced reverses of fortune. 
               And so Alice, failing to trust in Heaven, made up her mind, though she might not have been able to tell what was passing through her thoughts, that she would act as if she did put her trust there, and striving to keep in what she believed was the right path, struggled on, in the darkness and silence, watching for the pillar of fire which might uprise to draw her weary gaze, and listening for the still small voice, which perchance would, at length, greet her ear. 
               Between temporal and spiritual blessings, she could not well distinguish. "Give us our daily bread!"-which petition was on her lips so often, and was uttered with so much sincerity, that she wondered greatly that she and Willie so often needed food-conveyed to her mind no idea but that of sustenance for the body. 
               She knew, in a general way, that she was a sinner, but her need of forgiveness seemed, to the poor child, of vastly less importance than her want of food and clothing, and she would have risked her own salvation at any time to procure all she wished for Willie; but her mother's parting words brought a new train of thought to her mind. She was just completing her thirteenth year, and a naturally healthy body, uninjured yet, though her daily life was so laborious, held a mind very thoughtful for her age. 
               "My child!" said the dying mother, "you were given, in your infancy, to God and the Church; and you will remember that they will never forget their own. Every day, though they do not know now where their little god-daughter is, your sponsors are praying for you, and are thinking of the vows they made for you; and the eye of the Lord is always on you. So you cannot fail, and sink down by the way; you surely will go on, slowly, perhaps, but unfalteringly. 
               "And, Alice, take your little brother with you, in your arms and in your heart. In a little while we shall all be standing before the throne of God, and in the multitude which no man can number, I shall search for you; let me find Willie by your side! 
               "Kneel beside me, my daughter, and place your hand in mine, and promise me, that with the help of Heaven, I shall find you and him standing side by side, at the last great day, among the blessed of God!" 
               Pale, and shivering with a great fear, for the face which was turned towards her had a very strange, ghastly expression, and the voice was broken and hollow, Alice knelt and sobbed out the promise. Soon, she and Willie were motherless. 
               When a little more than a year had elapsed, after the death of his wife, Mr. Tracy attempted to desert his children; but some distant relatives, ascertaining certaining that he was about to join a company of emigrants bound for California, fitted him out with a team and necessaries for the journey, on condition that he should take the children to Illinois, and put them in charge of their mother's aunt, who, they pretended to have ascertained, was willing to receive them. 
               It had been a long and tedious journey for Alice, and she never could have got through it, but for the kindness of the people in whose company they were; for in addition to her other troubles, her father had informed her, early in the journey, while in a state of partial intoxication, that her aunt would not receive her and Willie into her house. But she had tried hard to keep up her courage under the disappointment, and was in thought prepared for the worst, when she reached her place of destination. 
               On the whole, she was rather glad that she did not have to meet her relative, if she was entertaining towards her and Willie such feelings as her father described, and the conviction that he would not endeavor to find Mrs. Richardson, or return after herself and her brother, did not trouble her so very greatly. The flour which their father had left them would supply them with food, Alice thought, until Willie had recovered from the fatigue of the long journey, and then she would go to the village which they had last passed through, and endeavor to find some employment. 
               But if she was not successful! 
               Alice sat up on her hard bed. She was not thinking, however, that it was hard. Any place of rest, with a mind at ease, would have been welcome. She was wondering if all her future life was to be as dark and wearisome as the past years had been. The moon had come around to the south, and a tide of soft, white light was flowing in through the cabin windows. She looked up at the deep blue, distant sky, and thought how far away Heaven must be. Beyond the moon, beyond the farthest stars, where everything was so quiet and still, and God was there! 
               The tears came softly into her eyes. She was thinking how happy God must be, and she was very glad for Him, for she knew, though she had felt so rebellious a few hours before, that He was good and kind, only He was so great and so very far away, it was not strange He had forgotten a poor little thing like herself. 
               So far away! Yes, she could not believe He walked the earth now, she had tried so entirely in vain, she thought, to find Him. Ever since her mother died, she had been thinking of the promise she had made her, and endeavoring to become a good girl, and make Willie good, but somehow, she had been, so it seemed to her, continually growing worse. She had often felt very envious when she saw children like herself and baby so much better cared for than they were, and had tried to believe that those children were not good. She would get very angry with her father when he came home cross, and without bringing anything for them to eat. When she carried Willie through the streets where the fruits at the stalls looked so nice, she had wished it was not wicked to steal; and sometimes, though that was not often, she wondered if her brother would always be so feeble, and need so much done for him; and several times when she had been very kind to her father, or had made some more than ordinary sacrifice for Willie, she expected that God was observing what a nice little girl she was becoming. 
               All this, she knew, was very wicked, and every night she would pray to be forgiven; but while her lips were uttering the prayer, she was thinking how surprisingly good she would be the next day; so good that God would forget all about her past sins. 
               And so the whole year had passed, and if any change had come to her, she thought it was for the worse. Would it be of any use to try longer to be good, and find the way to God? The temporal blessing had not come when she prayed for it, and the spiritual seemed just as far off. 
                
               She placed herself beside Willie, and drew him gently into her arms. 
               Never, she was thinking, could she perform her promise to her mother. She could never lead her brother up to God,-she could never find the way herself, to Him; but she would do the very best she could for the dear little fellow while she lived; and with pleasant, though unhopeful thoughts of her Creator, and unselfish love to her brother, the weary, tear-dimmed eyes closed in quiet sleep. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               UNTO THE HILLS. 
               FROM the other side of the creek, Margaret and Karl Uhlmann had watched the proceedings of the emigrants, and when the team had recrossed the water and disappeared down the road it came, the children ran home as fast as their feet would carry them, to give the intelligence that a girl and little boy who could not speak German, had just been left alone at the cabin uncle Fritz had bought two or three weeks before. 
               There were, however, too many chores to be done at their house that night; as there were no females in the family but Margaret and her aged grandmother, to allow time for running over and trying to find out what it meant; but the children had so much to say about the nice girl, and the dear little sick boy, that they were allowed to go over to the cabin early next morning, Margaret with a little pail of milk poised upon her head, and Karl carrying his short fat hands full of radishes and cresses. 
               The walk of a mile through the dewy grass was soon passed over, the children being quite too intent upon their object to look, that morning, into the nests of the prairie hens, which they were expecting every day to find full of chickens; but as it consumed no time, Margaret gathered handfuls of bright scarlet and purple flowers, and silvery green leaves, arranging them in pretty boquets as she ran along. 
               Alice Tracy had set up her stove in the place where it had been tumbled out of the wagon,-fortunately it was not broken in the fall,-and as the German children came near, was preparing to kindle a fire with the dry sticks she had been down to the grove to pick up, to cook the batter which was waiting for the heated griddle. 
               The two girls exchanged a pleasant good morning, each in her native language, both knowing what the other meant, but smiling at the queer sounds which met the ear, while little Karl was trying with the aid of the radishes, which he liked so well himself, to make the acquaintance of Willie. The little emigrant was, however, too feeble to meet his advances. He was lying on his couch, very quiet and silent; partially rested by his long sleep, but very weak and faint. 
               At Margaret's suggestion, she and Alice carried the stove into the cabin, and when the fire was kindled, and the cakes spread on the griddle, the little pail of milk was brought forward, and Margaret felt somewhat ashamed, when she saw the joy with which Alice received it, returning the kiss, however, with interest, and experiencing as much satisfaction at the avidity with which Willie swallowed a good draught, as did his sister herself. The visit of the children was repeated at sunset, and at every morning and evening during the remainder of the week; and Willie, from the rich milk they brought him, aided by the quiet and the pure sweet air, was slowly gaining strength. 
               As Alice expected, nothing was heard from their father, and Margaret managed to communicate the fact that the cabin had been purchased by a relative of hers, and that a German family would soon come to live on the place; she could not tell how soon, but Alice hoped not until she had become a little stronger, for as Willie improved in health, her own strength seemed failing; and sometimes she felt so dizzy and weak and faint, that she could hardly minister to her brother's wants. 
               It was mental agitation, however, more than any physical ailment, which was affecting her health; and that seemed to be caused less by her friendlessness and destitution,-for Alice was a brave, strong girl; toil and suffering had never quite subdued her spirit, nor so shaken her constitution that it could not quickly rally,-than by the thought that on entering on the new life which was now opening before her, she had no more a heavenly than an earthly helper. The thought was continually in her mind that more than a year had passed since her mother died, and she was farther than ever from God. 
               "O that I knew where I might find Him; that I might come even to His seat!" 
               The words were constantly on her lips, during the days that she was watching over Willie in the log-cabin. If she could only get very near to God and kneel at His feet, she would not promise any more how good she would be, she would only ask that she might always remain there; and beyond that, she had no wish for herself; and she was very sure, if she could only keep there, that God would enable her to take care of her brother. But without His help could she do anything hereafter? 
               Margaret Uhlmann was a good-natured and very industrious girl, but she was very far from being a pattern of neatness; and she had observed, with some shame to herself, that at her first visits to the emigrant children, Alice was always busying herself in mending the worn garments of Willie and herself; how clean their faces and hands, and brown naked feet always were, and how nicely their hair was arranged; but after a few days she began to notice a change. Alice always received her with a bright, pleasant, grateful smile, or Margaret would have thought she was really ill, so negligent was her appearance becoming; and to supply him with food, she one evening fancied, must have been the only attention Alice had bestowed on her brother for the last twenty-four hours. 
               The children had been at the cabin nearly two weeks, when one morning-it was the Sabbath-Margaret came over alone, in great haste and excitement, to take Alice and Willie to her home. 
               They had never yet been there, though Margaret's father and grandmother had both been over to the cabin to see the young strangers; but the German girl was almost obliged to use force to get Alice to accompany her on this occasion. 
               Very lonely and sad was the poor child feeling on that pleasant Sabbath morning. The beauty and quiet of everything about her, seemed wonderfully suited to the holy Sabbath; and she was thinking, as she and Willie sat in the cabin door, looking out on the prairie, how many pleasant places there were in the world, where prayer and praise would be offered that day, from human lips, from beast and bird and insect, from whispering winds and rolling waters; and tried to imagine if the ear which is open to all sounds, however softly they are uttered, could gather out from all which is discordant, all the beautiful and harmonious music of earth, and blend it in chorus, what a volume of sweet sound would go up to Heaven. And she felt like being very quiet and still herself; there was no gladness in her heart, to pour out in song, and she would not offer the plaintive note which she could, alone, in sincerity utter. 
               This was the last day, she had decided, that she would remain where she was. To-morrow, if Willie seemed to be as well as he did now, she would try to go to the neighboring village, and see if she could find some kind person there who would tell her what to do. A stranger had come to the Uhlmanns' on Saturday evening; she had seen him drive up to the cabin door, when she was down at the creek for water, and she was intending to go over on Monday morning, and see if he would give her and Willie a ride to M-- when he returned. But she did not like to do her errand on Sunday. 
               Margaret was so determined, however, that Alice should accompany her to her father's cabin, though the latter could not imagine why, that finally they set out together, the little German so pleased that she had succeeded in bringing Alice away, that she caught up Willie in her arms, and danced along through the tall grass, carolling as merrily as the sky-lark in her native home. 
               No one was in the cabin when the children reached it but grandmother Uhlmann. She was quite aged, though still strong and healthy, with pleasant blue eyes, which needed no glasses yet, and a soft, gentle hand, which she placed kindly on Willie's head as the little fellow, encouraged by her friendly looks, drew near her. She was reading, as the children entered the dwelling, and her book was lying open on her lap as Alice stepped forward to take the hand which was extended towards her. 
               The volume was the "Daily Handbook" of the humble, devoted Stark; and the eyes of Alice fell on an illustrated page. The principal figure in the picture was that of a young girl, kneeling with clasped hands and eyes upraised hopefully and trustingly to the distant mountain tops, half hidden by the clouds, but on which the sunbeams were resting. Alice could not read the text in the margin, for it was in German; but she knew what the English of it was, for she had often found the Hundred and Twenty-first Psalm for her mother, to whom it had given great strength and comfort. 
               The tears started into her eyes as she gazed,-tears of joy they must have been, for a bright, glad smile came to her face, and then she caught Willie in her arms, pressed him closely to her heart, and kissed him so fondly, that, accustomed as he was to her caresses, he looked wonderingly in her face. 
               "O darling!" she said, while she tried with her fingers to smooth the hair which had not been combed that morning, and endeavored to wipe the dust from his face with a corner of her apron, "I told you last night that Heaven was a great way off, and I did not know as God would hear us, when we said 'Our Father!' and if He did hear us, He is such a great being, I was not sure He would care for such little things as we are. It was very wicked to tell you so, Willie, but I have been so sorry lately that I have forgotten a good many things, and I could not quite understand either. But the Bible says, 'I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth!' The hills is Heaven, Willie, and help means that He will take care of you and me!" 
               "Will He take care of us, Allie?" asked the child. 
               "Yes, dear; and the greater God is, the better able He is to take care of us; and if we are little things, we are just what He made us." 
               "Will He take care of us always, Allie?" again asked Willie. 
               "Yes, darling, if we ask Him, and say, For the dear Christ's sake!" 
               "Well, that is nice," said the little boy, "so wipe your eyes, Allie; you won't cry any more now, will you?" 
               "Not through fear that He will forget us!" said his sister, and for the moment she felt that nothing but a sense of the kindness of God, and her own ill deserts, would ever make her tears flow again. 
               Margaret and her grandmother of course did not understand what was passing between the brother and sister, but the aged man who, unperceived by the children, had come up to the open window, and stood looking into the room, comprehended their words, and also what had given rise to them; and as Alice turned to leave the cabin, feeling that just now she wanted to be alone with Willie, the stranger came around to the door, and addressed her kindly in imperfect English; but he checked Margaret when she attempted to retain Alice longer, and the latter, taking her brother's hand, turned towards her home. 
               But no longer were her features at variance with the smiling earth, or her lips unattuned to the songs of praise which were going up to Heaven from all animate things about her; for every object that met her eye, and every sound that greeted her ear, brought to her the blessed assurance that God is good, and that He cares for all the works of His hands; and Willie, walking by her side, his little curly head scarcely lifted above the tall grass, and sometimes swept over by it, was listening to the great truths which came strangely crowding into his sister's mind, and which she was able to present to him in so simple and attractive a form, that the little boy could not fail, partially, to understand them, as the little quaint remarks proved, though he listened not more to her words, than to the sound of her voice, which he thought was never so sweet before. 
               Swiftly and pleasantly passed the remainder of that Sabbath to Alice, though it was a long, sultry July day. Years after, she remembered how rapidly the sun had passed through the heavens, how soon the evening came, how undisturbed she had felt, when, after the evening meal was over, she saw what a little stock of food was remaining; and how, after she had repeated his prayers with Willie, and the little sleepy eyes were closed for the night, she had tried to pray by herself, and no words would come to her lips, but those beautiful ones of the Psalmist: "I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help!" 
               
                  And help came.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               UNCLE FRITZ. 
               VERY early the next morning Alice went over to the Uhlmanns', to ascertain if the stranger who had come to the cabin on Saturday afternoon, was going to M--, that day, and to see if he would allow her and Willie to ride in his wagon to the village. 
               Perhaps he could give her some good advice, or direct her to some person who would do so. She remembered that he had spoken very kindly to her the day before, and she had asked Heaven to bless her in her present undertaking; and it was a very bright, hopeful, and courageous face-a wonderful change had passed over that countenance within the last twenty-four hours-which, as Margaret hastily opened the cabin door looked up into that of Uncle Fritz. 
               This individual was grandmother Uhlmann's brother, a year or two younger than herself, and as hale and vigorous as she was-the Uncle Fritz who had lately purchased the place formerly belonging to the relatives of Alice. He was a very serious, but kindly-featured and pleasant-voiced old man; and he had talked but a few moments with Alice, when she began to think that she had at last found a friend; that help was indeed coming to her from the Hills.
                
               Uncle Fritz lived at M--. He had seen her father, both on his way to, and return from West Grove. Indeed, Mr. Tracy had called on him, on his return, knowing that he owned the cabin where the children had been left, and told him that he should come back in a few days after them; but at the expiration of the time specified, the old gentleman ascertained that he had made no endeavor to find the connections he had pretended to be in search of; satisfying himself by simply sending them a letter; and had not tried to overtake the emigrant train, but had sold his team for a trifle in the neighborhood, and then started to find passage down the Mississippi to New Orleans. 
               He did not tell Alice, just yet, that her father had never reached the river, but, on his way there, had been thrown, in a state of beastly intoxication, from a loaded wagon, and was almost instantaneously killed, though such a report, apparently well founded, had just been received at M--. 
               Uncle Fritz had then sent over to West Grove to inquire about the children, and Margaret's father had answered his inquiries in such a way that he had come over on purpose to see what could be done for them. 
               Very kindly and gently he drew from Alice the principal events in her past history, and also what were her intentions, or rather wishes, for the future. These could be told in a very few words. 
               She wanted to find employment, so she could support herself and Willie, in however humble a way, if she could have him with her. Uncle Fritz spoke for a few moments to his sister, and Madam Uhlmann replied to him in a very pleasant manner, as she lifted Willie into her lap and looked on his sister with increasing favor, while Margaret stood half laughing and half crying, with her arms around the old gentleman's neck; and then he turned again to Alice and inquired if she would be willing to live among people whose language she did not understand. 
               She would be very willing,-she would soon learn,-she was already beginning to understand Margaret. 
               Yes, that was well; but could she teach Margaret the English language? and then he went on to tell her that the Germans living in the neighborhood had come there through his influence; that he had lately purchased considerable land in West Grove, and that a dozen or more families were now on their way thither from New York. 
                
               Among them, there was not an individual who could speak a word of English, and they knew nothing of American manners and customs; but he was anxious that they should learn the language, and some of the household ways of the people, among whom their future home was to be. 
               Among the families there were perhaps twenty-five children. Now could Alice teach them to speak, to read, and to write English? and could she teach the girls, many of whom might be ignorant, the arts of knitting and sewing? The people who were to occupy the cabin where Alice and Willie were now stopping were Uncle Fritz's own granddaughter, and her husband. They were just married, and Alice, if she liked his propositions, could still remain there with her brother. Katrine was a good girl, and very well educated; if Alice wished it, she would teach her pure German; but she was all unused to domestic affairs, and Alice must teach her all she knew of housekeeping. 
               How did she like what he proposed? He felt very sure that the people would all treat her kindly, and be very friendly to her; and in case any difficulty did arise, she might always come to him. 
               At first, Alice could not reply to him. Her joy at the thought of being able to support herself and Willie in a respectable manner was so mixed with fears that she should not succeed in the undertaking, that she could not utter a word; but when the old gentleman added, very softly and tenderly- 
               "You must not begin this work in your own strength my child, nor trust too much to me, although I am so willing to aid you; but you must look to the great Father of us all, who will give to every one who asks Him, all the strength that is needed." 
               Then Alice thanked him, more with her eyes, however, than with her lips, promising that she would make a very earnest endeavor to do what would be required of her, and expressing, very modestly, her conviction that she should be able to satisfy her employers. 
               Uncle Fritz seemed very well pleased with her reply, and he repeated it to Madam Uhlmann and her granddaughter. 
               Margaret was almost beside herself with joy that Alice was to remain with them, and the old lady, too, was greatly moved, for she had become much interested in the orphaned children, and her hand trembled as she laid it lovingly on the young girl's head, and her lips moved, Alice thought, in prayer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE SCHOOL-ROOM. 
               THE little low-roofed, log school-house was situated just at the entrance of the grove, beneath the interlacing branches of a wide-spread oak, and a tall hickory, from out whose thickly-clustering leaves myriads of shining green nuts were peeping. A wild grape-vine, and the pretty yellow honeysuckle, now in full blossom, had been trained about the low windows; and the tall grass in front of the building had been so closely and neatly cut away by active little fingers around the many patches of prairie plants, now covered with a profusion of variously-tinted flowers, that the open space seemed like a miniature well-kept lawn. 
               Within the building, too, the little hands had been very busy. The roughly-hewn logs were nicely whitewashed; the floor and rude benches had been scoured till they looked as if they were just left by the carpenter; a pretty unbleached mat, woven by Margaret, was lying in the door-way; coarse, but snow-white, and nicely-starched muslin curtains-they were Katrine's gift-were drawn aside from the little windows; bunches of flowers and variously-formed green leaves, arranged in queer little German mugs, were placed on the rude table which was to serve for the teacher's desk, and indeed the writing-desk for the whole school, and among them was a brown paper parcel which Karl Uhlmann had brought in, and very ostentatiously placed there. 
               Twenty-one-children, including Alice and Willie, of all ages between five and fifteen, were assembled. Margaret was the eldest, except Alice, who was a few months her senior. Nineteen quaintly-dressed, blue-eyed, brown-haired, rosy-cheeked, laughing and wondering little Germans, were bolt upright on their benches; and sitting by themselves, one nestling in the other's arms, were two pale-faced and thoughtful children, with dark eyes and curling black hair, and attired in simple mourning; for the report of their father's death was known to them, and Alice, with some materials grandmother Uhlmann gave her, had done the best she could to prepare garments she had been taught to consider proper, for herself and Willie. 
               This was the picture which was presented to Uncle Fritz as, one pleasant July morning, he came up to the door of the log school-house, and stood looking in, evidently to see how his plans were likely to operate. 
                
               Alice rose to receive him, but he silently motioned her to resume her seat, and then turning about, he sat down in the door-way, and looked out on the prairie. Alice saw that she must open her school, and a dreadful consciousness of weakness and incompetency came over her. The presence of Uncle Fritz made her task much more difficult, and for a moment she thought she must go to the old gentleman, and thank him for his kindness to her, but tell him that she could not keep the promise she had made; that she had neither the knowledge nor the energy necessary for the work: and then she felt the tears coming into her eyes. 
               But suddenly she remembered some words her mother had spoken, not long before she died; something about human life not being simply a warfare, but a hand-to-hand conflict; that earthly helpers can give but little aid,-at best but utter a word of caution or encouragement, which perchance may keep back from noble deeds, or lead on to wrong; strive to remove an obstacle from the path, and leave a more formidable one in its stead; place weapons in the hands which can injure only those who wield them-that in all the exigences of life, one's own hand must work out his destiny, and that one must look for Divine aid only when he is ready for the long and desperate struggle. 
                
               She untied the paper parcel. There were slates and pencils, primary reading-books, several copies of the New Testament, and a Book of Common Prayer, on the fly-leaf of which was written, in a stiff awkward hand, but very legibly- 
                     ALICE TRACY, Ps. cxxi. 1.
                  
                
               She whispered to Willie, and the little fellow climbed down from beside her, and took a seat by Margaret; and then Alice opened the book and turned to the ninth Sunday after Trinity. 
               Willie's eyes were fixed intently on his sister, and when she bowed her head and began to repeat the Lord's Prayer, he folded his hands and joined the pleasant little voice with hers; and Margaret, with a very red face, tried hard to repeat the words Alice had been endeavoring to teach her, while her nervous fingers were very industriously knotting the strings of her apron, and her eyes were glancing furtively around the room, to see if any one was listening to her. 
               And then Alice read the beautiful Collect: 
               "Grant to us, Lord, we beseech Thee, the spirit to think and do always such things as are right; that we, who cannot do any thing that is good without Thee, may, by Thee, be enabled to live according to Thy will, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen!" 
                
               The last word came from Uncle Fritz, as he rose from his seat, and put on his hat, and as Alice raised her head, he was walking away without another glance at the school-room; but there was a pleasant smile on the aged face, a moisture in the eyes, and his lips were moving, though they gave utterance to no audible sound. 
               The consciousness of having taken the first step in the right direction, gave Alice so much strength that she entered on the duties of the day with cheerful courage; and when the school hours were passed, and the last chubby hand was laid in hers, and the last little mouth, brim-full of bashful fun, had tried to twist itself into a good-night, and she had arranged the room for the next day, and closed the door; and then, taking her little brother's hand, walked home through the shady grove, sweet with the perfume of flowers, and resounding with the songs of birds, Alice wondered if, after all, the place where God dwells is so very far away, if He does not, sometimes, "bow the heavens" and come down to earth, and if those who try to love and serve Him, do not now, at times, truly experience as great deliverances as did His people in the days of old. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               REMEMBER THE SABBATH-DAY. 
               THE home of Alice and her brother continued to be the log-cabin which had formerly been owned by her relatives, or rather one of the two rooms which Ludwig Dunz (that was the name of Katrine's husband), who was by trade a house-carpenter, had added to the building; and very pleasant her home was to her. 
               Katrine, though only nineteen years of age, was a good, sensible woman. She had seen, from the first, how unlike her ways were to those of Alice, and she knew that the young girl would be much happier by herself, and at her suggestion, the old stove had been set up in the new apartment, and all the necessaries for a very plain housekeeping had been furnished Alice by Uncle Fritz; and though she sought her society, and endeavored to learn her language, and profit by her knowledge of domestic affairs, Katrine was never intrusive; and Alice had all the retirement she wished. 
               The week was gone. Five days had been passed in the school-room, the greater part of the sixth had been given to Katrine, and the remainder employed in making her own little preparations for the Sabbath. 
               And now the Sabbath morning had come. Alice had retired at night, feeling very weary, but the morning light, as it looked early into her little windows, saw a rested body and a rested mind. 
               Last night she was too tired to question herself; she could only pray that her sins, for the dear Christ's sake, might be forgiven, and that her shortcomings might be overlooked by the people in whose employ she was; that the blessed Spirit would help her to live to the glory of God, and that she might be more successful in the discharge of her daily duties. 
               But now, as she rose from her bed, and dressed herself quickly and noiselessly, that she might not disturb the occupant of the little cot, she could look over her work for the past week, and judge pretty correctly of what she had done; and the retrospection gave her much satisfaction. 
               She knew that she had given Katrine valuable assistance, that some of her pupils had carried home on Friday some very decent specimens of knitting and sewing, and that every one of them had learned a little English; and, better than all, as it promised her success in the future, that each of her scholars was beginning to respect and love her. 
                
               They were all pleasant, friendly faces that looked into hers on Friday evening, as, one after another, they came to her and placed their hand in hers, and laughing at the queer sounds they made, tried to repeat after her the good-night; and she was sure she loved them all very much. 
               And Willie had been a good boy, too, and had improved in his reading, she thought, lovingly, as she stooped over him with smiling lips, but without touching them to his, lest the caress should disturb him; and her heart gave a great throb of joy, as she saw on the tinted, rounding face, sure proof that the little fellow was becoming strong and healthy. 
               A hymn of thanksgiving went silently up from her heart, and as the question came-"What shall I render unto the Lord, for all His benefits towards me?" she tried to answer very sincerely- 
               "I will take of the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the Lord!" and she prayed that she might be able to keep the Sabbath holy, and be divinely directed to make it a "delight and honorable" to her brother. 
               As has been before remarked, the earlier German settlers in West Grove had been accustomed to meet on the Sabbath, at the house of one or another of the families; and the new comers,-there were eleven families of them,-fell immediately into the same practice, for they had all come from the same Electorate, and the greater part of them were more or less nearly allied to Uncle Fritz, who occasionally came over from M-- and spent the Sabbath with them. 
               The place of meeting, on this particular day, was the house of Mr. Uhlmann-Margaret's father; and Katrine and her husband, dressed in their best attire, set out immediately after breakfast for their visit. They had come to Alice's door, and invited her to accompany them, and were very much surprised when she declined doing so, and she thought that Katrine was a little offended, at first, but the young woman's accustomed smile soon returned, and she went back to her own room, and brought out some pretty colored prints and placed them before Willie, whose little neat, careful ways, she often laughingly told Ludwig to imitate. 
               Alice was as much pleased with the pictures as was her brother, for she saw how much they would assist her to make the day pass pleasantly to him. They were Scripture scenes, lithographed from the works of some of the old masters; and a sweet story, not altogether new even to Willie, though, told in Alice's simple, earnest way, just as good as new, could be related of each one. 
               That which she selected was the building of the Temple, and when she had told him all she knew about it, who were the people that built it, and what had been done for that nation,-for whose service it was erected, what a rich, beautiful, and holy place it was, and how, when the people had so sinned that the great Dweller there had forsaken it, and it was utterly destroyed, He did not forsake the world, but still remained, and dwells yet in the many temples which have been built for his worship, some of them very costly and beautiful, as they should be where the people have means to do it, since it is the great God who has created all beautiful things, and some very humble and lowly, it matters not much which they are, if only He is there-then she opened the Prayer Book and read: 
               "The Lord is in His holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before Him!" 
               Those were the words with which many Christians commence their service on the holy Sabbath day, she told him; and since she and Willie could not go to church and worship God there, they must try to worship Him at home; and if they were very sincere and earnest, and thought of Him and the church, just as the Hebrews, when they were in a strange land, and could not go back to the Temple to worship, would turn their faces towards Jerusalem and pray,-He would be there in their little room, and hear and bless them just as much as if they were in the holy Temple, and when they read the Service they could think how many voices there were which would be speaking the same words they were speaking, and at the same moment; so she and Willie could say we, and expect the same blessings they might hope for, if they were in the great congregation. 
               And she read in the Prayer Book: "The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and a contrite heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise." 
               And then Alice talked to Willie about the sacrifices which were offered in Solomon's temple, to show to the people what a wicked thing sin is. 
               "How many dear little white lambs all full of fun, and bright-eyed, playful calves and goats, and sweet, cooing doves had to be killed, and how many little children had felt very sorry and shed many tears when their pretty pets were taken away from them and carried to the Temple to be put to death; and they thought they would never be wicked again. 
               "Doubtless sometimes those children believed it was really most too much to have to give up the dear little creatures, so pretty and innocent, and it seemed hard for Heaven to require it; they wondered if anybody else would ever be willing to do so much, just because people were so wicked. 
               "But by and by-a very long by and by-another other One sent an offering to Jerusalem,-no one would ever believe it if it was not the Bible which tells about it,-the great God sent His own Son, whom He loved more than all the people in the world could love their children, and he was the best son that ever was born too; O, ever so many times better than all the children that ever lived, and just as good when he grew up to be a man as he was when he was a dear little boy. But God let him be put to death to show what a dreadfully wicked thing sin is, and to make people ashamed and afraid to do wrong any more. And besides"- 
               "Was he willing to die, Allie?" interrupted Willie, with a great sob. 
               "Yes; he was willing, dear!" returned his sister. "He was dreadfully sorry to die, but he was willing. He said his Father could do just as He thought best about it. Somebody must die, because there had been so much sin committed. The sacrifices of so many animals could not take away the sin, it only showed how wicked it was. Somebody must die, and the good God said if His dear Son was willing, he might die instead of all the wicked people; and just as many of the people as would be really sorry for their sins, and would try, O, ever so hard, to be good, and love the dear Christ who died for them more than everything else in the world, and know they never could have been forgiven if it had not been for Him, and never can do anything right unless He helps them, will be saved at last. 
               "They will all have to die, that is, their bodies will go to sleep, such a sleep as nothing on earth can disturb, and will be put into the grave, and by and by God will speak to them, and then they will wake up, just as Christ woke up, and never sin any more, but be forever happy, and live forever with God and the dear Saviour who died for them. 
               "And after Christ was offered up as a sacrifice,-not at the Temple, Willie, look at the picture! over there on Mount Calvary-then there was no more use in offering sacrifices of beasts and birds; that was all over with. Then what God would not despise was 'a broken and contrite heart.'" 
               "That means to be real sorry; don't it, Allie?" asked Willie. 
               "Yes, dear!" said his sister; "but the people did not offer it, and not long after, the Temple was destroyed,-burnt and thrown down. I suppose because they did not bring the right sacrifices there. And then those who believed in Christ, built churches in which to praise Him, and to offer such sacrifices as God would accept." 
               Willie looked puzzled. "God could see them kill the animals, Allie, but how does He know about the sorry?" 
                
               "Why, He knows all things, Willie, what we think as well as what we do; and besides, in many churches the people all kneel and say-now look on the book, dear, while I read what they say when they offer this sacrifice which God will accept. There are a great many people who will be repeating these words just when we do, Willie." And Alice read: 
               "Almighty and most merciful Father! we have erred and strayed from Thy ways like lost sheep. We have followed too much the devices and desires of our own hearts. We have offended against Thy holy laws. We have left undone those things which we ought to have done, and we have done those things which we ought not to have done; and there is no health in us. But Thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us, miserable offenders. Spare Thou those, O God, who confess their faults, restore Thou those who are penitent, according to Thy promises declared unto mankind, in Christ Jesus, our Lord. And grant, O most merciful Father, for His sake, that we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life, to the glory of Thy holy Name. Amen!" 
               "And when they have prayed so," Alice continued, "then the minister tells them if they have been really true and earnest in what they have said,-and it will be just the same with you and me, Willie,-God will forgive our sins, and help us in time to come, to be good, and save us at last for the dear Christ's sake. And then we say the Lord's Prayer." 
               Willie folded his arms and knelt beside his sister and joined his voice with hers. And so through the whole of the beautiful and impressive Morning Service of the Episcopal Church, the children went. 
               Alice never forgot to be grateful that her prayer in the early morning was answered, that she was able to make that Sabbath-day a pleasant one to her brother, and the impressions made on that little heart on that day have never been effaced. 
               As Willie was closing his eyes in sleep that evening, he called his sister to him after they had said their good-night. 
               "Did you promise mother she should find me at your side at the last day, Allie?" he asked. 
               "Yes, dear!" very softly. 
               "And you won't forget it, Allie?" 
               "No, darling!" with tearful earnestness. 
               And as Alice sat beside him, while he sank into quiet sleep, her lips noiselessly murmured the words again and again- 
                      
                        "Help me to watch and pray, 
                        And on Thyself rely; 
                        Assured if I my trust betray 
                        I shall forever die." 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               TRIED, BUT NOT TEMPTED. 
               SEVERAL weeks had passed away, and Alice was getting along very finely with her school, and in her relations with the few people with whom she came in contact. Besides, she was making very good progress in German; and Katrine, who was very well educated, and whom Alice had taken so much pains to teach English to that she was already sufficiently acquainted with the language to make herself understood; was giving her assistance in arithmetic and also in music, for the young woman had a very good piano, the present of her grandfather, and she sang and played with great skill and sweetness; and she had discovered, what no one had before imagined, that Alice had very uncommon musical abilities, in the cultivation of which Katrine seemed quite as much interested as did Alice herself. 
               Beyond reading and writing, the young girl had little education; and she saw that before long her pupils would be ready to learn something else; but Uncle Fritz laughed when she told him they would soon need another teacher, and said when she had taught them all she knew, they would have a vacation until she had prepared herself to teach them something else. And the next Saturday afternoon, when he came over from M--, he brought her so many school books, that Katrine scolded and wanted to know how much her grandfather expected a girl only fifteen years old could do besides keeping house, teaching school, giving private lessons in domestic affairs and in the English language, and studying German and music herself. 
               But the housekeeping had become only nominal, through the management of Katrine, who was beginning to love Alice like an own sister; and her aptness to learn was rendering her, with the exception of a word of advice now and then, quite independent of assistance. 
               So Alice knew that she would have plenty of time, and she determined to employ it to the best advantage, as well for the sake of her pupils as for Willie's and her own, and when she laid herself down to rest that Saturday night on which she had received the present of school books, she felt perfectly happy, and wondered if there was a girl in the world who had so much reason to be grateful to Heaven, and to the friends it had given her, as had she. 
                
               But the next morning great trouble came. Alice had observed, for the past few days, that Katrine and Margaret had had several private and prolonged conferences. Usually she was made a confidant in all their little affairs, but now her presence was the signal for silence between them, and towards herself they both manifested considerable restraint; but she did not give the subject much thought until Sabbath morning, when, on going very early into Katrine's room, where Margaret already was, she was received with so much coldness by the cousins, that she retreated suddenly to her own apartment, and threw herself on her bed, sobbing. It was certain, now, she thought, that they were angry with her, and she could not imagine how she had offended them. She did not know until now how she had learned to love them and depend on them, and she could have made any sacrifice to insure their friendship, And she had thought they cared for her, but it was undoubtedly all over now between them, for Katrine had a great deal of firmness, and with all her good qualities, was of a very unforgiving disposition; and Alice very quickly decided, that though Uncle Fritz had told her to go to him, in case any difficulty arose between her and the people, she would never complain of his granddaughter or niece, of both of whom he was very fond. 
                
               Willie heard the stifled sobs, and climbing out of his cot, came to his sister's side, and put his arm around her neck. Alice drew him to her heart and laid her wet face on his, thinking they were all alone again. 
               "Willie, we have no one beside each other in the world!" she said. "Do you think you can love me always? I should be all alone but for you." 
               "Course I shall!" said the little fellow sturdily. "But what do you say we have only each other for, Allie? Can't we read the Service to-day at the same time the church reads it, and say we? and won't there be ever so many of us then?" 
               And as she wiped away her tears, and commenced her simple preparations for breakfast, Alice thought how well she was repaid for all her care for him, by the words of encouragement which her little brother often addressed to her when her courage began to fail. 
               This Sabbath was Alice's birthday. Fifteen years since, she first opened her eyes to the light, and fourteen since, the baptismal drops had touched her brow, and as she read in the Morning Lesson- 
               "And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee, these forty years, in the wilderness, to humble thee and to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldst keep His commandments, or no"- her thoughts ran back, as they often did, over the years that were gone. 
               She had been accustomed to think that her lot in life had been very hard; but this morning she felt that she had had very much reason for gratitude in the past. It had seemed simple and natural enough at the time; but looking from her present stand-point, she saw that her food had sometimes come to her almost as miraculously as though it had been manna from heaven; and sometimes, in her dire necessity, she had been so unexpectedly supplied with clothing, that her surprise might have been as great as it would have been had she found that her own poor garments were not waxing old. Was the adversity which she feared was again coming to her,-the weary retracing of her path through the wilderness, designed to try her, to know what was in her heart, if she would trust the Lord still? 
               Willie was sitting on his little rude stool at his sister's feet, and looking up earnestly in her face, as she read from the Bible which was lying open upon her lap- 
               "But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is He that giveth"- 
               When the door suddenly opened, and Katrine and Margaret stepped into the room. 
               A glance at their faces showed Alice that she had been making herself very unhappy for nothing; and the revulsion of feeling she experienced almost overcame her, but the girls were so much absorbed in their own thoughts, and in their attempts to help each other find English words to express what they wished to communicate, that they did not observe her emotion. For a little while Alice could only understand that they were loving her very much, and return the caresses they were lavishing on her: but after a time she began to comprehend what the mysterious movements of the past few days meant, and what they had been so anxious to conceal from her until everything was arranged. 
               The cousins had planned, two weeks before, to have a little festival on Alice's birthday, and when the other people found it out, they agreed to make it a general holiday. All of the families sent children to school, but some of the parents had never seen the young teacher, and they were desirous of having an opportunity to manifest the respect they were beginning to feel for her. They were assembling in the grove now, it was there they were to have the Fest; everybody would be there, and Uncle Fritz too, Margaret said. 
               They were to have everything nice to eat; Uncle Fritz had even sent to Chicago and got confectionery and fruits; they had got two nice swings put up, and Ludwig had got a violin, so they could have dancing. 
                
               Katrine was sorry that Hans Schutz had brought a keg of lager beer to the Fest, only-But Alice must hurry; and Margaret placed on her head a pretty straw hat which her own fingers had, under the guidance of the grandmother, woven for the birthday present; while Katrine was helping Willie put on the nice little suit of clothes she had slily made for him, from materials which Ludwig had purchased, and delighting him with a description of the fine time he and Karl Uhlmann and Ernst Nabor, and the other little boys, were going to have-the long swings, the sweet-cakes and candy, and the queer little German games they would play. 
               "O Allie, how nice! isn't it?" said Willie, clapping his hands joyously, looking at his new clothes, and at his sister's pretty hat, and thinking of the fun to come. "Ever so many of us now, is there not?" 
               But O! how much alone Alice felt, and how miserable in her loneliness. She had felt so sorry when she feared the girls were offended with her, and had thought how great a sacrifice she could make to repair even a fancied wrong; and now, when they had been so very kind, she was going, deliberately, to give them what they would consider an unpardonable offence; to offend not only them, but all the people there, even Uncle Fritz! 
                
               Willie was ready. "Come, Allie!" 
               But his sister took the extended hand, and drew him back from the door. 
               "We are not going, Willie," she said in a quivering voice, "it is Sunday!" and then she turned to the girls; but a look at Katrine's dilated eye, and glowing face, showed her that words would be useless. She tried to take Margaret's hand and say something to her, but Katrine drew her cousin away, saying, in her own language, such bitter, cutting words that the hot indignant tears stood in Margaret's eyes; and she rushed from the room after Katrine, putting back Willie,-who could not yet understand that they were not going to the party, and who was trying to follow her,-with a firm hand, and closing the door behind her. 
               But vexed as Margaret was, she was not willing to relinquish her anticipated pleasure so easily. Though she respected Alice as much as she loved her, and that was a great deal, she considered her somewhat in the light of a protge, for she had first interested her father and grandmother in her, and then Uncle Fritz; and now she was anxious to exhibit her to the other friends, that they might see for themselves that the warm encomiums which had been lavished on her, were well merited. 
               Very soon, therefore, Margaret rentered Alice's room, happy and triumphant, leading in Uncle Fritz, who had said that of course Alice would meet with them. She had not understood what the girls meant, when they tried to give their invitation, they had made such blundering work with their English. 
               They found Willie sobbing in his sister's arms, and Alice looking very pale and sad, but calm and determined. 
               "I am very glad to see you, Mr. Kuhn," she said, rising to meet him. "You told me once if ever any trouble arose between the people here, and myself, I might come to you; and I want you very much to tell Katrine and Margaret, and all their friends, that I am very grateful for their kindness, and wish there was some way in which I could show my gratitude. But I cannot break the Sabbath, nor let Willie do so." 
               "Break the Sabbath! and who wishes you to, my child?" said Uncle Fritz, smiling. "No one will ask you to dance, Ilse, or to join in their little sports. They will see the color of your dress, and respect it. And besides, they imagine that your notions in regard to the Sabbath are a little different from their own. The young people here were accustomed to work hard in the fatherland. In the six days of the week, they found no rest but in sleep; Sunday was their only time for recreation. In the morning they went to church, and in the afternoon they had their amusements; and very properly,-the early day to their Maker, and the evening to themselves. The mind needs relaxation on the Sabbath, as well as the body; and the men here, the new comers, you know that more than half of them work in the village this season, having arrived here too late to do much on their land this year. They can be with their families only on the Sabbath, and it is right and proper that they should spend the day in the way which will be pleasant to them. 
               "You may spend it as you wish, you may even sit by yourself, and read the Bible all of the time, if you desire to; but you must go with the girls; so put on your hat and come. It is no Christian spirit which incites you to spoil their joy; and, I beg your pardon, my dear, you are in no situation to put yourself at variance with the people who would be your friends. I will make it right with Katrine," (it was not necessary to say anything to Margaret, for her arm was encircling Alice now) "I will tell Katrine that you are too wise to affect superiority over those in whose employ you are, and have read your Bible too well to pretend to understand better the word of God, and to have made greater advances in holiness, than your elders." 
               "O, sir!" and Alice clasped her hands in distress, "She did not say-Katrine cannot think I am proud or self-righteous! I-But I cannot go nor let Willie go!" she interrupted herself to say, as she sank back into her chair, and drew her brother towards her. 
               "If thou do at all forget the Lord thy God." 
               The text she had just read came very forcibly into her mind; and as Margaret and her uncle went out, the former more angry than she had been before, and the latter with an expression on his countenance which Alice could not understand, she prayed very softly in the words of the Collect for the day: 
               "Grant, we beseech Thee, that we may so faithfully serve Thee in this life, that we fail not finally to attain Thy heavenly promises, through the merits of Jesus Christ, our Lord!" 
               But it was a long time before Willie could be quieted. Not until the little fellow had cried himself to sleep would the sobbings be hushed, and though Alice felt that she had done right, it was a long, lonely day; and she could not, with her best endeavor, quite put the future from her mind. 
               She believed she was following the divine guidance, but it was the cloud and not the pillar of fire, which was going before her. She was glad when the day was done, and when she knelt by Willie's cot to offer up her evening prayers, she could scarcely command her voice, or keep back the bitter tears. 
               "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil!" 
               Alice heard a sob not far off, and when she rose, Katrine and Margaret were still kneeling near her, while Ludwig stood, with uncovered head, in the door-way. 
               "In keeping Thy commandments, there is exceeding great reward!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               AND KEPT BACK PART OF THE PRICE. 
               ON the following day no one came up to the little log school-house, but Margaret and Karl Uhlmann. 
               Katrine's bitter words produced more effect than she had, even in the heat of her anger, intended that they should, and very sincerely had she repented of what she knew, all the time, was great injustice to Alice; and when Willie came home in the middle of the afternoon, bringing his reading book and Testament, and told her that sister was stopping to clean up the school-house, because she was not going to keep school any more, but was going to walk over to M-- to-morrow, to see if she could find some work to do,-Katrine felt that her punishment was fully commensurate with her sin. 
               She did not, however, go to Alice and tell her how sorry she was for what she had done, or sit down and cry over it. Katrine would not have believed that either of these were good ways to right a wrong; but she went out and caught her pony and saddled him, and before Ludwig got his supper, she had seen every family in the settlement; and when, at her earnest solicitation, for Alice thought she could never enter the room again, the young teacher went, next morning, into the school, her pupils were all there. Every seat was occupied, and every boy had his bouquet, and every girl wore a wreath of wild flowers and green leaves. On Willie's accustomed seat some one had placed a pretty bunch of flowers, and a wreath of pure white blossoms was hanging on the back of the teacher's chair, while the little table before it was covered with the presents, which, it was expected, would have been offered to the teacher on the previous Sabbath. 
               Quaint little trifles some of them were, mementos of the Fatherland, some articles for housekeeping, and some pieces of wearing apparel. Grandmother Uhlmann's gift was the copy of Stark's "Daily Handbook," which contained the picture Alice so much admired, the kneeling girl and the distant cloud-capped but sun-lighted hills. But Alice was more affected by the unusual docility and gentleness of her pupils, than by their presence or their gifts. Each child seemed to feel as if it had done her a personal wrong which it was very anxious to repair, and when the school hours were over, and each one came to her for the clasp of the hand, and the parting word, more than one lip quivered, and many eyes besides Margaret's were filled with tears. 
               Getting the children back to school had not satisfied Katrine, and when Alice returned home she found their mothers and older sisters, all of them who could leave their homes, at the cabin, to take supper with the teacher. The table was ready spread, and an hour passed very pleasantly,-Alice's little knowledge of German helping her wonderfully in getting acquainted with the women, and her bright, pleasant face, and gentle, loving ways quite winning their hearts,-and when they were gone. Alice felt that Heaven had sent her a very swift reward for trying to keep the Sabbath holy; that the event which had seemed likely to break her connection with the people would prove a cement to bind her more closely to them. But Alice did not feel very well satisfied with herself; and her dissatisfaction increased as the week passed away. She was continually thinking of a Scripture lesson she had read, and tried to explain to Willie a few Sabbaths before,-the story of Ananias and Sapphira,-and constantly asking herself, "Am I keeping back part of the price?" 
               Was she trying to live for the glory of God? Had she any object in view as far as concerned the people in whose employ she was, other than to earn the money which would be paid her, so that she could remunerate those who were furnishing a shelter, food, and clothing for herself and Willie? She was trying to keep a very exact account of what she received from the people, and was determined to repay to the last penny, what their maintenance cost. That was very honest, but could it be called living to God's glory? 
               And how were her Sabbaths spent? In trying to keep them holy, in trying, herself, to find the path which leads to life, and in endeavoring to guide her brother into it. The seeking of her own, and his salvation, was certainly her first duty; but was it all her duty? And could one really be seeking his own salvation in the right way, if he was not seeking that of others also? Was it offering the whole price to the Lord! 
               In vain did Alice think of her ignorance on religious subjects,-in vain did she recall to her mind what her mother had said of the danger of leading people astray; for she knew where wisdom is to be found, and she knew there was many a rough and thorny road where one could not mistake the way, and many a green and pleasant pasture where never a pitfall opens for the wanderer. 
               And in vain, too, did she remember what Uncle Fritz had said about self-righteousness; with all her disposition to disparage herself, she could not believe she was guilty of that sin. She had not forgotten, the bitter fruits it had yielded long ago. But she felt as if the pillar of cloud was raising itself and passing on before her; and with a trembling heart, and feeble step, she rose up and followed praying for a staff from Heaven to lean upon. 
               The school was ended for the week, but Alice detained her pupils for a few moments after dismissing them, and commenced singing to them a pretty little German hymn Katrine had just taught her. 
               The children at first laughed slily at the queer sounds the teacher made, but they understood her well enough, and were much pleased with her singing, and when the second verse was completed, half the voices in school were singing out the familiar chorus. 
               "That would be a sweet hymn to sing here some pleasant Sabbath morning, would it not?" asked Alice. "It would seem almost as if we were in church, or at a Sabbath-school, at least; especially if we had read a chapter in the Bible, first." 
               "We might come here and sing it some time, if you would like to have us; we all know it," said one of the oldest girls, who was a very good singer, and rather proud of her voice. "And we know very many Sunday songs besides, which we used to sing in the Fatherland. I will come if the teacher wants me to; won't you, Gretchen?" 
                
               Margaret was not very well pleased with the suggestion. She wanted to stand highest in Alice's estimation, but she did not want to give up the Sunday visiting, and she stood for a moment irresolute; but when she looked at Alice, the pleasant smile which had won her heart long ago, decided her. 
               "Why, yes! we can come here every Sabbath; and we will make a real Sabbath-school of it; can we not?" and Margaret congratulated herself on coming out far ahead of Francesca after all. 
               Alice saw the struggle it had cost her, but she was sure of Margaret, when once her word was given, and she was not surprised when on entering the school-house the next Sabbath morning, she found most of the children assembled there; but she was surprised, when, a few moments after her own entrance, she saw Katrine and several of the grown-up girls come into the room; and particularly so, when, on singing their opening hymn, the fine tenor of Ludwig, and the deep bass of Margaret's father came through the open window, beneath which, upon a rustic bench, the two men were sitting. 
               "The child is trying, certainly, to help the little ones along; and we ought to show our appreciation of her endeavor;" said Mr. Uhlmann. 
               And Ludwig had said yes; and so they had walked together over to the school-house, instead of riding up to Nabor's, as they had intended; and when the singing was over, and Katrine went to the door and invited her husband and uncle into the room, the men went in very willingly, and Mr. Uhlmann spoke a few words to the children. 
               It was very nice, he told them, to meet on that pleasant Sabbath morning, to sing their hymns and to read the Bible, and very kind of Fraulein Alice to meet with them. He hoped they would come there every Sabbath, and make their meetings a real Sunday-school. Some of the older ones, he was sure, would like to come; he himself and his two grown-up sons among the number. It would not be necessary, unless the teacher particularly desired it, that all of the exercises should be in English, for she was beginning to speak their language very well; only he hoped she would be willing to read to all of them, a few chapters in the English Bible every time they met. 
               He would like to have the good old truths placed before him, sometimes, Mr. Uhlmann said, in a foreign dress. Even with his little knowledge of English, and the very imperfect reading of Margaret, he thought he could discover, every day, new beauties in the good Book; and the effort which he made to understand the strange words impressed the most familiar truths even more deeply on his mind. 
               Alice could understand him very well, and she gladly promised the reading of the English Bible; but would Mr. Uhlmann be willing to take the supervision of the school? would he try to form a Bible-class, and become its teacher? and would Mr. and Mrs. Dunz-they were Ludwig and Katrine-also be teachers, if the young people would attend? 
               Mr. Uhlmann could not refuse, after what he had already said. Katrine thought of the letter she had received from her grandfather a day or two before, and wondered what he would think if she showed herself unwilling to help Alice,-and said yes; and Ludwig, wishing that he had gone up to Nabor's instead of coming into the school-house, gave a reluctant consent to attend. He would not promise to take a very active part, but he would join the Bible-class, if one could be formed. 
               And so a Sabbath-school was organized before they separated. 
               When the meeting broke up, it was rather too late to go over to the Nabors. No one had observed how the time was passing until Margaret looked at the "noon-mark" on the window sill, the hours had gone by so pleasantly. 
               Alice had read the Lessons for the day, and a few chapters besides in the English Bible, and Katrine, afterwards, in the German. The young teacher and her week-day scholars had sung the hymns she had taught them, and in several of the sweet Sunday songs of the Fatherland, intoned by every German, her voice, and that of Willie, had joined. Mr. Uhlmann had made a few remarks in which every one was interested, and then he had closed the exercises with a very humble, fervent prayer. 
               Katrine knew very well how she was regarded by her neighbors, and she valued their good opinion very highly, and consequently began to feel, as they were about to separate, a little anxious about her cousins-the Nabors. But her anxiety was soon relieved by the grown-up daughter of the family, who, with her little sister, was present. 
               "I am so glad you asked me to come, Liebchen!" she said, kissing Katrine affectionately. "Mother was quite willing I should come, but she said I could stop but a few minutes, and then drive back directly with the child and you and Gretchen; but I am sure she will forgive me for stopping when she knows what a nice time we have had. It is very pleasant to have the people come to see us, but much nicer to come here, is it not, Katrine? I think father will come, if Uncle Uhlmann does, and I am sure mother will be here next Sunday." 
               "Ever so many of us now; is there not, Allie?" asked Willie, as he put his hand in that of his sister, and walked towards home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               IN THE PATH. 
               THE Sabbath-school was a success. The second Sunday the attendance had not been so great as on the first; but after that the number of attendants increased, until two thirds of the people in the settlement were regular members. 
               There were two classes which used German books,-Mr. Uhlmann and his sister, Mrs. Nabor, were the teachers,-and two which used the English question-book, which Uncle Fritz had sent over for the school. 
               The teachers of these were Katrine and Alice. 
               The Sunday visiting was not entirely given up. A few families met as formerly, and spent the most of the day together, and some made a short visit after the Sabbath-school was over, but all the children were usually at the school-house in the morning, and, after a few Sabbaths had passed, they found amusement enough for the afternoons at home in reading the books which the Sabbath-school of St. Mark's Church had sent to West Grove, to the care of Miss Tracy. 
                
               St. Mark's Church was at M--, the village where Uncle Fritz resided. Ludwig had brought over the box one Friday evening, and with it an invitation to Alice and Katrine to go over to M-- the next day, to stop through Sunday, and go to church. Willie was to go too. 
               Alice had not seen Uncle Fritz since the time she had feared he was offended with her, nor received a message from him, until now; and though she believed he would approve of what she was doing, she had been a little afraid he might think her rather forward and presuming; but she knew now, for his invitation was a written one, and addressed to herself, that he was entertaining towards her only the most kind and pleasant feelings; and she felt that she never could be grateful enough, either to Heaven or to Uncle Fritz, for the books which she knew he must have been instrumental in procuring, and for the opportunity offered her to attend church, and to take Willie there. 
               For some weeks the unuttered petition had been constantly in her heart, that she might enter an earthly temple of God; but her cup, at most times, seemed already flowing over, and she strove to be patient and wait for what Heaven might give, trying to think that the temple of God is everywhere, and that the great High Priest stands always by the altar to receive the offerings of the true worshipper shipper, and that though Christ has promised that where two or three are met together in His name, there will He be in the midst of them, yet He has said too-"Every one that asketh, receiveth." 
               And that night it seemed to Alice that a great blessing was to be bestowed on her, even without the asking, and she was encouraged to ask for something else-something which was very near her heart,-that an opportunity should be given that Willie might be baptized. 
               Ever since her mother had died, and Alice had taken wholly upon herself the care of her brother, she had been very anxious that he should be given to God in baptism. She had thought,-though her responsibility would be in no degree lessened, but rather increased, since then it would be God's child, as well as her own dear little brother and her dead mother's baby, that she was caring for,-that there would be an ever ready Hand-an outstretched, almighty Arm to bear the dear burden, that its preciousness should never be endangered by the failure of her own strength. 
               But who should present him at the font? 
               She had always thought that she must be one of his sponsors; but O how much the sponsor must promise! 
               "By God's help!" 
               Yes, that is everything with the constant, earnest endeavor. 
                
               But the exhortation means so much-"Daily proceeding in all virtue and godliness of living." 
               And besides, she had not publicly ratified the vows which her sponsors had made for her; was she in secret trying to keep them? 
               There are times in the lives of Christians when they feel alone with God, when it requires no effort to fix the thoughts entirely on Him, and no study to find suitable language with which to express those thoughts; when they know that they are kneeling at His feet as much as if they were before the great white Throne; that there is an eye looking upon them, and a voice addressing them, only the veil of humanity is obscuring their vision, and the ear is dulled by the sounds of earth; but the hand of Faith can stretch forth itself, and find an Almighty hold to which it can cling. 
               To Alice Tracy that night was one of those seasons, and while, in her humility, she thought she had been following the Lord afar off, she trusted that she had really been following Him, and that she could still go on, "faint yet pursuing." 
               "St. Mark's, to the West Grove S. S." 
               How pleased she was to write the words in the books, while Katrine was busying herself with preparations for the visit to her grandfather's. 
               Alice had no preparations to make, but to put on the black muslin dress which had been a birthday present from Mrs. Nabor, and to arrange on Willie the little suit Katrine had made him; and so she employed herself in looking over the books. 
               A few of them were new, and had been selected with care; Alice thought they were just the reading she needed, and she anticipated a great deal of happiness in perusing them with Katrine in the long winter evenings which would soon be drawing near. 
               The other books were designed for children, and would be very good, from their plain, simple language, to help the little Germans on with their English, while teaching them many much more important lessons. Many of them were well worn, but Alice pressed out the crumpled leaves, fastened the loosened bindings, rubbed out the pencil marks, and where the covers were much soiled, covered them with clean brown paper: and when Margaret came over to say good bye till Monday, the two girls took the books over to the school-house to be given to the Sabbath-school on the next day. 
               On Saturday afternoon, Ludwig's lumber-wagon stopped before the residence of Uncle Fritz; and Katrine was very happy and proud to take her companion into the handsome, nicely-furnished dwelling, and to introduce her to the invalid, but very refined, lady-like aunt-her mother's sister, of whom she had often spoken. 
                
               Miss Kuhn could speak English perfectly, and was a very well-read woman. She had been in ill health for many years, and study had been almost her sole employment and amusement. Alice did not wonder, after conversing with her a short time, at the almost womanly delicacy Uncle Fritz sometimes exhibited, when she thought how long he had been watching over his pure-minded, gentle daughter. 
               The old gentleman was absent when the young people arrived, and when he came in, at night-fall, he brought a stranger with him; and Alice and Katrine, who had been sitting with Miss Kuhn, were immediately sent for. Katrine had just stepped out to do a little shopping, but Alice went directly to the apartment where the gentlemen were. Uncle Fritz met her at the door, and accosted her very pleasantly, and then he led her to the stranger and said-"Sir, this is the little girl I have told you about!" and then he left the room to find Katrine. 
               Alice felt a hand placed softly on her head, and a clear, deep, bell-like voice very fervently pronounced the words-"God bless you, my child!" 
               And when she looked up, her eyes rested on a tall, closely-built, middle-aged man, with a kind, benignant, fatherly face, a very firm, almost severely serious mouth, and those clear, searching eyes which seem capable of detecting the least departure from truth. 
               Alice's heart instinctively responded, Amen! and when he took a seat and began to talk with her, she sat down near him, and replied to his questions very modestly, but as freely and unreservedly as if she had been conversing with a very dear friend. 
               He knew all her history, he told her, which she had made their venerable friend acquainted with, he knew in what church she had been baptized, he was acquainted with the minister who had performed the rite, and he had the names of her sponsors. He knew what she had been doing these past few months, since she had been in her new home, and what she was doing now; but what was she thinking of? 
               She thought he must be the rector of St. Mark's-Uncle Fritz had forgotten to mention the gentleman's name-and she replied to him as if she were speaking to Heaven. She was very glad to talk with him on the subject which lay nearest her heart. No one had talked directly to her on religious subjects since her mother died, and her only guide had been, what indeed is the only sure guide, the Bible. 
               She told him what she had been thinking of, and striving after, and praying for,-a preparedness to become Willie's sponsor,-that she might, with Heaven's help, not simply tell him the way to go, but lead him on in the right path, and walk with him till their life's journey was ended, and they should stand, as she had promised their dying mother, side by side, among the blessed of God. 
               "For your mother's sake?" said the gentleman, softly. 
               "O no, sir!" Alice spoke very earnestly. "I love my mother dearly, I think of her only as living; and the older I grow, the nearer and dearer she seems to me; and the thought of the promise I made her, is always in my mind, though I never have thought she really had her reason when she required that promise of me. But it is not simply for her sake; O no, sir! but for His sake who died that we might be saved." 
               "And you think"-said the stranger, "that at some time-you do not know when-you will, by your earnest endeavor, be able to find the right path, and guide your brother into it?" 
               With an effort Alice kept back the tears which were ready to gush from her eyes. 
               "No, sir!" she said; "I think I tried, very sincerely, for a long time, to find the right path, and because I did not feel just as I thought I ought to feel, and because earthly blessings did not come to Willie and me,-it seemed, at last, that I never should find the way; and God was so very far off and so great that He could not care for us. But I did not understand it then, sir! I have been in the right way a long time, have I not? Did not the Church place me there, when she gave me the holy baptism? and have not my sponsors been praying that I might be kept from wandering,-and the whole Church, too, who prays for all her children?" 
               "And"-the figure came into her thoughts which she often dwelt on-"if I try to follow where it leads, trustingly if it is the cloud which shuts out the day, cheerfully when it is the pillar of fire lighting up the night, will it not be God Himself who is finding the right path for me? and will He not lead me on, until"- 
               Alice's tears would not stay back another moment, and the gentleman finished the sentence for her, in his clear, cheerful voice, as the door opened and Uncle Fritz rentered the room with his daughter and Katrine- 
               "Until He brings you to everlasting life through Jesus Christ our Lord!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               UNTO HOREB. 
               NEVER, since his remembrance, had Willie Tracy been inside a church, and very much astonished was he when he found himself sitting beside Uncle Fritz, in the not spacious but handsome edifice of St. Mark,-so much astonished and awe-struck, that, though not a particularly timid child, he sat very close to the old gentleman, and tried to make his little self as small as possible, while his bright black eyes were continually turning, with ever increasing wonder and admiration, from one strange and beautiful sight to another. 
               His sister had often tried to describe to him the decorations of a handsome church, but words could convey to the child little idea of the rich frescos, the exquisite colorings, and the delicate emblematic figures of the stained glass windows, the elegant chandeliers, the rich and tasteful decorations of the chancel, the pure white font wreathed with fadeless flowers, and the hovering dove looking down upon it. 
               His first thought was that Alice had been mistaken taken about the destruction of the Temple, or else some one had rebuilt it; but he soon dismissed that idea from his mind. Solomon's Temple must have been larger than this place, though he doubted if it could be any handsomer; and besides he could not see the cherubim. The beautiful white dove was not one, for Alice had told him the cherubim were to guard the holy place so no one could go too near; but the dove meant the Holy Spirit, who would come and dwell in the heart of all who tried to be good. 
               If it was not the Temple, then it must be,-yes- 
               Willie's heart gave a great throb, and he turned around suddenly to see where his sister was. 
               There was a low, deep sound, so heavy that it almost shook the building, but so full of melody that the child's terror was swallowed up by his joy; and taking his opportunity when Uncle Fritz averted his head, he slipped past Ludwig and Katrine, and nestled down close to his sister. 
               He was quite sure this was heaven, and the organ was the many voices singing, in a strange tongue, but in grand chorus, Hallelujah!
                
               He had thought heaven was a wide country, and this, though a beautiful great room, was not so very large; but one of his Sabbath-school verses was-"In my Father's house are many mansions sions;" and mansions, Alice said, meant places to live in. 
               "Allie,-Allie," he whispered, gently pulling her sleeve, "is this one of God's houses?" 
               "Yes, dear." 
               "We are in heaven then, are we not, Allie?" 
               "No, darling, in church; but you must not talk." 
               Willie waited a few moments, and then he could not help rejoining- 
               "Next place to heaven! is n't it, Allie? 
               "The glory of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord!" that was in the Morning Lesson, and Alice felt that though no cloud was filling the temple, no manifestations of the presence of God were visible there, it was only because the eye of the worshipper saw dimly. 
               He was, so it seemed to her, indeed there, and that Christian temple might truly be, as Willie said-Next place to heaven!
                
               It had been a long time, too, since Alice had attended church, never but once since her mother died, and very seldom before. Generally, she had not had suitable clothing, sometimes the ill health of her mother, or little brother, had prevented her attendance, and her half-crazed father was always opposed to her going. 
               And it was not likely she could come there often. 
                
               Ludwig had said, the day before, during their pleasant ride to M--, that some time, when the weather was favorable, the roads were good, and the horses had not worked very hard through the week, he would take Katrine and Alice over to church; they would go over in the morning, and return at night; but Alice, though she would have liked the plan very much had she consulted her own inclination solely, said nothing in favor of it, for she knew that the success or failure of the Sabbath-school depended almost entirely on herself, and Katrine was her most valuable assistant. 
               She did not, however, reproach herself for her present absence, though she mentally resolved that nothing but illness should keep her from the Sabbath-school again. It seemed to her almost like a direct interposition of Heaven, this opportunity for worshipping in God's house to-day, and she had prayed very earnestly, as she entered the church, that words might come to her that morning which she could carry a long, long way with her on the journey of life, giving her comfort and strength to bear whatever might be before her; and when the voice she had listened to the previous evening, and which had seemed to her then like the voice of the messenger of God, fell on her ear, she felt that the words she needed to hear would be sure to come. 
                
               "Faint yet pursuing!" 
               That was the text, and it was the Bishop who preached. 
               And her prayer was answered; the very words she needed, came! and she gathered in great stores for her journey;-the bread which comes from Heaven, and the water of life,-the garments which wax not old, and the unfailing staff to lean upon,-the chart of the country she was to travel through, and the compass to guide her. 
               And when she was kneeling among the candidates for confirmation, she could hardly have told how she came there: she only knew that Uncle Fritz had risen up in his seat, and reached over, and taken her hand, and led her up to the altar, and knelt there beside her, for, aged as he was, he had never before taken the vows of God publicly upon him. It seemed as if she had only moved mechanically; but she was so very glad to find herself there! and when the hand was placed upon her head, and that voice, kindly and tenderly, and as much in blessing as in prayer, had said- 
               "Defend, O Lord, this Thy child, with Thy heavenly grace, that she may continue Thine forever, and daily increase in Thy Holy Spirit more and more, until she come unto Thy everlasting kingdom,"- 
               She mentally responded-"Amen. On the strength of this meat I can go unto Horeb-the Mount of God." 
               In his remarks to those just confirmed, the Bishop exhorted his hearers ever to be mindful of the vows they had just taken upon them, and as a help to do this, to suffer the impression of the scene through which they had just passed, and the objects by which they were surrounded-all the circumstances of the time and place-to rest deeply on their minds; and never losing a word he uttered or missing an idea he wished to convey, Alice looked up at the chancel window, and thought, and prayed. 
               The All-seeing Eye! above from the deep blue it looks down, never closing, never weary, and never a cloud comes before it to shut out the glance upraised to it. "As the deep blue is ever above me, let me feel that the Eye is always there, and 'fill me, O Lord! with the spirit of Thy holy fear, now and forever, Amen.'" 
               The Star in the east, guiding to the Redeemer, coming in darkness and weakness to give light and strength to the world. "Direct, sanctify and govern in the ways of Thy laws, and in the works of Thy commandments." 
               And the rising sun. There had been a long night. Through its dark, dreary hours the sentinels, at weary intervals, had called in distant, hopeless voices-"Watchman, what of the night?- Watchman, what of the night?" The cloud had lifted itself but to settle down more darkly and heavily than before; a meteor had shot across the sky to show how dismal was its blackness,-polluted hands had striven to kindle false fires on unhallowed altars, and they had served but as beacon lights, to lure the unwary to destruction; and the darkness came heavier than before. And then, the Sun of Righteousness burst upon the world, and, to those who had waited and hoped for His coming, and sought for no other light to guide them, "with healing in His wings." "Blessed be the name of the Lord, henceforth, world without end." 
               The dove of the ark, with its emblem of peace, showing the earth to have been washed of its sins, and fitted again for the residence of man,-the dove of the Holy Spirit which tells of the better purification of the soul and its preparedness for a celestial inhabitant. "Let Thy Holy Spirit ever be with us." 
               I. H. S. Jesus the Saviour of men. "Thine for ever." 
               The Bible, with its seals loosened; the broken bread and the wine poured forth. "The manifold gifts of Thy grace, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of knowledge and true godliness, the spirit of counsel and ghostly strength." 
                
               The Rose of Sharon, the spotless Lamb, the crown of thorns, the uplifted cross, the bursting tomb, the opening heavens, the symbol of the mystic Three in One. "Through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with Thee and the Holy Ghost, liveth and reigneth ever one God, world without end." 
               Through the open window came the cool, fresh autumn wind, and filling up the pauses of the speaker's voice, were heard the sound of softlyrustling leaves, the chirping of crickets, and the call of a distant bird. 
                      
                        "High Heaven that heard that solemn vow, 
                        That vow renewed, shall daily hear." 
                     
                  
                
               At the evening service, the rite of baptism was administered to several children, and one great desire of Alice's heart was fulfilled;-Willie was baptized, and she was one of his sponsors, and somehow, in making the responses, she felt quite differently from what she had supposed she should. The child was a great help to her, as she often thought he was, and the manifestation of his loving confidence in his sister, drew tears from the eyes of many in the assembly. He sought her hand, at the commencement of the solemn ceremony, and clung to it very closely, lifting his bright, earnest, almost infantile face to hers, never once turning away his eyes, and repeating after her, in a clear, audible voice, every word she uttered. 
                
               Ludwig had intended to set out for home, immediately after the service was over, but one of his horses had lost a shoe, and he was obliged to stop over till next day and have the beast re-shod; and as Alice was very anxious to return, Uncle Fritz found a conveyance which would take her within two miles of home, and the remainder of the distance she assured him she and Willie could walk very well. 
               It was a pleasant ride, and a more pleasant walk. The slight rain of the previous evening had purified the air, and made the smooth roads very nice for travelling; and though the drought and the frosts had withered much that was beautiful, there were still wide patches of green grass, dotted over with sleek, contented-looking cattle, and smooth, shining horses; and the deep purple, snowy white, and golden-hued flowers, though almost scentless now, were well nigh as abundant as in early spring. 
               Here and there were clustering stacks of wheat and oats, and stretches of golden corn, waiting for the hand of the harvester; and even the stubble fields were pleasant to look upon, for numberless flights of birds were continually rising up and settling down upon them, and filling the air with their chatterings. 
               As the daylight faded, the prairie fires began to appear on the distant horizon, here like a brilliantly liantly illuminated city, there like wildly dashing billows sparkling in the golden sunlight, and farther away like a fiery serpent, gliding smoothly along in his tortuous course, now almost disappearing from view, and now rearing his crested head defiantly to heaven. 
               The sun had been some time gone from the bright serene sky, when Alice and Willie, hand in hand, drew near their home; but the light did not go out from their hearts, which had been shining there through the day; for the little boy was planning how he would tell Karl and Lorenz to-morrow all about the nice place next to heaven; and his sister was continually saying to herself:- 
               "On the strength of this meat I can go unto Horeb-the mount of God." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               UNCLE FRITZ'S PRESENTS. 
               THE school was closed for the season,-that is, Alice's school,-Ludwig had promised that, after the holidays were over, he would meet with the larger boys and girls in the school-house,-those who had not been able to attend during the warm season,-and give them instruction in arithmetic and writing, for a couple of months. But the regular school was not to be resumed until April. 
               Grandmother Uhlmann said that Miss Tracy had overtasked herself, that her face was not wearing the roundness and rosiness it had promised to gain in the brief vacation of the early autumn, and her step was less light and elastic; and though several of the people were willing to take out a team to convey her to and from the school, the old lady would not be satisfied. The daily exposure to the cold prairie air would be too much for the dear child; and so one day Uncle Fritz rode over from M--, to dismiss the school. 
               He came quite unexpectedly into the room, to examine the school, he said, and to distribute presents among the best scholars. He had not looked into the room before since the day on which it had commenced, and he was no less surprised than pleased at the progress which the children had made. The examination was conducted after his own plan. The children went to him, one by one, and expressed in English, the German sentence he gave them; those who were old enough, wrote out both the original and the translation on the blackboard. Some of the sentences were quite difficult, but the children did very well,-many of them much better than Alice expected, and it amused her very much to see the little, anxious, puzzled faces turn so eagerly to her, when the right word would not readily come; and Uncle Fritz, who observed it too, and with pleasure, as it told what kind feelings existed between teacher and pupils, did not wonder that they expected to find help in their difficulty, from the quiet, encouraging smile which met their glance. 
               Then came the English reading and the spelling, after which, though some of the larger ones looked rather ashamed, the girls brought forward for his inspection, samples of knitting and sewing. The exercises were closed with singing, and the presents were distributed, the children had all proved to be best, and all received something pretty and valuable, and then Uncle Fritz told Alice that she and her scholars must now bid each other good-by as teacher and pupils. It was now the very last of November. 
               A swift, bitter question came into the young girl's thoughts. 
               Out of what would be paid her for her labors, should she, after discharging her obligations to those who had aided her pecuniarily, have a sufficient sum of money left to furnish her and Willie with food during the coming winter, and the clothing they so much needed? And would the people wish her to keep the school another summer? 
               But she resolutely put the questions from her, to be answered at another time,-hitherto the Lord had helped her,-and with a pleasant smile and a cheerful voice, for half the children were sobbing, she told them that she expected to see them often during the coming winter, and that she and Madam Dunz had already planned to have a party on Christmas Eve, and all of the scholars, of course, would be there. This intelligence brought back smiles to most of the faces, and the books were gathered up cheerfully, and the children hurried away, with light feet, to show the presents at home, and to tell the news. 
               But Margaret Uhlmann still retained her seat, looking very sullen and indignant, and occasionally casting very contemptuous glances at the pretty crimson tassel which had escaped from the paper wrapper of the bundle lying beside her. 
               The changeful November day had become very cold and dreary; so cold that Willie's thin jacket, which he was buttoning up about his neck, seemed to have very little warmth in it; and so Alice took the poor shawl she needed so much for her own shoulders, and wrapped it closely around him, telling him where to put out one little hand so she could take hold of it, and then they would run home, so fast, and be as warm as kittens. 
               "But I haven't showed Maggie my new top!" said the little fellow. "O Maggie, it is all blue and red! Is not your Uncle Fritz nice?" 
               Margaret burst into tears. 
               "You are nice, Willie," she sobbed, as she gathered him into her arms, "and so is your sister, but I don't know of any one else who is! But my father is going to M-- to-morrow, and then-then somebody will get a present worth having, I think.-I wish I had money, dear Alice," she said, half spitefully, as she kissed Willie, and set him down, and, leaving her present behind her, opened the door to go out. "If I had as much of anything else to give you as I have love, you would not stand there shivering with the cold, as you are now." 
                
               "You are giving me what I prize most highly, dearest Margaret," said Alice, drawing the girl towards her, and putting the disordered hair back under the bonnet, "and you must not let this little head be troubled about me. I shall get along nicely.-But don't hurry! Before you go, I want to tell your uncle how kind you have been to me,-how pleasant you have made the school to me,-just as pleasant as Katrine has made my home. 
               "I could not have succeeded in my undertaking, Mr. Kuhn,-don't interrupt, dear Margaret, because you know it is true,-I could not have kept on with the school, if it had not been for her. She has settled all the difficulties among the children, so that nothing has been brought to me; she has worked very hard at home, so that she could set the example of punctual attendance; she has obeyed me in everything I required, however disagreeable the request was, and with cheerful readiness; and her obedience has governed the school. She has been a true, good friend, ever since she found Willie and me sitting by the roadside. Sometimes I think we should have been in the workhouse, but for her and you, sir!" 
               "And what have you done for us?" said Margaret, with a fresh burst of tears, now flowing partly from joy, and partly from indignation. "Father said this morning, and I have heard him say so before, that money could never pay you for"- 
               "Never mind, dear!" Alice interrupted, "but run home now; here is your present!" and she put the despised package into Margaret's hand. "To-morrow, if it is pleasant, I shall run over to see what it is. I know it is something sweet pretty. Are you going home with Margaret, Mr. Kuhn, or over to Katrine's?" 
               "To Katrine's!" he said, "and here comes Hans with the buggy. Margaret is to go, also, if she is not too vexed with her old uncle to ride with him. Do you think he don't know what all this crying is for, Gretchen?" 
               "I am not vexed, Uncle Fritz!" said Margaret, a little softened with the leave to go; "I mean-I wish you had given this nice pretty hood," tearing a little hole in the paper, to see what was within, "to Alice, instead of me; and Willie needed a tippet ten times more than Karl did!" and the indignation returned,-"But I think I won't go! Grandmother will want me." 
               "She can spare you for an hour; jump in, my little girls!" and Uncle Fritz lifted Willie into the buggy. "That is right, Gretchen, give Ilse a part of your shawl, and then pull the buffalo up around you; and now we will drive fast!" and drawing the little boy close to his side, and wrapping his own blanket around him, he took up the lines and drove away. 
               Alice looked back, regretfully, to the schoolhouse door, and Uncle Fritz, as he turned his head to see if the girls appeared to be comfortable, caught the expression of her countenance. He thought there was a tear in her eye. 
               "Ilse," he said, cheerfully, "how are you getting on with that Arithmetic and Geography? You know you must have those books in your school, next year, and school must commence the first of April." 
               One question was settled. She would have the school again! 
               The wind was beginning to blow, and here and there a snowflake went dancing past. The old gentleman turned his head again. 
               "Are you warm enough, girls?" 
               Margaret's face was glowing; but Alice, though there were no tears in her eyes now, and though the expression of anxiety had, in a measure, disappeared, looked pale and weary; and then he said, almost sharply,- 
               "Ilse, has Katrine been suffering you to go to school with insufficient clothing?" 
               "O, no, sir!" said Alice, quickly. "Katrine is very kind to me. She wanted me to wear her nice warm shawl this morning, but I thought it would not be cold-There she is, bringing it to me now; dear Katrine!" 
               Uncle Fritz looked very well satisfied as he stopped for his granddaughter to wrap her shawl around the girls, and to climb into the buggy; though he laughed at her, and wondered if she supposed Alice would freeze, riding less than a half a mile, wrapped up in a buffalo. 
               Margaret was glad when the ride was over, she was so anxious to tell her cousin how mean Uncle Fritz had been; how unlike himself, to give something to every one in school except Alice; and the presents were not little picture-books and toys, but nice useful things to help keep them warm in the cold winter,-all except the present to Willie; that was nothing but a little top. 
               But as Katrine opened the door into Alice's room, which she had made nicely warm and comfortable, for the girls to go into, Margaret's surprise and joy knew no bounds. 
               Alice and Willie had not been forgotten by the good old gentleman; but had been very largely remembered by him. There was a complete suit of clothing for the little boy, with boots, cap, mittens, and overcoat. And for Alice a pretty winter hat, a large warm shawl, two dresses, a dark brown for every day wear, and a bright crimson merino for great occasions, besides shoes and gloves, a box of trifles which Miss Kuhn had sent, and two rolls of cloth which had not been opened. 
               "Uncle Fritz, I never was angry with you before this, afternoon, in my life!" said Margaret, as she stole behind the old gentleman's chair, and put her arms around his neck, "and you can forgive me this once; can you not?" 
               "You are a dear little girl, now," he whispered back, "and if you will only try hard to govern yourself, Gretchen, you will grow up to be a good, loving, unselfish woman!" 
               "And now, Ilse!" he said, making a great display in taking out his pocket-book, "we must settle the school-keeping business, and see if we can engage you for the next year. Let me see! fourteen weeks, and"- 
               "O sir," said Alice, trembling, "don't reckon up what it amounts to, because it won't be half enough to pay you! Keep what there is now"- 
               "And when you get rich you will pay the remainder!" he interrupted. "Well! but these things I have brought you, to-day, are presents; most of them from my daughter; and so must the other trifles I have furnished you with, be. You may pay Ludwig for what he has done for you-you must not interrupt me, Katrine!-but what I give you, you must thank Heaven for. Here is your money; you have well earned it." 
                
               He put some bills in her hand. 
               "And now, my dears, good-by, all of you! I must go home to-night; for Marie," he added, rather sadly, "has seemed a little more feeble, for a few days past.-No, Kathe, I cannot stop for supper!" 
               He went out, and Katrine and Margaret turned again to Willie's and Alice's presents, which they could not sufficiently admire; the former hurrying to get the little fellow, whom she loved as much as if he had been her own child, into his new clothing, before Ludwig, who was seeing her grandfather off, came in, and Margaret spreading out the things so they would look to the best advantage, that the young man might be still more astonished; but Alice, trying to keep back the tears, was looking through the window at her benefactor, and wondering if he would ever know, in this world, how grateful she felt towards him,-if Heaven, which did know her feelings, would ever give her an opportunity for manifesting that gratitude. 
               It was not likely, she thought; she could never make him any return; but she would show kindness at some time, to somebody, and think, to herself, that it was in return for what he had done for her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               OVER THE RIVER. 
               THE Sabbath-school was also to be closed at the end of the year. 
               Mr. Uhlmann said it would be difficult for many of the people to get out in the winter. Several of the settlers who had gone from their homes to find employment during the cold weather, had taken their teams with them; and there would be Sabbaths, without doubt, when it would be very inconvenient to walk to the school-house, and he thought it might be best to give up the Sabbath-school, until the week-day school recommenced. Better to have no school at all, he said, than one with a diminished attendance. (Another winter, the people would be at home.) 
               Alice agreed with him, more willingly, as she observed with what reluctance every member consented that it should be closed during the winter; and she proposed that the library, to which Mr. Nabor and Mr. Uhlmann had recently made a valuable addition, should still be in circulation. 
                
               It was the day before Christmas. 
               With the freely-offered assistance of Katrine, who was very skillful with her needle, the nice warm garments were made up; and the two past days had been given to making preparations for the party. It was expected that most of the settlers would be at Ludwig's house, and they intended to make it a real German festival. 
               Uncle Fritz was looked for, though it was not certain that he would come; but the weather was favorable, and the few inches of snow which had fallen two days before on the smooth frozen ground, made the travelling excellent; and it was certain that he would not be deterred by the stinging coldness of the air, for he was very hardy, the nice new cutter was warmly lined, he could wrap himself in the thick fur robes, and he drove very fleet horses. 
               It would have done the old gentleman's heart good, if he had known how many anxious eyes had looked eagerly from the windows that day, in the direction of M--, for he seemed like a father to the whole settlement,-and heard the shout of joy from one little voice, as Willie,-forgetting for a moment the new sled Ernest Nabor had just brought to him, and the playful tricks of Hundchen, around whose neck he had fastened the strong cord of the sled,-ran into the house to tell the welcome come news that he could hear the sound of sleigh-bells, coming from the grove. 
               Sleigh-bells were not common in the neighborhood at that time. 
               In a few moments, Uncle Fritz came in; but not to stop. He must return immediately, so he told Katrine, as she began to loosen his wrappings. 
               There was a Santa Claus for the children, giving her a package; but he had come over for Miss Tracy. Marie wanted her. 
               "Is she sick?" the girls asked, in a breath. 
               No, she was very well; much better than she was when he was over last, four weeks before; she had not been so well, at the present season of the year, for a long time. Would Ilse go? 
               She was already preparing for the ride. 
               "But the party," suggested Katrine, as Alice went into her own room. "Did Aunt Marie know about it? The child has anticipated so much pleasure, and has worked so much for it, and everybody will be so disappointed." 
               "Your aunt knows all about it; but she wishes to see her,-she strangely desires it," he said, thoughtfully. 
               Katrine was very sorry, though no one in the world was more anxious than herself that Aunt Marie's wishes should be gratified, and she knew Alice never thought of her own happiness, if she could give pleasure to another. 
               But Willie need not go. He had a slight cold, now, and he was thinking so much of seeing all the little boys to-night. 
               No, it was too cold for him; and as Alice was coming back in a few days, and Ludwig had succeeded in capturing Hundchen before the new sled was broken in pieces, he very cheerfully saw her ride away with Uncle Fritz. 
               It was seven o'clock in the evening, when Alice, warmed, and refreshed with supper, was sent for by Miss Kuhn. The young lady,-she was just entering her twenty-fifth year,-had had a very long nap, she said, since taking tea herself, so long that she felt very stupid,-so stupid that she could not rise from her sofa yet, nor tell Alice how glad she was that she had come; and she reached up both arms to the young girl, and drew Alice's face down to her own; but Miss Tracy must go and sit down in her chair-Miss Kuhn's chair, and talk with her father until she could throw off her stupidity. 
               Alice took the rich luxurious seat which had been the invalid's sole resting-place for many a long weary night, and seeing the anxiety on the old gentleman's countenance, though he strove hard to conceal it, she endeavored to comply with Miss Kuhn's request, and began to talk with him in the simple, earnest, child-like manner she had acquired by being so long the sole companion of her sick mother, and her little ailing brother;-that simplicity, earnestness, and conscious truthfulness which the aged like so well to see in the young. 
               Mr. Kuhn was little more than a listener when she began to talk, his attention was given so entirely to his daughter; but it was not long,-for Alice had thoughts and ideas, as well as a very effective way of communicating them,-before the old gentleman and the young girl were engaged in a very brisk conversation, though his eyes were continually turning towards the occupant of the sofa. Miss Kuhn made no remarks, but a very pleasant, satisfied look came over her face. 
               When the clock struck nine, she rose from the sofa, and sat down to the piano, and played and sang from memory a beautiful German Christmas song. The domestics came in during the performance, and when it was finished, she returned to her cushions, and asked Alice to read the Scripture lesson for the evening. 
               Alice read, and then put the Prayer Book before Mr. Kuhn. She did not observe that Marie extended her hand for it, nor that the old gentleman did not immediately take it up; but had knelt down, immediately, beside the invalid, and unconscious scious that it was her voice which was first audible, began to repeat the Lord's Prayer. 
               The other voices were blended with hers, and then Mr. Kuhn read the remainder of the service. Alice did not know, for a long while after, that it was the first time he had led in family devotions. 
               "Are you feeling very well, my dear?" inquired the old gentleman, half an hour later, as he stood holding is daughter's hand. 
               He had taken leave of her before, but had returned from his apartment, which opened out of hers, and stood bending over her, looking earnestly in her face. She smiled very pleasantly, but quietly. 
               "Yes, father," she said, "very well. I have no pain and no trouble now." 
               Her fingers tightened on his, and he understood what it meant. 
               "You must be up bright and early, to-morrow morning," she continued. "I am tired to-night, but we will have a real German Christmas to-morrow. I shall sing the finest carol you ever heard when the light first appears in the east. I have left the piano open, you see." 
               "But where is the music?" said her father, looking around. 
               "O, I had it put away to-night," she replied. "I felt a little tired of seeing it; but I am going to sing my Lobgesang directly from the Bible. 'Glory to God in the highest.'" 
               She sat up as she pronounced the last words, and a deeper smile came to her face. 
               "Does Jettchen stay with you to-night, my child?" 
               "No, father, I shall keep Alice with me." 
               "That is what I wished," he said. "Good-night my daughter, good-night, little Ilse." 
               He went out, with an agonized prayer in his heart that her Lobgesang might not yet be uttered in heaven. 
               "Do you know why my father calls you by the German name, instead of the English?" asked Miss Kuhn. 
               "Yes, Madam Uhlmann told me." 
               "My sister Ilse-we were twins-was a sweet girl, just about your age when she died; as full of joyousness and activity as of gentleness and love," said Miss Kuhn. "I like to look at you, you remind me so forcibly of her. The eyes were just the same, and the thick black hair hung in these wavy curls. Though born in Germany, our mother was of Italian parentage, and my twin sister, unlike any of the rest of us, inherited our mother's looks. My father had seven children, four of whom lived to be married, but of all his large family, there are only Katrine and myself left; and he had loved us all so much! My poor father! And the blow is so soon to fall again." 
               "Dear Miss Kuhn!" Alice slid from her seat, and laid her head on the cushion on which the young lady was reposing. 
               "You do not think"- 
               "Yes, dear Ilse, I sent for you to-night on purpose to tell you this, and some other things. I don't know why I was so anxious to tell you, just now, that I must die soon. It will not be quite yet, for the season when I seem to come so near to death, is just passed now, I shall be better after this, until another spring. But the time will soon come, and, but for my father, I would not delay the period. Is the thought of death terrible to you, dear?" 
               She felt Alice shuddering. 
               "O Miss Kuhn, can you tell me how I can get rid of that dreadful terror? I have never seen a person die, or looked on the face of the dead. Perhaps I should feel differently if I had. I was not with my dear mother when she breathed her last. She knew that her time was come, and she sent me into the street to find my father. It was hours before I could find him and persuade him to return with me; and when I reached home, it was all over, and they were robing her for her last rest. I was not allowed, by the person who was with her, to enter the room; and the woman who lived in the adjoining tenement, and who was taking kind care of Willie, drew me into her apartment, and made me lie down. 
               "I had been by my mother's bedside for the last two days and nights, and grief could not withstand longer the call of nature. I slept till a late hour the next day, and when I awoke the coffin lid was shut down over the dear face. There was a contagion in the neighborhood, and who knew or cared of what disease one poor woman had died? 
               "I know what the Bible says, dear Miss Kuhn,-I know how people can die; and I trust in the words of God, and believe in their sincerity. 
               "I think very often of heaven. I know there is a fair bright land on the other side. But O, to stand on the banks of the river, and look into the cold dark waters." 
               "Alice, lift up your head, and look into my eyes;" said Miss Kuhn, softly; "you see there is reason and truth in them; and always remember what I say. 
               "I have stood on the banks of the river, and the light from the land on the farther side shone bright on the crystal waters. And as my feeble steps brought me nearer and nearer, and my eyes could see more clearly, there was revealed to my view a dry, smooth pathway, leading from shore to shore. The waters were piled high on either hand, but the breath of the Lord kept them in place. 
               "I heard no voice, I saw no form; but I knew a Presence was there, and I had but to resign myself to its guidance. For years I had been praying that God would help me to live aright, that I might honor Him, and die in peace. Much of self and sin was doubtless in my prayers; but I had always said for the Redeemer's sake, and He had promised to hear when that plea was offered; and should I now, with my last earthly thought, doubt His word? My work, I felt, was done. I had but to stretch out my hand, and know that a tender, but firm hold would fasten itself on mine, and I should be guided safely through. 
               "The unseen hand drew me back to life; I have often wondered why, but lately it has seemed to me that my existence on earth was prolonged awhile, that I might have the unspeakable joy of seeing my dear father publicly profess the faith which has supported him in all the trials he has passed through. 
               "It is very hard for a man as advanced in life as my father is, to make a public profession of religion. Do you know, my darling, whose influence it was, I think, that determined him to take that step?" 
               Miss Kuhn was silent for a moment, resting her hand softly on the head she had drawn close to hers, and then she resumed. 
               "Two years have passed since that night I have referred to, when I thought I should die, but the feelings I experienced then have never left me, and every day I try to thank Heaven for that revelation of myself to myself. 
               "When I die, if I have my reason, I shall die calmly,-I have prayed for many years, suddenly; one moment here, in prayer,-the next, there, in praise! 
               "My father knows that I look on death without dread,-he does not know how the feeling came. When I am gone, you must tell him. 
               "I have not spoken of that night to any one before. I was alone in my room. I should not have said a word, if there had been people present. It was too solemn an occasion for words. I do not know how long that season lasted; it might have been moments; it might have been hours! for, after my heart had ceased its wild but painless strugglings, I slept. 
               "One has been greatly blest, Alice, who has stood face to face with death, and found that it was no skeleton form, but a fair angel he was gazing at. 
               "But my father! it will be so hard for him, and there is no one among our relatives to supply my place to him. I have often thought, and told him so, that before I die I will find some gentle, loving girl, whose hand I can place in his, and say, 'Father, let her be a daughter to you when I am gone.' But Katrine has her husband; Margaret is too quick-tempered, and her father cannot spare her; the Nabors are good girls, but their intellects are not susceptible of high culture. and-But I am getting tired again. To-morrow you must find some one for me; you know whom I am thinking of, Ilse. 
               "I am not going into my sleeping apartment tonight," she continued,-"I will lie where I am. Lay aside your dress, dear, and put on this wrapper. You will rest nicely on the other couch. Jettchen and I often sleep so. 
               "Come and kiss me, Ilse, and be sure, if I do not wake before, to call me when the day is breaking. I want to wake my father with a Christmas carol." 
               She was silent for a moment, while Alice, struggling to regain her composure, looked out from the window and saw the lights in St. Mark's extinguished, and the last worshipper pass out of sight. 
               "Ilse, did Katrine teach you Mozart's 'Requiem?' I told her to. Some time you must play it to my father. Good night, dear." 
               Alice replenished the fire, and laid down upon the couch; but she could not sleep. For nearly two hours she lay awake, looking about the beautiful and comfortable apartment which had been very tastefully decorated for the holiday season with evergreens and fadeless flowers, a marble Madonna and sweet paintings of the Nativity. 
               She thought of Willie and all the dear friends at-West Grove, and hoped they had spent a very pleasant evening together; but mostly of what Miss Kuhn had just been saying to her, and offered many a silent, but earnest, tearful petition, that the father and daughter might long be spared to each other, and that Heaven would enable her to merit the kindness and affection they were showing to herself. 
               The clock struck twelve. 
               "Christ is born!" 
               The words came quickly and gaspingly. 
               "Father!-Ilse! Christ is born! I have seen His star in the east, and am going to worship Him." 
               Alice sprang from her couch, and hastened to Miss Kuhn's side. She was lying, apparently, in a quiet sleep;-talking in her dreams, Alice thought, and it was long before daybreak; she would not disturb her. But in the faint light, for she had turned down the lamp, she thought how fair and pure the white brow was, and she could not resist the impulse to put her arm about the lady's neck and press her lips lightly to her forehead, and to murmur the sweet German words- 
                
               "Gott mit dir, Liebste." 
               There was a slight tremor of the eyelids, and a faint smile came to the closed lips. 
               Alice did not return to her couch, but, putting a shawl around her, drew a low seat near that on which Miss Kuhn was lying, and resting her head on the cushion, was soon in a sound sleep, from which she did not wake till some one came into Uncle Fritz's room to kindle a fire. 
               She started up, and looked out of the window towards the east. Faint crimson streaks were shooting up from the horizon, and she had not called Miss Kuhn, as she had promised. But another voice had called her; and she had begun the song of praise hours before,-the song which shall never end. 
               Miss Kuhn was dead! 
               Alice knelt beside her. Could this be death? 
               She forgot, for a moment, the agony in store for the bereaved father, and her own bitter grief; and her whole soul went up in the glad cry- 
               "Thanks be unto God who giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               TAKEN AND RESTORED. 
               THE voice of Uncle Fritz was sounding cheerily in the adjoining room. 
               Last night, half an hour after midnight, he had risen from his bed, wrapped his dressing-gown around him, and stepped softly into his daughter's apartment. He had felt very anxious about her when he retired to rest, but now she seemed to be sleeping so peacefully, that his fears were forgotten, and a pleasant smile, foil of love, came to his face, as he looked down on the two heads resting on the same cushion. 
               He could almost fancy that the ten past years were a dream; that the golden brown locks and the jetty curls, such as he had, so many times, seen tangled together on the same pillow, were those of his little darling Zwillinge. His own Ilse was sleeping far away, beside her mother, in the Fatherland, but this little, dark-haired girl was becoming strangely dear to him. Every time he saw her he thought she threw out another strong tendril to fasten around his heart. Was Heaven giving her to him, for what it had taken away? 
               "My darlings-my darlings!" His lips framed the words, though no sound came from them. "May the All-merciful spare you both to me while I live." 
               He stood gazing on them for a long time, but not a thought entered his heart, that one was taken from him already. In the morning he had not been waked with the promised Christmas carol; but this did not surprise him. Marie often slept till a late hour, and was always better for it through the day; and Alice, he thought, was either sleeping too, or did not like to disturb her. 
               He wondered how the girls would like their Christmas presents. 
               He had bought them yesterday morning. That for Alice was a pretty, warm muff and tippet; but Marie's he had found it very difficult to select, and after it was purchased, though she was very fond of flowers, and had a very choice collection of them (and this was a beautiful white rose tree, covered with bursting buds), he had not felt satisfied with it. In fact, though he could not imagine why, he experienced a not clearly defined, but very unpleasant feeling, every time he thought of it. 
               But when he saw the shining green leaves and the pure white blossoms woven into a wreath and placed around the dear head lying in the coffin, he thought his selection had been a most appropriate one. 
               Alice heard him moving in his room, and a dreadful sensation came over her. The objects on which her eyes were resting began to be obscure, to take fantastic shapes, and to dance around her; but she shook off the feeling, and praying Heaven to help her, lifted the latch and stepped into the old gentleman's apartment, closing the door behind her. 
               Uncle Fritz turned towards her, but the expression of her countenance checked the utterance of the pleasant greeting which was on his lips, and he sat down heavily on his chair, and waited for the tidings he felt sure she had come to bring. 
               She hesitated a moment, and then tottered forward, and sank down at his feet. 
               "Father!" 
               He understood her. 
               There was no one else, now, to call him by that name. 
               He rose up slowly, and lifted Alice into his chair, and then went into his daughter's apartment. An hour after, when he came out, his threescore years and ten were written very legibly on form and feature. 
               The funeral was over. There had been a very large attendance, for Mr. Kuhn had many friends, beside the connections at West Grove. 
               Most of these connections had been there, and, though they struggled hard to control their feelings, it was affecting to see how the dead girl was mourned for, and especially what sorrow was felt for the desolate father. When they were together, preparing for their return home, Grandmother Uhlmann looked around among them. 
               "Are we all going?" she asked, in a quivering tone. "Is there no one to watch with him, in this dark hour? He does not yet fully know what has happened to him. He is in a dream: when he wakes, I fear his life, or his reason will forsake him." 
               No one answered. It was not necessary that a reply should be given. 
               She saw there was no one who could do him any good beside Katrine, and Ludwig was wrapping his wife warmly and hurriedly in her cloak, and she seemed anxious to be gone. 
               "You need not be troubled, mother; the child will stay with him." 
               It was pleasant to hear Mr. Uhlmann call Alice by that name; he always spoke it so kindly-almost reverentially. 
               Uncle Fritz was sitting in his room, alone. 
               The Rector of St. Mark's had spent a portion of the evening with him, but it was half past eight o'clock now, and he had just gone out. 
               Jettchen, who had been Marie's attendant for the last four years, had gone, after the funeral, directly home to her father's house. The housekeeper and her son and daughter, both of whom were in Uncle Fritz's employ, were sitting together in their room, talking cheerfully enough, but in so low a tone, that no sound reached the ear of the desolate old man. 
               Very lonely and desolate he was, sitting there in the dimly-lighted apartment, listening instinctively for a voice and the sound of a footfall which would never more meet his ear. 
               Half an hour had passed; it seemed much longer to him. 
               This was the time when Marie always called the household to her room for evening devotions, by the sound of the piano, and her pleasant voice. 
               He rose to enter his sleeping apartment, but he fumbled in vain to find the door. Was his eyesight or his reason leaving' him? He thought it was not much matter which. She was gone forever! The living ones, whom he so much cared for, had returned to their cheerful, happy homes. Every one had come to him, as they passed out of his house, and clasped his hand fervently, with tears, and with a faltering voice; but no one had offered to remain with him. 
               And Alice? Even in his bitter grief, it added another pang to think that she had not come to take leave of him. He tried to excuse her. He had brought the poor child there at a very unpleasant time, and it was very natural that she should be so glad to get away from scenes so sorrowful, as to think of nothing but escape. And he remembered now that he had not spoken to her since Marie died. 
               She had called him father in that first moment of agony,-agony even to her, he knew by the expression of her countenance-and he had not replied to her; and she had been so tender and considerate and kind ever since, almost constantly near him, never obtrusive in word or deed, but ever busying herself in something which would contribute to his comfort, or lessen the bitterness of the scenes through which he was passing; and, though she very seldom raised her eyes to his, he knew how much patient courage she tried to throw into their expression. 
               And all that time he had not spoken to her; he did not even let her know that he was conscious of her presence. It was not strange she had left him without a parting word; the child was doubtless pained at his neglect. He was sure he had talked with Katrine and Margaret, and she must have noticed his disregard of herself. Alice was too young, he thought, to understand why he could not talk as well with her-that it was because he was looking to her to help him to bear his heavy burden. And she had left him without a word. 
               He went back to his chair and was trying to regain his seat, when a strain of soft, plaintive melody came from the adjoining room. His reason, he believed, was surely going. No, he knew that voice, as it sang with saddened, but almost enrapturing sweetness:- 
                      
                        "Spirit, thy labor is o'er, 
                        Thy term of probation is run, 
                        Thy steps are now bound for the untrodden shore, 
                        And the race of immortals begun." 
                     
                  
                
               He opened the door. 
               "Ilse, my darling little Ilse! you have not left the old man alone in his agony!" and he stretched out his arms towards her. 
               Alice sprang to him, as he dropped into a chair, and put her arms about his neck, and bent her head till the dark curls mingled with his gray hairs. 
               "I shall never leave you," she said, "unless you bid me go. The dear one told me, and they were almost her last words, that I must find a daughter for her father; may I be the daughter,-not to fill the place in your heart which her loss has made vacant, but to love you as she loved you, and to serve you as she would have done, had health been given her?" 
               He did not reply, but his trembling hand smoothed her hair, and then rested on her head, as in blessing. 
               The housekeeper had heard the music. She knew, and supposed that her master also knew, that Miss Tracy was in her late mistress's room; and she, and her family came into the apartment, just as Alice sat down to read the Evening Lesson. 
               Alice wondered if Uncle Fritz would be able to follow with the remainder of the Service, and she thanked Heaven most devoutly, when his voice, at first quivering and scarcely audible, but gathering strength and courage as it went on, repeated the beautiful prayers of the Burial Service. 
               He did not resume his seat after the domestics had retired, but he drew near Alice, and taking her hands in his, looked down into her eyes. 
               "My child," he said, "I cannot tell you, just now, how glad I am that you are here, nor how grateful I am for what you have said to me; but I will not accept your offer now. You must think and pray over it to-night, and to-morrow we will talk about it." 
               Alice did not tell him that it had been a great subject for thought and prayer for the last two days and nights, nor that she had told Mr. Uhlmann what was in her heart, and had asked his advice, and that, when he had given it, he had added the comforting assurance that Heaven would give her good success in her endeavors to make the old gentleman happy. 
               She promised to do as he wished, and then, holding firmly to his hands, and looking earnestly in his face, she said-"Sir, you did not hear the Christmas carol, but it was chanted," and she repeated the last words his daughter had uttered. He went immediately out of the room without making any reply, but she saw that her words were affording him great comfort. 
               The next morning, after a brief conversation with Uncle Fritz, Alice was greeted with the epithet, Daughter, and the housekeeper was informed that Miss Tracy was to occupy the rooms which had been Miss Marie's,-the study and sleeping apartment; and that formerly used by Jettchen, was for the little boy-Miss Tracy's brother, for whom Hans was despatched to West Grove the same day. 
               With the unpleasant news that Willie must go to M--, and that he and his sister were to remain there during the winter, Alice's letter to Katrine conveyed the joyful intelligence that her grandfather would, on the following spring, build him a residence at West Grove, and that he had promised she should open her school in April, just as it had been previously arranged. 
               Alice had been in her new home but a few weeks, when she received a letter from a lawyer in her native city, informing her that, by the death of a distant relative, she and her brother had become heirs to some property. It was not a great amount, but it was sufficient for Willie's support and education, and she was very glad of it, for she did not wish that the tie which bound her to Mr. Kuhn, should even seem to be one of pecuniary obligation. The old gentleman was well pleased to be chosen by Alice for her brother's guardian, and he smiled quietly when the money came into his hand to be expended for the boy. It was not necessary for her to know, at present, what he intended to do with it. It gave her great pleasure to think that Willie was not dependent upon any one now, and that she could earn all she needed for herself, by teaching; and he let her enjoy her thoughts. 
               The winter passed pleasantly. Every day Alice had the blessed assurance that she was helping Uncle Fritz bear his burden,-that it was constantly resting less and less heavily on his shoulders. It was sweet to see the young girl trying to fill the lost daughter's place to the old man, and all who could, assisted her in the attempt. The rector selected books for her to read to him, the housekeeper told her about Miss Kuhn's domestic arrangements, Jettchen knew what flowers she loved best, and what was her favorite music; her quickness of perception enabled her, very soon, to find out all of his peculiarities, and her knowledge of German aided her greatly in her efforts to entertain him. 
               Willie attended school, and Alice studied at home. In some of her lessons Uncle Fritz assisted her; and in others, the rector of St. Mark's. 
               The evening was always given entirely to the old gentleman; an hour or two was devoted to reading the papers which came from the Fatherland, for, though she often knew little of what she read, Alice's pronunciation was so good that he could understand her perfectly,-an hour to music, and the remainder of the evening was spent in talking on some pleasant subject, or Alice listened to the stories he liked to tell of days long passed. Every night the dear lost one was spoken of, and the words she uttered on the last evening of her life, were repeated. 
               There were a few changes in Uncle Fritz's life, but those changes added to his happiness. There was a gentle voice murmuring the responses in his pew at church, a form beside him in his rides, a light step in the hall, and a fair face looking from the street door when he returned from his place of business, and occasionally, when his words called it forth, a pleasant laugh fell on his ear. 
               Sometimes he was disturbed in his readings by the sound of little booted feet, stamping beneath his window, and a tapping on the glass; and Willie's face, round and ruddy now as little Karl Uhlmann's, looked in. 
               Would Mr. Kuhn please look out, just this once more, and see Hundchen draw the sled? and Uncle Fritz would look, and enjoy the fun, almost as much as did the little boy. 
               Very happy was Alice Tracy in being able to confer happiness on her benefactor; every day she thanked Heaven that the blessed work of comforting him had been given to her; and, leaning on the arm she was trying to uphold, she found her way into the happy childhood which nature had fitted her for, but which she had never before known. 
               One evening, as Uncle Fritz followed the rector, who had been spending an hour with him and Alice, to the door, the gentleman remarked- 
               "My friend, you told me, two years ago, that if Marie died, you should die too; and knowing as I did, the tenderness of the tie which existed between you, I feared your words would prove true." 
               "Yes, I thought so," he returned, "but I did not know, then, the wonderful works of the Lord. He put away the last dear object out of my sight, to fasten my eyes wholly on Him; and then gave me back all my lost treasures in one, to teach me that He is as mighty in goodness as He is mighty in power." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               MR. TRACY. 
               BUT had Alice really been given to him? 
               It had only been reported that her father was dead. 
               A man in a state of intoxication had been thrown from the wagon in which it was known that Mr. Tracy had left a certain public house of low repute, in a disreputable neighborhood some forty miles from M--, and the driver of the vehicle, who was himself injured so much by the upset that he did not soon fully recover his reason, had declared that the dead man was the person who had left the tavern with him; and no doubt was felt, at the time, of the truth of his assertion. 
               It was subsequently ascertained, however, that, a few miles distant from the inn, the wagoner had taken up three individuals of whom the officers of the law were in pursuit. Two of them were, after the lapse of several months, captured, but the third was not found; and the question had sometimes arisen in Uncle Fritz's mind-was it Mr. Tracy or the missing suspected forger and horse-thief who had been killed? 
               Nothing could be learned from the two prisoners respecting their companion, who had been also a brother to one of them; not even by Uncle Fritz, though he had offered them a considerable sum of money, merely to be informed whether it was their associate, or Mr. Tracy, who had met with his death in their company, and been buried by them. 
               His persistent kindness, however, to the two individuals, whose undoubted guilt, and whose hardened, refractory demeanor after their capture, greatly incensed the community, at length so far won their gratitude that he did learn enough from them to convince him that the third individual, whoever he might be, who had accompanied them to their journey's end, had been their associate since; though, in consequence of some clumsily executed work which had resulted in their capture, they should shake him off when they were free again; and that it was not by any fault of his, that he was not as frilly deserving of the punishment which had been awarded them, as were they, themselves; and subsequently to their escape, which they effected soon after receiving their sentence, Uncle Fritz received a blank letter enclosing a forged note, signed with his own name. 
               The letter was mailed at St. Louis, in which city he had some business acquaintances, and in the course of the winter he was informed by one of them, that a person whose appearance he described, had brought him a draft to a small amount, bearing the signature of Mr. Kuhn; and which he had considered a forgery. 
               The description given by his correspondent, answered to that of Mr. Tracy, and Uncle Fritz at first thought that he would take measures to ascertain if he were still living and had been making unlawful use of his name; but consideration for Alice, and a conviction that her father would never dare to return to the neighborhood if he had been engaged in the crime he might be suspected of a participation in, induced him to relinquish the idea. 
               Of the report of her father's death, Alice had never doubted the truth; nor, in fact, had any one else, beside Uncle Fritz. Even in the trial of the men convicted of forgery and theft, proof had only been sought that they were two of the three individuals who had witnessed the death of the drunken emigrant who had passed through M-- some months before, and had assisted in his speedy burial. 
               But, sometimes, the young girl was startled by the expression of pain which would come suddenly to the countenance of the old gentleman, and the hurried earnestness of the question, after the goodnight had been spoken,- 
                
               "Ilse, you will never leave me,-never, without my consent?" 
               And an undefined fear would, for a moment, enter her heart; but she strove to banish the feeling to which, as it seemed, nothing existed to give rise; and would lift her eyes to his in such a way, that Uncle Fritz required no spoken assurance from her. 
               The winter had passed away, and the first month of spring was half gone. It was not an early spring for the region. The ground was wet and cold, and here and there, in a nook shut out from the sun's rays, a muddy snow-drift was still to be seen. 
               But the materials for the new house at West Grove had been drawn over while the sledding was good, and the carpenters had been, for some time, at work; and Uncle Fritz, as he came in from his business one evening, told Alice that, if the ground continued freezing through the night, as it then was, they would ride over to the settlement the next morning, and see the frame put up. And after tea was over, he spread the plan for the building on the table, to be examined once more by himself and Alice, in order to ascertain if any improvement could be made,-if everything was just to his own and Alice's liking. 
               Willie had been sent early to bed. It was the first day of school vacation, and he and Hundchen had been making the best of the last snow-drift in the garden; and the playful puppy and his little master were both very tired and sleepy. 
               But Willie was very happy, too, notwithstanding his weariness. Hundchen had been uncommonly good and tractable, and the next day he was going to have a new brass collar with his own name on it. Mr. Stedman, over the way, had promised to give him one. 
               The soft bed, and the warm blankets felt very nice to the little weary limbs; he had been promised a ride in the morning, on the pony Hans was training for him, and if Uncle Fritz went to West Grove to-morrow, he would bring back Karl Uhlmann and one of the little Nabors, to spend a few days with him. 
               Willie had put one hand out of bed, and was holding fast to Alice's dress, while he was telling her, very volubly, of his present and prospective great happiness; and thinking, as she bent over him, so glad to see him happy, how good and pretty his sister was; how nice she looked in the bright red dress, with the pretty delicate embroidery about her neck, and the cherry-colored ribbons among her dark curls; and the thought struck him, suddenly, what a great change had come to them within the past few months. 
                
               "O Allie! was n't it nice that father went away and got killed?" he exclaimed joyously, "so we could live here with Mr. Kuhn, and have all these beautiful things? I am sure God was very good when He let the horses run away, and make father fall"- 
               "O Willie, Willie, that is dreadful!" said Alice, shuddering. "You must never speak so again, nor ever think so. God Knows what is best to do, and always does it, but He does not expect that we shall always be glad for what He does; it would be dreadfully wicked if we should be pleased with all He suffers to be done in this world. The dear Saviour Himself shed tears for some things which God had done, and He was dreadfully sorry for some things He was going to do. Our father did not care for us, Willie, but we were his children, and God knew just what kind of a father he would be when He gave us to him, and you know what the Bible says about Honoring thy father and thy mother. It does not tell us to honor them only when they are kind and good to us. When what the Lord does, brings great happiness to us, Willie, we must always"- 
               The little fingers were relaxing their hold on her dress, and the heavy eyelids were drooping, and Alice put the arm back into the bed and drew the warm coverings around the sleeping boy. But she did not return immediately to the study, though she knew that the lamps had been lighted, and that Uncle Fritz was waiting for her. 
               She was, instead of doing so, kneeling by the bed of the sleeping child, in agonized upbraidings that she never had, for a moment, since the tidings reached her, mourned the death of her father. She had put on mourning garments, and had felt more alone in the world than before, and she had talked to Willie about death: but the tears which she had shed, had not been in sorrow for him, but that death was in the world, and that, sooner or later, it must come to all. 
               Instead of grief, had she not, really, experienced the feelings which Willie had just given utterance to? Had not she, too, and very often, in contrasting her present situation with the circumstances in which she was formerly placed, thought how good and kind Heaven was, in removing her father from the world, so that she and Willie would never fear that he might come and disturb them in their pleasant home? and how was a long-suffering and forgiving God regarding such gratitude as that? And besides, what had been her conduct towards her father, while he was still alive? 
               She had, on the whole, rendered him obedience, even though she often knew his requirements to be unjust; and had, usually, served him to the best of her ability; but she had never once, in her whole life, tried to make him a better man. The thought had never occurred to her that he could become good, but she had often said to herself how hopeless a reformation of his daily conduct, even, seemed to be, when a gentle word of expostulation from her mother, an appeal to his pride, a reference to his duty to God, to his family, or to society, would bring a torrent of imprecations to his lips. Patient silence was all she then thought to be her duty to him. 
               But she could well enough remember now, how, when all the wise men and learned physicians of Syria could not heal the disease of their great captain, though he had at his command talents of silver and thousands of pieces of gold and changes of costly raiment, and though he could bear letters from the hand of the king himself, yet a little captive maid from a foreign land told the mighty Naaman where he could go and seek successfully for a cure. 
               Why had she not thought of that before it was too late? and Alice did not wonder at the tenacity with which thousands of sorrowing and consciencestricken relatives and friends have clung to the belief that the prayers of the living may bring blessings to the departed spirit. 
               She could not, herself, so believe, and her duty to her father, she thought, must be forever unperformed. 
               "We have left undone those things which we ought to have done-and there is no health in us!" (The words had never seemed so full of meaning to her before.) "But Thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us miserable sinners!" 
               And she added to her prayer a very earnest petition that henceforth she might better understand what her duties were, and by divine grace be enabled to perform them in a manner acceptable to God. 
               As Alice turned to join Uncle Fritz in the study, she heard voices in very animated conversation within the apartment; but supposing the second voice to be that of some friend who had come in for a chat with the old gentleman, she opened the door and stepped into the room, and was face to face with her father! 
               For a moment the two stood gazing at each other in the silent apartment;-Mr. Tracy, from the expression of his countenance, quite as much surprised at the appearance of his daughter, as was she, at the sight of him, and manifesting far less self-possession than did she, for he had, at the first glance at her, instinctively raised his hand to the miserable old hat which covered his head, though, suddenly recollecting himself, he had, instead of lifting it, drawn it farther down over his eyes. 
                
               And he might well be surprised, for the past nine months had produced a great change in the young girl. The thin, pale, wearied-looking, and scantily dressed child, was now, by two inches, taller,-the style of the handsome, nicely-fitting dress, adding apparently to her height, and setting off, to good advantage, the roundness of her form. There was a soft rose tint in the dimpled cheek, a brightness and hopefulness in the eyes, and a buoyancy and elasticity in every movement, which, softened by an incipient elegance of manner, made her appearance peculiarly charming. A stranger would have pronounced her a handsome, high-bred young lady. 
               The change in Mr. Tracy had, however, been very much for the worse. 
               Perhaps the marks of dissipation had not deepened on his countenance, but it seemed as if ten years had been added to his age; form and feature were both so altered. The formerly bold, handsome, defiant eyes were most changed. They were downcast now, and their glances were furtive and full of conscious guilt; for Mr. Tracy, in all those years of ever deepening sin, had not become thoroughly hardened. 
               The hair, which had been so thick, and of such shining blackness, was falling now in thin, straggling, uncombed locks over his shoulders, and the white threads were very visible about the temples. Miserably soiled and worn lower garments were hanging loosely about his attenuated limbs, and the wretched old overcoat, which only partially concealed still more wretched underclothing, was folded over the breast, and held together only by knotted cords. The feet were very poorly protected against the cold, and his uncovered hands were trembling and swollen by the summer warmth of the apartment, among the useful and beautiful appointments of which, he seemed the picture of abject poverty and conscious degradation. 
               Uncle Fritz was the first to speak. 
               How good and noble he looked beside that miserable man. 
               "My darling," he said, taking her hands and drawing her towards him, and laying his fingers caressingly on her glossy hair, "he tells me he has come to take you from me; but you need not fear. He cannot do it. He will not even dare attempt it. You will remain with me always, my child. Heaven has given you to me, and Heaven alone shall take you from me." 
               The old look of defiance gleamed out from Mr. Tracy's eyes, and he stepped forward, raising his feeble, emaciated arm. 
               "You miserable, ignorant old Dutchman!" he exclaimed with a terrible oath, shaking the poor trembling fingers, which he in vain attempted to clench, in Uncle Fritz' face. "Do you think you can keep my own child from me when I choose to take her away? Not all the"- 
               "I will call Hans, sir!" said the housekeeper, dropping her knitting and rising in amazement, "and tell him to throw the crazy beggar into the street." 
               But Uncle Fritz stopped her; and Mr. Tracy, who seemed to understand what the movement implied, though he did not comprehend her words, and who was not anxious to have another spectator at the scene, checked himself, and said, in a softer tone,- 
               "I need her services, and must have them, or their equivalent. Name the sum of money you will pay me"- 
               Alice did not hear the remainder of the sentence, neither did Uncle Fritz. The flush of intense shame and indignation which had overspread her features when those epithets were applied to Mr. Kuhn, passed away; and at the mention of money, she lifted her eyes to the face of her guardian, with a smile full of sweetness and assurance. 
               The old gentleman very well understood what was in her thoughts. 
               Set a price on that dear head! No, not if he never looked on that face again on earth! though a sum of money could not have been named, which, had it been in his power to pay, he would not willingly have given, to keep her with him. 
               "I repeat my words," said Uncle Fritz, calmly, "you cannot take her from me, and you dare not attempt it. You deserted her, and she has chosen me for her guardian, and I will not relinquish my charge; and you will scarcely threaten to resort to legal means to obtain possession of her when you have looked on this." And he put a paper into Mr. Tracy's hand,-one which he had, a few moments before, taken from his pocket-book, adding, "I have the original in my possession!" 
               Mr. Tracy carelessly unfolded the paper, and drew near the light; but when his eyes fell on the writing, great drops of perspiration suddenly started out from his pale forehead, and he seemed gasping for breath. 
               "Alice does not know what that paper is," continued the old gentleman, "shall I tell her that it would"- 
               "No, no!" said the wretched man, literally staggering to a seat. "She must not know it; and I will not take her from you. I will not take her unless she is willing to go. But I want you, Alice. Will you go with me?" 
               He did not turn his eyes to her as he spoke, but rose slowly from his seat, and walked towards the open door. 
                
               "You must decide immediately. There is a team at the gate waiting for me, and in two hours I must be at the railway station." 
               He stepped into the hall as he was speaking. Evidently, he did not expect that his daughter would go with him. 
               Poor Alice! 
               "I beseech Thee, blessed Lord, vouchsafe to give whatever, in Thy infinite wisdom, Thou shalt see to be most expedient for me." 
               That was the prayer she had uttered on entering church, only last Sabbath morning; and she had just now been confessing to her own heart, and to Heaven, that she had failed in her duty to her father; and had felt sure, that, were it possible the opportunity should again be offered her, she would not shrink from the discharge of her obligations to him, however irksome that discharge should be; and she now saw, as many others have seen, how easy it is to erect an altar on which we never expect to be called upon to burn incense, and to garland the sacrifices we are sure Heaven will not require us to offer. 
               She wondered that she could not faint, so that her father, who she saw did not expect her to comply with his request, would leave the house before she had an opportunity for replying to him; but, instead of losing her senses, they never seemed so acute before, as during that brief instant of irresolution. 
               Alice drew near to Uncle Fritz, and clasped her hands around his arm; and, looking down into her face, he read the inquiry she wished to make. 
               And he replied to the questioning look, in his own language, though the old man felt that his heart was almost breaking,- 
               "I release you from your promise, my child; do as Heaven directs you!" 
               And then Alice, turning to the retreating figure, said, in her clear, sweet tone, "I will go with you, father! In a few minutes I will be ready," and she glided from the room. 
               The few preparations for her departure were very speedily made. Some articles of clothing were put into a satchel, the cloak and hood were quickly slipped on, a warm kiss was impressed on Willie's lips, and a brief, earnest petition offered to Heaven; and then she stood again before Uncle Fritz. 
               But words would not come, and after a silent pressure of the hand, Alice, feeling that there was nothing left to her now but her hope in Heaven, followed her father out into the cold still night. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               A NEW HOME. 
               YET Alice was not thinking very much of herself during that two hours' ride over the rough, frozen ground, though she felt sure that a very hard, cheerless life must now be opening before her. 
               She had never, even in her childhood, greatly feared her father. His treatment of her had always been more neglectful than abusive, and she thought now that it would be easy to make him respect her, if she was true to herself; and, though she could not imagine what the contents of the paper which had been placed in her father's hand, were, she saw that they had put him in Uncle Fritz's power, and, while the old gentleman never suspended his swords over the offender's head by single hairs, she knew that any unkindness to herself from her father, should the knowledge of it reach her guardian, would sever the chain; and that Mr. Tracy must see it too. 
               Neither did she grieve much about Willie, except at her separation from him. Her father had made no reference to the child. It was not likely that he would wish to take him from Mr. Kuhn; if he did, his guardian would not give him up, unless the compulsory measures, which Mr. Tracy would never dare employ, were resorted to. She knew how many sources of amusement would be found for her little brother on the morrow, to make him forget his grief for her absence; how many nice things the housekeeper would prepare for him; how unmindful Lucie would be of Hundchen's mischievous pranks in the kitchen, and how many German superlatives she would bestow on the new brass collar; what a nice ride Hans would give the little fellow on the pony, and how, if the morning was fair, after seeing him wrapped up snugly, Uncle Fritz would place him beside himself in the buggy, and take him over to West Grove after Karl Uhlmann; and what pleasant, cheerful words Margaret and Katrine would speak to him, though she knew how sorry they would be for herself. 
               These were but passing thoughts, neither deepening nor lightening, materially, the weight of grief which was resting upon her,-grief for the friend she was leaving. She knew how lonely he would be,-for Uncle Fritz was one of those hearts, the sources of whose sorrows are never fully exhausted, but when a new spring is opened in them, all of the old fountains flow again. 
                
               He had been so happy to have her with him, and to receive from her the love and respect, and to allow her to discharge the duties of a daughter to him! She looked up at the man by whose side she was sitting, and wondered if she really ought to have left Uncle Fritz at his request, and if she did not truly owe a greater duty to her friend than to him. 
               But then she remembered the words she had so lately spoken to Willie-"It was God who gave us to him, and He has said 'Honor thy father.'" 
               Not a word was exchanged by Mr. Tracy and his daughter, till they reached the railway station. Half an hour after they had taken their seats, he had stretched himself out in the long wagon, and endeavored to protect his shivering body with the straw with which the vehicle was thickly matted, from the chilly night air, and lay there quite silent, with the exception of a muttered curse, now and then, on the coldness of the night, or the roughness of the road. 
               The driver, after inviting Alice to take a seat by him, and share the comfort of a warm buffalo robe with him, which she was very glad to do, was equally silent, and the young girl was left to the freedom of her own thoughts. 
               The snow began to fall in large feathery flakes before the ride was half over, but the clouds in the zenith were only few and vaporous; and, though the tears were mingled with the cold drops upon her face, she at length began silently to pray that her want of faith might not deepen the darkness about her, and that the wrong-doing of her father might not come between another soul and God. 
               When the railway station was reached, and Mr. Tracy, benumbed with cold, and cramped by the uncomfortable position he had assumed, had climbed from the wagon, out of which Alice had lightly sprung, and, seeing the difficulty which her father found to gain an upright position, stood with her hand extended to aid him to descend, though he pretended not to observe the proffered assistance, but managed to effect his descent from the side of the vehicle most distant from her,-he approached her as soon as the team had driven away, and asked her, in his old, abrupt, commanding tone, if she had any money; extending his hand to receive her purse, if she had one with her. 
               But Alice did not observe the movement, any more than he had noticed her offer of assistance, replying, however, very quietly, that she had thirty dollars,-that was all,-why? 
               
                  Why!
                
               The light of the dpot-lamp fell clearly on their faces, and the father and daughter looked, for a full minute, into each other's eyes, and then the man turned away his gaze. 
                
               "I had only a sufficient sum of money," he said, in a lower tone, "to bring me here, and take us back to-to where I am going. I expected to find you at West Grove, and I had to pay that young fellow five dollars to drive around through M--, so I am short now to that amount. But we can walk part of the distance, I suppose." 
               Alice drew forth her purse, and gave him the required sum, wondering how soon the remainder would be called for. No further demand, however, was made on her, till they reached their journey's end, which was at the close of the fourth day after they had left M--, though Alice had, several times, purchased food on the way for her father, as well as for herself. 
               The distance she had gone was not travelled wholly by railroad;-one day they had ridden with the mail carrier, twice they had found a chance conveyance, and the last five miles had been on foot. And a very weary walk it had been, for the past three days had been warm, bright, spring weather; and the earth, which had not been frozen deeply, was feeling its influence. 
               For long distances Alice's feet would sink half way over her boots in mud, or she must wade through water inches deep, occasionally crossing a run of considerable depth on a single rail, which her father, she thought, seemed not particularly anxious to place in a very sure position, for the farther they advanced on their journey, the more heedless he seemed to be of her comfort and safety; and though she no more avoided, than sought to hold communication with him, he became, continually, more silent and sullen. 
               Alice supposed that his increasing ill-humor was caused by his inability to gratify his appetite for drink, and most likely that was one reason; but a greater was, that the more he saw of his daughter, the more questionable seemed the wisdom of his proceeding in taking her from her late home to the place they were approaching, to say nothing of having put himself in the way of the individual whom he had, more than once, tried, though unsuccessfully, to defraud. 
               He saw that she did not fear him; he knew how undeserving he was of filial affection, and he could not believe that the work he was about to set before her, she would consider incumbent on herself to perform. 
               The sun was just setting, when Mr. Tracy and his daughter-the latter almost fainting from fatigue and want of food, as she had eaten nothing since early morning, weariness having prevented her from partaking of the coarse meal which was spread before her at noon-day-reached the border of the oak openings which he had, some hours before, pointed out to her as the termination of their journey. 
               Out on the prairie, a mile away towards the south, was a comfortable looking farm-house, with stables, granary, and corn cribs, all of logs and rails, but snugly built, and of good size; with pens for swine and sheep, and large stacks of hay and straw. A large space around the buildings was inclosed by a substantial fence, and here and there, coming up from their day's labor, for the black furrows were beginning to appear on the more elevated portions of the farm, were several spans of fine looking horses; and the cheerful voices of their riders, as they spoke to their beasts, of hallooed to each other, reached the ears of the pedestrians. 
               But no other building was to be seen, in any direction. 
               Alice wondered if her father was in the employ of the owner of the farm, and was about to ask him, when he struck into the wood, at a brisker pace than he had before walked, bidding her follow him, and remarking that the place to which he was taking her was not a very comfortable one, but it could easily be made so. He was going over to the village to-night, and if she would hand him her purse, he would purchase for her what she would need for her immediate use. 
               But Alice walked on in silence, and her father made no other observation; and when about a quarter of a mile had been passed over, they drew near what she had, at first, thought to be a small shed for animals, but which a closer inspection showed to be a human habitation. There was a low window of half a dozen panes of glass, several of which were broken, and their places supplied with pieces of female apparel, a door kept ajar by a broken chair, a foot or two of brick chimney, from which a faint smoke issued; and from within the hovel, came a little feeble cry. 
               Alice stood aghast as Mr. Tracy pushed back the chair and held the door open for his daughter to enter, saying, in a tone of defiance,- 
               "Alice, this is your new home, and there is your mother!" 
               But the young girl did not comprehend, perfectly, what he was saying, so astonished was she at the sight of the face that was looking out from the miserable pallet, which, small as it was, occupied about a third part of the room; but dropping the satchel which her father had allowed her to take charge of through the whole journey, she sprang to the couch. 
               "Susie!" 
               The occupant of the bed was the daughter of one of the emigrants in whose company Mr. Tracy and his children had gone to Illinois,-a girl scarcely two years the senior of Alice. 
                
               "Susie-Susan Fletcher, what are you here for?" 
               Surprised as she was, there was more of grief than astonishment in Alice's voice. 
               The young woman had drawn the bed covering over her face as Alice went towards her, but she threw it back hastily at the words. 
               "That is not my name!" she said, in an angry tone. "I am Susan Tracy; and I was married to your father before I left New York!" and she held up a colorless, attenuated, though still nervous hand, not however to take that of Alice, for she drew it back quickly, apparently through fear that the movement should be misunderstood, but to show the wedding ring which Alice recognized as that which had been her own mother's.-"And this," she added, "miserable though it is, is my home. What are you here for?" 
               "Not from any choice of my own, Susie," said Alice gently, "but now that I am here, I shall try to take care of you, and help you to get well again, for I see you are ill." 
               "Yes, I am ill," said the woman, "and I hope I shall never"- 
               "No, no, Susie!" interrupted Alice, "you do not wish so; no woman wishes to die when she has a dear little baby to be taken care of, and it would be dreadfully wicked, it seems to me, even to express such a wish. Who knows how God may regard our expressions, when they are so thoughtlessly uttered," O Susie, the Bible says 'For every idle word'"- 
               The woman turned away her head, and closed her eyes. 
               "Charles, what did you bring this girl here for, when you know how I hate her? When I first became acquainted with you, you told me you had no children; and after I discovered that you had deceived me, you said I should never be bothered with them; and now here she is. Have you brought the boy too? When I get well again"-she checked herself. 
               Before Mr. Tracy had time to reply, there was heard the sound of a horse's hoofs approaching the dwelling, and a cheery voice called out,- 
               "Bridget, here is a brace of quails for the young woman's supper. They will do her more good than any medicine I have got." And a couple of birds came whirling into the room. "Now cook them nicely, Mrs. O'Neil!" 
               Mr. Tracy stepped to the door with a very respectful "Good evening, Doctor!" 
               But the show of respect seemed very poorly appreciated, for the individual replied with a very derisive, though soft and musical laugh, and a "What, old fellow, you back here again? I did not expect you would lift the light of your countenance on us more!" 
               "Why, Doctor, did you think I would desert my wife and"- 
               He stopped, and glanced uneasily at his daughter. 
               The stranger rode away, and when he was fairly out of sight, Mr. Tracy stepped nearer to the door. The eyes of his wife followed him. 
               "Charles, are you not coming to look at your baby before you go away?" she said, earnestly. "She is beginning to resemble you a little, I think." 
               But no answer came, and she heard his quickly retiring footsteps. 
               "Alice, has your father got any money?" 
               "A dollar or two, I think." 
               The young woman sighed hopelessly, and turned her face towards the wall. She could not expect to see him again till that was spent. 
               The movement disturbed the child, and it began to cry softly. Alice drew nearer the bed, and bent low over it, touching Susie's hair gently with her fingers. 
               "Let me see my little sister;" she said softly. "I don't think you quite hate me, Susie, though you say you do. I knew, when we were journeying together, that you disliked me, but your father and mother were-very kind to Willie and me. I do not know how we could have got through that journey, if it had not been for them; and I was always so weary and discouraged that I never half thanked them for their kindness. Let me take care of your baby, Susie, to show my gratitude to your mother. I can be very gentle with her." 
               Mrs. Tracy turned down the quilt. The tears were gathering in her eyes. 
               "I know you can, Alice," she replied, "but don't say anything about my mother. I am always trying to forget her, and yet, since baby was born, I can think of nothing else. She does not know I am married. When I went away from my parents, the day after your father left you at West Grove, they thought I was going to an uncle in Missouri. They did not know I was married; they do not know it now. They think I am with my uncle." 
               "Well, Susie, don't cry about it," said Alice, soothingly, as if she was quieting a grieved child; "you must hurry and get well, and then you can write to your mother, and tell her all about it, and what a sweet baby you have got." She was holding the little creature in her arms. 
               "O what a little darling, Susie; so little and so nice!" 
               Mrs. Tracy put her hands over her face and sobbed aloud. 
                
               "But she cannot live," she moaned, "the doctor tells me so every time he comes here, for I always ask him, and I know, myself, that she cannot live. I can see that she grows more and more feeble, every day." 
               "We will ask the kind Being who gave her to you, to spare her," said Alice, kissing the eyes which were closed again in sleep. "We cannot tell how merciful He may be to you, and I will take such good care of her, if you will let me"- 
               "Merciful!" interrupted the young mother, raising herself in the bed, and taking the babe from Alice's arms, and clasping it, half frantically to her breast, "I don't know as it would be a mercy to spare her life. These days past, when I have been lying here alone, with no one to speak to, but the Irish woman who promised your father, before he went away for you, to come in for half an hour at morning and evening to look after me, and the doctor who comes in for a minute every day, to say a pleasant word to baby and me,-I have been thinking how I deceived my mother, who had always been so kind to me, and it has seemed as if I should be afraid to have my little girl live, for fear she would grow up as wicked as I have been. I know what the Bible says, as well as you do." 
               "Wicked?" said Alice, "yes, it was very wrong to deceive your mother, but you are sorry for it, I am sure; and you know she will forgive you. But it was not sin in you, as I can see, to marry my father. It was great lack of wisdom, but think how young you were, Susie, only about a year older than I am now; and how many foolish things we might do every day if we were governed only by our own little knowledge and experience." 
               "But I knew better than to marry him," she replied. "I knew just how intemperate he was then, only I thought I could persuade him, when we came to live together, to give up the habit of drinking, and he now only laughs at me when-But go away from me!" 
               Alice was gently putting back the disordered hair from her face, and arranging the pillow for her head. 
               "I do not want comforting words, nor kind offices from you. When I promised to marry your father, it was not on condition that he would deny himself the use of intoxicating drinks, but that he would give up his children; I see"-she glanced at Alice's dress, which constant care had kept from being greatly soiled during the journey-"that it was a good thing for you that your father left you. The misery has all come to me; for now he is treating my own little baby just as I wanted him to treat you, and your sick brother. 
               "After being away from us for eight days, without out having told me where he was going, or how long he would be absent, he did not once look on her face, or ask me about her, though he knows the doctor says she cannot live long! Go away from me, Alice Tracy, I can think of my sins quite enough, without being reminded of them by the sight of you!" and she hastily drew the hair back again over her closed eyes, and turned her face towards the wall. 
               Alice stood for some moments, in the gathering darkness, for the day was fast fading, and very little light could find its way through the few soiled window panes. She was thinking of the dear home, now many miles away, and the loved ones who would not get accustomed to her absence, and wondering if she had done quite right in leaving them, without mature deliberation. 
               Her father had evidently brought her here for the sole purpose of taking care of his wife and child; not, it would seem, from any affection for them, but to rid himself of the burden of them; and the young woman refused to receive her, though she was trying so hard to be loving and kind. 
               Should she return to her home? 
               Neglected by her father, and repulsed by his wife, ought she to remain there where the sacrifices she must make would not be appreciated, and most likely would be followed by no good result to any one? 
               And her return would give so much joy to Willie and Uncle Fritz, and the dear friends at West Grove, where her school would be ready for her in two weeks, and the Sabbath-school would be re-opened, with Uncle Fritz for the Superintendent! and while his house was in process of erection, a new school-house was to be built on the spot she had, herself, selected; and just as soon as the roads became settled, the rector of St. Mark's would go over to the Grove to hold religious exercises there, once in two weeks.-Was it not her duty to return? 
               How much good she would try to do there, the coming summer! 
               She owed nothing to this woman before her, and was it obligatory on her,-would it not rather be a wrong in her, to try to relieve her father of his self-imposed burden? She dwelt long upon that question. 
               Then thoughts went hurriedly through her brain. 
               She had money enough left to do all she wished. She would walk over to the neighboring farmhouse, and procure lodging till Monday,-it was Saturday night now,-and then she would hire a team to take her back to the railroad village, from which she would send for Uncle Fritz to come for her; and she would never leave her guardian again. She would remain here, if she was certain she could do any good to her father, or his poor, unhappy wife; but under existing circumstances- 
               "Look upon the hearty desires of Thy humble servants, and stretch forth the right hand of Thy majesty!" 
               If she were in St. Mark's Church to-morrow, she would be repeating that prayer, and would be thinking, if one would present that petition earnestly and sincerely to Heaven, that the strong helping Hand would be surely extended to point out the way, and to lift the heavy burden,-that the hearty desire of the humble servant would certainly be fulfilled,-that the same God was in the dark cloud, now resting on the earth, who sometimes moved forward in His majesty in the pillar of fire. 
               And she knelt by the bed, with her head and hands resting upon it, and prayed that she might be able to do something to better the condition of her wretched father and his young, unhappy wife. 
               The petition was offered silently, but Alice could not restrain her sobs. 
               Mrs. Tracy felt her bed trembling. 
               "Alice, Alice!" she said quickly, raising herself, "I did not mean to hurt your feelings; I do not wish to be unkind to you, only I rather you would not stay here. But of course you must remain here to-night and to-morrow. When your father comes home, we will talk about it. After I get well, I shall go away from him, to my uncle in St. Louis, and then you can do as you please about remaining with him. Take off your bonnet and cloak. Have you eaten supper to-night?" 
               "No, nor any dinner to-day." 
               "Did you get a ride all the way here?" 
               "I walked the last five miles, and brought my satchel." 
               Mrs. Tracy was silent a moment, and then said, more softly- 
               "You are very sorry you came, Alice?" 
               "No, not if my coming will do either of you any good!" 
               A longer pause, and then the young woman asked with a quivering voice. "Alice, shall you hate us-baby and me?" 
               Alice put her arm around the mother's neck, and kissed the little head pillowed on her breast. 
               "We shall be very good friends, Susie," she said, "if you will suffer it to be so, and baby shall be my own darling little sister." 
               "You are a dear, good girl, Alice," said Mrs. Tracy, falling back, exhausted, on her pillow. "I knew it when I first saw you. Get some supper for yourself now. You will find potatoes somewhere about the room, and cook the birds the doctor brought. They have sent me supper over from The Willows. Your father will not be home to-night; nor to-morrow, most likely." 
               Alice prepared her repast, and half an hour after it was eaten, she was lying beside Mrs. Tracy in a sound sleep, and the young woman, in the dim light of the expiring fire, was watching the play of a pleasant smile over her features, while the tears were dropping fast and silently from her own eyes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               AND NEW EMPLOYMENTS. 
               BABY was dead! 
               The little light which had always burned so feebly, but had flickered on, day after day, seeming every moment on the very point of expiring, had at length gone out. The spirit had passed away on one mild, quiet morning, just as the dew-drops began to sparkle in the light of the rising sun, when the sweet breath of the fresh young grass was filling the air, and the notes of a robin were ringing out cheerfully and hopefully from a neighboring hazel copse. 
               It had been lying for hours in Alice's arms. The mother was sleeping the deep sleep of grief and exhaustion, and the father was, for the greater part of the time, insensible from drink, occasionally arousing himself for a moment, to take a swallow or two from the bottle which he had placed at his head. 
               Alice had been looking down on the little half-closed eyes, which she had thought would never lift themselves again, on the lips whose quiverings seemed to be over, and the white fairy-like fingers forever clenched from the last strugglings, and believing that every feeble breath would be the final one. 
               But when the bright sun-light first streamed in through the window-panes, baby unclosed her fingers, and the arms were stretched forth, lovingly it seemed, to the head which was bending over her, the eyes were fixed earnestly on those of Alice, the sweetest little bird-note came from the parted lips, the expression of pain was all gone from the wasted features, and a wondrously beautiful smile came to the face. 
               Alice clasped the infant to her tenderly, and with the fondest joy. She thought that life was coming to her baby sister, and so it was-the life which shall never end! 
               The smile did not pass away from the little face, and when Alice had removed its poor clothing, and wrapped the form in a white muslin shawl, delicately embroidered, a gift from dear Katrine, there was no look of death about it. The figure seemed, in its pretty drapery, a statue of peaceful innocence, sculptured from the fairest marble. 
               When it was deposited in the earth, the mother was half insensible from grief; the father quite so from intoxication. 
                
               Mr. McBride, the busy Scotchman at The Willows, had sent one of his men to dig a grave, and his thrifty "York wife," as he always called her, had found time to step over to bring a basket of good plain food to the family, and to tell the young, half-frantic mother to keep up good courage; that there was no use in making a fuss about the baby, as it was much better off dead than alive; and that it would be foolish to try to have a funeral, as there was nobody around there who could make a prayer-the Methodist minister lived fifteen miles distant, and the bridge over the river had been carried off by the heavy rains, and the water was so high, and the stream so rapid that no one would dare swim a horse across it; but that hair-brained doctor; he came over, she believed, last night. And Mrs. McBride added, as she went out, with a contemptuous glance at Mr. Tracy, that it was a pity the old man was not dead too. 
               An hour after, baby had died, and while Alice was preparing the little form for the grave, the doctor had come in quite unexpectedly. She recognized the clear, cheerful voice, as she heard him speaking to his horse at the door, as that she had listened to on the night of her arrival. 
               She did not see him then, nor did she observe him particularly now. 
                
               She only saw him bending over the bed for a moment, and heard him speaking in a low, quiet tone to Mrs. Tracy, and then he came and stood beside herself, looking down on what was lying in her lap, silent for a brief space, and then he said, in a still softer voice- 
               "If the young woman has good care, and will exert herself, she will soon be about again; but all the skill in the world could not have saved the child. Do not let it be buried until I return here!" 
               At sunset his horse again drew up to the door, and the doctor, lifting his hat, stepped reverently into the room, bringing with him a little coffin, which he had carried under his arm over ten miles of muddy road, and through the swollen waters of the river. Alice looked up and tried to speak, but the words would not come, and the thickly gathering tears shut out his features from her view. 
               And so baby was buried. The doctor put the little form into the coffin and lowered it into the ground, Bridget's husband dropped earth into the grave, and this was the service spoken, by the kneeling figure, over it,-so softly, so lovingly, so full of solemn joy- 
               "Sweet little baby! my own darling little sister! I am so glad for you-so very, very glad for you. Gone to the kingdom of Heaven!" 
                
               Alice was kneeling with closed lips when the doctor went away, though he had lingered many minutes beside his horse, busying himself in gathering handfuls of dry grass and leaves, and wiping the mud from the wearied animal, patting her gently and caressingly, and talking to her as kindly and encouragingly as if the beast had been a human being. 
               He did not mount when he went away, but led his horse slowly over towards The Willows, looking behind him frequently, till he saw, through an opening in the wood, that the figure by the little grave had risen up and gone into the dwelling. 
               There was a bridle path running through the Oak Openings down to the ford, and diverging thence into the highway that led to the nearest village. 
               The path was occasionally used by equestrians when the roads were uncomfortable for the traveller, either on account of mud or excessive dustiness. It passed within a few rods of Mr. Tracy's dwelling. The doctor, who was very fond of hunting, and who usually carried a gun with him in his rides, most frequently took this path either in his going out from, or return to the village, and after a week or two had passed, he began to observe what loving care was given to the little grave, which had been dug beneath the branches of a low, wide-spreading oak, where a red-breast and a mourning dove had built their nests. The grave had been nicely turfed over. From the little space about it the dry grass and mouldering leaves of the past season had been carefully removed, and the plat thickly set with wild rose-bushes and sweet violets, with here and there a gem of fresh green mosses, watered daily, that their brightness might not dim, and an In Memoriam of freshly gathered wild wood-flowers, at its head and foot. 
               Sometimes, as he was passing, he caught sight of the young girl who had called the dead baby sister, moving about the grave, planting and pruning, or watching the unfolding of leaf or flower, and occasionally he heard a very low, sweet voice, singing some plaintive, touching melody; and then the doctor urged his horse onward at a brisk pace, seeming to see and hear nothing; but when no one was to be seen, and all was still about the place, he rode very slowly past the little grave and the rude dwelling, about which some trifling improvements began soon to appear. 
               The door was hanging on two hinges now instead of one, as it had formerly done, the bits of broken glass and crockery, the bones and old rags which were scattered about the building, had disappeared. The half-rotten log which had been rolled up to the entrance-way, hindering rather than assisting ingress to the dwelling, had given place to a step of smoothly piled up earth, neatly turfed over; the pieces of apparel were taken from the window and new panes put in, and little vines were creeping up from the earth, on which, by and by, pretty deep purple, pure white and blushing morning-glories would be peeping out from the clustering leaves, garlanding the little window, and framing the narrow doorway, through which, as the doctor, riding slowly past, furtively looked into the room, he saw there, too, many changes for the better. 
               The dingy floor was as clean now as water and sand could make it. The walls were whitewashed. A small, second-hand, and pretty well worn, but nicely-polished stove, with a shining new teakettle, had been set up in the fireplace, and two or three chairs,-one cushioned for the pale, hopeless looking invalid, who, clad in a simple, half-mourning dress, sometimes occupied it,-and a cheap table, added much to the room. 
               The physician had not been sent for by Mrs. Tracy, since her baby died; and observing the changes within and about her home, he had several times been on the point of asking Mrs. McBride at The Willows if Mr. Tracy had reformed; but before having an opportunity for doing so, he had ocular proof that such was not the case. 
                
               Somehow-the doctor himself could not have given a reason for it-he, all at once, made Mrs. Tracy an exception to his general rule of calling occasionally on his patients and having a friendly chat with them, scarcely ever passing the open door without pausing for a moment to utter a pleasant word. Now and then, however, Bridget O'Neil, whose cabin was a mile deeper in the Openings than that of Mr. Tracy, would be the bearer of a pair of prairie chickens or a wild duck, from- 
               "The doctor, ma'am!" and remembering how the game, which he had picked up in his rides that morning, making long detours to find it, had been divided equally between Mrs. Tracy, and Bridget's old infirm mother, she would add-"Bless his dear heart! he is a harum, scarum fellow, not a bit like the old doctor, but he makes us well without medicines. Pleasant words and good deeds does the business for the likes of us the quickest, and they cost us nothing, besides." 
               The changes in Alice's new home, had all been of her own making. 
               Her industry, and the little sum of money at her command had made the place quite comfortable and pleasant. She had purchased a few trifling articles of food for Mrs. Tracy, but her father had generally supplied her with provisions, coarse enough, to be sure, but sufficient in quantity for family use. 
                
               He had been working at the The Willows a day or two at a time during the season of grain-sowing and planting, and for a short time after. 
               Mr. McBride would gladly have given him constant employment, for he was a very good hand on the farm, doing his work neatly and expeditiously, and understanding so well the management of animals that, with a refractory horse, or a half broken colt, he would do about as much, and as good work, as the best of the laborers with their well-trained teams. 
               But he seldom worked more than two days in succession, his employer being required to promise that his wages should be paid when the day's work was finished, and consequently, when the busy season was over, and no transient help was required on the farm, Mr. Tracy was entirely out of employment. 
               And one morning,-he had gone over to the village the day before, returning in the evening, his daughter supposed, with something for the family use,-Alice found that a small loaf of bread and a single soda biscuit, the last of the little quantity she had herself bought for Susie, was every bit of food which was at her command; and her father had said the morning before, that Mr. McBride would not need his assistance again until harvest, and that was many weeks away, and he had said nothing of seeking employment elsewhere. 
               Alice had known that this state of things must soon come, and she had formed a plan which was now to be carried into execution. 
               Mrs. Tracy was better, but her strength returned very slowly; her grief and despondency, more than anything else, retarding her recovery. She had not spoken of her parents since the night of Alice's arrival, nor referred to the determination which she then expressed of going to her uncle as soon as she recovered her health, but Alice mentioned the subject that morning, as, after much coaxing, she had persuaded the young woman to suffer herself to be dressed-while she was combing the hair which was thinning somewhat from the long illness, and bathing the thin pale face with water. 
               "Susie, you were asleep, last night," she whispered, "when father came home. He returned in a little better state than he is sometimes in, and I went out and gathered some of those pure white flowers which are blossoming by baby's grave. They were half closed and heavy with dew. They seemed like little, beautiful, human things,-their sweet heads bowed down in patient, tearful grief; and I put them into his hand, and told him where they had bloomed, and said-'Father, if baby could weep, as these seemed to be weeping, which we do not believe is possible, because in the place where she has gone all tears shall be wiped away, what do you think would bring grief to the little heart?' and he touched them to his lips, Susie, and put them in his bosom, and a while after, when he thought I did not know it, he went out and stood for some time by her grave." 
               Mr. Tracy turned her gaze on her husband, who was lying on the couch in a heavy sleep, with her eyes filled with tears. 
               "You will be getting along nicely now, Susie," resumed Alice, in a cheerful tone, after a few moments' silence, while she gave the face a fresh bathing; "but you do not intend to go to your uncle when you get well, do you? You thought you would when I first came, but things are pleasanter here now, are they not? and I think, perhaps, father will be different, by and by. I have noticed several things which seem a little encouraging, lately." 
               "I have been thinking much about it," said Mrs. Tracy, with returning tears. "I thought if baby died there would be no tie between us, but"-she hesitated, and turned her eyes again towards the sleeping figure. 
               "Her death has only strengthened that tie,-I hoped it would be so," said Alice; "and I am so glad you will stay with him. I am going out now, for a little while; let him wait on you, while I am gone." And she placed the biscuit and a cup of water before the young woman, kissing her lovingly and with a pleasant good-by, and then stepped out of the door. 
               Mrs. Tracy looked after her as she walked lightly down the path leading to the highway, thinking of the greeting which Alice had received when she first came to the dwelling: and for the first time for many months, the young woman, remembering all that Alice had done for her, thought that Heaven could be merciful, as well as just; that it had bestowed on her great blessings, while it was visiting her with the heaviest chastisements. 
               Alice was walking away with a light step, but it was difficult to wear a smiling face, harder still to feel cheerful; for she was thinking of that pleasant morning, months ago, when, with Willie at her side, she was hastening over to Mr. Uhlmann's, to see if she could get a ride to M--, where she hoped to find employment. She was again wishing to find employment, but no such friend as she had, on that morning, found at Margaret's home, would be likely to be met with at the house she was now approaching. 
               But-Alice forced back the tears,-the bright blue heaven was bending over her now, as then; and the same God was there. The same yesterday day, to-day, and forever!-Always regarding the cry of those who call upon Him. 
               The house to which she was directing her steps was that of Mr. McBride; the notable mistress of which was, on this particular morning, to use her own expression, at her wits' end. The usually well managed household was in a state of the utmost disorder and confusion. 
               It was the middle of the week,-there was a fortnight's washing to be done; Norah had the headache and was sullen; baby was teething; the two oldest children-Winnie and Roony-were crying because they could not go to the school which was to commence that morning; the mother, Mr. McBride's mother, had one of her "ill turns," and Mr. McBride had just brought in his arms full of grain bags which the rats had been into, and which must be mended immediately, checking the words which his wife was beginning to give voluble utterance to, and adding the climax to her grievances by a remark rather more energetic than polite. No, not the climax; for just as his back was turned, the young doctor rode up to the door, and,-seeing the unusual condition of things at that time of day, the breakfast-table not yet cleared away, nor the floor swept, and the mistress of the house with flushed face and disordered hair, standing idly in the middle of the room, looking about her to find some object on which to vent her pent up wrath-retaining his seat, and gazing upon the scene before him, began gravely to lecture her on the virtues of patience and industry. 
               At that moment Alice Tracy was conducted by one of the children through another door, into the room, and Mrs. McBride turned fiercely towards her. 
               "You are old Tracy's daughter, are you, girl?" she said. "Well, what do you want here? Has he sent you to me begging?" 
               The doctor jumped quickly from his horse, leaving the bridle on her neck,-the beautiful, highspirited creature needed no halter,-and stepped into the room. 
               The woman observed his entrance, but Alice did not perceive him. She was too intent on her own business to think of anything beside. 
               "Mr. Tracy is my father, madam!" she said, fixing her clear bright eyes on the woman's face. Her fingers were tightly clenched, but there was no trace of anger or shame on her countenance, and the tones of her voice were unresentful and dignified. "He did not send me to you, nor am I here to ask for charity. We are very poor, and I have come to seek employment. I have always been accustomed to labor, and can work expeditiously. 
               "Indeed!" Mrs. McBride began, but she remembered membered that the doctor was there, and she set a very high value on the young man's good opinion. "Well, you may stay to-day, there is work enough here for a dozen pairs of hands." 
               "Can't we go to school then, mother?" asked Winnie and Roony, in a breath; "let us go the first day, please, and then we won't say anything more about going again." 
               "Children like so much to go to school the first day of the term," said Alice, unobtrusively; and she took off her bonnet, and lifted the baby, who was sobbing piteously on the floor, to her arms, softly hushing his low cries; and then began to busy herself, as well as she could with one hand, about the table. 
               The girls looked at her gratefully; and Mrs. McBride, after a moment's hesitation, told them they might go, only they must take Donald with them, and be sure that he did not walk too fast, as his sprained ankle was not quite well yet; and then taking her babe from Alice's arms, she bade her, in a kinder tone than before, to sit down at the table and eat some breakfast before she commenced her work; getting, herself, a clean cup and saucer for her, and pouring out some nice coffee. 
               The doctor had been talking in the adjoining room to the elder Mrs. McBride, apparently unobservant of what was passing in the other apartment; but he rose as Alice took a seat at the table, and walked quietly out of the house, and Winnie and Roony, who had very quickly prepared themselves and their little brother for school, fearful that their mother should change her mind, whispered to each other, as hand in hand they ran along after the doctor, who, as soon as he had mounted his horse, reached down and lifted the little four-year-old Donald, and placed him in front of himself on his horse, and then cantered off in the direction of the schoolhouse,-the girls whispered to each other as they ran along- 
               "The doctor is just as glad as we are, isn't he?" 
               At night Mrs. McBride informed her husband that she had hired Tracy's daughter to work for her during the season, so the children could go to school. Alice was a nice, capable girl, she said; she could do more work now than Norah could, though she was not quite sixteen years old. 
               She was going to work for her five days in the week. Saturday and Sunday she wanted for herself, to work for those lazy things at her home, Mrs. McBride supposed; and Alice had offered to take her pay in anything her mistress could spare out of the house, as they were destitute of all kinds of provision. Mrs. McBride had paid her for her first day's work in flour, which she had just sent Corny over to the Openings with, as Alice wanted to go home that night, and she would not let her walk, she had done so much work that day. 
               But Mr. McBride smiled quietly to himself, and wondered how long the new girl would give such good satisfaction to her employer. He had been absent from home since morning, and had not, consequently, seen her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               HIDDEN IN THE ROCK. 
               MRS. MCBRIDE did not tell her husband that she had also paid her new girl in advance, to the amount of a small pail of milk, a large slice of nice new cheese, and a dozen of eggs; not that he would have had the least objection to the gift, even of the trifles, but because she was conscious that he knew how short-lived was the interest she felt in any one outside her family. 
               The lady at The Willows was one of those women whose impulses are often very good, but who always attach great consequence to their little acts of kindness, and who have such a disagreeable way of conferring a benefit, that they put themselves under great obligations to the recipient of their favors, for the patience and forbearance which have been exercised towards them. 
               But Alice understood her very well. She did not intend to receive anything from her employer which she did not render a full equivalent for; and as for her disagreeable remarks, she thought she could regard them as she did a piece of unpleasant work, over with in a little while. 
               She had made a very good dinner at Mrs. McBride's plainly but bountifully spread table, though that lady, in the presence of all the family who were at home at noonday, was continually inviting her to eat, as this was the first decent meal she could be supposed to have had since she came into the township; and she had taken the articles which had been prepared for her, with the flour for which she had asked, silently, though Mrs. McBride expressed the charitable hope, that if the old man (meaning Mr. Tracy) expected his daughter would work to buy food for him, he would get choked with the first mouthful he ate; adding that her stepmother had not a spark of common sense, lying stupidly on her bed, day after day, crying herself sick over what any one could see had been a real blessing to her. 
               She had taken the things silently, thanking the woman in her heart, as she went home, for the ride she was giving her, for Alice was very tired. 
               Every moment of that long warm day she had been actively striving to give satisfaction to her employer, and part of her work had been new to her, and laborious. But she believed that she had succeeded in her attempts, and though so weary, she felt very cheerful. The evening air was sweet and refreshing, and she was going home to get a nice supper for Susie and her father. 
               Susie would begin to feel anxious about her by this time. She had not left her for an hour's time but once before, since she had come there: that was the day on which O'Neil-he was Bridget's husband-had given her a ride to the village where she had purchased the few articles of furniture, and the new dress for Susie. Alice hoped that her father would be looking for her, too. 
               She rather expected he would, for she knew he had no money to purchase drink with, and in consequence of the excesses of the past few days, he would be likely to remain at home for some time, and she jumped lightly from the wagon as it stopped at the entrance of the grove, and took out the materials for the nice supper she was planning to prepare. 
               But no one was to be seen as she approached the dwelling, and all was silent as she pushed open the door and stepped in. Her father was not there, and Susie was lying on the floor, near the bed, in a state of almost perfect exhaustion. 
               Alice succeeded, after long endeavor, in lifting her to the couch, and restoring her partially to consciousness; but she could learn little of what seemed to be so greatly troubling Mrs. Tracy, that the young woman's reason was almost gone. 
                
               What she did learn, however, from her disconnected words, filled her with fear. 
               She said something about the visit to Mr. Tracy of two men dressed in disguise, but whom she recognized as two individuals whom he had had business with the preceding autumn; business, the nature of which he had concealed from her, but which she believed to be unlawful. 
               The men had come to their house very frequently at one time, but always under cover of darkness, and when they suddenly discontinued their visits, Mr. Tracy left the place where they had been living, and came to this out-of-the-way spot, with such haste that the little household stuff they had was left behind. 
               The men had come to the house this morning two hours after Alice went away, bringing with them a bottle of brandy, of which Mr. Tracy had very freely partaken: and when he was in a state where he could just manage to walk, they had persuaded him, for he seemed quite reluctant to do so, to accompany them out into the wood. 
               He appeared to be a little afraid of them at first, and would not go far, and Susie, who had been terrified at their appearance, had gone to the door and listened. She could hear their voices, but could not catch their words. At first they seemed in angry dispute, but after a time they talked amicably together, and finally they walked away down an unfrequented path in the Openings. She had felt very weak and faint when they had gone, but she had tried to follow them; and then her strength quite failed, and she had sat down on the ground, a few rods from the house, and, hours later, she thought it must be, some one had come and spoken to her. She could not remember now who it was; she rather thought it was Bridget O'Neil, though it might have been the doctor. It was some one she knew, and those two were the only individuals about there whom she was acquainted with. 
               Somehow everything had looked strange to her, and she could not hear distinctly. She had told the person something about her husband and the two men; she could not tell what she had said, but she was afraid it was what ought not to have been spoken of, and had pointed down the path through the wood; and then the horse had galloped away. So it must have been the doctor. 
               Since that time she did not know how the hours had passed, and she could not tell how she had got back to the house. 
               Alice tried to soothe and quiet her, speaking the most cheerful and hopeful words she could think of, though she was herself so full of anxiety and fear. She remembered the paper which Uncle Fritz had put into her father's hands, and the sight of which had produced such an effect on him. 
               Had he been guilty of crime? and were these two men whom Susie had spoken of his accomplices? They were in disguise, and he, it might be inferred from his wife's words, was partially in hiding. And she had so lately begun to hope that there might be a change commencing in him for the better; that the time was not very far distant when she would attempt to work in other ways than by prayer, and by the silent influence which she was constantly striving to exert, for her father's reformation. Small reason for hope, she would have thought there was, however, had she known how few and brief were the moments when better feelings came to the degraded man; small reason for hope in the real facts of the case. 
               The greater consideration which he was beginning to manifest for herself, and which she attributed to a returning sense of propriety,-she sometimes almost hoped there might be a spark of parental affection in it,-and his attempts to conceal from her, when partially intoxicated, the state he was in, and which she thought were induced by a consciousness of self-degradation, were only caused by the miserable father's fear that the daughter, whose services were even more valuable to him than he had expected they would be, would be disgusted gusted with the treatment she received from him, and would leave him alone with his helpless wife. And the new and very decent suit of summer clothing, which he had lately put on, and which she thought a returning regard to personal appearance had induced him to deny himself the gratification of his appetite for a sufficient length of time to enable him to purchase, had been shamelessly received by him as a gift from one to whom he had before been under great obligations. But Alice was soon to learn these facts, and in the most disagreeable manner, for Mrs. McBride was to be her informant. 
               After a time, which seemed a very long one to her, so hard it was to keep the voice from quivering while she spoke the pleasant, cheerful words, Susie, holding Alice's hands in her feeble grasp, and turning her eyes constantly towards her, as if to assure herself of her presence, gathered strength from her touch, and courage from the sound of her voice; and at length the convulsive sobs ceased, the breathings became regular, and Mrs. Tracy slept very quietly. All sorrow was forgotten. 
               Alice disengaged her hands and stepped out into into the open air. 
               Two hours had passed since she returned home, and a great change had come over the face of the sky. It was of pitchy darkness, save now and then when a bright golden thread wrought its way through the black vail. 
               The air was very still, hot, and suffocating; but occasionally in the highest tree-tops there was a sudden violent rushing, as if the leaves and small branches were dashing furiously against each other, while a shower of hailstones seemed falling upon them; and more than once, in the soft bright gleam which shot across the sky, Alice saw a handful of leaves, twisted almost to a ball, dropping to the earth. When the tree-tops were at peace again, a little bird breathed out a broken note, so low and sweet that it fell on the ear like a sigh of glad relief; and then all was stillness again,-a stillness fearful and portentous! 
               And then there came suddenly a terrific sound, distant, but painfully distinct;-not like the rush of long pent-up, wildly rolling waters; not like the tread of unnumbered hosts, eager for battle, nor the furious sweep of concentrated winds, let go by the angered olus; but as if the might of Jehovah was passing by! 
               There was a brighter flash of lightning which sported longer among the clouds, and that dread object was clearly brought to view, away towards the south,-a gigantic pillar, reaching from the earth far upwards to the sky, moving along in terrible majesty. 
                
               Alice bowed her head. She was thinking of the name by which the great Unknown had called Himself, when, at the earnest entreaties of the Hebrew leader, He had suffered His glory to pass by him, hiding him in the cleft of the rock till only the vanishing majesty could be seen. 
               "The Lord,-the Lord, merciful and gracious, long suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth." 
               And, forgetful of her great grief and fear for her father, Alice's thoughts ran on, disconnectedly. 
               Moses had desired, most earnestly, to look on Him, of whose mighty deeds in ages long before, he had heard; whose wonderful power he had himself seen by the desert of Midian, in the palace of the Pharaohs, at the waters of the Red Sea, at the mount of God, in the fountain flowing from the flinty rock, in the bread dropping from heaven; and he had listened to the voice which had made the mountains quake, which had come with thunder and lightning, with fire, and the smoke of a mighty furnace; and Egypt had cried out at midnight, with a loud and bitter cry,-"We be all dead men!" and all the hosts of Israel "rose up and worshipped." 
               But Moses was not satisfied. 
               He was learned in all the wisdom of Egypt, whose Magi had done wonderful things in the name of their gods; and perhaps the question came, as he held that terrible rod in his hand,-was there aught of magic in the wonders that it wrought? Was he, too, an impostor? or was he himself deceived?-Was this Being, of whose existence he had, perhaps, first heard from the despised Hebrew servants, with all his wonderful power, so much the superior of the great Egyptian deities, the majestic king and the beautiful queen whose alternate hours of supremacy brought the changes of day and night,-she with her tears fertilizing the earth, he with his bright smile giving it warmth and life? 
               Perhaps Moses had drawn aside the curtain, and read the mystic words inscribed on the image of the goddess-"I am all that hath been, and shall be, and none among mortals has hitherto lifted my vail!"-and no evil had befallen him. He had, at the command of the Hebrew's God, stretched out his hand towards heaven, and Isis and Osiris acknowledged their Greater! 
               "There was thick darkness over all the land of Egypt, three days." 
               Or was He, though possessed of greater power, of character like to these? 
               He could not doubt the attributes of God, for "Moses and the children of Israel sang this song unto the Lord:"- 
                  
                      
                        "Who is like unto Thee, O Lord, among the gods? 
                        Who is like Thee, glorious in holiness, 
                        Fearful in praises, doing wonders?" 
                     
                  
                
               The announcement of His name by that voice, could only have more deeply impressed on the heart of the listener what he already knew, that the Being to whose guidance he was submitting himself, was as wonderful in truth, as He was wonderful in mercy, in patience, and in goodness. 
               Was it the certainty of His personality that Moses was so desirous of gaining when he prayed so earnestly-"I beseech Thee, show me Thy glory?"-that He was a Being to be loved, and not simply a Power to be honored and obeyed, whose voice he was listening to; not simply Truth, grand and eternal though it be? 
               Hidden in the cleft of the rock, with the hand of the Almighty over him, when that wonderful Form, proclaiming His name, passed by! 
               No wonder, even when the Majesty was fading, that "Moses made haste, and bowed his head to the earth, and worshipped." 
               No man shall look upon that Face, and live! 
               And Alice, with her head bowed upon her hands, prayed silently that that Name, uttered in the still small voice, might be forever sounding in her ears; and that some time, when her work on earth was all done, she might come,-not to walk the streets of gold, nor to wear the starry crown, nor to bear the palm of victory, nor to be clothed in the snowy robe, only that it typifies the righteousness wrought by the Redeemer,-might come, hidden in the "Rock hewn without hands, out of the mountain," into the presence of her Lord, and kneel at His feet, with her face to the earth, and thank Him that she was there, safe-safe forevermore! and join in the song which shall never end,- 
               "Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God, forever and ever. Amen!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               AFTER THE STORM. 
               THE tornado had passed; it had not reached to the immediate neighborhood; but the wind which followed, was blowing fearfully. The thunder was crashing through the air, and a deluge of rain was coming. It had already reached the edge of the Openings. 
               Alice went into the dwelling, and was hurriedly endeavoring to secure the door against the blast, when she caught the sound of approaching voices. 
               Were her father and his companions returning? 
               She listened attentively, but the voices of nature triumphed over the human sounds. 
               She closed the door without fastening it, and hurrying to the bedside, crouched down on the floor, laying her head near that of Mrs. Tracy, and drawing a corner of the bed-covering closely around her. The young woman was still sleeping soundly. She was too much accustomed to the noisy, boisterous ways of her husband when he was partially intoxicated, to be aroused easily, and the sound of a voice at the door, the lifting of the latch, and the heavy fall of a body to the floor, did not disturb her any more than the wind or the thunder had done. 
               The voice had said, "Keep up your courage, old fellow! one more lurch, and in the right direction, and there you are!" 
               And there Mr. Tracy would have been, with a broken head, most likely, had not his companion caught his arm and kept him from falling on the stove. 
               His hold had not been firm enough to prevent him from going prostrate on the floor, where he lay, for a moment or two, without motion. 
               "Are you hurt?" asked the voice, at length. 
               "Hurt? I don't know," said Mr. Tracy, "but where am I, doctor?" 
               "In Avernus, I think, from the facility with which you descended!" was the reply. "But stay where you are." 
               Mr. Tracy's boots had begun to thump about the doorway, in the vain endeavor to get to an upright position. 
               "Don't try to get up!" added his companion, as he dragged him farther into the room, and then closed the door. 
               "Doctor, I protest against this course of treatment!" began Mr. Tracy, in a poor attempt at jocularity. (He had not been moved along with a particularly careful hand.) "When a gentleman is down"- 
               "Hold your tongue!" said the other, in a lower, but very decided tone. 
               There had been a momentary lull in the wind. 
               "Your wife is asleep; I can hear her breathing quietly, and you shall not disturb her. When the little sense you have left, has returned to you, we will have a talk with each other, though I intend to take the lead in the conversation myself. Now keep quiet!" 
               And Mr. Tracy obeyed him, probably involuntarily, for he was soon soundly snoring. 
               Alice had not looked out from her place of concealment. It was not necessary to do so, in order to ascertain who was her father's companion, for she had recognized the voice, at the first word which had been caught by her listening ear; and, in her grief and shame for her father, she was very glad that the transient gleams of lightning did not disclose, to the physician, her presence in the apartment. But sorry and ashamed as she was, the fact of his return home without the companionship of the men of whom Susie had spoken, brought such a sense of relief that tears of grateful joy were dropping from her eyes, while the wearied head rested more and more heavily against the bed. 
                
               After a few moments had passed, the doctor was the only watcher in the apartment for the next two hours. 
               Mr. Tracy was the first to wake. He was thoroughly sober now; indeed, he had not been very much intoxicated on his return. It was more excitement from the scene he had just passed through, and his hurried walk, than drink, which had so thoroughly exhausted him. 
               He rose quietly from the floor and stepped to the door, which the young man had just softly opened, and looked out.-The storm had passed. 
               There was an occasional whiff of wind which shook down a shower of rain drops from the drooping, wearied looking trees, but the dark clouds had passed away to the east, leaving here and there behind them a flake of foam, tossed off in their rapid flight; and the moonlight came softly through the little vine-wreathed window, and the open door. 
               He looked after the retreating clouds, up to the moon which was hastening on to mid-heaven, at the little grave under the oak-tree, back into the room at his sleeping wife-he did not see Alice-and then glanced furtively at the doctor, whom he seemed anxious to address, but was apparently at a loss in what manner to open the conversation. 
                
               At length, after once or twice clearing his throat, he said "I wish I had a supper and a bed to offer, doctor, but I have neither. I suppose you can find both at The Willows, however. It cannot be much, if any past midnight, and the rain seems to be quite over." 
               "In other words, you wish I would leave here!" said the doctor. "I intend to go as soon as the trees have shaken themselves free from the raindrops. I cannot gratify your wish at the risk of getting a thorough wetting; and besides, you and I have a little business to attend to before I go, you remember." 
               "Not to-night, sir, if you please," said Mr. Tracy, hurriedly,-"to-morrow,-in a day or two, I will call at your office, and we will-we will"- 
               The young man did not interrupt him, but the sentence was not concluded. Mr. Tracy's trembling fingers were loosening the handkerchief about his neck. He seemed almost suffocating, though the sweet, fresh air was falling on his heated brow. 
               The doctor rose leisurely to his feet, and stretched himself, and yawned, and then gathered himself up with a shrug of the shoulders, and went to the doorway, and stood beside Mr. Tracy, and addressed him in a very low, but distinct tone. 
               "Do you know," he said, "if I had not found you some hours ago, and taken you from the place-forcibly taken you, from where you and those wretches with you had concealed yourselves, stripping you of the proofs, which you had concealed about your person, of your intended crime, and making a fool of myself by bullying the officers of justice whom some words of your companions sent after you,-do you know that you would now have been in confinement, and that, probably, nothing could have saved you from the punishment, which, this time they will not escape? for it seems they are old offenders, and I have good reason for believing-though not entirely from their words, that you were formerly their associate in crime-that you have been a villain, but successful only in escaping the punishment you richly deserve." 
               Neither of the men had caught the smothered gasp which came from the other side of the room; the one in his earnestness, and the other in his fear and shame, alike unheedful of the slight sound. 
               But Alice was listening to every word that was uttered. She had been waked by the first sound of her father's voice. 
               Mr. Tracy stepped out into the open air, and sat down on the door-step. 
               He felt very weak and faint. 
               "I cannot deny what you are saying," he remarked, after a moment's silence, "but be merciful ciful, doctor! We all, some time in our lives, must ask mercy from each other, or from Heaven." 
               The young man had been bending over him to catch his low words, but he raised himself suddenly, and passed his fingers through the thick hair which fell upon his brow. 
               "I intend to be merciful," he said, after a pause, and more earnestly and gravely than before, "but it must be on my own conditions. I intend to keep what I know of you a secret; for I believe that all of the crimes you have committed, or have tried to commit, have been the result of your habits of intemperance and idleness; and now, Mr. Tracy, you must give me your word that you will give up, entirely, the use of intoxicating drinks. Then these papers"-he touched the pocket of his coat-"shall be burnt before I leave you; otherwise,-and you know, Mr. Tracy, I shall not break my word,-I shall deliver you"- 
               "Stop, doctor, stop!" his voice was scarcely human, and the whole strength of his shivering body seemed thrown into the fingers which fastened themselves on the young man's arm. 
               "Remember my poor young wife, and-and-Alice! I cannot make the promise you require. A man that has fallen as low as I have"-his fingers let go their vice-like grasp-"cannot give up the use of that which will, for the briefest period, make him insensible of his condition. Give me those papers, sir, and go your way. Don't undo all the kindness now, that you have been showing me these months past. Remember that I am more than twenty years your senior, and yet I will promise you, on the word of a gentleman"- 
               "Pshaw!" interrupted the young man, impatiently; "when you are in your right mind, Tracy, I would rely on your word, as I expect a man will rely on mine; but strong drink makes you an insane idiot. Don't I know, that if these counterfeit bills were in your possession, the first intoxicating draught you could get would send you to the nearest shop in the village, though you are aware that you have, for some time past, been regarded with suspicion by certain individuals in the neighborhood? There is no safety for you, but in the course which I propose, and if you do not agree to my proposition, my purpose is fixed. I shall consider it wrong to shield you. Your wife is waking!" 
               Mr. Tracy stood up, and looked defiantly in the doctor's face, and then his eyes dropped to the level of the open pocket of the linen coat into which those fatal papers had been loosely thrown,-those counterfeit bills, and the written contract which he had made with his old associates, signed, in his drunken madness, with his full name. 
               The young man knew what was passing in his thoughts, and his smile was as full of pity as it was full of contempt. 
               Mr. Tracy saw the smile, but he remembered that the strength of which he had been so proud in his youth had been dwindling away through these long years of dissipation, while the individual before him, he knew to be, in physical power, the equal of two ordinary men. 
               The consciousness of his own weakness, and the easy assurance of his companion, exasperated him beyond degree. 
               "I will not promise what you ask," he said, with a fierce oath. "Do your worst, and"- 
               The last words were uttered in an elevated tone, and Mrs. Tracy moved on her bed, and her hand fell on the head concealed by the displaced quilt. 
               "Alice, is this you?" she said. She had not lifted her eyes to the doorway. 
               "Have you been sitting here, all this time by me? Give me some water, dear, and then go and lie down, yourself. I feel much better for this nice sleep." 
               Alice rose to her feet, and took a few steps forward towards the door, from which her father and the physician had not yet stirred; but nature could endure no more. She tried to look up to the sky, but the blackness above was deep as the blackness around her; and then she stretched out her arms, and some one had caught her, as she felt herself falling, and lifted her from her feet, and carried her into the open air, muttering low curses on himself for what he had done. 
               The evening air was very sweet and cool, but Alice was so weary just now. 
               When she had rested awhile, she would try to revive, she was thinking. 
               "Your plan is working well; keep on, doctor!" 
               The tone in which the words were uttered, and the derisive laugh that accompanied them, completed Alice's prostration, and her head sank lower, and there was darkness within, as well as around her. 
               When her consciousness was again fully restored, the bright sunlight was streaming into the apartment, and the day was three hours advanced. 
               She was lying on Mrs. Tracy's bed, and the young woman was dressed, and stood bending over her with a countenance more animated than Alice had before seen it; but full of painful anxiety. The look of trouble, however, passed quickly away as the young girl reached out her hand to take that extended towards her. 
               How heavy and powerless her hand seemed to herself. 
               Bridget O'Neil was moving swiftly and noiselessly about the house, preparing breakfast;-and what a breakfast for that place! 
                
               Real coffee, and a broiled chicken, and cucumbers, and warm biscuit. 
               That was what Alice saw preparing. What did it mean? 
               In trying to find an answer to the question, the miserable events of the past night flashed across her mind, but the remembrance of her engagement at The Willows mercifully came too. She tried to rise. 
               "O, how late it is, Susie! and I promised Mrs. McBride I would be there very early. How have I slept so long, and what is the matter with me?" She had dropped back, without strength, on the pillow. 
               Mrs. Tracy kissed her fondly, and many times, telling her, over and over, how very glad she was to see her so much better. 
               Nothing had been the matter, only Alice had fainted. 
               The poor child had been completely worn out, taking care of her, Susie thought, and the doctor had given her a sleeping potion which he had left for herself, some weeks before. He had got caught in the rain, in his way over to The Willows, and had stepped in-this was the way in which Susie accounted for his presence in the cabin at midnight,-to wait till the shower was over. Very fortunate, she thought it was, that the doctor had not gone away when Alice had fainted. 
                
               And Bridget, with much unnecessary circumlocution, informed her, while assisting her to dress, for strength seemed very slowly coming back to her, that Mrs. McBride had sent over the materials for the breakfast, with a bundle of sewing which Miss Tracy might do at home, if she pleased, between now-this was Friday morning-and the next Monday. She would not need any assistance in household affairs till that time. It would suit the lady much better if she should do the sewing than if she went over to The Willows that day, but she must be sure to be over there on Monday. 
               Alice wondered how it all happened so nicely for her. 
               She could not have performed the tasks which her employer told her, the preceding evening, were to be the work for to-day; and she did not know, in her present state of mind, how she would be able, without something more than her ordinary employments to occupy her thoughts, to get through the weary hours of that long day. 
               Her father was not at home, and Mrs. Tracy did not refer to him. Her thoughts seemed entirely devoted to Alice. But Bridget had set no plate for him on the table, and during breakfast she expressed the opinion that "the old man" had gone down to the river, fishing. 
               Alice could not trust herself to make any inquiry of Susie, respecting him; not even after Bridget's departure, which she took as soon as breakfast was ended, going directly over to Mrs. McBride's, Alice afterwards learned, to perform the work that lady designed should be done by her new girl, that day. 
               She saw that Mrs. Tracy did not feel anxious about him,-that none of the miserable events which Alice had become acquainted with, were known to her; for, in the course of the day, she spoke of the two men who had been there the preceding morning, expressing great satisfaction that they had been arrested before having time to exert the influence over her husband, which she so much dreaded. The doctor had told her of their arrest. 
               It was not until the evening, that she referred particularly to him, and then it was in connection with the physician, when she and Alice were sitting in the soft light of the stars, and the young girl was very glad that they had not been able to afford the luxury of a lamp; weak as she still felt herself, she would have been very unwilling that Susie should look on her face, while she was listening to what was communicated to her. 
               She had been left almost entirely to her own reflections, after the loquacious Bridget's departure; for, as soon as Mrs. Tracy perceived that Alice was again able to step about the house as usual, she sought the rest, which, since the death of her infant, she had indulged in more than was necessary for her health, but which she needed now, in consequence of the excitement of the preceding day, and the anxiety she had felt for Alice; and she had been very quiet on her couch, watching the young girl as she labored assiduously at her bundle of sewing, reproaching herself that she did not assist her, but making no effort to summon courage to do so. 
               At her request, Alice had sat near her, till Susie fell into a doze, and then she took her work and went out to baby's grave. Very often, while using her needle, she took her seat here, it seemed such a nice place to think in; but to-day she sought it in hope of seeing the doctor pass. Perhaps he would stop and speak to her. 
               He never had done so before; but, after the events of the past night, most likely he would inquire after her health, or that of Mrs. Tracy; and though she could not determine that she would make any reference to her father, in case he did speak to her, she might ascertain, in some way, what was his present resolve in relation to him. 
               The doctor was at The Willows in the morning, Bridget said, when Winnie and Roony came over with the message from their mother, and he had two or three patients several miles beyond the McBrides', so he would be likely to return about noon, but the hour passed, and all the long weary afternoon went by, while she worked and watched, waited and prayed, repeating to herself, again and again, the words of the Psalmist, so full of resignation and trust in Heaven,-"My times are in Thy hand!" 
               He must have returned to the village, she finally thought, by the main road, and she picked up her work and went into the house to prepare the evening meal. But, as the daylight was fading, the footfall of a horse met her ear, and then not the beautiful bay, for the doctor had come over on foot, the preceding evening, it appeared, but one of Mr. McBride's horses cantered past, and the doctor's head did not turn either to the right hand or to the left, though Mrs. Tracy was sitting at the door-way as he rode by. 
               "I thought the doctor would call when he came back," said Mrs. Tracy, as Alice, half an hour later, took a chair and sat down by her, "he was so dreadfully frightened about you, last night, and acted so strangely. I was startled myself, though I did not think anything was the matter with you but a faintness which would soon pass away. He called me to the door a dozen times before I could get there, and yet I had jumped out of bed, and was hurrying on my wrapper just as fast as I could. Bridget says they call him a wonderful surgeon for so young a man as he is, over at the village; but, Alice,-perhaps I could not see very well, though the moonlight was very bright,-it seemed to me that his face was as colorless as your own was, and the great drops of perspiration were falling from it, though I am sure he would not mind your weight any more than you did that of my dear little baby; and his hands were cold, and shook as if he had the ague, and all the time he was blaming himself for something he had done, though I could not see that anybody was to blame for anything, except myself, for letting you watch with me so long. 
               "And when I had thrown the water into your face, and you breathed and opened your eyes again, I never heard such a fervent 'Thank God!' as he uttered, in my life, Alice. It was just like a long, earnest prayer,-a whole Thanksgiving day, put into two words. And it sounded so queer too!" Susie was laughing and crying both, at the remembrance of the scene, just as she did when it was passing. 
               "It sounded so queer, when he had just been swearing so terribly at himself,-he who always seems so far from profanity." 
               "And my father?" inquired Alice, pressing her hands to her breast. 
               "Your father! that was the strangest of all," said Mrs. Tracy, "and I don't wonder that the doctor did not call here to-night, now I think it all over. Your father did not seem to have been drinking, neither did he have the tremens; but all the time the doctor held you there in his arms, and you were looking so lifeless,-he stood by, laughing so exultantly and derisively, that I thought he had surely gone mad; and saying, again and again,-'Your plan is working well, doctor! Three lives are in your hands, instead of one!' 
               "I did not suppose the young man noticed him; but, as he turned to carry you back into the room, he whispered in his ear something about doing what he had threatened to do, that nothing but his-the doctor's-death would prevent it. I did not know what it meant, but he was awfully in earnest, and I saw that your father drew back and trembled. 
               "When you had revived, you seemed a little delirious, and the doctor prepared the soothing draught for you; and, while he was supporting your head for you to swallow it, your father came behind him, suddenly and noiselessly, and made a clutch at the doctor's coat, it seemed to be, though I thought, at first, that he had given him a blow, the young man started so quickly. But he was unsuccessful in his attempt, whatever it might be, I knew by the way in which he addressed me, for I was following him to the door, as he went out. 
                
               "He was terribly excited, and he almost struck me to prevent me from stepping out of the door with him. But after he had gone a rod or two from the house, he came back for a moment, and whispered to me kindly, as he used to, and told me he was going away, but would be back again soon." 
               "Did the doctor go too?" Alice inquired, with a great effort making her voice sound composed. 
               "No," Mrs. Tracy said, "he sat beside you till the day dawned! I do not believe that he moved once, and then he would have gone out without speaking, but I followed him to the door. I was alarmed at what your father had said, and I asked him if my husband was going to desert me. He said that he did not think Mr. Tracy had any such intention, and he spoke very kindly; but he made no reply when I told him how glad I was that he had happened to be here last night, just when he was needed so much; and he seemed not to see the hand I extended towards him, but turned from me quickly, and walked away." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               AT THE WILLOWS. 
               AT the time Mrs. McBride had specified, Alice, having received a promise from Bridget O'Neil that her little Bessie should run over every day and see how Mrs. Tracy was getting along, and if anything was going wrong, that she would let her be informed of it,-Alice returned to her employment. 
               It was absolutely necessary that she should do so, for Mr. Tracy had not yet returned, and the little stock of provisions would soon be exhausted; but the anxiety of mind she had suffered on her father's account, during the past three days, though she was trying so hard to put her trust in Heaven, had so affected her health that she could not see how she would be able to accomplish what would be expected of her, and listen patiently to the remarks which her energetic mistress would be likely to make, if she failed to perform her tasks; and, with a heavy heart, she had started, on that fine, dewy morning, for her walk over to The Willows. 
                
               But how the path always opened before her! how wonderful it seemed, and yet it would have been stranger still, she thought, if the way were hedged up before her, for had not the Lord Himself said,- 
               "Before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear!" 
               Mrs. McBride received her very kindly, blaming herself, when she saw Alice's wet feet, that she had not sent Corny over with the team, instead of letting her walk through the dewy grass, and finding dry shoes and stockings for her to put on. The work that was brought home, was very nice, the lady said; she could not have done it better herself; and she was very glad she could sew so well, for everybody in the house needed new clothing, and Alice did not look strong enough for heavy work. She could do without her help in the kitchen, for that week, at least. 
               She might take that bundle of cloth into the Mother's room, and the old lady would show her about it, and help her get it ready. 
               "But don't hurry about your sewing, child!" she added. "You worked too hard when you were here before; I will give you your work for to-day, and when it is finished, you can do what you please. The doctor said"- 
               The sentence was left unfinished. 
                
               The allotted task was not a very easy one, though it would have been to Mrs. McBride's nimble fingers; but Alice worked very assiduously and cheerfully too, for her companion was a very interesting one. 
               The aged Scotchwoman had seen much trouble, and her health had been, for years, very feeble, and sorrow and sickness had made her somewhat garrulous and rather morbidly sensitive, failings which were exceedingly disagreeable to her daughter-in-law; but she had a fund of good sense, and a great knowledge of human nature, and Alice, who had a rare faculty for giving direction to conversation, felt, when she rose from her task, as if she had been reading a pleasant, instructive book. 
               The Mother, as she was always called in the family, was very much pleased when the young girl told her so, and when she expressed the hope that she might be allowed to come to the room often, if her presence would not be considered intrusive;-but no more pleased than was Mrs. McBride, when, two hours before sunset, Alice had come and coaxed the little, tired and cross Fergus from her weary arms, and taken him out to a shady nook among the trees, from which his merry laughter soon reached her ears. 
               But the two women had very different ways for expressing their satisfaction. 
                
               "The wee lassie is a gude bairn!" said the mother to her son, as Mr. McBride, according to his unfailing custom, stepped for a moment into her room, before going to his supper,-the old lady took her evening meal an hour earlier than did the rest of the family,-"a gude bairn, and Heaven will bless the house which shelters her!" 
               She had spoken very softly, and was brushing away the tears as she uttered the words. 
               "Poor thing, she will have a hard time of it!" was Mr. McBride's mental comment, for hitherto, with the single exception of young Dr. Vinton, the individual to whom the elder woman took a liking, was certain of the ill-will of the mistress of the family, and there was no hypocrisy in Mrs. McBride's nature. 
               But for once he was mistaken, for, as he sat down to the table with the rest of the family, his lady commenced in rather more than her usual style. 
               "Here, Alice, bring the baby to me, now, and come right along to your supper! There is room enough at my table, for everybody in the house that can behave themselves; and don't you feel a bit afraid or ashamed if the old man has got back again. You are not to blame for his actions; you are a nice girl, and will be treated just as well as if he had stayed away for good!" 
                
               This was the first intimation which Alice had received of her father's return. Winnie and Roony had brought the news when they came home from school, for it had been reported in the neighborhood that Mr. Tracy had deserted his wife, and every one had thought it was a good thing for the young woman to be rid of her drunken husband. 
               "Take right hold, and eat a good supper!" Mrs. McBride went on, in a very cheerful tone. "Don't lose your appetite for fear he will be here after you to go home. He will be glad enough to have you working out to support him and his wife, and glad enough to keep you out of sight, too, for he told me, the last time he was here drunk, and I was driving him out of the house, that he did not dare to go home while he was in that state. Now that the baby was dead, and his wife was geting better, he said he was afraid, sometimes, that you would leave him, and go back to the people he took you from, and so he was beginning to be more careful about what he said before you, and to keep out of the way when he had been drinking, and to treat you a little better than he had done. The deceitful, lazy dog!" 
               Laziness and the least departure from truth, Mrs. McBride placed among the deadly sins. 
               "An able-bodied man as he is, and educated too, they say; and the very clothes on his back were given to him by the doctor! The shameless old wretch told me so himself.-Eat your supper, child!" 
               Alice lifted up the hair which was falling over her burning temples. 
               She was listening to the woman's words, and thinking of Willie and Uncle Fritz, and dear Katrine and Margaret, and of the heaven so far away-and so near, too! and she arose from her seat and came around to Mrs. McBride, with a bright, pleasant smile on her face, saying that she had eaten a nice supper, and would like to take baby again now. 
               The master of the house, who had scarcely observed the strange girl before, fixed his eyes curiously on her countenance, as she lifted the child, who was very willing to return to her arms; but he checked the words he was about to utter. 
               An hour later, when he was returning from the stable, through the open window of his mother's room, he saw the young girl sitting with the little fellow, who was almost ill from teething, lying wide awake, but very quiet now, in her lap, listening to her voice; for, from an old book, which the Mother had, long years ago, brought away from her home, among the blue hills of Scotland, Alice was singing, in her clear rich tones, one of those sweet, plaintive Highland melodies which will be always new while there is a voice to chant, or an ear to listen. 
               Mr. McBride waited till the song was quite ended. 
               He had not heard it before, for many toilsome years; but how many old, never-to-be-forgotten memories, did it awaken! 
               The cabin at the foot of the hill,-the call of the bird in the roof-tree,-the murmurings of the mountain stream as it glided over its rocky bed,-the dip of oars in the quiet lake, which the slanting sun-beams had changed to a sea of liquid gold,-the voice of the father gathering his flock,-the bleating of the sheep and lambs, and the prattle of many children gathered around her who sat in the low doorway, singing to the babe in her arms, and, in a voice as sweet and clear as that of this young girl, the same touching melody he was listening to now. 
               
                  Long years ago!
                
               Song had trembled and died on those lips, when they had paled in the bitter grief. It never came again. 
               The Great Shepherd had called the father, and the group around the cabin door had been scattered far and wide, never to meet again this side the River! 
               It was half an hour later than usual, when he re-entered entered the door, and that night Mr. McBride, who very seldom interfered with what was going on within doors, spoke to his wife some very strong, earnest words; but in a voice so strangely gentle for him, that she replied with tears, instead of the angry retort which had at first risen to her lips. And, while Alice remained in the house, she never heard the name of her father mentioned by a member of the family again, except on one occasion, when she first referred to him herself; and her situation there was continually becoming more and more pleasant. 
               Her principal employments were waiting on the Mother, sewing, and teaching the children to sing, for, on the second evening of her stay there, Mrs. McBride had asked her if she could teach the girls the Scotch song she had sung the night before. She did not know or care anything about singing herself, but he was very fond of the queer old songs he used to hear in the Old Country; and if Alice would take the children into the Mother's room in the evening, or out among the willows-anywhere out of her way, and where she would not be bothered with the noise, she-Alice-should not- 
               The lady checked herself, probably at the recollection of her husband's words the preceding evening; but she concluded the remark three weeks later, by bringing home to Alice, on her return from the village, a pretty pink and white muslin dress, low-priced but fresh-looking and neat, a present from herself, and a volume of Scotch novels, a gift to Alice from Mr. McBride. 
               The singing, by this time, was going on finely. 
               The girls had strong, but pleasant voices, and they were very tractable. They did not forget the good word Alice had spoken for them on the first morning she had come to the house; and the extra bit of ruffling on the dresses and the ornamental pockets on the little aprons she made for them, caused them to be very anxious to do anything she required. 
               Alice had very easily caught from the old lady the broad Scotch accent, and Mr. McBride, comfortably stretched out on a bench beneath his wide "stoop," soon began to hear, on pleasant nights, a chorus of voices, singing the old songs, in all their beauty and pathos, coming up from the willows; and his mother, forgetting her early evening nap, and her fear of the night air, would sit by the window, which she suffered to remain open, listening too, with less painful remembrances of the past, and pleasanter thoughts for the future, than she had, for many long years, indulged in. 
               Frequently, when the songs were ended, and the children were sent to their beds, Mr. McBride would ask Alice to read aloud a few pages in Ivanhoe,-so frequently that two more volumes, by the same author, soon made their appearance at The Willows; and, after a few weeks, some other books found their way into the house-books, which, in the scientific world, take the same rank which Waverley occupies in the world of fiction. 
               Mrs. McBride sometimes listened to the reading, and thought the "stories" went off very well after the author once got fairly started; but, for her part, she saw no use in dragging the reader over so many rough Scotch miles, before he could commence his journey; and, as to the other books, which had been brought to the house when Alice was at her own home, the lady had no doubt but they were very good and useful; and that, as the doctor said, a taste for fictitious writings should not be cultivated to the neglect of more solid reading; but what time he supposed she, with her large family, could find for reading of any description, was more than she could tell, though he was certainly very kind to lend her the books. 
               She wished, however, that he had not brought them to her, for he would be sure to ask her opinion of them, and she could not tell him she had not looked into his books. Would Alice be willing, after she had finished her day's work, to examine them a little, and tell her what they were about, so she could say something to the doctor, when he referred to them? 
               Her mistress would give her easy tasks if she was willing to take the trouble. 
               And so life at The Willows became a pleasant one. 
               Mrs. McBride's countenance, even to Alice, was not always an unclouded sun; but the young girl was always welcome in the Mother's room, and her kindness to the children, and the many little ways she found to amuse and instruct them, not only won their affections, but dispelled the clouds, very quickly, from the maternal brow; and every member of the family was happier for her presence. 
               She was getting, too, more and more accustomed to her employments, and could soon work rapidly, and without much fatigue. Two hours every day, she could feed on those fruits for which her intellect was so hungering, and every night she gathered a fresh flower from the fields of romance. The state of things at her home, where she passed the Saturday and Sabbath of each week, was not much changed. Susie did not consider her health improved, though she managed to do all the little household work which Alice did not perform when she was at home; her spirits certainly were not, for Alice's return and departure were always the occasion for tears. She had been so lonely, she would say, while Alice was gone; and it was so cruel that Alice should have to work so, to maintain her father and herself in their idleness. 
               But the young girl knew that Mrs. Tracy's bodily health was improving, that her mind had a better tone, and that her thoughts were turning more and more in the direction she had constantly been trying to point out to them; and when the great happiness, which she felt sure was in store for Susie, should come, it would effect a complete and beneficial change in her. That great joy would be an answer to Susie, of the letter which Alice had, unknown to her, written to Mrs. Tracy's father and mother in California. 
               She knew the kind parents would write back pleasant, forgiving, and hopeful words to their erring, suffering daughter; and grateful tears often came to Alice's eyes when she thought that Heaven would not suffer the sacrifice she had made, to be offered wholly in vain. 
               But Mr. Tracy's case seemed to be almost hopeless. 
               His daughter saw little of him, when she was at home, for he particularly avoided her society. She was at no loss to understand why, though his wife did not suspect the reason, but was continually trying to bring the father and daughter together, showing more energy and goodness of heart in the endeavor, than in anything else. Alice had not seen him intoxicated since that night on which the doctor had brought him home. Susie said that want of means to procure drink was all which kept him sober, and she told Alice, one night, with many tears, that she should be very glad when he resumed his old habits, for he had never treated her so unkindly as at the present time, nor ever manifested so little self-respect before, since she had known him. 
               At times she had been afraid he would be guilty of some deed of desperation. 
               Alice doubted not but it was the promise, compulsorily given, which was keeping him from the use of drink; and were perfect idleness, and cruelty to his poor young wife, who was making a greater endeavor than she had ever before made, to be kind and patient towards him,-to say nothing of his treatment of herself,-were these to be the results of the long period for reflection which she had hoped would prove so beneficial to him? 
               She had not seen the doctor but once since resuming her work at The Willows, and then he was trotting his horse slowly past, at the twilight hour, when she and the little McBrides were singing, in the nook among the clustering trees, one of the old Highland songs; though one night, when she was reading the dying Invocation of old Ranald of the Mist to the Spirit of his tribe, she caught the sound of his voice, in a smothered exclamation of surprise and pleasure, coming through the open window. 
               He came to the house occasionally, but never when she was there. 
               The Mother required his services far less frequently than she had formerly done; the pleasant face, which the aged eyes were never tired of gazing on, and the cheerful voice, so soft and gentle in its expressions of sympathy, so courageous and animated when uttering the words of hope and faith, were wiling away many sad forebodings, and making her forget many a passing pain; and Mrs. McBride silently congratulated herself for her good management,-what she was paying her new girl for her services, was more than saved in the doctor's bill. 
               Alice would not have spoken of her father to the young man had an opportunity been given her for doing so, though the thought sometimes occurred to her. 
               The doctor had compelled him to take one great step in the right direction; but Heaven alone, she believed, could lead him farther on. She felt herself very weak and powerless; and when she tried to utter the fervent, trusting prayer, she seemed fumbling, in vain, in the darkness, to find the strong arm to lean upon. She knew that the state of mind in which he had been, was a very natural one, after that sudden relinquishment of the use of stimulants; but many weeks had passed by; it was time a re-action should commence; but if there was any change in Mr. Tracy, judging from Susie's words, the change was only for the worse. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               A GREAT WAY OFF. 
               HARVEST-TIME had come, and the season promised to be an unusually busy one, for the different grains would be ready for the sickle, at very nearly the same time, and help was scarce. 
               Mr. McBride was offering good wages. 
               Work on his farm must always be done well and promptly; but there was a good table spread at The Willows, and the pay was sure. 
               He could not, however, get the full number of hands that was needed. 
               He had tried, very hard, to gain the promise of some help from Mr. Tracy, which he had not doubted he should readily obtain, as that individual had always, before, been willing to work a day or two at a time, whenever Mr. McBride called upon him; but, though he was promised the lightest work, and the best wages, Mr. Tracy very decidedly and sullenly declared that it was not his intention to go into the harvest field the present season. 
               Mr. McBride would have liked, very well, to bring his Scotch fist in contact with that obdurate head, and his lady had some idea of stepping over, to the Openings and giving old Tracy a piece of her mind, but Alice heard nothing about it. She had her share of the extra labor, for Mrs. McBride had said, the day before harvesting commenced- 
               "You must come into the kitchen now, child, and your work will be hard, and you must be here every day, and I can have no more"- 
               But she checked herself. 
               "When you get tired, take your bonnet and book, and run out for half an hour or so, and never mind the scolding you may get when you come back!" 
               As Alice went into the dining-room to wait on the table, and glanced hurriedly at the strange faces, to see if her father was there, her mistress, with far more gentleness than usual, but with only a thought of self in her mind, whispered a reply to the disappointed and sorrowful questioning look on the girl's face, for Alice had not doubted that her father would wish to work during the first part of the harvest, at least, and she felt very much surprised and grieved that Mr. McBride would not give him employment;- 
               "We wanted him, but he would not come. You need not fret about it, though, child, Dugald can get along very well without him!" 
                
               Alice did not know for the remainder of that day, whether her work was hard or not; but the next day, which was Saturday, she felt very weary, so weary, that when she walked towards her home, between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, she believed she never could have reached it without sitting down to rest, had not the little Donald and Roony been with her.' 
               And when the children turned to retrace their steps, with a loving kiss on their cheeks, and a pleasant "Good night" floating after them on the air as they scampered away, and Alice passed by the little green grave on which the soft moonlight was falling, she thought what a sweet resting-place it was, how welcome such repose must be when one's duties are all performed, the work all done, and how kind Heaven was to let baby's little task be ended so soon. The time must come when her work would be ended, too. 
               Mr. Tracy was sitting in the door-way when she came near the dwelling. 
               He made no reply to her cheerful "Good evening, father!" and as the room looked orderly and comfortable, and Susie was sleeping, Alice climbed up directly the broken ladder, the only way of reaching the loft where her cot was spread, and dropped down upon it. 
               Faint? 
                
               Very faint; but with no thought of giving up the pursuit! for He who had made those bright orbs which were looking down from illimitable space, shining for her, as she glanced up through the wide seams of the roof above her head, as they were shining on the most beautiful and the grandest works of God,-He who had placed them in the firmament, and held them there, had said,- 
               "Lo, I am with you alway!" 
               On the preceding Friday afternoon when the children returned from school, they had told their mother that there was to be a meeting in the schoolhouse, the next Sunday. 
               The circuit preacher was coming. He had sent word over that he would be there at two o'clock; and their mother had replied that it was a fine time to commence having meetings,-when there had been none in the neighborhood for the past six months,-just when people were too busy to go; and that there would be no Sundays at The Willows during the present harvest,-that is, for anybody but Alice; she might stay at home, if she wished to, that day, but everybody else must work. 
               About one o'clock, however, on Sunday, as Alice sat, alternately reading to Susie, and talking with her pleasantly upon the subjects which her reading suggested, Winnie McBride came running into the room with breathless eagerness to say that they were all going to the meeting, grandmother and all; and mother had told her to hurry over and tell Alice, and Mrs. Tracy too, if she had a mind to go, that if they would get ready and come out to the road within an hour, they could ride with them over to the school-house. There was plenty of room in the wagon. 
               Mr. Tracy had, early in the day, taken his fishing-rod and sauntered out towards the river, and after considerable hesitation, Susie consented that Alice should get her ready for the meeting, objecting strongly to wearing the young girl's best dress and collar, but finally yielding to her earnest solicitations, and smiling at Alice's praises of her good looks when the dressing was completed-the first smile of pleasure which had come to her face, since baby died. 
               And Susie did look very well with the pretty brown and white plaid, and the long fair hair, thinner now than it used to be, arranged in braids; though she was still very white, and fragile-looking. 
               The preacher had not arrived, when Mr. McBride's team reached the school-house, or rather the grove near which it was situated, and where the meeting was to be held; for, as the day was very warm, and a good number had collected (a meeting for religious worship being so rare an event in the vicinity), some one had suggested that the benches should be taken out of the school-house, and placed in the shadow of the trees, and the service held there. 
               The seats were all filled with women and grownup girls, neatly enough attired, but seemingly in every variety of costume imaginable; but the male portion of the assembly, the elder of whom were sitting in the wagons which were drawn up near the stand erected for the preacher, and the younger, reclining on the ground, in knots of half a dozen, were, as a general thing, far less carefully dressed. In fact, the most of them seemed to have come to the place without making the least change in their personal appearance. There were not only many bare feet, but there was a great show of ankle, and the sleeves of the striped shirts were rolled above the elbow. 
               Mrs. McBride found seats for herself and family, on the benches; and Alice and Susie sat down, at a little distance, on the trunk of a fallen tree, where the shadows fell thickly over them. 
               It was a pleasant scene. 
               The soft wind was stirring the tall tree-tops, scattering showers of sunshine and shadow over the assembly; and the air was filled with sweet music, from the bees hurrying to and fro, seeking, down in the openings of the wood, where the sunlight could fall, the pretty strange flowers which were lifting up their bright eyes to heaven,-from birds gayly carolling to each other, farther away in the grove,-the low-hushed laughter of merry children, and now and then the pleasant neighing of two young colts, who, to the great annoyance of two sober-looking beasts attached to one of the wagons, were cantering gayly up and down among the trees. 
               At a short distance from the spot where the assembly had sat down, ran the gently flowing river, and close to its brink stood a sportsman, with his fowling-piece in his hand, alternately looking at a wild duck which was sailing, with her brood, down the water, and watching the play of some rabbits, that were gambolling among the broad leaves of a plant almost within reach of his gun. The young man was out of sight of the assembly, but near enough to hear the hum of their voices. 
               Mrs. McBride had settled herself down very comfortably, thinking that she and her family were the best dressed people there. 
               Her dress was of good material, and her bonnet had been very fashionable only two years ago. The girls were prettily dressed, for Alice had made their frocks, and trimmed their hats; and as she herself was wearing the pink muslin which had been given to her, and which she had made look very nice, with a bit of lace and a knot of white ribbon, Mrs. McBride took to herself all the credit of the young girl's very genteel appearance. 
               It was half past three o'clock, and the preacher had not come, and the people were beginning to be tired. The women were looking about them and thinking of the cares at home, the men were yawning and stretching themselves on the grass and talking in a louder tone, the children were laughing and playing more and more noisily, and Mrs. McBride saw some clouds rising in the west, and remembered that the grain, which was cut yesterday, had not all been a "bound," and very little of it "set up." 
               She drew her shawl up about her shoulders. 
               The Mother understood the movement, and she turned her feeble gaze on Alice. 
               "Canna ye read a chapter till us, Elsie, my bairn?" she said, in her quivering tone, "I see ye hae the gude Book wi' ye!" 
               Alice looked around, not quite sure that she had been addressed, so absorbed was she in her own thoughts,-thoughts of West Grove, and the dear ones there. She had not heard from them since she left M--. 
               Her father told her, when she went out of Uncle Fritz's house, that if she went with him, she must give up her friends there,-that that old man (meaning Mr. Kuhn) must not know where he was going, and, though Alice had not promised it, she had never written but once, a brief line before she reached her new home, saying that, some time, if her life was spared, she would return. 
               Were they thinking of her to-day? she was asking herself, and wondering when the time for her return would come. Would they all be there when she went back to them? How swiftly the great change had come to dear Marie,-how suddenly it might come to any of those dear ones,-how quickly it might come to herself! 
               "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor"- 
               "There's nothing to be afraid of, child, that I can see! Read a chapter in the Bible to us!" Mrs. McBride spoke in her loud, commanding tone. 
               She was not well pleased to see tears in Alice's eyes, regarding her, as she did, as rather a member of her own family; and she was a little provoked that the old lady should propose stopping there longer, when she had made up her mind to go home. 
               "I expect the most of us left our religion behind us, when we came West," she added, "but a chapter will do us no harm!" 
               "The night cometh when no man can work!" 
               Alice glanced around her. 
                
               The people had all heard what the two women said, and they evidently expected the reading; for the mothers were calling their children to them, and hushing them, and the young men were taking more respectful attitudes, while the occupants of the wagons concluded their remarks in subdued tones. 
               She opened the Bible, and commenced reading the fifteenth chapter of St. Luke's Gospel. 
               Her voice was a little tremulous, at first. 
               To all the people who had come to the meeting, except, perhaps, the aged Scotchwoman and Mr. McBride, she felt herself a perfect stranger; but as she had glanced about her, she saw an individual coming up carelessly through the wood, with a game bag slung over his shoulder, and a gun resting on his arm,-one who, she had begun lately to understand, did know something about her, though she had never exchanged a word with him. She had been learning it for some weeks past, from words accidentally dropped by the little McBrides, one of whom almost daily got a ride with the doctor, on his horse, either in going to or from school. 
               He was very highly respected in the neighborhood, not only for his success in the practice of his profession, but for his unbounded kindness, and his geniality of disposition, and, with the little earthly help which Alice had, to be called "a good child" by him, was very pleasant. 
                
               And after a time, she was very sure, though Mrs. McBride did not suspect it, that the books which were frequently brought to the house, were designed more particularly for her perusal, than that of her mistress. 
               What would he think, to see her reading there, to all these people?-he who, with all his native goodness, was so far from being a religious man? 
               What mattered it what he, or any one else thought? 
               "The night cometh, when no man can work!" 
               And her voice became firm and distinct, as she read the beautiful parable of the Prodigal Son. 
               She paused a moment when it was ended, and looked up from her book. 
               One might have thought, by the expression of many of the countenances there, that it was a new and strangely interesting story which had been read to them, though doubtless it was familiar to all; and that an influence had gone out from it, which was felt, more or less, by the whole assembly; for there were tears in the eyes of several of the women, and some of the men had removed their hats, and the shirt-sleeves were unrolled, and there was a look of expectancy on the countenances which were turned towards the young reader, as if the tale had not all been told. 
               But when Alice looked up, she saw only one individual dividual there; and he was not the doctor, though that young man stood at no great distance from her, holding his hat in his hand, and with his eyes fastened on her countenance. His gun was resting against a tree, and his game bag had dropped to the ground. 
               Every inch a gentleman he looked, as he stood there, but as, from time to time, during the reading, he had lifted the heavy hair from his brow, a faint shadow, as of self-condemnation, passed over the usually sun-lighted features; and he, too, looked as if the story he had been listening to, was not yet ended. 
               It was her father whom Alice saw. 
               He was sitting beyond the farthest group of people, upon the ground, with his hat drawn low over his eyes, and his figure half concealed by the underwood. The suit of clothing which the doctor had given him, disappeared, some weeks since, and poor Susie had had a hard struggle with the old garments he was now wearing. 
               A faint flush overspread the daughter's face, as she thought that, among all the untidy figures there, her father's was the one to be remembered. 
               But the emotion of shame passed quickly, and her eyes dropped again to the page before her, while a swift, silent prayer went up to Heaven. 
               But "while he was yet a great way off, the Father saw him!" 
                
               "If we tried, ever so hard, to walk all the way back to God, alone, we should never get there!" Alice said. 
               "Finding, when we come to ourselves, that all the goods the Father has given us, are wasted, and those to whom we had joined ourselves when the mighty famine came, will give us nothing to satisfy that dreadful craving of the soul, shivering in the vile garments with which we have clothed ourselves,-fair enough they had seemed to us, when we put them on, but how soon the bright colors had faded, how quickly the texture was broken,-and nothing but the dead ashes of repentance for our fainting bodies, nothing but the waters of Marah for our parching lips, and the path we must travel, running straight over the fathomless abysses we have dug between ourselves and God, straight over the mountains, heaven-high, we have erected to shut out the view of the Father's house, and in shutting out which, we have shut out all light from our eyes, all guiding influence from the Pole Star of the soul hungering, thirsting, in darkness and in danger: who can know, but those who have uttered them, the bitter agony of the words- 
               "'In my Father's house is bread enough, and to spare; and I perish with hunger!' 
               "But the spark which the Creator had breathed into him, had not quite gone out in the heart of the Prodigal. 
               "And he said-'I will arise and go to my Father!' no more to be a son, but as one of His hired servants. 
               "Certain death was in inaction; there seemed little chance for success in the struggle. But he had spoken the words of deep humility and of high resolve. 
               "He had arisen and started on his journey!
                
               "And"-Alice looked up, and her voice rose as in a glad triumphant song-"Thanks be unto God, for evermore, Amen!-while he was yet a great way off, the Father saw him, and had compassion, and ran to meet him. The best robe was ready, the ring for the finger, and the shoes for the feet, and the calf fatted for the feast! 
               "And, more than all, the clasp of the Father's arm, and the words whose music throughout eternity shall never fall less sweetly on the ear,- 
               "'This-my Son!'" 
               Alice's eyes were fixed on her father, as she ceased speaking. 
               He did not look up. Probably he had supposed he was not observed, and evidently did not wish to be, for he had drawn still farther back among the bushes, till little more than his head was visible. 
               It was a fearful moment for Mr. Tracy, that when the little assembly was breaking up and starting for their several homes, as, for the first time for years, perhaps, he saw himself as he really was. 
               Through the buzz of voices, very subdued now, for a thoughtfulness seemed to have fallen on the people, he fancied he could hear the soft murmur of the water, as it rippled among the tall reeds which shaded its margin. There was a coolness in the low sound, and his brow was so heated, and there was such a feeling of age upon him! 
               For some weeks past, Susie had been afraid that he would be guilty of some desperate deed; could she have looked into his heart now, she would have seen, all too plainly, what it might have been. 
               He glanced furtively up to the two girls he called his own. 
               They were very pretty, he thought, both of them; by far the prettiest girls in the assembly; and they were good, too. 
               Alice always had been good, he thought, once severely, but now gently so; and she had taught Susie to be good and gentle as she was herself. 
               And what right had he, with his moral death and decay, farther to poison their young lives? 
               "When the people have all gone out of sight"- 
               Mr. Tracy's lips would not shape themselves to the remainder of the sentence. 
                
               Mr. McBride had driven his team around for his family, and his wife was helping the Mother into the wagon, very carefully, for her swift, nervous hands, and then she called, as she climbed in herself, to Alice,- 
               "Come, dear! Sit down here by me." 
               Perhaps it was the veil that she had drawn over her face, which made her voice sound so strangely, though little Donald, whom she had, with a greater show than usual of the strong affection she always felt for her children, drawn closely to her, thought he saw tears shining in his mother's eyes. 
               But Alice did not observe how she had been addressed, for she was whispering to Susie, who was unaware that her husband was so near, to ride home with the McBrides. She was going to walk, herself, and when the team, which was the last to start, for Mr. McBride must see the benches returned to the school-house, before going from the spot,-when the team had driven away, Alice walked quickly to the place where her father sat. 
               He lifted his head at the sound of her footsteps, and Alice was startled at the expression of his countenance, or, rather, at its want of expression, for his face had taken almost the hue and fixedness of death. 
               But she checked the cry which rose to her lips, and spoke composedly and cheerfully. 
                
               "Father, are you going home?" 
               "Going home!-going home! Alice?" he repeated, dreamily, "Yes, I think I will, my child!" 
               He stretched out a trembling hand towards her. 
               She assisted him to rise, drawing his arm within her own, and then, taking the direction she pleased, led him away. 
               A single loiterer at the place of meeting had witnessed the little scene between the father and daughter, and his eyes followed them for many moments, as they walked, very slowly, farther down into the wood, diverging a little from the path which led towards their home. 
               Very slowly indeed, at first, for Mr. Tracy seemed to be leaning, almost with his whole weight, upon his daughter; but, after a few rods were passed, he had withdrawn his hand from her, and carried himself more erect, and her fingers were resting on his arm, and her animated face turned towards his. 
               He looked after them, till their forms had quite disappeared from his view, and a text of Scripture passed again and again through his mind. 
               "The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose!" 
               "Saved!" the doctor had said to himself, as they passed away beyond his sight; and, as he slowly picked up his gun and game-bag, and carried them into the school-house, and then walked back to the river where he had left his horse, he was wondering if there was on earth a spot so desolate that it could not be gladdened by the presence of that young girl,-if there was, in the wide universe, a place so beautiful that it would not blossom more brightly if she were there! 
               He turned his head, and looked back into the wood, as his horse was crossing the ford, speaking aloud to himself,- 
               "Saved!-has arisen, and started on his journey, back to the Father's house! But I"- 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               DR. MERLE VINTON. 
               IT was near sunset when the father and daughter reached home. 
               Alice had made the return as late as possible, that the strangeness of his appearance might pass away, before Susie saw him; and the hours had gone by, not unpleasantly to him, though she failed for a moment, even with her best endeavor, to divert his thoughts, entirely, from some subject he was contemplating; and at times, during their walk, his looks were very wild, and his words almost incoherent. 
               And she had enjoyed the conversation, almost the first she had ever held with her father, very much, notwithstanding she was experiencing so much anxiety on his account. 
               She had lately been reading a treatise on Natural Theology, and she began to speak to him about the subjects which had so much interested her, and to ask him questions in her simple, childlike way, manifesting the unreserved confidence towards him which any young girl might feel for a parent who had always been kind and indulgent; and he, in his mental absorption, scarcely knowing what the influence was, which was drawing him gently along, but feeling that there was a very pleasant naturalness about it, submitted to that moral power with which his child was so gifted, listening very patiently to her remarks, and answering her questions to the best of his ability. 
               Mr. Tracy was an educated man, and could talk well. 
               During that walk home, he had many times sat down on the ground while Alice gathered handfuls of flowers, a broad leaf where the spider had woven his web, a nest from which the fledgelings had down, a stray feather, a beetle, or a butterfly, and her father explained the remarks he was making, by the objects he directed her to bring to him. 
               The table was ready when they returned home, and the tea which Alice had brought from Mrs. McBride's the previous evening, had an unusually refreshing odor. Susie was moving about the little room with more alacrity than she had, for a long time, shown. 
               She had seen her husband and his daughter returning home, in each other's company, talking pleasantly, as any father and his child should talk, and the sight had given her much pleasure, for she loved Alice very fondly, and could appreciate, now, the sacrifice the young girl was making for herself and her husband. 
               The eyes of Mr. Tracy followed his wife, as she moved about the room, sometimes with an expression of pain, and sometimes with a look of intense pity, and when he sat down to the table, he praised her nice supper, and in such a gentle tone, that Susie laughed, to keep the tears from falling. It was a long time since, that she had been spoken to so kindly. 
               When the evening shadows were beginning to descend, Mr. Tracy had said, as he sat down in the door-way,- 
               "That is a very fine portion of Scripture which you read out in the Grove to-day, my child. I should like to hear it read again." 
               And Alice put the Bible in Susie's hand, and the young wife read the selection. Her voice was low, hushed almost to a sobbing whisper, just suited, it seemed, to her husband's present frame of mind; and when the chapter was finished, Alice repeated, in her trusting, hopeful tones, the Collect for the day:- 
               "O God, whose never failing providence ordereth all things both in heaven and earth, we humbly beseech Thee to put away from us all hurtful things, and to give us those things which are profitable to us, through Jesus Christ our Lord." 
               And Susie, with a gush of tears, and Mr. Tracy, with a softened tone, had both said "Amen!" 
               Without another word and very swiftly and quietly, Alice went away to her little loft, feeling a perfect confidence that the prayer was heard, and would be answered, and repeating, again and again, inaudibly, but with her whole soul, the very word which the doctor had uttered. 
               "Saved,-saved!" 
               "The Lord had put a new song in her mouth, even praise unto the Almighty!" 
               The Mother,-whose eyes lifted themselves to Alice, next day, as the young girl was moving about the house, more silent then usual, but with a lighter, quicker step than ever before, and with a more firm, dextrous hand,-repeated the words over and over to herself, and at night Norah whispered to Corny, over their milk pails, that, thanks to the darlint, the sun had shined for once, through the whole washing day. 
               Alice had thought that her father would come over, that morning, to the Willows, for employment, and she was not disappointed. 
               When the men came in to dinner, he was among them, and he had resumed the suit of clothes the doctor had given him, and day after day, till the harvest was ended, he was ready to go into the field at as early an hour as any one. The work was very hard for him, at first, and Mr. McBride would, quite often, find it absolutely necessary that some light work should be performed in the garden, and Mr. Tracy must stay back to do it; but every day gave him new strength, and, at length, he endured the fatigue as well as most of the men; and when the harvest was over, he engaged himself to his employer for the remainder of the year. 
               At the close of his first week at The Willows, as Mr. Tracy and his daughter were walking home together in the evening, he asked her, suddenly, how long she intended to work for Mrs. McBride, and Alice replied that she had promised to remain until school was closed. 
               It was several weeks, now, before the term would be ended, and her mistress had lately spoken about giving her employment through the year. 
               She had not decided, however, to accept the proposal Mrs. McBride would be likely to make. 
               She would like to talk with him, first, and with Susie. 
               And her father said, in a tone of pleasant surprise, "Thank you, my child!" 
               Mrs. McBride's plan was, she suspected, to engage her services, and then dismiss Norah. She might not think she would need two housemaids, when her little active girls were at home all of the time; but while Alice would have been very well satisfied to remain there longer, even though her employment should continue to be as laborious as it at present was, rather than go again among strangers, she would not consent to have the faithful Irish girl dismissed on her account. Norah was expecting to remain at her present situation until her marriage, which was to take place in the spring, and she was trying to lay by something for her wedding outfit. 
               She might, if dismissed from the service of Mrs. McBride, find it difficult to obtain good employment at this season of the year, to say nothing of being separated from Corny. 
               And when, a few days after that brief conversation with her father, respecting her stay at The Willows, she accidentally overheard her mistress, with some disparaging remarks respecting her faithful domestic, unfolding her plans to a visitor, Alice fully decided that Norah should not be sent away, at least, if she could prevent it. She did not know who the visitor was, till a merry laugh, and a careless, jesting voice met her ear. 
               "My dear Mrs. McBride," the voice had said, "what a generous, kind-hearted lady you are! When you die, you shall be canonized! So you are going to keep the little girl here, are you? because I told you, one morning, a while ago, to be kind to the child, and because you think she can fill your Irish girl's place in the kitchen, at less wages than you are paying Norah; that she can take the care of your mother-in-law off your hands, teach your children much better than they would be taught at school this winter, besides doing"- 
               "Now, doctor, you know"-she interrupted, in a hurried, apologetic tone, but her visitor stopped her, saying, in a more serious voice,- 
               "Yes, I do know that you would not be guilty of an unkind act. I do not believe you ever injured an individual in your life, except through your words. But now good-by, Mrs. McBride! Is the Mother in her room? I am visiting my patients for the last time. To-morrow, I expect"- 
               Alice's work called her into another apartment, and she went out, closing the door behind her; but as she was bending her head, a little lower than usual, over her employment, another door opened and some one stepped into the room and stood beside her, and the doctor said, in a low, hesitating tone, strangely unlike his usual mode of address,- 
               "Miss Tracy, will you shake hands with me? I am going away from this neighborhood,-far away,-and with no expectation of ever returning; and I should like to hold that little hand in mine for a moment, and look into the eyes, which, I think, have never yet met my glance." 
               Alice rose quickly, and laid her hand on his broad, fair palm, looking up in his face with the eager, ingenuous gladness of a happy child. 
               She should never see him again? 
               Then this one look must be such a long, earnest one, that it would fasten the features of him to whom she owed so much gratitude, ineffaceably on her memory. 
               And a very handsome face it was,-one not easy to be forgotten,-handsome as the form was noble and commanding; a full, broad brow, which the bronzing prairie wind had dealt gently with, shaded as it was with the wealth of dark brown hair,-deep blue, thoughtful, but sunny eyes, and a mouth of almost feminine sweetness, though with no lack of firmness in its expression. Alice read in that face, Intellect, Truth, Honor! 
               "I am so glad to see you, Dr. Vinton," she said, "and to have the great privilege of speaking to you. I have wanted so much to tell you how grateful I am. Heaven has given me many friends: but through no one has it so blessed me, as through you, sir! You will not care for my thanks; but it will do me so much good to tell you how-how"- 
                
               Alice's eyes dropped, for the tears were coming, and her fingers began to loosen on the gentleman's hand; but he did not let them go. 
               "I understand you, my child," he said, softly, "and I do care for your thanks; I accept them as something real,-something to be treasured fondly, forever!" 
               He was silent for a moment, still retaining his hold on her hand, and then he asked, suddenly, "Have you ever read the fable of Proserpine? I think it is in one of the books I brought here. The beautiful young maiden was walking with her attendants in the fields, gathering flowers, when she was stolen by Pluto, and carried to the infernal regions. Her mother demanded from the king of the gods the release of her child, and Jupiter promised her a conditional return; but Proserpine had tasted of the fruit of Hades, and earth could no more be her permanent dwelling-place! 
               "The Prodigal might have spoken the words of deep humility and of high resolve; he might have arisen and started on his journey, but if he had eaten of the deadly fruits, and the poison had entered into his soul- 
               "Alice!" 
               He spoke her name quickly and earnestly, and as she lifted her face, she saw an eager, questioning look in his eyes. 
                
               "I have read the myth, sir," she said, "and have thought what a better faith is ours; for we believe, and know, that 'Whosoever will, may come, and take of the water of life freely!'" 
               "If he comes, bearing his cross!" added the doctor, with bitterness, "but the Saviour Himself sank beneath that burden, and allowed another to bear it for Him." 
               "Yes, sir!" Alice said, "for the physical strength was exhausted; but when He could have summoned legions of angels to His aid, He suffered His body to be nailed to the cross, and died there,-died that 'all who believe in Him, may not perish, but have everlasting life!'" 
               "It is sometimes very hard, Dr. Vinton," she resumed, after a moment's pause, while her eye was glancing backward, over the path she had herself trodden,-"very hard to bring the sacrifice to the altar, and bind the victim with the strong cords our own fingers have twisted, and lift the whetted blade to slay with our own hands; but sometimes God accepts the intention, and finds for Himself a lamb, and stays the descending arm; and if there is no escape, if the offering must be made, it is far better, sir, to cut off the right hand, and pluck out the right eye,-for Heaven will mitigate the terrible agony,-than to walk through the earth, even, outside of the presence of God!" 
                
               The doctor looked over her head, out of the window. 
               He seemed to be gazing at some object, very far distant; and Alice sent up a swift prayer to Heaven, that what was revealing itself to his gaze, might be a bright shining, coming down the pathway to meet him. 
               And when, after a firmer pressure on her fingers, he had gone out, she looked after him, and remembered that the rector of St. Mark's had told her once that there were a few people in the world, whose benevolence towards others was exceedingly broad, while to themselves they were most niggardly; whose mantle of charity could cover all faults but their own; who were always drawing themselves back from the extended arms of mercy,-binding upon themselves burdens which were not theirs to bear, and thus, in their character coming the nearest to the self-denying Redeemer,-the one thing lacking to them being self-forgiveness. 
               "They will be the brightest jewels in the crown of our King!" the rector had said, "but the fitting them to their setting, I call the masterwork of the Almighty hand!" 
               There was much noisy, as well as deep felt grief at The Willows, over the departure of the doctor from the neighborhood. But Alice did not shed a tear, even in secret. She was so glad he had come and spoken to her, before he went away, and so kindly accepted her thanks for the unspeakable good he had done her father. He had said that he would treasure them always; and he, like Uncle Fritz, had not uttered a farewell! 
               That, too, was very pleasant to think of, for it seemed to her an implied promise, that there should be a tie between them,-something almost like an interchange of thoughts; that, some time, they might meet again, most likely not in this world; the doctor had said so himself. 
               But what mattered that? Eternity is near and unending; and Alice had often thought, how, at some period, she would walk through the "many mansions" of the Father, to which, she doubted not, he would, some time obtain entrance, and find all whom she had loved and cared for on the earth. 
               So there was no reason for one sorrowful thought. 
               And besides, her memory was now enriched with another treasure. 
               Another image was enshrined in her heart, by the side of those of Uncle Fritz and Margaret, and dear Katrine, whose original, like theirs, was to be loved and prayed for, while life lasted,-set on a higher pedestal, perhaps, than even that her kind benefactor occupied, but cherished with an affection as unmixed with earthly thoughts, as that with which the sainted Marie was remembered. 
               When Alice returned home, however, the next Saturday evening, and found there not only the books which Mrs. McBride had given back to the doctor, but a dozen additional volumes which the young man had brought over, when he came to say good-by to Mrs. Tracy,-the fly-leaf of each volume inscribed with Alice's name,-the tears would come,-tears of gratitude to Heaven, and to the friend, she liked to think Heaven had given her. 
               A day or two after the doctor's departure, and probably in consequence of it, her nervous system was so easily disturbed, that the Mother wished the old physician, whose partner Dr. Vinton had been, to be sent for; and her daughter-in-law, contrary to her usual custom, had offered no objection. Corney was despatched after him immediately, Mrs. McBride's anxiety to find out something respecting the young physician, causing her to forget entirely, for once, the doctor's fee. 
               Yes, he was gone! The announcement of his intention to leave him-Dr. Smithson-had come to the old gentleman like a clap of thunder from a serene sky. The young man would sail for Europe, immediately after his arrival in New York. He might never return. France was his native country, though he was born of American parents. The family had returned to the United States some five or six years since, and Merle had followed them as soon as he had completed his medical education. The family were of the highest respectability, and very wealthy. 
               All this was in reply to Mrs. McBride's rapid questions. 
               "Well, if his folks are all here, what has he gone back for?" she went on, without the least hesitation. 
               And Dr. Smithson replied, with great gravity, that he did not know, for a certainty, why he had returned, but he thought it was some difficult case of Affaire du cur!
                
               Mrs. McBride was perfectly satisfied with the explanation, though she had never heard of that disease before; but she wished, after the doctor had gone, that she had asked him if it was generally considered to be contagious. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE RETURN. 
               THE little Winnie and Roony had brought home their books. School was closed, and Alice was needed no longer at The Willows. 
               She had been offered Norah's place, her mistress declaring it her intention to do the heaviest part of the work herself through the autumn and winter, as she undoubtedly would have done; but Alice had declined her offer, very frankly telling Mrs. McBride her reason for doing so, and the lady, though vexed at the frustration of her excellent plans, had kissed Alice as she was putting on her bonnet to leave the house, and called her a good, unselfish girl, hoping her own daughters would grow up to be as good as she was; but Mr. McBride, who had many times thought that the young girl was a sunbeam in his family, looked at the board, and the nine shillings a week which was paid her for her services, in quite a different light from that in which his wife saw them; and the second evening after she had left The Willows, he went himself over to Mr. Tracy's dwelling to invite Alice to resume her place in his house. 
               The cool weather would soon be coming on, he said, and he had little reason to think his mother would live to see another spring; and if Alice went out to service, which certainly she ought not to do, though, in his house, she should be treated like an own child, he wanted her to remain with his mother while she lived. Some one must be with her constantly. Alice might wait on her, and teach the children to read; it was too much trouble to take out a team to carry them to school, and they could not walk so great a distance; and when not occupied with these labors, her time should be her own, to spend in study or as she pleased; and if she had not been receiving wages enough, her services should, hereafter, be properly rewarded. 
               Alice was very grateful. Mr. McBride had always been kind to her; but she could not promise just now, she would talk with her father about it, when he came home. 
               Mr. Tracy and his wife had been to the village that day, and would not return until nightfall, and Alice had been thinking undisturbedly for hours, and an indescribable longing had come over her to see Willie and Uncle Fritz. Had not her duty to her father and Susie been all done now? 
               Did Heaven require anything more of her, so far as they were concerned? 
                
               She was willing to stay with them longer, she was trying to persuade herself, if her stay would benefit them; but just as soon as she began to fancy that she could be satisfied to remain, her lips would utter the words, audibly,- 
               "But I am going back to you-father!" 
               And the "father" was Uncle Fritz. 
               Fortunately for her, however, she thought it was, she was not to decide whether she would go or remain. 
               When Mr. Tracy and his wife returned, Susie rushed into the dwelling and threw herself into Alice's arms, calling her all the fond, endearing names she could think of, while her husband, almost as happy as his young wife, though very quietly so, explained to Alice the cause of her joy. 
               They had found, at the Post-office in the village, letters from Susie's parents in California, answers to that which, though they did not know it until now, Alice had sent to the Fletchers; and, after some hesitation, her father put the letters into his daughter's hand for her perusal; Susie, with her arms about Alice's neck, leaning over her shoulder, explaining, and laughing, and crying, while she was reading them. 
               Very gentle, loving words the mother had written to her daughter; no reproaches, and no expressions of hope that she would profit by the trials she had passed through, only-praying that Heaven's choicest blessings might rest on the head of Alice Tracy-she wrote- 
               "Come to us, my child, you and your husband. Remember every day, that we are looking for you and waiting for you to come!" 
               And Susie's father had written to Mr. Tracy,- 
               "I am willing that by-gones should be by-gones,-only be true to yourself,-kind and faithful to my child, then, I know you will be!" 
               And then he said that he had been very fortunate since his arrival in California; that he was engaged now in a very profitable employment, and one which he thought might be made far more lucrative, if he could associate with himself a man as well informed as Mr. Tracy was. His wife and himself would like to have their child with them, and he should be very glad to have the assistance of Mr. Tracy in his business, if- 
               The condition was not named, but it was well enough understood. 
               After hearing from them, Mr. Fletcher would write again and send means to purchase a good span of horses and a wagon, and all that was needed for the journey, if they would go. 
               "And we are going!" Susie explained,-"there is nothing to hinder, now. By the spring, your father will have earned money enough to take us there. He will not let any one pay our expenses, and the team will be my father's when we get there. We can take care of ourselves, now. I am going to work, myself, this autumn and winter, if I can find anything to do. 
               "But O, Alice!" and Susie's tears began to drop, now, from grief. "I don't know how I can be separated from you. You have been so good to us, and I was so unkind, when you first came, and have caused you so much trouble! Your father says he must send you back to him-that kind friend he took you from. He said, that night after you read the story of the Prodigal to us, that he had no right to you, and he would make the sacrifice; but can't you stay with us, Alice dear, and let Willie come too?" she pleaded. 
               Alice's heart leaped for joy. 
               She untwined Susie's arms from her neck, and stepped to her father's side, and her voice was almost choked with emotion, as she asked,- 
               "Father, are you willing I should go back to him, and Willie, now?" 
               And Mr. Tracy said simply, "Yes, you must go, my child!" 
               Alice wanted to put her arms about him, and thank him for the words he had spoken, but when she saw the look of pain upon his face, she restrained her feelings, and passed out of the room to unburden that full, glad soul, before Heaven. 
                
               Two hours later, when Susie, who was quite exhausted with her ride and her excitement, was sleeping, Mr. Tracy and his daughter were walking down the path through the wood,-the pleasant little path leading to the river, which the doctor had ridden over so many times,-and a very earnest conversation they had together, rather sad at the time, but pleasant to be remembered, always, afterward. 
               Alice was learning that her father was beginning to love her, as much as he had always respected her, and that he was anxious for her immediate departure from him, lest the affection which was growing stronger every day, not only with himself, but with Susie, should at length compel him to keep her with him, although he knew how much it would be for her advantage to return to her friend. 
               "A father should never make confession of his faults to his child," he said, "though he may be very sensible, my daughter, of the injustice he has, for long years, been guilty of; he should only seek to repair the wrong." 
               And then he went on to say that there must be years of hard struggle before him and Susie, if they would place themselves in the position they wished to obtain. But no one must help,-least of all, Alice! Her work for them was ended. 
               Mr. Tracy said this so tenderly and gratefully that the tears came into his daughter's eyes, and she was thinking how great a reward Heaven had bestowed upon her for the sacrifice she had made. 
               When he was at West Grove in the spring, he continued, seeking for her, he had heard of the legacy which had been left to his children, and to whose care Alice, using her liberty of choosing a guardian for herself and Willie, had entrusted it. The money never could have come into his possession he knew, and he was very willing that Mr. Kuhn should be their guardian. He had heard, too, that she had determined to make no use of the money herself, in order that the sum might be quite sufficient for Willie's support. He should have expected it of her, knowing, as he did, the unselfish love and care she had always manifested for her brother. 
               But her own future was well provided for,-he did not say how, and Alice was very glad for it,-for she understood him,-and she was thinking there was much want of faith in God-very much forgetfulness of the way in which He had led her, wrought into all the work she tried to perform. 
               There was one thing, however, which Mr. Tracy wished her to do for him; perhaps it influenced him to hasten his daughter's departure. When she returned to her old friend she must say to him, that her father's wrong doings had never injured any one but himself and his family; that Heaven, he now believed, for his child's sake, had defeated all his insane attempts to be guilty of actual crime; and ask him, if, in consideration of her feelings, and Willie's respectability when he reached manhood- 
               "Yes, father!" Alice interrupted, "I understand, and it shall be done." 
               Uncle Fritz would not wait to be asked to destroy that wretched proof of intended guilt, she knew. He would have but one remembrance of her father, if she was allowed to return to him. 
               The next morning Alice went over to The Willows, to give her answer to Mr. McBride, as she had promised to do. The family was expecting her, and no one had a doubt what the answer would be. 
               Donald was half way over to the Openings to meet her, and Winnie and Roony, who had been teasing their mother for the last half hour for leave to follow him, forgot her commands and rushed out of the house as soon as Alice came in sight; and little Fergus toddled after them, crowing at the top of his voice,-in his hurry getting a fall at every dozen steps, but too glad to cry, though the tears would come into the little blue eyes, and clinging closely to Alice's neck when she ran to meet him, and took him into her arms. 
                
               "Well, I am glad you have come back, child!" Mrs. McBride said, as she came to the door to meet her, and took off Alice's bonnet with her own hands. 
               "Such a time as I had of it, yesterday! I should have gone crazy before night, only Dugald said he would go over after you. The Mother took her bed at noon, and has not been up since, though we have told her you would be here to-day. Nothing will pacify her until she sees you, and hears your voice. So come right into her room!" and she took the young girl's hand. 
               Alice tried to explain that she did not come to stop, but the noisy joy of the children drowned her voice. They were quiet enough, however, when they stepped into the Mother's room, though they still kept close to Alice's side. 
               The aged woman was propped up in bed, and her son was sitting beside her. She was looking very feeble, but a sweet, satisfied smile came to her face, as Alice drew near her bedside; and she stretched out her trembling hand. 
               "Sae ye hae come, my bairn," she said, "to bide wi' me, while I stay." 
               Alice took the thin hands in her own, and bent her head down to that upraised face, speaking in her gentlest tone, and with a loving smile on her countenance. It was hard to disturb the quiet of that now serene, pale brow. 
                
               "No, mother, I have not come to stay!" she said, "I would like to be with you, but there is one who needs me more. You have all of these, but this aged friend I am going to, has only me. Heaven gave me to him, he thinks, when it took away the last one who called him father. He loves me more than all the world beside, and has been kind to me;-I must go to him! But I have been thinking of you, all night; and of your kind offer, sir," she said, turning towards Mr. McBride, "and if you will not consider me too officious, I will tell"- 
               Alice hesitated, for Mrs. McBride's eyes were flashing. 
               "You are not going to propose bringing that mother-in-law of yours, here!" she said, "and yet I don't see how I am going to manage without help." 
               Mrs. Tracy would come if they needed her, Alice said. She was very gentle and good. She had seen much trouble herself and could sympathize with the suffering. She had taken the liberty to speak to Susie about coming to The Willows, and she would be very glad to take charge of the Mother, if she required more care than her daughter-in-law, with her large family, would be able to bestow on her. Susie could do all that would be desired of her. 
                
               Mrs. McBride smiled contemptuously, but her husband thought that Alice's recommendation was sufficient; and he said the young woman might come. 
               But the old lady had not spoken yet. She was clinging feebly to Alice's hand, with the dim eyes fastened on her countenance, unable fully to comprehend that she was going to lose the young girl. The tears began at length, however, to roll down the wasted cheeks. 
               "Ye maun gae, sin' the Laird ca's ye!" she said, "He kens what is best for us a'!" and she closed her eyes, and sank back on her bed, while Mrs. McBride tried to arrange the pillows around her. 
               Mr. McBride said some very pleasant words to Alice, as she thanked him for his kindness to her; and Winnie and Roony were made to forget their grief by the promise of a letter, just as soon as she reached her home. Mrs. McBride inquired how she expected to get over to the railroad, which was more than thirty miles distant, and when Alice replied that her father would send her by the mailcarrier to the end of his route, and that then she must find a conveyance herself, the remainder of the distance, the lady said she must be ready to start on her journey the next morning, by six o'clock, as she should be at her father's dwelling by that time to see her off, and to speak to Mrs. Tracy about coming over to help her. 
                
               And so Alice went away from The Willows, stepping first, for a moment, into the room where the doctor had come to speak to her on the morning when he left the neighborhood, to start on his long journey, looking out of the window from which he had looked, wondering what he was thinking of, as he had gazed out so earnestly far away over the prairie. She did not know why it was, for her heart was beating time to an unbroken anthem of praise, but the tears would come as she looked, till it was no longer a sea of waving green which stretched out before her vision, but a broad, blue, boundless ocean, with one white sail fast passing away out of sight. 
               The last sound she heard, as she walked down through the trees, was the voice of Norah, who, with her apron thrown over her face, was calling on all the blissid saints to kape the darlint safe intirely. 
               At the time Mrs. McBride had specified, Alice, who suspected what her intention was, was ready for her journey. She had run down the bridle path through the wood, all the way down to the river, to say good-by to Bridget and her little Bessie, though the O'Neil cabin was only half the distance, and the woman and her child had been up the previous evening to take leave of her; stopping a moment, as she reached the ford, and looking over the water. 
                
               She had gathered a bunch of flowers from baby's grave, putting them up carefully, to be treasured always; and had had a very pleasant, cheerful talk with Susie and her father, over the breakfast she compelled herself to eat. 
               And then Mrs. McBride came, in her light, open buggy, driving, with a dexterous hand, her jet black ponies, up close to the door, calling out cheerfully- 
               "Come, Alice, it is time to start! Mr. Tracy, put in that box. The books that the doctor and Dugald gave you, are there, are they not? They had better, by half, have bought you a new dress, child. And throw in that valise. It has not grown much heavier since you came here, has it, Alice? 
               "And now, Mr. Tracy, you and your wife go right over to The Willows. You are both wanted there this very minute; and you will feel ten times better, when it comes night, if you have done a good day's work, than you would if you had sat down and had a cry over the child's going. But don't hurry, to-day, Mrs. Tracy, there is time enough to do all I want done. Come, jump in, Alice!" 
               Alice kissed her father and Susie, and then took a seat in the carriage, which, a few minutes later, was out of sight. 
                
               It had been Mrs. McBride's intention to take Alice half way over to the railroad village, and then find a conveyance for her for the remainder of the distance; but her husband remembered that they had a relative residing within a few miles of the railroad, whom his wife would never find a better opportunity for passing a day or two with, than the present. He was not so busy just now but that he could look a little after affairs in the house; and, besides, Mrs. Tracy would be there. And so the thirty-five miles, which the very muddy roads of March had made such a long, wearisome three days' journey, was now the pleasant ride of a few hours. 
               The journey did not terminate any earlier, however, in consequence of it; for Mrs. McBride decided to keep Alice with her, while she remained with her relative, the friend promising that on Saturday, the day she would return home, he would find an escort for the young lady. 
               At her parting with Alice, which took place on the crowded platform of the depot, Mrs. McBride would, doubtless, have done herself great credit, had she not been unexpectedly interrupted. 
               "Yes, dear! you need not say a word," she was beginning; "I know just how you feel about it. You are thinking how much trouble I have taken to bring you here, when Winnie or Roony would so have enjoyed"- 
                
               "My dear Miss Tracy! this is a happiness as great as it is unexpected!" 
               And Mrs. McBride turned around to see the very distinguished looking stranger, who had been making his way through the crowd, come near, and take Alice's hand, while he was saying something about the great pleasure and honor of taking her back to her home; and Alice seemed not at all surprised or embarrassed, but was looking up in his face with quiet, pleasant confidence, putting her arm through his, and telling him how glad she was to see him. 
               But in her joy to meet the rector of St. Mark's, for it was he, she did not forget her companion; and Mrs. McBride, as she looked after the fast disappearing train, which bore away the child, as she had always regarded her, and thought not only of the words which Alice had said, so simply and unaffectedly, as she took the lady's hand for the good-by, but many others which she had listened to, while the young girl was in her family, began to wonder if she had ever really understood her character; and wished, with a sigh of regret, that she had secured Alice's services, while it was in her power to do so; but, at the same time, felt very happy in the thought that the girl had received all the kindness from her, which she could ever desire should be shown to one of her own children. 
                
               As Alice sat by the rector's side, listening to his replies to the unasked questions which were rising to her lips, sometimes looking up in his face with a glad, radiant countenance, sometimes dropping her eyes to keep back the tears, for his words were not all joyous ones,-he would have been Miss Kuhn's husband, if she had lived, and her image was not fading from his memory,-as Alice sat by him, listening to his voice, and thinking of the journey she made six months before (how long ago it seemed, now!) and the companionship she then had,-the words came again and again into her thoughts,- 
               "And the angels of God met him!" 
               Everything had gone well with those she loved, since she had been away. 
               Uncle Fritz's new house was finished, but he had not moved into it. The rector did not believe the old gentleman would ever occupy it, if she did not return. The school-house was in process of erection. It would be completed in about two weeks. There had been no week-day school since Alice went away; but the Sabbath-school was flourishing. There was not an individual in the German settlement who did not consider himself a member, and service was read in the log school-house, regularly once every fortnight. 
               The, rector was going next day, and Alice must ride over with him. 
                
               Uncle Fritz still kept house at M--, though the greater part of his time was spent at the Grove. He was there now, and would remain through tomorrow. 
               Willie was very well and happy, always by his guardian's side, wherever the old gentleman might be. 
               That night Alice spent in her own room, at Uncle Fritz's house, where not a single change seemed to have been made since she left it; and the next afternoon, she rode with the rector over to West Grove. 
               The hour appointed for the service had fully arrived when they reached the log school-house, and the people were all assembled when they entered the room. 
               Alice did not lift her eyes, for she could scarcely control her feelings, when she found herself in the dear old place again; but as she stepped into the door, some one, smothering a great burst of sobbing joy, came, and took her hand, and led her to a seat, and sat down by her; and pretty soon the rector was reading- 
               "And in every place incense shall be offered unto My Name, and a pure offering!" And a little hand stole into hers, and a sweet, young voice was softly whispering- 
               "O, Allie, Allie!-O, Allie, Allie!" 
                
               And Alice thought in every place her foot had trod, she might erect a Bethel to the Lord her God "who keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love Him and keep His commandments." 
               And when, in the second Lesson, was read-"Let him know that he who converteth a sinner from the error of his ways, shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins!"-and Ludwig and Katrine began to sing-(Margaret tried to join them, but she could still only sob)- 
               "Praise the Lord, O, my soul; and all that is within me, praise His holy Name!" Alice's voice rose full and clear, in the glad anthem her heart had been silently chanting for days past. 
               And with the song of praise on her lips, she could lift her eyes to those which, from the other side of the little room, were bent on hers; and Uncle Fritz read, in their glance, an answer to the question in his heart. 
               "You, now, next to Heaven, my father, and forever!" 
               After the service was ended, every one came to shake hands with her as they passed out of the school-house, most of them silently, not trusting themselves to speak; but Mr. Uhlmann and his mother, and Mrs. Nabor said some very pleasant words; briefly though, for another was waiting to speak to her, after the rest of the little assembly had all gone out. 
                
               "Little Ilse!" was all he said, and he spoke very quietly,- 
               But the rector, who was looking on his countenance, suddenly lifted his hand to his face, and turned away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               SIDE BY SIDE. 
               SEVEN years had passed since Alice and Willie Tracy had gone to West Grove, and many changes had taken place there during that period of time. 
               The town had received another name, and the number of its inhabitants had wonderfully increased. A large proportion of the new residents were from the Eastern States,-most of them people in comfortable circumstances, and many well educated and refined. 
               But the German population still remained, and had received several additions from the Fatherland, as well as from the neighboring towns. 
               The sudden rise in the value of their lands, when the railroad passed through the town, made many of them wealthy; and the rude cabins and the rail fences had given place to neat, commodious dwellings, surrounded with pretty gardens and pine orchards, inclosed with well-kept hedge-rows. 
               The lands in the vicinity had been mostly taken up, and now there was nowhere to be seen, in any direction, wide stretches of unbroken prairie, but everywhere comfortable farm-houses and stables, rich fields of waving grain, herds of cattle and horses, sheep and swine met the eye; and West Grove-we will still call it by its old name-was the place of business for all the neighboring towns. 
               It contained now half a dozen well patronized stores, a fine hotel, a flouring mill, several quite extensive and flourishing manufactories, and two churches; one of which, St. Luke's, had been built on the site of the old log school-house. 
               Uncle Fritz, who, though he had seen his sister, Grandmother Uhlmann, carried to her last resting-place, was still as healthy and vigorous as on that pleasant Sabbath July morning when he looked through Mr. Uhlmann's cabin window at the emigrant children; watching over his countrymen and caring as much as ever for their interests-Uncle Fritz had chosen that spot for the church; for he thought, so he told the Bishop, that it was already consecrated ground. 
               A few weeks after Alice's return to him from the six months' stay with her father, the old gentleman had moved into the handsome residence which he built during her absence; and, three years later, in a corner of the finely kept grounds about it, was erected a beautiful little Gothic structure, to be used by Miss Tracy as a schoolroom. 
               She had, until that time, been teaching the district school, resuming her employment immediately on her return to West Grove; so very happy to do so, that Uncle Fritz did not offer one objection, but allowed her, during the warm season, to give all the time she wished to the little Germans. 
               The winters, however, were spent in study; most diligently so, for Alice had not only a great thirst for knowledge, but she was very anxious to become qualified to teach more advanced pupils; and after her school-room was ready for her, she received a class of young ladies, part of them American and part German. 
               She was a very fine German scholar, thanks to Katrine, and a musician of no ordinary merit. Her exquisite performances on the organ, and her and Willie's sweet, effective singing, drew many strangers to St. Luke's. 
               The organ was the gift of Uncle Fritz to the church, and it was pleasant to see the old gentleman turn his head to listen to the music, when Alice and her brother were singing. One could believe that he fancied the minstrelsy of heaven was already falling on his ear; and perhaps it was not so very unlike the songs which the blest may sing, for Alice very often remembered, while chanting the beautiful words- 
                      
                        "O, go your way into His gates with thanksgiving, 
                        And into His courts with praise,"- 
                     
                   of, all the way in which the Lord had led her, and that "His mercy is everlasting"-that He is "the same, yesterday, to-day and forever!" 
               Mr. Tracy and his wife had gone to California at the time they hoped to do so, their six months' labor at The Willows furnishing them with means for the journey, in part; and Mr. Fletcher had supplied the rest. 
               Susie had got along finely with Mrs. McBride, so Alice learned from Winnie's little quaint epistles, and the Mother, who failed rapidly, as the cold weather advanced, frequently mistook the low voice, and the gentle touch for that of "Elsie"; and sometimes the young woman as she watched, in her self-imposed vigil, through the long lonely night, over her charge, would be startled by the sudden request that she would kneel by the bedside and offer the prayer that brought the blessing. 
               And Susie, frightened, and trembling, would try to do so, and the blessing came, not only to the spirit which was waiting for the joys of heaven, but to the heart which was beginning to hope, now, to find much happiness on the earth. 
               Susie never forgot the last time that she uttered the prayer in the hearing of the dying woman, for the wearied arm had suddenly strengthened itself, the hand had rested on her head, and the low voice, with strange firmness, said-"The blessing of the Lord Almighty be on you and yours, for evermore, Amen!" 
               "The blessing was designed for you, dearest Alice," Susie wrote, again and again, from her home in California, "and I am sure it is resting on you; but it has come to me and mine, too!" 
               Uncle and Aunt Richardson were at length heard from. 
               It seemed that Mr. Tracy, after leaving them at West Grove, had sent to the aunt to look after the children, and she had not wished to burden herself with them, especially after learning the fact, which she became acquainted with much sooner than did Alice, that her father was still alive. 
               But, after a lapse of time, hearing that Mr. Tracy had gone to California, and was doing very well there; that her niece had grown up to be a fine-looking, well-educated, self-reliant young lady; and that the ailing child had become a strong, active, and remarkably promising boy, she had written to Alice, with many expressions of love and kindness, inviting her and Willie to become members of her family. 
               Mr. Richardson had prospered in the world, and Alice should have all the advantages which wealth and position could give; and Willie should be sent to the best schools, till he was able to take a place in his uncle's store. Mr. Richardson was advancing in years, she wrote, he would soon need some one with him who would interest himself in his affairs; and if Willie grew up with a fancy for trade, and showed himself active and efficient, he should, in all respects, take the place of the only son, whom they had, not long since, buried. 
               It did not take Alice a moment to decide how she would reply to her aunt's letter, for herself; but she requested Willie, who was a very serious, thoughtful boy for his age, to think the matter over well, and determine, in his own mind, what he would like to do, before he talked at all with her on the subject, and then she would give him the advice he asked for. 
               His thirteenth year was just completed, when, to the unspeakable joy of his sister, who felt that he had been, by Divine grace, prepared for the holy rite, Willie offered himself for confirmation. 
               The class of which he was a member was the first which had been presented to the Bishop, in the new church, and Alice, when she saw who were there, thought that her cup was, indeed, running over with blessings; for with several, whose acquaintance she had more recently formed, and whom she had learned to love, were those between whom and herself an unbroken friendship had long existed. 
               Ludwig and Katrine Dunz were among the number, as were Margaret Uhlmann, and her brothers, and the young man who was soon to be her husband, two of the Nabors, and others almost as dear to her as those whose names are given;-all members of the Sabbath-school. 
               In his address, the Bishop made some remarks on the subject of Christian duties, speaking of the blessings which are almost sure to follow patient and earnest endeavor, and Alice, while a great gush of joy went through her heart, bowed her head upon her hands, and murmured- 
               "Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto Thy Name, be all the glory!" 
               After the service was over, and the congregation had retired from the church, Alice, still kneeling, felt an arm placed gently around her neck, and a voice, never so sweet to her ear before, softly whispered,- 
               "Side by side, now, Allie, are we not? ready to stand among the blest of God." 
               "Yes, dear, I trust so! and, until He calls us to Himself, side by side, laboring in His vineyard!" 
               "Truly so, Allie;-I have decided not to go to Uncle Richardson. I know you will never go; you will never leave our best friend, dear Mr. Kuhn, nor the others here, who have been so kind to us; and you could not go away from your Sabbath-school. And-I must tell you now-ever since that Sabbath when we first went to St. Mark's Church, and I thought we were in the rector's house, and that it was the place next to heaven, I have prayed, every night, that the church might, some time, be my home. Are you willing to give me up entirely to the service of God, Allie?" 
               "Yes, darling! I have long prayed that you might be fitted to minister in His earthly temple." 
               A pleasant, cheerful voice came up from the doorway. 
               "Ilse, my child, are you coming?" 
               And Alice answered, lovingly, as she hastened down the steps-"Yes, dear father, here I am!" 
               And resting her hand on Uncle Fritz's arm, while Willie walked on the other side of the old gentleman, they went away to their pleasant home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               THE Bishop was Uncle Fritz's guest; and a few moments after Mr. Kuhn and Alice had reached home, the gentleman came up to the door, with an individual who had accompanied him to West Grove the previous evening. 
               The individual was an entire stranger to Uncle Fritz, and the Bishop was on the point of introducing him when Alice, quite forgetting her quiet dignity and self-possession, ran towards him with the unchecked gladness of a young child, smiles and tears seemingly striving which could best express her great joy, while she clasped the stranger's hand in both her own, and looked up in his face, exclaiming- 
               "O Dr. Vinton! I am so glad to see you,-so very-very glad to see you!" 
               And then she felt the blood flashing over her face and neck, and she remembered that she was no longer a child scarcely sixteen, but all of twentytwo years, and let go her hold. 
                
               But the deeper rosetint very quickly faded, and her fingers fastened again on the hand, to place it in that of Uncle Fritz. 
               "This is the doctor, father," she said, "the dear friend I have told you so much about, and whom I have so desired you should meet with; though I never expected the very great joy of seeing you two together in this world." 
               When Alice turned, to explain to the Bishop, that gentleman was very quietly smiling. He knew all that the young lady could tell him about his friend, and some things which she did not learn till two hours later, when she and the doctor were walking in the moonlight, up and down the rose-bordered gravel walks of the garden, talking of the days when he used to ride down the bridle-path through the Oak Openings. 
               "Did you know why I went away so suddenly, Miss Tracy?" he asked. 
               "No, sir! but I thought"-she hesitated. 
               "That I had injured some one," he said, "and was going to repair the mischief?" 
               Alice had always believed that it must have been a fancied wrong for which the doctor appeared to be so condemning himself at her one interview with him; she could not think that he had ever wilfully injured any one in his life; and her reply was only an earnest, upward glance to his face. 
                
               "Yes, that was the reason of my going," he said; "I thought I had done wrong, and for five years I had been trying to hide from my sin. Do you know what influenced me at length, to try to make reparation?" 
               "I think it was God's truth," Alice said softly. 
               "But it was you who uttered it," he replied; "it was your words and your example which sent me away. And they gave me strength to bear the cross, and to find the nails to fasten myself to it." 
               There was a long pause. 
               Alice was striving to check the tears which would flow in spite of her best endeavor to restrain them, though she did not know why they came; and he was thinking of that journey to New York, of the voyage over the ocean, of the weeks of travel in France, before he found the object of his search, and the fierce conflicts he had had with himself, at wellnigh every stage of his journey; almost shuddering as he remembered those many hours of triumphant defeat. 
               "I could not have gone successfully through the struggle," he said, at length, "but for the remembrance of your words-that Heaven would accept the intention, or mitigate the pain." 
               Alice looked up again in his face, and he answered her unspoken question in a more cheerful tone. 
                
               "No wrong had been done! The woman to whom I had promised marriage while I was still a boy, and who was, by some years, my senior, had held my promise lightly. She had been, for some time, a happy wife, when I found her." 
               "I am so glad!" she said, simply, but with a great sigh of relief, "I have been so much afraid, all through these years which have been so pleasant to me, that you were suffering." 
               The doctor looked down, earnestly, in her face. 
               It was a child's glance that met his own; a child's bright, tearful smile. 
               She had quite forgotten, now, her twenty-two years. He was ten years her senior, and so far removed from herself, Alice thought, in knowledge and in intellectual capacity, that to him, as to Uncle Fritz, she must always seem a child. 
               "I have been so much afraid you were suffering," she repeated softly, and then her eyes dropped, and she walked along silently, close by her companion's side, thinking how good and kind Heaven had been to her. 
               The prayer which was uttered so often, and with such earnestness, had not only been answered in mercy, but she was allowed to know it. 
               He was thinking, too, but after another pause he said-"I have told you what sent me away, Miss Tracy; shall I tell you what brought me back, Alice?" 
                
               The young lady had noticed, at the first moment she saw him, that the old dash of recklessness was gone from the doctor's manner; but this question ended in the former cheery tone, and he placed in her hand a letter which he had taken from his vest pocket. Alice looked at it in the bright moonlight. 
               "Winnie McBride!" in Miss Tracy's own handwriting. 
               The doctor took it from her, and restored it to its former place. 
               "That letter has travelled with me all over Europe," he said, "and many parts of Asia; and every wind which has come over the seas, these four years past, has wafted my blessing on Mrs. McBride. During my absence, I kept up a correspondence with my former partner, Dr. Smithson, and a year and a half after I went away, a letter reached me from him, inclosing this. Mrs. McBride had shown him a letter which her little girl had received from you, telling him she believed I should like to hear from you; and he had dropped it into his pocket, to be forwarded to me, as the easiest way of transmitting intelligence of you, little dreaming what a blessed talisman he was sending me. 
               "You are thinking our meeting to-day was quite accidental. I have been looking forward to this hour for long years past. I have wanted to see you very much, but I thought it best not to come here sooner; and though I have been many times on the point of writing to you, I always checked myself, and tried to put as much trust in Heaven, as I knew you could repose there. Heaven has blessed me very greatly through you, and I have been hoping and praying-may I tell you what I have hoped and prayed for, dear Alice?" he asked in a low whisper. 
               "O, no, sir!-not now!" Alice said, trembling, but she put her arm through his, as they walked back to the house. 
               The doctor did not leave the village, the next morning, with the Bishop. Uncle Fritz, who had had a long conversation with the former gentleman the previous evening, told him that if he was in search of a situation for the practice of his profession, he could not easily find a better one than West Grove and its vicinity afforded; and before a year had passed, Dr. Vinton had all the business his eminent skill entitled him to expect. 
               During that time, Alice had listened to the words he wished to say on that pleasant moonlight evening; and on one sweet July morning, just eight years from the day on which she had opened her school in the little log school-house, she was kneeling in the same spot she knelt in then; but now it was by the chancel of St. Luke's, and her dress, then of scanty mourning, was now of snowy satin, rich lace, and costly gems,-and the better adornment of "a meek and quiet spirit," and the wisdom which "cometh from above," and which is "better than rubies," were the fair young bride's too,-and the wedding ring had just been placed upon her finger, and her husband was kneeling by her side; and Alice, thinking of the Amen which Uncle Fritz had, so long ago, added to her prayer, and which he had, just now, even more fervently uttered, repeated, silently, the Collect she then repeated,- 
               "Grant to us, Lord, we beseech Thee, the spirit to think and do always such things as are right; that we who cannot do anything that is good without Thee, may by Thee be enabled to live according to Thy will through Jesus Christ, our Lord." 
               And Willie was singing, to Katrine's sweet music on the organ,- 
                      
                        "Still be it our supreme delight 
                        To walk as in Thy glorious sight; 
                        Still in Thy precepts and Thy fear, 
                        Till life's last hour, to persevere." 
                     
                  
                
             
         
       
   
