
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Mohun, or, The Last Days of Lee and his Paladins .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6152 wright2-0622
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
                  I am very truly yours, R. E. Lee.
               
            
         
         
            
               MOHUN OR, THE LAST DAYS OF LEE AND HIS PALADINS.
               FINAL MEMOIRS OF A STAFF OFFICER SERVING IN
                  VIRGINIA.
               FROM THE MSS. OF COLONEL SURRY, OF EAGLE'S NEST.
            
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE AUTHOR OF "SURRY OF EAGLE'S
               NEST."
            
               
                  Nec aspera terrent.
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               F. J. HUNTINGTON AND CO.,
                  
                     459 BROOME STREET.
                  
               
            
            1869.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by F. J. HUNTINGTON
                  & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for
                  the Southern District of New York.
               McCREA & MILLER, Stereotypers.
            
         
         
            PROLOGUE.
            ON the wall over the mantel-piece, here in my quiet study at Eagle's-Nest, are two
               crossed swords. One is a battered old sabre worn at Gettysburg, and Appomattox; the
               other, a Federal officer's dress sword captured in 1863.
            It was a mere fancy to place them there, as it was a whim to hang upon that nail
               yonder, the uniform coat with its stars and braid, which Stuart wore on his famous
               ride around McClellan in 1862. Under the swords hang portraits of Lee, Jackson, and
               Stuart. Jackson wears his old coat, and his brow is raised as though he were looking
               out from beneath his yellow old cadet cap. Stuart is seated, grasping his sabre, with
               his plumed hat resting on his knee. His huge beard flows on his breast, his eyes are
               clear and penetrating, and beneath the picture I have placed a slip cut from one of
               his letters to me, and containing the words, "Yours to count on, J. E. B. Stuart."
               Lastly, the gray commander-in-chief looks with a grave smile over his shoulder, the
               eyes fixed upon that excellent engraving of the "Good Old Rebel," a private of the
               Army of Northern Virginia, seated on a log, after the war, and reflecting with knit
               brows on the past and the present.
            From this sketch of my surroundings, worthy reader, you will perceive, that I amuse
               myself by recalling the old times when the Grays and Blues were opposed to each
               other. Those two swords crossed—those pictures of Lee, Jackson, Stuart, and the "Old
               Rebel"—you are certain to think that the possessor of them is unreconstructed
               (terrible word!) and still a rebel!
            But is it wrong to remember the past? I think of it without bitterness. God decreed
               it—God the all-wise, the all-merciful—for his own purpose. I do not indulge any
               repinings, or reflect with rancor upon the
               issue of the struggle. I prefer recalling the stirring adventure, the brave voices,
               the gallant faces: even in that tremendous drama of 1864-5, I can find something
               besides blood and tears: even here and there some sunshine!
            In this last series of my memoirs I shall deal chiefly with that immense campaign. In
               the first series which, I trust the reader of these pages will have perused, I
               followed Jackson through his hard battles to the fatal field of Chancellorsville. In
               this volume I shall beg the reader first to go with Stuart from the great review of
               his cavalry, in June, 1863, to the dark morning of May 11, 1864, at Yellow Tavern.
               Then the last days will follow.
            I open the drama with that fine cavalry review in June, 1863, on the plains of
               Culpeper.
            It is a pleasure to return to it—for Gettysburg blackened the sunshine soon. The
               column thundered by; the gay bugles rang; the great banner floated. Where is that
               pageant to-day? Where the old moons of Villon? Alas! the strong hours work their
               will. June, 1863, is long dead. The cavalry horses, if they came back from the wars,
               are ploughing. The rusty sabres stick fast in the battered old scabbards. The old
               saddles are shabby—and our friends take them away from us. The old buttons are
               tarnished, and an order forbids our wearing them. The brass bands clash no more; and
               the bugles are silent. Where are the drums and the bugles? Do they beat the long roll
               at the approach of phantom foes, or sound the cavalry charge in another world? They
               are silent to-day, and have long disappeared; but I think I hear them still in my
               dreams!
            It is in June, 1863, therefore, worthy reader, that I open my volume. Up to that time
               I had gone with Jackson's "foot cavalry," marching slowly and steadily to battle.
               Now, I was to follow the gay and adventurous career of the Virginia Rupert—Stuart,
               the Knight of the Black Plume! If you are willing to accompany me, I promise to show
               you some animated scenes. You will hear Stuart laugh as he leads the charge, or jest
               with his staff, or sing his gay cavalry songs. But, alas! we shall not go far with
               him; and when he leaves us a sort of shadow will fall upon the landscape. From that
               May, 1864, laughter will seldom be heard. The light which shines on the great picture
               will be red and baleful. Blood will gush on desperate fields—men will fall like dry
               leaves in the winds of autumn.
            The crimson torrent will sweep away a whole generation almost—and the Red Cross flag
               will go down in blood.
            The current of events will drag us to Petersburg, and those last months which
               witnessed the final wrestle in this war of the giants.
            Let us bask in the sunshine, before breasting the storm. The pages of blood and
               mourning will soon be opened—meanwhile we will laugh.
            In this June, 1863, faces smile still, and cheers resound. Bugles are ringing, swords
               clashing, cannon thundering.
            Lee's old army is full of ardor, and seventy thousand men shout! "Pennsylvania!
               Pennsylvania!"
         
      
      
         
            Mohun, or, The last days of Lee and his paladins
            
            MOHUN;
            OR, THE LAST DAYS OF LEE AND HIS PALADINS.
            
               BOOK I.
               GETTYSBURG.
               
                  I. THE CAVALRY REVIEW.
                  ON a beautiful day of June, 1863, the plains of Culpeper, in Virginia, were the
                     scene of an imposing pageant.
                  Stuart's cavalry was passing in review before Lee, who was about to commence
                     his march toward Gettysburg.
                  Those of my readers who were fortunate enough to be present, will not forget
                     that scene. They will remember the martial form of Stuart at the head of his
                        sabreurs; how the columns of horsemen
                     thundered by the great flag; how the multitude cheered, brightest eyes shone,
                     the merry bands clashed, the gay bugles rang; how the horse artillery roared as
                     it was charged in mimic battle—while Lee, the gray old soldier, with serene
                     carriage, sat his horse and looked on.
                  Never had the fields of Culpeper witnessed a spectacle more magnificent. The
                     sunshine darted in lightnings from the long line of sabres, lit up beautiful
                     faces, and flashed from scarfs, and
                     waving handkerchiefs, rosy cheeks, and glossy ringlets. All was life, and joy,
                     and splendor. For once war seemed turned to carnival; and flowers wreathed the
                     keen edge of the sword.
                  Among the illustrious figures gazed at by the crowd, two were the observed of
                     all observers—those of Lee and Stuart.
                  Lee sat his powerful horse, with its plain soldierly equipments, beneath the
                     large flag. He was clad in a gray uniform, almost without mark of rank. Cavalry
                     boots reached nearly to his knees; as usual he wore no sword; over his broad
                     brow drooped a plain brown felt hat, without tassel or decoration. Beneath, you
                     saw a pair of frank and benignant, but penetrating eyes, ruddy cheeks, and an
                     iron gray mustache and beard, both cut close. In the poise of the stately head,
                     as in the whole carriage of his person, there was something calm, august and
                     imposing. This man, it was plain, was not only great, but good;—the true type
                     of the race of gentlemen of other times.
                  Stuart, the chief of cavalry of the army, was altogether different in
                     appearance. Young, ardent, full of life and abandon, he was the true
                     reproduction of Rupert, said to be his ancestor. The dark cavalry feather; the
                     lofty forehead, and dazzling blue eyes; his little "fighting jacket," as he
                     called it, bright with braid and buttons, made a picture. His boots reached to
                     the knee; a yellow silk sash was about his waist; his spurs, of solid gold,
                     were the present of some ladies of Maryland; and with saber at tierce point,
                     extended over his horse's head, he led the charge with his staff, in front of
                     the column, and laughing, as though the notes of the bugle drove him
                     forward.
                  In every movement of that stalwart figure, as in the glance of the blue eyes,
                     and the laughter curling the huge mustache, could be read youth and joy, and a
                     courage which nothing could bend. He was called a "boy" by some, as Coriolanus
                     was before him. But his Federal adversaries did not laugh at him; they had felt
                     his blows too often. Nor did the soldiers of the army. He had breasted bullets
                     in front of infantry, as well as the sabre in front of cavalry. The civilians
                     might laugh at him—the old soldiers found no fault in him for humming his songs
                     in battle. They knew the man, and felt that he was a good soldier, as well as a
                     great general. He would have made an excellent private, and did not feel
                     "above" being one. Never was human being braver, if he did laugh and sing. Was
                     he not brave? Answer, old sabreurs, whom he led in a hundred charges! old
                     followers of Jackson, with whom he went over the breastworks at
                     Chancellorsville!
                  Some readers may regard this picture of Stuart as overdrawn, but it is the
                     simple truth of that brave soul. He had his faults; he loved praise, even
                     flattery, and was sometimes irascible—but I have never known a human being more
                     pure, generous and brave.
                  At sunset the review was over. The long columns of cavalry moved slowly back to
                     their camps. The horse artillery followed; the infantry who had witnessed the
                     ceremony sought their bivouacs in the woods; and the crowd, on foot, on
                     horseback, or in carriages, returned toward the Court-House, whose spires were
                     visible across the fields.
                  Stuart had approached the flag-staff and, doffing his plumed hat, had saluted
                     Lee, who saluted in return, and complimented the review. After a few moments'
                     conversation, they had then saluted a second time. Lee, followed by his staff,
                     rode toward his quarters; and Stuart set out to return to his own.
                  We had ridden about half a mile, when Stuart turned his head and called me. I
                     rode to his side.
                  "I wish you would ride down toward Beverly's Ford, Surry," he said, "and tell
                     Mordaunt to keep a bright lookout to-night. They must have heard our artillery
                     on the other side of the river, and may want to find out what it means."
                  I saluted, and turned my horse. Stuart cantered on singing.
                  In a few minutes he was out of sight, and I was riding toward the
                     Rappahannock.
               
               
                  
                  II. HOW I BECAME A MEMBER OF GENERAL STUART'S STAFF.
                  IF the reader has done me the honor to peruse the first volume of my memoirs, I
                     indulge the vanity of supposing that he will like to be informed how I became a
                     member of General Stuart's staff.
                  When oaks crash down they are apt to prostrate the saplings growing around
                     them. Jackson was a very tall oak, and I a very humble sapling. When the great
                     trunk fell, the mere twig disappeared. I had served with Jackson from the
                     beginning of the war; that king of battle dead at Chancellorsville, I had found
                     myself without a commander, and without a home. I was not only called upon in
                     that May of 1863, to mourn the illustrious soldier, who had done me the honor
                     to call me his friend; I had also to look around me for some other general;
                     some other position in the army.
                  I was revolving this important subject in my mind, when I received a note from
                     General J. E. B. Stuart, Jackson's friend and brother in arms. "Come and see
                     me," said this note. Forty-eight hours afterward I was at Stuart's
                     head-quarters, near Culpeper Court-House.
                  When I entered his tent, or rather breadth of canvas, stretched beneath a great
                     oak, Stuart rose from the red blanket upon which he was lying, and held out his
                     hand. As he gazed at me in silence I could see his face flush.
                  "You remind me of Jackson," he said, retaining my hand and gazing fixedly at
                     me.
                  I bowed my head, making no other reply; for the sight of Stuart brought back to
                     me also many memories; the scouting of the Valley, the hard combats of the
                     Lowland, Cold Harbor, Manassas, Sharpsburg, Fredericksburg, and that last
                     greeting between Jackson and the great commander of the cavalry, on the weird
                     moonlight night at Chancellorsville.
                  Stuart continued to gaze at me, and I could see his eyes slowly fill with
                     tears.
                  "It is a national calamity!" he murmured. "Jackson's loss is irreparable!"*
                  
                  
                     *His words.
                  
                  He remained for a moment gazing into my face, then passing his hand over his
                     forehead, he banished by a great effort these depressing memories. His bold
                     features resumed their habitual cheerfulness.
                  Our dialogue was brief, and came rapidly to the point.
                  "Have you been assigned to duty yet, my dear Surry?"
                  "I have not, general."
                  "Would you like to come with me?"
                  "More than with any general in the army, since Jackson's death. You know I am
                     sincere in saying that."
                  "Thanks—then the matter can be very soon arranged, I think. I want another
                     inspector-general, and want you."
                  With these words Stuart seated himself at his desk, wrote a note, which he
                     dispatched by a courier to army head-quarters; and then throwing aside
                     business, he began laughing and talking.
                  For once the supply of red tape in Richmond seemed temporarily exhausted.
                     Stuart was Lee's right hand, and when he made a request, the War Office deigned
                     to listen. Four days afterward, I was seated under the canvas of a staff tent,
                     when Stuart hastened up with boyish ardor, holding a paper.
                  "Here you are, old Surry,"—when he used the prefix "old" to any one's name, he
                     was always excellently well disposed toward them,—"the Richmond people are
                     prompt this time. Here is your assignment—send for Sweeney and his banjo! He
                     shall play 'Jine the Cavalry!' in honor of the occasion, Surry!"
                  You see now, my dear reader, how, it happened that in June, 1863, Stuart
                     beckoned to me, and gave me an order to transmit to General Mordaunt.
               
               
                  
                  III. BLUE AND GRAY PHANTOMS.
                  AS I rode toward the Rappahannock to deliver Stuart's order to General
                     Mordaunt, the wide landscape was suddenly lit up by a crimson glare. I looked
                     over my shoulder. The sun was poised upon the western woods, and resembled a
                     huge bloodshot eye. Above it extended a long black cloud, like an eyebrow—and
                     from the cloud issued low thunder.
                  When a storm is coming, the civilian seeks shelter; but the soldier carrying an
                     order, wraps his cape around him, and rides on. I went on past Brandy and
                     Fleetwood Hill, descended toward the river, entered a great belt of woods—then
                     night and storm descended simultaneously. An artillery duel seemed going on in
                     the clouds; the flickering lightnings amid the branches resembled serpents of
                     fire: the wind rolled through the black wood, tearing off boughs in its
                     passage.
                  I pushed my horse to full speed to emerge from this scene of crashing limbs and
                     tottering trunks. I had just passed a little stream, when from a by-road on my
                     left came the trample of hoofs. It is good to be on the watch in the cavalry,
                     and I wheeled to the right, listening—when all at once a brilliant flash of
                     lightning showed me, within fifty paces, a column of blue
                     cavalry.
                  "Halt!" rang out from the column, and a pistol-shot followed.
                  I did not halt. Capture was becoming a hideous affair in June, 1863. I passed
                     across the head of the column at full speed, followed by bullets; struck into a
                     bridle-path on the right, and pushed ahead, hotly pursued.
                  They had followed me nearly half a mile, firing on me, and ordering me to halt,
                     when suddenly a sonorous "Halt!" resounded fifty yards in front of me; and a
                     moment afterward, a carbine ball passed through my riding cape.
                  I drove on at full speed, convinced that these in front were friends; and the
                     chest of my horse struck violently against that of another in the darkness.
                  "Halt, or you are dead!" came in the same commanding voice.
                  Another flash of lightning showed me a squadron of gray cavalry:
                     at their head rode a cavalier, well mounted; it was his horse against which I
                     had struck, and he held a cocked pistol to my breast.
                  The lightning left nothing in doubt. Gray and blue quickly recognized each
                     other. The blue cavalry had drawn rein, and, at that moment, the leader of the
                     grays shouted—"Charge!" A rush of hoofs, and then a quick clash of sabres
                     followed. The adversaries had hurled together. The wood suddenly became the
                     scene of a violent combat.
                  It was a rough affair. For ten minutes the result was doubtful. The Federal
                     cavalry were apparently commanded by an officer of excellent nerve, and he
                     fought his men obstinately. For nearly a quarter of an hour the wood was full
                     of sabre-strokes, carbine-shots, and yells, which mingled with the roll of the
                     storm. Then the fight ended.
                  My friend of the cocked pistol threw himself, sabre in hand, upon the Federal
                     front, and it shook, and gave back, and retreated. The weight of the onset
                     seemed to sweep it, inch by inch, away. The blue squadron finally broke, and
                     scattered in every direction. The grays pressed on with loud cheers, firing as
                     they did so:—five minutes afterward, the storm-lashed wood had swallowed
                     pursuers and pursued.
                  The whole had disappeared like phantom horsemen in the direction of the
                     Rappahannock.
               
               
                  IV. MOHUN AND HIS PRISONER.
                  HALF an hour afterward, the storm had spent its fury, and I was standing by a
                     bivouac fire on the banks of the Rappahannock, conversing with the officer
                     against whom I had driven my horse in the darkness.
                  
                  Mounted upon a powerful gray, he had led the attack with a sort of fury, and I
                     now looked at him with some curiosity.
                  He was a man of about thirty, of gaunt face and figure, wearing a hat with a
                     black feather, and the uniform of a colonel of cavalry. The features were
                     regular and might have been called handsome; the eyes, hair, mustache, and
                     imperial—he wore no beard—coal black; the complexion so pale that the effect
                     was startling. More curious than all else, however, was the officer's
                     expression. In the lips and eyes could be read something bitterly cynical,
                     mingled with a profound and apparently ineradicable melancholy. After looking
                     at my new acquaintance for an instant, I said to myself: "This man has either
                     suffered some great grief, or committed some great crime."
                  His bearing was cold, but courteous.
                  "I recognized you as soon as I saw you, colonel," he said, in response to my
                     salute. "You probably do not know me, however, as I have just been transferred
                     from the Army of the West. Colonel Mohun, at your service."
                  I exchanged a pressure of the hand with Colonel Mohun, or, speaking more
                     correctly, I grasped his. It did not return the pressure. I then thanked him
                     for his timely appearance, and he bowed coldly.
                  "It was lucky that my scout led me in this direction," he said, "that party is
                     whipped back over the river, and will give us no more trouble to-night—the
                     woods are full of their dead and wounded."
                  As he spoke he took a cigar case from his pocket, and presented it.
                  "Will you smoke, sir?" he said.
                  I bowed and selected a cigar. Colonel Mohun imitated me, and was about to
                     commence smoking, when two or three cavalry men were seen approaching through
                     the gloom, apparently escorting some one.
                  As they drew nearer the figures became plainer in the firelight. The cavalry
                     men had in charge a female prisoner.
                  She was a woman of petite figure, clad in a handsome gray riding-habit, and
                     mounted upon a superb horse, with rich equipments, apparently belonging to a
                     Federal officer of high rank. From the horse, I glanced at the prisoner's face.
                     It was a strange countenance. She was about twenty-five—her complexion was dead
                     white, except the lips which were as red as carnations; her eyes were large and
                     brilliant, her hair dark and worn plain under a small riding-hat. In one
                     delicately gauntleted hand she held the rein of her horse—with the other, which
                     was ungloved, she raised a lace handkerchief to her lips. On the finger
                     sparkled a diamond.
                  There was something strange in the expression of this woman. She looked
                     "dangerous" in spite of her calmness.
                  She sat gazing at some one behind me, with the handkerchief still raised to her
                     lips. Then she took it away, and I could see a smile upon them.
                  What was the origin of that smile, and at whom was she looking? I turned, and
                     found myself face to face with Colonel Mohun. His appearance almost frightened
                     me. His countenance wore the hue of a corpse, his whole frame shook with quick
                     shudders, and his eyes were distended until the black pupils shone in the
                     centres of two white circles.
                  Suddenly his teeth clinched audibly; he passed his hand over his forehead
                     streaming with cold sweat; and said in a low voice:
                  "Then you are not dead, madam?"
                  "No, sir," the prisoner replied tranquilly.
                  Mohun gazed at her with a long, fixed look. As he did so his features gradually
                     resumed the cold and cynical expression which I had first observed in them.
                  "This meeting is singular," he said.
                  A satirical smile passed over the lips of the prisoner.
                  "Our last interview was very different, was it not, sir?" she said. "The
                     Nottoway was higher than the Rappahannock is to-night, and you did not expect
                     to meet me again—so soon!"
                  Mohun continued to gaze at her with the same fixed look.
                  "No, madam," he said.
                  "You recall that agreeable evening, do you not, sir?"
                  Mohun coolly inclined his head.
                  "And you have not seen me since?"
                  "Never, madam."
                  "You are mistaken!"
                  
                  "Is it possible that I could have forgotten so pleasing a circumstance,
                     madam?"
                  "Yes!"
                  "Where and when have I seen you since that time?"
                  "Everywhere, and at all times!—awake and asleep, day and night!"
                  Mohun shuddered.
                  "True," he said, with a bitter smile.
                  "You remember, then! I am not wrong!" exclaimed the prisoner, gazing intently
                     at him.
                  Mohun raised his head, and I could see the old cynical expression upon his
                     lips.
                  "Certainly I remember, madam," he said. "Do you think it possible for any one
                     to forget your charming ladyship? And could any thing be more delightful than
                     this interview between two old friends? But let us reserve these sweet
                     confidences, these gushing emotions! One thing only is wanting, to perfect the
                     happiness of this moment; the presence this evening of your dear
                        brother!—but he is doubtless detained elswhere!"
                  Mohun's expression was singular as he uttered these words. The prisoner looked
                     at him as he was speaking with an indescribable smile. I can only compare it to
                     that of the swordsman about to deliver a mortal lunge.
                  "My brother," she said, in accents as soft as a flute; "detained elsewhere, do
                     you say, sir? You are mistaken in supposing so. He commanded the cavalry with
                     which you were fighting to-night!"
                  At these words, uttered in a strange, mocking voice, I saw Mohun start as if a
                     rattlesnake had bitten his heel. With all his self-possession he could not
                     restrain this exhibition of emotion.
                  "Impossible! You are deceiving me—"
                  The prisoner interrupted him with a gay laugh.
                  "So you do not believe me," she said; "you think, my dear sir, that everybody
                     is dead but yourself! Dismiss that idea from your mind! I am not
                     dead, since we have the pleasure of again meeting in the flesh. He
                     is not dead! No! it was Colonel Mortimer Darke whom you fought to-night. This
                     is his horse which I borrowed to take a short ride. I have been captured, but
                        he is neither dead nor captured, and you will doubtless receive
                     some friendly message from him soon."
                  Under the mocking accents and the satirical glance, it was easy to read
                     profound hatred. The speaker could not hide that. At that moment she resembled
                     a tigress about to spring.
                  Mohun had listened with absorbing attention as his companion spoke; but, as on
                     the first occasion, he speedily suppressed his agitation. His face was now as
                     cold and unmoved as though moulded of bronze.
                  "So be it, madam," he said; "I will respond as I best can to such message as he
                     may send me. For yourself, you know me well, and, I am glad to see, indulge no
                     apprehensions. The past is dead; let it sleep. You think this interview is
                     painful to me. You deceive yourself, madam; I would not exchange it for all the
                     wealth of two hemispheres."
                  And calling an officer, he said:—
                  "You will conduct this lady to General Stuart, reporting the circumstances
                     attending her capture."
                  Mohun made a ceremonious bow to the prisoner as he spoke, saluted me in the
                     same manner, and mounting his horse, rode back at the head of his column.
                  The prisoner, escorted by the young officer, and still riding her fine horse,
                     had already disappeared in the darkness.
               
               
                  V. STUART.
                  AN hour afterward, I had delivered my message to Mordaunt, and was returning by
                     the road over Fleetwood Hill, thinking of the singular dialogue between Mohun
                     and the gray woman.
                  What had these worthies meant by their mysterious allusions? How had Mohun
                     found himself face to face on this stormy night, with two human beings whom he
                     thought dead?
                  These questions puzzled me for half an hour; then I gave up the mystery, laughing. An hour afterward I had
                     passed through Culpeper Court-House, crossed the fields, and had reached
                     General Stuart's head-quarters.
                  Stuart's tent, or rather the strip of canvas which he called one, was pitched
                     beneath a great oak on a wooded knoll about a mile south of the little village.
                     Above it drooped the masses of fresh June foliage; around, were grouped the
                     white canvas "flies" of the staff; in a glade close by gleamed the tents d'abri
                     of the couriers. Horses, tethered to the trees, champed their corn in the
                     shadow; in the calm, summer night, the battle-flag drooped and clung to its
                     staff. Before the tent of Stuart, a man on guard, with drawn sabre, paced to
                     and fro with measured steps.
                  A glance told me that Mohun's singular prisoner had arrived. A courier was
                     holding her fine animal near the general's tent, and as I dismounted, three
                     figures appeared in the illuminated doorway. These were the figures of Stuart,
                     the "gray woman," and a young aid-de-camp.
                  "Farewell, madam," said Stuart, bowing and laughing; "I am sorry to have made
                     your acquaintance under circumstances so disagreeable to you; but I trust you
                     will appreciate the situation, and not blame me."
                  "Blame you? Not in the least, general. You are a very gallant man."
                  And the gay words were accompanied by a musical laugh.
                  "You will have an opportunity of seeing the Confederate capital," said Stuart,
                     smiling.
                  The lady made a humorous grimace.
                  "And of abusing me upon the way thither; and afterward on the route to Fort
                     Monroe and Washington, as you will not be detained, I am sure."
                  "I shall not abuse you, sir. You are the noblest gentleman I have ever
                        known."*
                  
                  
                     *The real words of Stuart's prisoner.
                  
                  And with mutual salutes they parted—the young aid-de-camp accompanying the lady
                     to her horse, and aiding her to mount. They then set forward toward the
                     Court-House. Stuart had ordered the prisoner to be conducted thither, and
                     detained at the village tavern, under guard, until morning, when she would be
                     sent to Richmond.
                  As they disappeared, I entered the general's tent, and found him laughing.
                     Leaning one hand upon his desk, covered with papers, upon which rested his
                     feather-decorated hat, he carelessly played with the tassel of his yellow sash
                     with the other hand. His blue eyes sparkled, and his mustache curled with
                     humor.
                  "That is really a beauty, Surry?" he said, "and I have laughed heartily."
                  He threw himself on his red blanket as he spoke, and began playing with his two
                     setter pups, whose names were "Nip" and "Tuck." He had brought them out of the
                     lines on his saddle.
                  "Well, you are really a magician," I said. "You charm the evil spirit, and make
                     prisoners laugh."
                  Stuart laughed in reply.
                  "That is a curious person that Mohun sent me," he said; "at first she was
                     disdainful enough; but I paid her a few compliments, and now she is in an
                     excellent humor, as you saw."
                  "Yes."
                  "But what about the fight?"
                  I made my report of the events of the evening.
                  "Well, Mohun is a trump," said Stuart. "A new man, but seems made of the right
                     stuff—real steel. What does Mordaunt say of the attack?"
                  "Only a scout."
                  "Right, and this lady is our spoil! She is handsome, is she not? But a more
                     curious face I have never seen. White cheeks and red lips—a sort of devil and
                     angel mixed! Who is she, I wonder, and what was her errand. Something is under
                     it. She gave her name as 'Mrs. Darke,'—and her horse made me break the tenth
                     commandment, Surry! Lady and courser are splendid."
                  "She is certainly a beauty."
                  "And what eyes!"
                  "Dangerous."
                  Stuart remained silent for some moments, and then I heard him sigh.
                  
                  "Do you know, my dear Surry," he said, "that if people heard us talk in this
                     way, they would call us libertines—immoral—any thing? There are two things that
                     people will not disbelieve about me—that I am impure, and a drunkard! Do you
                     know what a good man was heard to say of me the other day? 'Stuart would be one
                     of the greatest soldiers in the army, if he did not drink so hard!'* And others add:
                     'if he were not a libertine.' Well, need I defend myself to you,
                     from these charges? I promised my mother in my childhood, never to touch ardent
                     spirits, and a drop has never passed my lips, except the wine of the
                        communion.† I
                     know I need not tell you that I am equally guiltless of the other
                     imputation. That person does not live who can say that I ever did any thing
                     improper of that description.† And yet I am a drunkard—a libertine—I, who never
                     touched drink, and love but one person in this world!"
                  
                     *This was actually said of Stuart.
                  
                  
                     †His words.
                  
                  
                     †His words.
                  
                  Stuart's head sank, and he uttered a weary sigh.
                  "They will not let me alone," he muttered, "and yet I am here fighting for my
                     country. But I defy them to take my good name away from me, Surry!"
                  And he rose to his feet.
                  "General Lee knows me! Jackson knew me! I have the regard of the one, and I had
                     the love of the other. What do I care? If my children only will not hear these
                     ignoble charges! One can never hear them, Surry—my beloved little
                     Flora! She died while I was fighting near Middleburg in the fall of '62—that
                     nearly broke me down—"
                  And Stuart paused and covered his eyes with his hand. Between the fingers I saw
                     a tear.
                  For a moment his breast heaved—something like a sob issued from the brave lip,
                     whereon the heavy mustache trembled.
                  "I think of her often—I shall never get over her death, Surry!"† he murmured.
                     "They think me hard and cold, and bad perhaps—it is nothing. Since she died I
                     care less for men's opinion, and only try to do my duty, till the ball comes
                     that will end me."
                  
                     †His words.
                  
                  And dashing a tear from his eyes, Stuart walked to the door of his tent, from
                     which he gazed forth upon the stars.
                  Five minutes passed thus, and I did not speak. Then all at once I heard Stuart
                     call out: "Orderly!"
                  "Yes, sir," came from the man on post near the tent.
                  "Tell Sweeney to come and bring his banjo!"
                  And walking fifty steps, Stuart caressed the glossy neck of his mare "Lady
                     Margaret," who was tethered to a bough, and looked around affectionately at her
                     master.
                  When he returned he was humming "The dew lay on the blossom," and following him
                     was Sweeney—the same old Sweeney!—ever mild, courteous, almost sad, doffing his
                     cap, saluting with simple grace, and tuning his banjo.
                  In a moment the tent, the wooded knoll, the whole vicinity was ringing with the
                     uproarious notes of the mirth-inspiring banjo; and Sweeney was chanting, as
                     only that great master could chant, the mighty epic of the
                     sabreurs of Stuart:— 
                        
                           "If you want to have a good time
                           Jine the cavalry,
                           Bully Boys, hey!'
                        
                     
                  
                  The staff and couriers quickly assembled, the servants were grouped in the
                     starlight, the horses beneath the boughs turned their intelligent heads—and
                     leading in the uproarious chorus might have been heard the sonorous and
                     laughing voice of Stuart.
               
               
                  VI. STUART'S INSTINCT.
                  THE festivities were kept up until nearly midnight.
                  Then Stuart yawned; said with a laugh, "Good morning, gentle-men!"
                     as was his habit when he wished to work; and the tent was soon deserted.
                  I retired to rest, but at three in the morning felt a hand upon my
                     shoulder.
                  "The general is going to move, colonel, and wishes to see you," said the
                     orderly.
                  
                  I rose, made my brief toilet, and went toward Stuart's tent where a light was
                     shining. He was writing busily at his desk, as fresh and gay as on the
                     preceding evening. His enormous constitution defied fatigue.
                  All at once I saw that there was another personage in the tent. He was a young
                     man of about twenty, of slight figure, beardless face, and an expression so shy
                     and retiring that he seemed ready to blush if you spoke to him. He wore,
                     nevertheless, the uniform of a captain of artillery; and I remember wondering
                     how this girlish and shrinking personage, with the large, sad eyes, had come to
                     hold a commission.
                  "Captain Davenant, of my horse artillery, Colonel Surry," said Stuart.
                  The youth colored, and then with an air of painful embarrassment took a step
                     forward and pressed my hand. The grasp of the slender fingers was like the grip
                     of a steel vice.
                  "Davenant has been on a scout across the Rappahannock, to keep his hand in,"
                     said Stuart, busily writing. "My horse artillery boys do a little of every
                     thing—and Davenant is a wild-cat, Surry, with a touch of the bull dog, in spite
                     of his looks!"
                  The young officer drew back blushing more than ever at these words. His
                     confusion seemed to deprive him of the power of utterance.
                  "I'll bet he's blushing now!" said Stuart, laughing and continuing to write
                     with his back turned, as he spoke. "He is blushing or sighing—for the poor
                     Yankees he has killed, doubtless!"
                  "You are laughing at me, general," said the young man timidly.
                  "Well, my laughter won't hurt you, Davenant. I never joke with people I don't
                     like. But to business. The enemy are going to attack me, Surry. Get ready, I am
                     going to move."
                  "Ready, general."
                  "All right!—Hagan!"
                  "General!"
                  The voice came like an echo. Then at the door appeared the gigantic,
                     black-bearded Lieutenant Hagan, chief of the general's escort. Have you
                     forgotten him, my dear reader?—his huge figure, his mighty beard, the deep
                     thunder of his tones? I showed you the brave soldier in 1861 and '62. In 1863
                     his beard was heavier, his voice more like thunder—when the giant walked along
                     he seemed to shake the ground.
                  "I am going to move in half an hour, Hagan," said Stuart, still writing busily.
                     "Head-quarters will be established on Fleetwood Hill, beyond Brandy; my
                     horse!"
                  Hagan saluted and vanished without uttering a word. In five minutes the camp
                     was buzzing, and "Lady Margaret" was led up.
                  "Come on, Surry! Come, on Davenant! I will beat you to the Court-House!"
                  And Stuart buckled on his sword, drew on his gauntlets, and mounted his horse.
                     I was beside him. Not to be ready when Stuart was—was to be left behind. He
                     waited for nobody. His staff soon learned that.
                  As Davenant's horse was awaiting him, he was as prompt as Stuart desired. In a
                     minute we were all three riding at full speed toward the village. Stuart was
                     playing with his glove, which he had taken off and dangled to and fro. His
                     brows were knit, and he was reflecting. We did not interrupt him, and in ten
                     minutes we were all clattering over the main street of the hamlet.
                  Stuart pushed on by the tavern, without pausing, in the direction of Fleetwood,
                     when just as he reached the eastern suburbs of the town a small one-horse
                     wagon, leaving the place, attracted his attention. There was just sufficient
                     light to make out the figures in the wagon. There were two. One was a portly
                     and plainly clad old countryman, with a prominent nose, a double chin, and fat
                     hands decorated with pinchbeck rings. Beside him sat an old woman, as fat as
                     himself, wearing a faded calico gown, a "coal-scuttle" bonnet, and a huge
                     ruffled cap beneath.
                  Stuart looked keenly at the wagon, called to the driver to halt, and demanded
                     whither he was going, and on what business. The old countryman smiled. The
                     question seemed to strike him as absurd, and his explanation was simple and
                     calculated to remove all suspicion. He stated that his name was Brown—that he lived near the village; had brought
                     in a load of vegetables to sell, on the preceding evening—some friends had
                     persuaded him and "his old woman" to spend the night, and they were now going
                     home.
                  Stuart peered under the coal-scuttle bonnet.
                  "And this is your 'old woman' my friend," he said with a laugh.
                  "Jest so, sir," was the wheezy reply of the fat old countryman, smiling
                     sweetly. "You see she would come along, sir. Womankind is mighty
                     contrary!"
                  "A profound sentiment!" laughed Stuart, and riding on without further words, he
                     left the countryman free to proceed on his way.
                  We crossed a little stream, rode on toward Fleetwood, and had nearly reached
                     Brandy when Stuart suddenly reined in his horse.
                  "Do you know I think," he said, "that I have done a foolish thing?"
                  "What, general?"
                  "To let that old fellow go on. I don't like his looks."
                  "The old countryman?"
                  "Yes; I wish I had arrested him—him and his wife."
                  "Arrested them?"
                  Stuart nodded.
                  "I have an instinct about rascals, Surry; and something tells me that I have
                     been guilty of an imprudence."
                  "Was not his explanation satisfactory?"
                  "No."
                  "What could be wrong?"
                  "Every thing."
                  "And his 'old woman,'" I said, laughing; "think of that highly respectable
                     dame."
                  "I like her least of all!"
                  "From instinct?"
                  "If you choose."
                  "I think your instinct misleads you this time, general."
                  "I think not."
                  "Well, we will see."
                  And we did see.
                  In two hours the head-quarters tents were pitched upon Fleetwood Hill beyond
                     Brandy, and Stuart sent his provost marshal to Culpeper Court-House, with
                     orders to conduct the prisoner taken by Mohun on the preceding night, to
                     General Lee, for examination.
                  An hour afterward the worthy provost returned in hot haste with the astounding
                     information that the fair lady was nowhere to be found. She had disappeared
                     from her chamber, none knew how, before daylight, and as a notoriously
                     suspected individual who had lately been hanging round the tavern had
                     disappeared too, it was probable that they had gone off together. Upon this
                     point, a note left by the lady directed to "General Stuart" would probably give
                     information. This had been found upon her table. And the provost wound up by
                     handing the note to Stuart.
                  He read it with an air of decided ill-humor. Then throwing it upon his desk,
                     burst into a laugh.
                  "Well, Surry," he said, "who is right and who is wrong, now? Read that!"
                  And he pointed to the note, which I opened and read. It was in a delicate
                     female hand, and ran as follows:—
                  "General Stuart will pardon the attempt his captive is about to make, to effect
                     her escape. He made himself quite charming in their brief interview, but
                     liberty is sweet. Finding a friend unexpectedly in this quarter of the world, I
                     have made every arrangement with him; he is a great master of disguises, and,
                     though the travelling costume which I shall adopt will make me look hideous, I
                     hope it will enable me, before sunrise, to pass a private ford, known to my
                     friend alone, and reach the opposite bank of the Rappahannock.
                  "Farewell, my dear general. If all the rebels were like yourself, I might
                     change my politics. I have but one other friend in your army—Colonel Mohun, of
                     the cavalry. Present my regards to him, and say that we will meet
                        again."
                  That was all. I raised my eyes from the paper, and looked at the general with
                     stupefaction.
                  "Then that 'old woman' was the lady?"
                  
                  "Precisely."
                  "And we are fooled?"
                  "Completely. They are by this time on the other side of the Rappahannock."
                  With these words, Stuart dismissed the whole subject, turned to his desk, and
                     in a moment was busy at his official writing.
               
               
                  VII. THE BALL BEFORE THE BATTLE.
                  ON the same evening I was riding with Stuart toward Culpeper Court-House.
                  "Do you know where we are going, Surry?" he said, with a laugh.
                  "I can guess, I think."
                  "Try."
                  "To the ball given by the young officers to the Charlottesville belles
                     to-night."
                  "You are wrong, old fellow. I don't dare to go there."
                  "Don't dare?"
                  "Well, that is the word," he replied; "I am not afraid of the Yankees, but I am
                     of gossips—above all, of the valorous correspondents of the newspapers."
                  "I begin to understand now."
                  "They are dangerous."
                  "Yes."
                  Stuart cantered on, playing with his glove as usual.
                  "Think of Messieurs the bomb-proof critics!" he laughed. "They already say I
                     reviewed the cavalry with a wreath of flowers around my horse's neck."
                  "Is it possible?"
                  "They say so everywhere; and I will tell you the foundation for the charge. In
                     passing through the Court-House on the morning of the review, a young lady
                     friend of mine ran out from her house and threw a wreath over the neck of my
                     horse. Well, I think it is something to be courteous in this world. I did not
                     throw it off. I thanked her, rode on, and only removed it when I got out of
                     sight. Meeting General Lee, I told him of it, laughing, and he said, with a
                     smile: 'Why did you not wear it?'* I might as well have done so, Surry, for you see
                     I have the credit of it. Why try to be temperate, and pure, and soldierly? I am
                     a drunkard, a libertine, and a popinjay! But I care nothing. I intend to do my
                     duty, old fellow, and the next few days will probably show if I can fight."
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  With which words Stuart broke into a song, cantered on more rapidly, and
                     passing without drawing rein through the Court-House, soon reached General
                     Lee's head-quarters on an eminence beyond.
                  Here he remained for an hour, in private interview with the commander-in-chief.
                     Finally, they came out together. General Lee in his plain uniform, with that
                     sedate dignity of bearing which made the gray old cavalier so superb. I had the
                     honor to receive his salute, and to press his hand, and then I set out with
                     General Stuart for Fleetwood.
                  In passing through the Court-House we observed the windows of a large building
                     all ablaze with lights, and heard the merry notes of music. Stuart drew
                     rein.
                  "I think I will drop in for a few minutes, in spite of every thing!" he said.
                     "See the end of all my excellent resolutions, Surry!"
                  And rapidly dismounting, Stuart entered the ball-room. I followed.
                  If the review was imposing, the ball was charming. Youths and maidens had
                     assembled promptly at the sound of music, and, if I were a poet or a
                     penny-a-liner, my dear reader, I would compose a fine description of the merry
                     spectacle. But alas! I am neither; and feel unequal to the "ornate" style of
                     writing. I am only a battered old militaire,
                     with a number of great events to speak of. Look in the newspapers of that
                     period for an account of the assembly.
                  Let me say, however, in passing, that there was something sad as well as
                     joyful, gloomy as well as brilliant, in all that echoing laughter, and the movements of these gay
                     figures, on the eve of the bloody battle of Fleetwood. Girls were smiling upon
                     youths who in twelve hours would be dead. Lips were shaping gallant
                     compliments—soon they were going to utter the death-groan. All went merry as a
                     marriage-bell, and they danced to the joyous music. Soon the cannon would begin
                     to roll, and the youths would charge to that stormy music as they danced to
                     this.
                  I was gazing at the lively assemblage—at the undulating forms moving to and
                     fro, the gay uniforms, the fluttering scarfs, the snowy arms, the rosy cheeks,
                     when my attention was attracted by a figure which made me lose sight of all
                     else.
                  It was that of a young girl about twenty, tall, stately, and beautiful. Her
                     dark hair was carried back in glossy waves, and ended in profuse curls. Her
                     cheeks resembled blush roses; the eyes were large, brilliant, and full of
                     laughing hauteur; the lips red, and wreathed into a dazzling smile, which was
                     the perfection of satirical mirth.
                  I grow extravagant; but this young girl was superb. There was something
                     queenlike and imposing in her movements and whole appearance. She seemed to
                     look down on the crowd with satirical disdain, and the gay youths who
                     surrounded her were every instant struck by the bright shafts of a wit which
                     spared nothing.
                  Who was this dangerous beauty, who received the attentions of the young
                     officers with so much careless disdain? I asked that question of a friend and
                     he replied:
                  "Miss Georgia Conway, a daughter of Judge William Conway."
                  "Ah," I said, "the statesman?—the successor of Randolph in bitter oratory?"
                  "Yes, and yonder he is."
                  I looked in the direction indicated, and saw an elderly gentleman of small
                     stature, with long gray hair, and lips full of benignant smiles. He wore a suit
                     of black, and there was something courtly and attractive in every movement of
                     the slender figure. His low bow and sweet smile were the perfection of old-time
                     courtesy.
                  I was still looking at this gentleman, whose fame had extended throughout
                     Virginia and the whole South, when a familiar voice near me, attracted my
                     attention. It was that of Captain Davenant, the young officer of the horse
                     artillery, and glancing in the direction of the voice I saw him bending over a
                     young lady who was seated and conversing with him. She was a girl of seventeen,
                     with blue eyes, auburn hair, and a complexion as fair as a lily. As Davenant
                     addressed her in low tones, she gazed up into his face with an expression of
                     confiding affection. In the eyes of the young officer I could read a profound
                     and ardent love.
                  Turning to my friend I inquired the name of the young lady, in turn.
                  "Miss Virginia Conway," he replied, "the only sister of Miss Georgia."
                  He had scarcely uttered the words, when Davenant's interview with the young
                     lady terminated in a very singular manner. Suddenly Judge Conway passed through
                     the crowd, reached the spot where the young people were conversing, and darting
                     a glance of positive fury at the youth—a glance which made his eyes resemble
                     coals of fire—offered his arm to his daughter, and abruptly bore her away.
                  Davenant's face flushed crimson, and his eyes darted flame. He took a step as
                     though about to follow—but all at once he stopped.
                  Then from red his face became pale. The old expression of sadness returned to
                     his lips. With head bent down, and a faint color stealing over his cheeks, he
                     went toward the door, passed through it, and disappeared.
                  Before I had time to reflect upon this singular incident, I heard the voice of
                     Stuart.
                  "Come, Surry! to horse! unless you wish to remain!" he said.
                  "Ready, general!" I replied.
                  And in five minutes we were galloping toward Fleetwood.
                  "A gay ball," said Stuart, as we rode along; "but do you remember my
                        instinct, Surry?"
                  "Perfectly, general. Has it told you something on the present occasion?"
                  "Yes."
                  "What?"
                  
                  "You have heard of the famous ball at Brussells, broken up by the guns of
                     Waterloo?"
                  "Certainly."
                  "Well, I think that this one will prove similar—that cannon are going to
                     thunder before the music stops."
                  Stuart had scarcely spoken when rapid hoof-strokes were heard in front, and a
                     horseman shot by.
                  "Have you seen General Stuart?" said a voice in the darkness.
                  "Here I am!—what news, Stringfellow?"
                  The horseman drew rein so suddenly that his horse was thrown upon his
                     haunches.
                  "You will be attacked at daylight, general."
                  "Well,—what force?"
                  "The whole Yankee cavalry, with infantry and artillery supports."
                  "All right; ride back with me, and tell me every thing, String-fellow."
                  In half an hour we were at head-quarters. Stuart dismounted and entered his
                     tent.
                  "You see I was right, Surry," he said turning toward me, "and there is
                     something in my instinct after all!"
               
               
                  VIII. FLEETWOOD.
                  AT daylight a long thunder came up from the woods of the Rappahannock. The
                     greatest cavalry combat of the war had begun.
                  At that sound Stuart leaped to the saddle, and rode rapidly toward the front.
                     Fifteen minutes afterward his head-quarters had vanished. On the green slope of
                     Fleetwood not a tent was visible.
                  Is the reader familiar with the country along the Upper Rappahannock hannock?
                     If so, he will remember that the river is crossed in Culpeper by numerous
                     fords. The principal—beginning on the left, that is to say, up the river—are
                     Welford's, Beverly's, the Railroad bridge, and Kelly's fords.
                  Stuart's left, under William H. F. Lee, was opposite Welford's; his centre,
                     under Jones, opposite Beverly's; his right, under Hampton, toward Kelly's; and
                     a force under Robertson was posted in the direction of Stevensburg, to guard
                     the right flank. The whole amounted to about seven or eight thousand
                     cavalry.
                  The Federal column which now advanced to attack it, is said to have embraced
                     all the cavalry of General Hooker's army; and must have numbered more than
                     twelve thousand sabres.
                  Stuart rode on rapidly down Fleetwood Hill, and was soon opposite Beverly's
                     Ford where the enemy had crossed in force. General Jones was heavily engaged,
                     and the Napoleons of the horse artillery were roaring steadily. Every moment
                     the round shot crashed, or the shell tore through the woods about three hundred
                     yards in front of the pieces where the dismounted cavalry of the enemy had
                     effected a lodgment. They kept up a hot fire at the cannoneers, and the steady
                     rattle of carbines further up the river told that Lee was also engaged.
                  In face of the bursting shell, the blue tirailleurs could not advance; and Stuart sent an order to
                     Hampton to move in and attack on the right.
                  The troopers of the Gulf States advanced at the word; their dense column was
                     seen slowly moving, with drawn sabre, across the plain; the moment of decisive
                     struggle seemed rapidly approaching, when suddenly a heavy blow was struck at
                     Stuart's rear.
                  I had been directed by him to ascertain if "every thing had been sent off from
                     Fleetwood," and to see that no papers had been dropped there in the hurry of
                     departure. Going back at a gallop I soon reached the hill, and rode over the
                     ground recently occupied by the head-quarters. The spot seemed swept. Not a
                     paper was visible. All that I could see was a withered bouquet dropped by some
                     young officer of the staff—a relic, no doubt, of the last night's ball at the
                     village.
                  I had already turned to ride back to Stuart, when my attention was attracted by
                     a column of cavalry advancing straight on Brandy —that is, upon Stuart's rear. What force was
                     that? Could it be the enemy? It was coming from the direction of Stevensburg;
                     but how could it have passed our force there?
                  "Look!" I said to an officer of the horse artillery, one battery of which was
                     left in reserve on the hill, "look! what column is that?"
                  "It must be Wickham's," was his reply.
                  "I am sure they are Yankees!"
                  "Impossible!" he exclaimed.
                  But our doubts were soon terminated. From the rapidly advancing column two guns
                     shot out and unlimbered. Then two white puffs of smoke spouted from their
                     muzzles, and the enemy's shell burst directly in our faces.
                  The horse artillery returned the fire, and I hastened back with the
                     intelligence to Stuart.
                  "It is only a squadron I suppose," he replied with great coolness. "Go back and
                     get all the cavalry you can, and charge the guns and bag them!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  It is impossible to imagine any thing calmer than the speaker's voice. I knew,
                     however, that the attack was more critical than he supposed; hastened back;
                     came up with two regiments; and they ascended the hill at full gallop, leaping
                     the ravines, and darting toward the crest.
                  Suddenly it blazed with staggering volleys. The Federal cavalry had rushed
                     straight across the fields toward the hill—ascended its western slope as we
                     ascended the eastern, and met us—coming on, in squadron front, they struck the
                     Confederates advancing in column of fours, and in confusion from the rough
                     ground—they recoiled—were thrown into disorder; and with loud cheers the enemy
                     swarmed all over Fleetwood Hill.
                  The battle seemed lost. Stuart was cut off, and hemmed in between two powerful
                     bodies of Federal cavalry, supported by infantry and artillery.
                  All that saved us at that moment, was the "do or die" fighting of the cavalry
                     and horse artillery.
                  On the crest of Fleetwood took place a bitter and obstinate struggle. It was
                     one of those fights of the giants, which once witnessed is never forgotten. The
                     cannoneers of the horse artillery fought as savagely, hand to hand, as the
                     regular cavalry; and the crest became the scene of a mad wrestle, rather of
                     wild beasts than men.
                  All at once the form of Davenant appeared amid the smoke. He had come rapidly
                     from the front, and now threw himself into the combat like the bloodhound to
                     which Stuart had compared him. His sad smile had disappeared; his cheeks were
                     flushed; his eyes fiery;—leaping from his horse, he seized the sponge-staff of
                     a gun, from which all the cannoneers had been driven, and ramming home a charge
                     of canister, directed the gun upon a column of the enemy.
                  Before he could fire, a Federal cavalryman rode at him, and cut furiously at
                     his bare head, with the full weight of his sabre.
                  Davenant did not try to draw his sword—the attempt would have been useless. In
                     his hand he had a weapon; and with a swing of the rammer he swept the
                     cavalryman from the saddle.*
                      He fell headlong, covered with blood; and Davenant aimed and fired the
                     charge of canister—leaped upon his horse—and drawing his sword, plunged into
                     the melee, his head bare, his eyes flaming, his voice rising loud and
                     inspiring, above the combat.
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  It was a stubborn, a superb struggle. Three times the enemy's guns were charged
                     and captured; three times the Confederates were furiously charged in turn, and
                     the pieces recaptured by the enemy.*
                      A final charge of the gray cavalry carried all before it. The Federal
                     artillery was seized upon, and their cavalry driven back—but at that moment a
                     heavier force still was seen advancing upon Stuart from the direction of
                     Kelly's ford.
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  It was a splendid spectacle. They came on in solid column, and rapidly formed
                     line of battle on the slope of Fleetwood, with drawn sabres, and flags
                     floating. As they moved they seemed to shake the very ground. I had never
                     before seen so great a force of cavalry drawn up—and the critical moment of the
                     battle had plainly come.
                  At that instant the great field presented a remarkable appearance. Cavalry were
                     charging in every direction, and it was hard to tell friend from foe. Stuart
                     was fighting, so to say, from the
                     centre outwards. The enemy were in his front, in his rear, and on both his
                     flanks. If they closed in, apparently, he would be crushed as in a vice. The
                     iron hand would strangle him.
                  That moment tested the nerves. Stuart's "heart of oak" bore the strain. He was
                     aroused, stung, his cheeks burned, his eyes flamed—but the man was sufficient
                     for the work. I looked closely at him. "Do or die" was plain on his face. From
                     that instant I never had any doubts about Stuart.
                  He rushed two pieces of artillery to a knoll in front of the line of Federal
                     horsemen. A moment afterward two reports were heard, and two shell burst
                     precisely in the middle of the line, making a wide gap in it, and checking the
                     charge which had begun.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  All at once I saw a column of cavalry coming up from the river, and turning to
                     Stuart, said:—
                  "General, what cavalry is that?"
                  "Hampton's!" Stuart exclaimed. "Bring it up like lightning!"†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  I set out at full gallop, and soon reached the column. At the head of it rode
                     Young, the beau sabreur of Georgia, erect,
                     gallant, with his brave eye and smile.
                  I pointed out the enemy and gave the order.
                  "All right!" exclaimed Young, and, turning to his men, he whirled his sabre
                     around his head and shouted,
                  "Forward!"
                  The column thundered on, and as it passed I recognized Mohun, his flashing eye
                     and burnished sabre gleaming from the dust-cloud.
                  In five minutes they were in front of the enemy—the men wheeled and faced the
                     Federal line.
                  "Charge!" rose from a hundred lips. Spurs were buried in the hot flanks; the
                     mass was hurled at the enemy; and clashing like thunder, sword against sword,
                     swept every thing before it. Not a single shot was fired—the sabre only was
                     used. The enemy were broken to pieces—what I saw was a wild melee of whirling
                     swords, flying horses, men cloven to the chin; while others were seen throwing
                     themselves from the saddle, and raising their hands to escape the keen
                     swordsmen slashing at them.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  The great force of the enemy sweeping down on Stuart's flank was thus routed.
                     The spectacle which followed was ludicrous as well as exciting. The enemy fled
                     in disorder. Never before had I seen the nails in the hind shoes of hundreds of
                     horses—myriads of horses' tails streaming like meteors as they ran!
                  The force disappeared in the woods, hotly pursued by their foes. The dust
                     followed them in a great cloud—from that cloud arose yells and cheers—cannon
                     thundered; carbines rattled;—but that sound receded more and more rapidly
                     toward the river
                  On our left the brave William H. F. Lee had been as successful. He had charged
                     and repulsed the enemy, falling wounded at the head of his men. They had not
                     again advanced upon him. Near the Barbour House he presented an unbroken front
                     to them.
                  Stuart held with his cavalry, indeed, the whole Fleetwood range. The long
                     thunder of his artillery said to the enemy,
                  "Come on!"
                  They did not come. They went back. Their cavalry had crossed the river to
                     ascertain the meaning of the great review. They had discovered nothing, after
                     heavy loss. The ground was strewed with their dead and dying—they retired,
                     shattered and bleeding.
                  Stuart's loss was also great—even his staff was not spared. One of my brother
                     staff officers was killed, another wounded, a third captured.
                  But Stuart had won the greatest cavalry fight of the war.
               
               
                  IX. MOHUN FAINTS AT THE RIGHT MOMENT.
                  IN a room of the "Barbour House" on Fleetwood Hill, Stuart was writing a
                     dispatch to General Lee.
                  It was nearly sunset, and the red light was streaming through the windows. On
                     the floor lay a number of wounded men, groaning piteously. Busily attending to
                     their wants were two young girls—the
                     daughters of Judge Conway, whom I had seen on the night of the ball.
                  The young ladies, I afterward discovered, had been on a visit to the family
                     occupying the Barbour House; had courageously remained during the whole of the
                     battle—and they were now busily attending to the wants of the wounded.
                  I was gazing at the eldest—the superb beauty with the disdainful eyes, who had
                     held that wit-combat with her circle of admirers—when Stuart finished his
                     dispatches, and turned round.
                  "Any reports?" he said briefly to a member of his staff.
                  "None, general—except that Colonel Mohun is reported killed."
                  "Mohun! It is impossible! He drove the enemy, and was unhurt. I would not swap
                     him for a hundred, nor a thousand of the enemy!"
                  "Thank you, general!" said a sonorous voice behind us.
                  And Mohun entered, making the military salute as he did so.
                  In his bearing I could discern the same cool pride, mingled with satire. There
                     was only one change in him. He was paler than ever, and I could see that his
                     right shoulder was bloody.
                  As he entered, Miss Georgia Conway, who was bending over a wounded soldier,
                     raised her head and looked at him. Mohun's eye met her own, and he bowed
                     ceremoniously, taking no further notice of her.
                  At this exhibition of careless indifference I could see Miss Conway's face
                     flush. An expression of freezing hauteur came to the beautiful lips; and the
                     disdainful glance indicated that her amour
                        propre was deeply wounded.
                  She turned her back upon him abruptly—but as Mohun had already turned his, the
                     movement failed in its object. The officer was looking at Stuart, who had
                     grasped his hand. He winced as the general pressed it, and turned paler, but
                     said nothing.
                  "Then you are not dead, Mohun!" exclaimed Stuart, laughing.
                  "Not in the least, general, I am happy to inform you," replied Mohun.
                  "I am truly glad to hear it! What news?"
                  "Our party is all over. We followed them up until they re-crossed the river—and
                     I owed them this little piece of politeness for I recognized an old
                     acquaintance in the commander of the squadron."
                  "An acquaintance?"
                  "A certain Colonel Darke—a charming person, general." And Mohun laughed.
                  "I recognized him yonder when we charged on the hill, and, at first, he
                     followed his men when they broke. As I got close to him, however, in the woods,
                     he recognized me in turn, and we crossed swords. He is brave—no man braver; and
                     he did his utmost to put an end to me. I had somewhat similar views myself in
                     reference to my friend, the colonel, but his men interposed and prevented my
                     carrying them out. They were all around me, slashing away. I was nearly cut out
                     of the saddle—I was carried away from my friend in the melée—and the unkindest
                     cut of all was his parting compliment as he retreated through the river."
                  "What was that, Mohun?"
                  "A bullet from his pistol, which grazed my shoulder. A mere scratch, but
                     provoking. I saw him grin as he fired."
                  "An old friend on the Yankee side? Well, that happens," said Stuart—
                  "Frequently, general," said Mohun; "and this one was very dear,
                     indeed—most tenderly attached to me, I assure you. My affection for him is of
                     the same endearing nature: and we only crossed sabres in jest—a mere fencing
                     bout for amusement. We would not hurt each other for worlds!"
                  And Mohun's mustache curled with laughter. There was something restless and
                     sinister in it.
                  Suddenly his face grew paler, and his eyes were half closed.
                  "Well, Mohun," said Stuart, who was not looking at him; "I am going to send you
                     across the river on a reconnoissance tonight."
                  "All right, general."
                  And the officer made the military salute. As he did so, he staggered, and
                     Stuart raised his eyes.
                  "You are wounded!" he exclaimed.
                  "A trifle," laughed Mohun.
                  But as he spoke, his frame tottered; his face assumed the hue of a corpse; and he would have fallen, had not
                     Miss Georgia Conway started up unconsciously from the wounded man whom she was
                     attending to, and supported the officer in her arms.
                  Mohun opened his eyes, and a grim smile came to his pale face.
                  "A pretty tableau!" I heard him murmur; "it would do to put in a romance. A cup
                     of tea—or a pistol—that would finish—"
                  As he uttered these singular words, the blood gushed from his wounded shoulder,
                     his eyes closed, and, his head falling on the bosom of the young girl, he
                     fainted.
               
               
                  X. THE SLIM ANIMAL.
                  FLEETWOOD was the first gun of the great campaign which culminated on the
                     heights of Gettysburg. A week afterward, Lee's columns were in motion toward
                     Pennsylvania.
                  Was that invasion the dictate of his own judgment? History will answer. What is
                     certain is, that the country, like the army, shouted "Forward!" The people were
                     ablaze with wild enthusiasm; the soldiers flushed with the pride of their great
                     victories of Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville. The authorities at Richmond
                     shared the excitement, and the commissary-general, with unwonted humor, or in
                     sober earnest, indorsed, it is said, upon a requisition for supplies: "If
                     General Lee wishes rations, let him seek them in Pennsylvania."
                  I doubt if the great commander shared the general agitation. I think he aimed
                     to draw Hooker out of Virginia, leaving the rest to Providence. So he moved
                     toward the Potomac.
                  The world had called Lee cautious. After this invasion, that charge was not
                     repeated. From first to last audacity seemed the sentiment inspiring him.
                  With Hooker on the Rappahannock, threatening Richmond, Lee thrust his advance
                     force under Ewell through the Blue Ridge toward Maryland; pushed Longstreet up
                     to Culpeper to support him, and kept only A. P. Hill at Fredericksburg to bar
                     the road to the Confederate capital.
                  Hooker wished to advance upon it, but President Lincoln forbade him. The
                     dispatch was a queer official document.
                  "In case you find Lee coming to the north of the Rappahannock," Lincoln wrote,
                     "I would by no means cross to the south of it. I would not take any risk of
                     being entangled upon the river, like an ox jumped half over a fence, and
                        liable to be torn by dogs, front and rear, without a fair chance to gore one
                        way or kick the other."
                  Ludicrous perhaps, but to the point; the "Rail-Splitter" was not always
                     dignified, but often judicious. Chancellorsville had been defeat—Lee's assault,
                     foreboded thus by Lincoln, would be death.
                  Hooker fell back, therefore, in the direction of Washington. Lee had foreseen
                     that fact, and had given himself small anxiety. His three corps were already in
                     full motion toward the Potomac; and suddenly the thunder of artillery came on
                     the winds of the mountains.
                  Ewell, the head of the Southern spear, was driving at Milroy, holding
                     Winchester. The struggle was brief. General Milroy had put the iron heel on the
                     poor valley; had oppressed the unfortunate people beyond the power of words—and
                     suddenly the hand of Fate clutched and shook him to death. Ewell stormed his
                     "Star Fort" near Winchester, with the bayonet; drove him to headlong flight;
                     got in rear of him, capturing nearly all his command; and poor Milroy scarce
                     managed to escape, with a small body-guard, beyond the Potomac.
                  "In my opinion Milroy's men will fight better under a
                     soldier!"
                  It was his commanding officer, Hooker, who wrote those words a few days
                     afterward. From the hands of his own general came that unkindest cut!
                  Exit Milroy, thus, amid hisses and laughter—the hornet's nest at Winchester was
                     swept away—and Ewell headed straight for Pennsylvania.
                  Longstreet came up rapidly to fill the gap in the line—Hill followed
                     Longstreet—and then the world beheld the singular spectacle of an army extended in a long skirmish
                     line over a hundred miles, with another army massed not daring to assail
                     it.
                  Hooker did not see his "opening;" but Lincoln did. One of his dispatches has
                     been quoted—here is another as amusing and as judicious.
                  "If the head of Lee's army is at Martinsburg," Lincoln wrote Hooker, "and the
                     tail of it on the Plank road, between Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville,
                        the animal must be very slim somewhere—could you not break
                     him?"
                  But Hooker could not. He did not even try. Lee's movements seemed to paralyze
                     him—his chief of staff wrote:—
                  "We cannot go boggling round, until we know what we are going after."
                  "Boggling round" exactly described the movements of Hooker. He was still in a
                     grand fog, and knew nothing of his adversary's intent, when a terrific cry
                     arose among the well-to-do farmers of Pennsylvania. The wolf had appeared in
                     the fold. Ewell was rapidly advancing upon Harrisburg.
                  Behind came the veteran corps of Hill and Longstreet. The gorges of the Blue
                     Ridge were alive with bristling bayonets. Then the waters of the Potomac
                     splashed around the waists of the infantry and the wheels of the artillery
                     carriages. Soon the fields of Maryland and Pennsylvania were alive with
                     "rebels," come, doubtless, to avenge the outrages of Pope and Milroy.
                     Throughout those commonwealths—through Philadelphia, New York, and Boston—rang
                     the cry, "Lee is coming!"
                  To return to the cavalry. The horsemen of Stuart were going to move in an
                     eccentric orbit. These are my memoirs,
                     reader, not a history of the war; I describe only what I saw, and am going to
                     ask you now, to "follow the feather" of Stuart.
                  Stuart was promptly in the saddle, and when Lee began to move, advanced north
                     of the Rappahannock, drawing a cordon of cavalry across the roads above
                     Middleburg, to guard the approaches to the mountain.
                  The result was that the infantry defiled through the Blue Ridge without
                     Hooker's knowledge. He knew that something was going on, but there his
                     information terminated. The troopers ers of Stuart kept watch over fifteen
                     miles of front, and through this wall of sabres the Federal eye could not
                     pierce.
                  Stuart is regarded by many as only a brave "raider." It was on occasions like
                     this, however, that he performed his greatest services. Everywhere he
                     confronted the enemy in stubborn battle; and the work was hard. It was
                     fighting, fighting, fighting—now, as in 1862, when he covered Lee's retreat
                     after Sharpsburg. Day and night the cavalry had no rest. The crack of carbines,
                     the clash of sabres, and the roar of cannon were incessant. It was a war of
                     giants which Fauquier and Loudoun saw in those days—and not until the rear of
                     Lee's column had nearly reached the Potomac, did General Hooker by a desperate
                     effort succeed in driving Stuart back.
                  In these pages I must leave that obstinate struggle undescribed. It was full of
                     romantic scenes, and illustrated by daring courage: but all is lost to view in
                     the lurid smoke of Gettysburg.
                  With one scene in the hurrying drama I shall pass to greater events.
                  But first, I beg to introduce to the reader a very singular personage, who is
                     destined to play an important part in the history I am writing.
               
               
                  XI. NIGHTHAWK.
                  IT was the night of the 20th of June. 1863, Stuart's head-quarters had been
                     established in a house on the roadside above Middle burg.
                  We had been fighting all day; had returned only at nightfall: and I was
                     exchanging a few words with Stuart, before following the staff to rest, when
                     all at once a third personage, who seemed to have arisen from the floor, stood
                     before us.
                  His presence was so sudden and unexpected that I started. Then I looked at him,
                     curiously.
                  He was a man of about forty, thin, wiry, and with a nose resembling sembling the beak of a bird of prey.
                     His eyes, half buried under bushy eyebrows, twinkled like two stars. His mouth
                     was large and smiling; his expression exceedingly benignant. From the face I
                     passed to the costume. The worthy was clad in severe black, with a clerical
                     white cravat: wore a black beaver hat of the "stove-pipe" order; and presented
                     the appearance of a pious and peaceable civilian—almost that of a clergyman,
                     smiling benignantly upon all around him.
                  Stuart uttered an exclamation of satisfaction.
                  "Ah! Nighthawk, here you are!" he said.
                  And turning to me he introduced the new comer as "Mr. Nighthawk, one of my
                     'private friends,' and true as steel."
                  Mr. Nighthawk bowed with an air of smiling respect—of benignant sweetness.
                  "I am glad to know you, colonel, and hope I may have an opportunity of being of
                     service to you some day," he said.
                  The voice was low, soft, and accorded with the mild expression of the
                     countenance.
                  "Well, what news, Nighthawk?" asked Stuart; "experience tells me that you have
                     something of importance to communicate?"
                  "Ah, general!"
                  "Yes. You pass in the cavalry by the name of the 'man before the battle,' for
                     you always turn up then."
                  Mr. Nighthawk smiled.
                  "I try to give you information, general; and perhaps I have some news. But
                     first of my visits to Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Washington, where I
                     saw many of our friends."
                  And in his low, quiet voice Mr. Nighthawk, who had taken a seat and smoothed
                     down his white cravat, proceeded to speak of his travels and what he had
                     seen.
                  The narrative astounded me. He spoke without reserve, for General Stuart had
                     informed him that he might do so before me; and I was startled to find the
                     number of private friends the South had in the North. Mr. Nighthawk was
                     evidently au fait at his trade. He had a
                     perfect understanding plainly with persons of the highest political position;
                     and Stuart listened with the greatest interest to the speaker, whose low voice
                     never rose above the half-whisper by which I had been impressed on his first
                     opening his lips.
                  "So the summing up of all is," said Stuart, "that our friends are not too
                     hopeful?"
                  "They are not, general."
                  "They say Lee must win a great victory on the soil of Pennsylvania?"
                  "Yes, general. Without it there is no hope of peace, they declare."
                  "Well, I think they are right; and that we shall gain the victory."
                  Mr. Nighthawk made no reply; and Stuart reflected for some moments without
                     speaking. Then rousing himself:—
                  "I forgot," he said. "You have not given me your special information,
                     Nighthawk."
                  The worthy smiled.
                  "You know I am the 'man before the battle,' general?"
                  "Yes, go on, Nighthawk."
                  "I have just left General Hooker's head-quarters."
                  "Where are they?"
                  "Beyond Centreville."
                  "You saw him?"
                  "I conversed with him."
                  "Ah!"
                  "An hour, general, as the Rev. Mr. Ward, from Massachusetts, of the 'Grand
                     Union Sanitary Commission.'"
                  And Mr. Nighthawk smiled.
                  "Of course I urged active movements, and General Hooker became quite
                     animated."
                  "He agreed with your views then?" said Stuart, laughing.
                  "Perfectly, general.
                  "And he intends—"
                  "There is the important thing. While we were conversing, General Hooker was
                     called for a moment out of his tent, and by accident, my eyes fell upon an
                     order which lay upon his desk."
                  "An order?"
                  "For two divisions of cavalry, one of infantry, and a full complement plement of artillery, to advance and
                     drive you back to the mountain."
                  "Ah! you saw that order?"
                  "I did, general; it was just ready to be sent."
                  "What day did it fix?"
                  "To-morrow, general."
                  'Ah, indeed! Two divisions of infantry and one of cavalry?"
                  Mr. Nighthawk inclined in assent.
                  "When did you leave Hooker's head-quarters?"
                  "This afternoon."
                  "And came through the lines to-night?"
                  "Yes, general, in the usual way, by passing through the pickets. I was on foot
                     and nothing was easier."
                  Stuart knit his brows and reflected. Then he called to the orderly.
                  "Wake the adjutant-general, and have three couriers ready at once!"
                  Mr. Nighthawk arose.
                  "By-the-by, general," he said, "I saw Swartz, whom I have mentioned to
                     you."
                  "Yes; the best spy, you say, in the Federal army."
                  "I think he is, general. He is a wonderful man. He recently played a trick upon
                     you."
                  "Upon me?"
                  "At least he bore off a prisoner from you. It was a lady, captured by Colonel
                     Mohun, one night on the Rappahannock."
                  "Ah! Is it possible! So Swartz was the old countryman, driving the wagon that
                     morning."
                  "So he informed me, general."
                  "You are friends, then?"
                  "Close friends."
                  And Mr. Nighthawk smiled.
                  "We have an agreement—but that would not interest you, general. That was really
                     Swartz, and the old woman was the prisoner."
                  "Well," said Stuart, "that was a bold stroke, but the lady was handsome enough
                     to make friends. There is something between herself and Colonel Mohun, is there
                     not?"
                  Mr. Nighthawk glanced quickly at the face of the general. His eyes resembled
                     steel points, but the piercing glance at once sank.
                  "Something between them, general? What could have made you think that? But here
                     is Major McClellan. I will not detain you, general; I will come back at
                     daylight to receive your orders."
                  With these words, Mr. Nighthawk distributed a benignant smile, bowed in a
                     friendly manner, and disappeared, it was difficult to say how, from the
                     apartment. I had turned my eyes from him but an instant; when I again looked he
                     was gone.
                  "And now to work!" exclaimed Stuart. "We are going to fight to-morrow, Surry,
                     since the 'man before the battle' has made his appearance!"
               
               
                  XII. HOW STUART FELL BACK.
                  AT daybreak, Stuart was going at full gallop to the front.
                  A rapid fire of skirmishers, mingled with the dull roar of cannon, indicated
                     that Nighthawk had not been deceived.
                  All at once the sharp-shooters were seen falling back from the woods.
                  "Bring me a piece of artillery!" exclaimed Stuart, darting to the front.
                  But the attack of the enemy swept all before it. Stuart was driven back, and
                     was returning doggedly, when the gun for which he had sent, galloped up, and
                     unlimbered in the road.
                  It was too late. Suddenly a solid shot screamed above us; the gun was hurled
                     from its carriage, and rolled shattered and useless in the wood; the horses
                     were seen rearing wild with terror, and trying to kick out of the harness.
                  Suddenly one of them leaped into the air and fell, torn in two by a second
                     round shot.
                  "Quick work!" said Stuart, grimly.
                  And turning round to me, he said, pointing to a hill in rear—
                  
                  "Post three pieces on that hill to rake all the roads."
                  The order, like the former, came too late, however. The enemy advanced in
                     overpowering force—drove Stuart back beyond his head-quarters, where they
                     captured the military satchel of the present writer—and still rushing forward,
                     like a hurricane, compelled the Confederate cavalry to retire behind Goose
                     Creek. On the high ground there, Stuart posted his artillery; opened a rapid
                     fire; and before this storm of shell the Federal forces paused.
                  The spectacle at that moment was picturesque and imposing. The enemy's force
                     was evidently large. Long columns of cavalry, heavy masses of infantry and
                     artillery at every opening, right, left, and centre, showed that the task of
                     driving back Stuart was not regarded as very easy. The sunshine darted from
                     bayonet and sabre all along the great line of battle—and from the heavy smoke,
                     tinged with flame, came the Federal shell. With their infantry, cavalry, and
                     artillery, they seemed determined to put an end to us.
                  Stuart galloped to his guns, pouring a steady fire from the lofty hill. Captain
                     Davenant directed it in person, and he was evidently in his right element. All
                     his sadness had disappeared. A cool and resolute smile lit up his features.
                  "All right, Davenant! Hold your ground!" exclaimed Stuart.
                  "I will do so, general."
                  "Can you keep them from crossing?"
                  "I can try, general."
                  A whirlwind of shell screamed around the two speakers. For the hundredth time I
                     witnessed that entire indifference to danger which was a trait of Stuart. The
                     fire at this moment was so terrible that I heard an officer say:—
                  "General Stuart seems trying to get himself and everybody killed."
                  Nothing more inspiring, however, can be imagined than his appearance at that
                     moment. His horse, wild with terror, reared, darted, and attempted to unseat
                     his rider. Stuart paid no attention to him. He had no eyes or thought for any
                     thing but the enemy. His cheeks were flushed, his eyes flamed—he resembled a
                     veritable king of battle.
                  From Stuart my glances passed to Davenant. His coolness impressed me deeply.
                     While giving an order, a shell burst right in his face, enveloping horse and
                     rider in a cloud of smoke—but when the smoke drifted away, he was sitting his
                     horse unmoved, and giving the order as quietly as before.
                  I have not invented this picture, reader, or fancied this character. I had the
                     honor to enjoy the friendship of the brave boy I describe. He was remarkable,
                     in an epoch crowded with remarkable characters.
                  Stuart held his ground for an hour on the high hills of Goose Creek, but it
                     then became plain that he was going to be driven back. The enemy had felt him,
                     and discovered that the game was in their own hands. Now they rushed on his
                     right, left and centre, at the same moment—cavalry, infantry, and artillery
                     rolling on like a torrent—crossed the stream, charged the hill—in a moment a
                     bitter and savage combat commenced for the possession of the crest.
                  Stuart rushed toward the guns. As he reached them a cannon ball carried off the
                     head of a cannoneer, and his horse reared with fright, nearly trampling on the
                     headless trunk which spouted blood.
                  Davenant had coolly drawn his sabre, but had given no order to retire.
                  "Move back the guns!" exclaimed Stuart.
                  "Is it necessary, general?" asked Davenant.
                  "Yes, they will be captured in five minutes!"
                  "It is a pity we can not remain, general. This is an excellent position."
                  And he gave the order to limber up. The operation was performed amid a
                     hurricane of bullets, striking down the cannoneers.
                  Suddenly a column of Federal cavalry charged straight at the guns. Davenant met
                     them with his mounted men, armed with sabres, and a stubborn combat
                     followed.
                  It was a hilt to hilt affair, and Davenant was in the midst of it
                     shouting:—
                  "You are fighting for your guns, boys! You promised to die by your guns!"
                  The men answered with fierce shouts, and met the enemy with savage resolution. Meanwhile, the guns had
                     rushed at a gallop down the western slope; a regiment came to Davenant's
                     assistance; the fight grew desperate, but was of no avail.
                  In fifteen minutes we were driven.
                  Driven! Do you know what that means, reader? Ask old soldiers if it is
                     pleasant. They will growl in reply!
                  We were forced back, step by step, with the enemy at our very heels. At our
                     backs came on the huge column, yelling and firing, mad with triumph. Stuart the
                     valiant, the obstinate, the unshrinking was driven!
                  We were forced back to Upperville, and there things looked stormy. On the other
                     roads, Stuart's right and left were rapidly retiring. His centre at Upperville
                     seemed devoted to destruction.
                  The enemy came on like a whirlwind, with a roaring shout. As far as the eye
                     could see the great fields were dark with them. Their horse artillery advanced
                     at a gallop, unlimbered, and tore the retreating columns with shot and
                     shell.
                  I was ten yards from Stuart, just at the edge of the town, when a picked body
                     of Federal horsemen darted straight upon him.
                  They had evidently recognized him by his major-general's uniform and splendid
                     feather. Bullets hissed around him; blows were struck at him; and for an
                     instant I saw him in the midst of a wild huddle of enemies, defending himself
                     with his revolver only.
                  In an instant he would have been killed or captured, with his staff and
                     body-guard, when a resounding shout was heard.
                  I glanced over my shoulder, and saw the cavaliers of Hampton coming on with
                     drawn sabre.
                  Then a splendid spectacle was presented—that of Wade Hampton in one of his
                     great moments. This stalwart cavalier was leading his men, and in an instant
                     they had struck the enemy with a noise like thunder.
                  Suddenly a cavalier on a black horse rushed by like the wild huntsman, and I
                     recognized Mohun; who, spurring his animal to headlong speed, drove straight at
                     the leader of the Federal cavalry, almost in contact with us.
                  Through a rift in the smoke I caught a glimpse of Mohun's opponent. He was a
                     man of low stature, but broad, heavy, and powerful. He came to meet his
                     adversary with the bridle of his horse resting on the animal's neck, while both
                     hands clutched a heavy broad-sword, raised over his right shoulder.
                  I could only see that the two opponents hurled together like knights tilting;
                     their swords gleamed; they closed in, body to body; then the smoke wrapped
                     them. It was impossible to see more.
                  For the rest, it was hard to make out any thing in that bitter combat at
                     Upperville. Those who witnessed it will bear me out in the assertion.
                  For ten minutes the plain was a grand hurly-burly of ringing sabres, rearing
                     horses, pistol shots, carbine shots, shell bursting, men falling, shouts,
                     outcries, smoke, dust, and blood.
                  When the smoke-cloud drifted, you could see that the enemy were repulsed.
                     Hampton's charge had checked, and then driven them back. The great Carolinian
                     had indeed made one of his most splendid onsets. Meeting the enemy hand to
                     hand, and leading his men in person, Hampton had borne them back—they had
                     reeled under the great blow—and the cavalry fell back from Upperville toward
                     the mountain, unpursued.
                  What had been the issue of Mohun's combat with the Federal officer I did not
                     know until the next day, when I ascertained that Mohun had wounded his
                     adversary, and was unhurt. Thus he had paid him for the wound in the shoulder
                     on the Rappahannock.
                  Stuart fell back to the range of mountains a mile below Paris: crowned the
                     upland with his artillery, and determined to retreat no further.
                  But the enemy had paused. The last red rays of sunset showed them stationary in
                     the fields around the village of Upperville.
               
               
                  
                  XIII. LEE'S "OLD WAR HORSE."
                  STUART was sitting his horse beside Davenant's guns, which from the slope
                     grinned defiance at the enemy, when hoof-strokes were heard from the direction
                     of the village of Paris, in his rear, and a party of horsemen ascended the
                     mountain.
                  In front rode a personage of heavy figure, but soldierly bearing. He was clad
                     in an old gray uniform, almost without decorations; wore a black round-head
                     hat; his beard was long, matted and brown, like the full mustache: and the
                     expression of the countenance was calm, almost phlegmatic.
                  Such was the appearance of Lieutenant-General Longstreet, called by Lee "My Old
                     War Horse."
                  Longstreet advanced slowly, at the head of a party of officers. Beside him rode
                     a superb looking old cavalier of about sixty. He wore the uniform of a
                     brigadier-general of infantry, and sat as erect as an arrow. The firm lips were
                     covered by a heavy mustache, gray like his hair: his bearing was full of a
                     courtly elegancee; this man was evidently one of the old race of Virginians—a
                     cavalier of the cavaliers.
                  Let me add a brief outline of one other figure. Behind the old cavalier came a
                     sort of mouse on horseback; an urchin of about twelve, blue eyes, auburn hair,
                     long and curling like a girl's, and an air of warlike pride. The mouse wore a
                     braided jacket, a little jaunty cap, a floating feather, and beautiful
                     gauntlets probably worked by his mother, as he seemed much too small to possess
                     a sweetheart. He rode jauntily among the officers, exchanging jests with each
                     and all: and it was easy to see that the youth was a favorite and a privileged
                     character.
                  Longstreet halted beside Stuart, and grasping his hand, conversed with him for
                     some moments. I afterward knew that the heavy firing had been heard over the
                     mountain, and Longstreet, arresting his march, had occupied Ashby's Gap. From
                     our lofty position, indeed, we could see the bayonets of his infantry
                     glittering in the gorge.
                  All at once, Longstreet turning to the gray-headed officer, with a brief
                     apology for his remissness, introduced him to Stuart as "General Davenant."
                  Stuart saluted, and exchanged a pressure of the hand with the courtly old
                     officer.
                  "Your son, Will, has fought like a hero to-day, general," he said.
                  The old cavalier bowed.
                  "Those words are worth another grade of rank, general," he replied.
                  As he spoke, Will Davenant came up and greeted his father with blushing
                     pleasure. Before he could speak, however, the urchin in the braided jacket
                     spurred forward, and threw his arms around the young man's neck.
                  "How are you, Willie!" he exclaimed, "have you had a good fight? We were
                     waiting yonder to help you if you were driven back, old fellow!"
                  Longstreet smiled. Will Davenant laughed, and said:—
                  "Glad to hear it, Charley."
                  "We don't think much of the cavalry, you know," said the urchin, sotto voce, "it takes the infants to do the
                     work—but old Stuart is a trump!"
                  And Charley curled an imaginary mustache as his brother turned to speak to his
                     father.
                  Half an hour afterward Stuart and Longstreet had finished their conversation,
                     and exchanging a grasp of the hand, separated—the latter to return to Ashby's
                     Gap.
                  Charley Davenant followed last, with evident regret.
                  "Well, good-bye, Willie," he said, throwing his arm around his brother again,
                     "take care of yourself, old fellow, and if you are hard pressed call upon us.
                     You will find the infants ready!"
                  "All right, Charley!"
                  "And I say, Willie"—
                  "What, Charley?"
                  "Remember that lieutenancy you promised me. I am a Davenant you know—and the
                     Davenants are born to command! My motto is, "Victory or Death," old
                     fellow!"
                  With which words the mouse waved his hand, put spur to his pony, and went at a
                     gallop down the mountain.
               
               
                  
                  XIV. MOSBY COMES TO STUART'S ASSISTANCE.
                  SORE and restive at the reverse which had come to balance his victory of
                     Fleetwood, Stuart bivouacked near Paris, that night, and made every preparation
                     to attack at dawn.
                  At daylight he was in the saddle, and spurred to the high ground commanding
                     Upperville.
                  All at once he checked his horse. The enemy had disappeared.
                  Stuart's blue eye flashed, and half an hour afterward he was advancing at the
                     head of his cavalry. Not a foe was visible. Pressing on through Upperville, and
                     over the trampled fields beyond, he continued to advance upon Middleburg, and
                     near that place came up with the rear of the enemy. They showed little fight,
                     however, and were driven beyond the place. The gray troopers pursued them with
                     shouts and cheers—with which were mingled cries of rejoicing from the people of
                     Middleburg.
                  An hour afterward the lines were re-established in triumph.
                  Stuart returned to his former head-quarters amid a drenching rain; and this
                     recalls an incident very honorable to the brave soldier. As night descended,
                     dark and stormy, Stuart gazed gloomily at the torrents of rain falling.
                  'My poor fellows!" he said, with a sigh, "they will have a hard time
                     to-night."
                  Then suddenly turning to his servant, he added:—
                  "Spread my oil-cloth and blankets under that apple tree yonder. I will keep
                     them dry enough when I once get into them."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "You are not going to sleep out on such a night, general!" exclaimed a staff
                     officer.
                  "Certainly I am," was his reply, "I don't intend to fare better than my
                        men!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  And an hour afterward Stuart was asleep under the apple-tree, with a torrent
                     pouring on him.
                  That was the act of a good officer and soldier, was it not, reader?
                  Before sunrise Stuart was up, and walking uneasily to and fro. As the day wore
                     on, he exhibited more and more impatience. All at once, at the appearance of an
                     officer, approaching rapidly from the front, he uttered an exclamation of
                     pleasure.
                  "Here is Mosby at last!" he said.
                  And he went to meet the new-comer. It was the famous chief of partisans whose
                     name by this time had become a terror to the enemy. He wore a plain gray
                     uniform, a brace of revolvers in a swaying belt, rode a spirited gray mare, and
                     I recognized at once the roving glance, and satirical smile which had struck me
                     on that night when he rescued Farley and myself in Fauquier.
                  Stuart rapidly drew him into a private apartment; remained in consultation with
                     him for half an hour; and then came forth, with a smile of evident
                     satisfaction.
                  Mosby's intelligence must have pleased him. It at least dispelled his
                     gloom.
                  An hour afterward his head-quarters had disappeared—every thing was sent toward
                     the mountains. Stuart set out apparently to follow them—but that was only a
                     ruse to blind busybodies.
                  A quarter of a mile from head-quarters he leaped a fence, and doubled back,
                     going in the direction now of Manassas.
                  At daylight on the next morning he had forced his way through the Bull Run
                     mountain.
                  Two hours afterward he had made a sudden attack on the enemy's infantry. It was
                     the rear of Hancock's corps, which was the rear of Hooker's army, then retiring
                     toward the Potomac.
               
               
                  XV. THE SUPPER NEAR BUCKLANDS.
                  STUART'S fight near Haymarket, here alluded to, was a gay affair; but I pass
                     over it, to a scene still gayer and decidedly more pleasant.
                  
                  The fighting continued throughout the day, and at dusk a heavy rain came on. We
                     were all tired and hungry—the general no less so than his staff—and when an
                     invitation was sent to us by a gentleman near Bucklands, to come and sup with
                     him, we accepted it with fervor, and hastened toward the friendly mansion.
                  A delightful reception awaited us. The house was full of young ladies,
                     passionately devoted to "rebels," and we were greeted with an enthusiasm which
                     passed all bounds. Delicate hands pressed our own; bright eyes beamed upon us;
                     rosy lips smiled; musical voices said "welcome!"—and soon a savory odor,
                     pervading the mansion, indicated that the wants of the inner man were not
                     forgotten.
                  An excellent supper was plainly in preparation for the bold Stuart and his
                     military family; and that gay and gallant cavalier, General Fitz Lee having
                     also been invited, the joy of the occasion was complete! The house rang with
                     clashing heels, rattling sabres, and clanking spurs. A more charming sound
                     still, however, was that made by jingling keys and rattling china, and knives
                     and forks. All was joy and uproar: jests, compliments and laughter. Young
                     ladies went and came; the odors grew more inviting. In ten minutes the door of
                     a large apartment opposite the drawing-room was thrown open, and a magnificent,
                     an enthralling spectacle was revealed to every eye.
                  Not to be carried away, however, by enthusiasm, I will simply say that we saw
                     before us a long mahogany table covered with the most appetizing viands—broils,
                     roasts, stews, bread of every variety, and real coffee and tea in
                     real silver! That magical spectacle still dwells in my memory, reader, though
                     the fact may lower me in your good opinion. But alas! we are all "weak
                     creatures." The most poetical grow hungry. We remember our heroic performances
                     in the great civil war—but ask old soldiers if these recollections are not the
                     most vivid!
                  An incident connected with the repast made it especially memorable. The
                     servants of the house had deserted to their friends in blue; and as there was
                     thus a deficiency of attendants, the young ladies took their places. Behind
                     every chair stood a maiden—their faces wreathed with smiles. We were shown to
                     our seats, amid joyous laughter. The comedy evidently afforded all engaged in
                     it immense enjoyment—and the cavaliers humoring the angelic maid-servants,
                     gravely advanced toward the table.
                  Stuart threw his plumed hat upon a chair, and drew near the foot of the table.
                     The light fell full on the ruddy face, the heavy beard and mustache, and
                     brilliant, fighting jacket. He looked round with a gay smile. "Was any one
                     absent," asked the kind lady of the house, as she saw the glance. Stuart made a
                     low bow, and said:—
                  "All are here, madam!"
                  All at once, however, a voice at the door responded:—
                  "I think you are mistaken, general!"
                  And he who had uttered these words advanced into the apartment.
                  He was a young man, about twenty-three, of medium height, graceful, and with a
                     smile of charming good humor upon the lips. His hair was light and curling: his
                     eyes blue: his lips shaded by a slender mustache. His uniform was bran new, and
                     decorated with the braid of a lieutenant. Yellow gauntlets reached his elbow,
                     he wore a shiny new satchel, and in his hand carried a brown felt hat, caught
                     up with a golden star.
                  Stuart grasped his hand warmly.
                  "Here you are, old fellow!" he exclaimed.
                  And turning to the company, he added:—
                  "My new aid-de-camp, Lieutenant Herbert, ladies. A fop—but an old soldier. Take
                     that seat by Colonel Surry, Tom."
                  And every one sat down, and attacked the supper.
                  I had shaken hands with Tom Herbert, who was far from being a stranger to me,
                     as I had met him frequently in the drawing-rooms of Richmond before the war. He
                     was a fop, but the most charming of fops, when I first knew him. He wore
                     brilliant waistcoats, variegated scarfs, diamond studs, and straw-colored kid
                     gloves. In his hand he used to flourish an ivory-headed whalebone cane, and his
                     boots were of feminine delicacy and dimensions. Such was Tom at that time, but
                     the war had "brought him out." He had rushed into the ranks, shouldered a
                     musket, and fought bravely. So much I knew—and I was soon to hear how he had
                     come to be Stuart's aid.
                  
                  The supper was charming. The young girls waited on us with mock submission and
                     delighted smiles. Tom and I had fallen to the lot of a little princess with
                     golden ringlets: and Miss Katy Dare—that was her name—acquitted herself
                     marvellously. We supped as though we expected to eat nothing for the next
                     week—and then having finished, we rose, and waited in turn on the fair
                     waiters.
                  Behind every chair now stood an officer in uniform.
                  Bright eyes, rosy cheeks, jewelled hands, glossy curls—there was the picture,
                     my dear reader, which we beheld as we "waited" at that magical supper near
                     Buckland.
                  When we wrapped our capes around us, and fell asleep on the floor, the little
                     maidens still laughed in our dreams!*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *A real incident.
                  
               
               
                  XVI. AN HONEST FOP.
                  STUART moved again at dawn. The scene of the preceding evening had passed away
                     like a dream. We were in the saddle, and advancing.
                  Riding beside Lieutenant Tom Herbert, I conversed with that worthy, and found
                     the tedious march beguiled by his gay and insouciant talk.
                  His "record" was simple. He had volunteered in the infantry, and at the battle
                     of Cold Harbor received a wound in the leg which disqualified him for a
                     foot-soldier thenceforward. His friends succeeded in procuring for him the
                     commission of lieutenant, and he was assigned to duty as drill-master at a camp
                     of instruction near Richmond.
                  "Here I was really in clover, old fellow," said Tom, laughingly "no more toils,
                     no more hardships, no bullets, or hard tack, or want of soap. A snowy shirt
                     every day—kid gloves if I wanted them—and the sound of cannon at a very remote
                     distance to lull me to repose, my boy. Things had changed, they had indeed! I
                     looked back with scorn on the heavy musket and cartridge-box. I rode a
                     splendidly groomed horse, wore a new uniform shining with gold braid, a new cap
                     covered with ditto, boots which you could see your face in, a magnificent sash,
                     and spurs so long and martial that they made the pavement resound, and
                     announced my approach at the distance of a quarter of a mile! I say the
                     pavement; I was a good deal on the pavement—that of the fashionable Franklin
                     street being my favorite haunt. And as the Scripture says, it is not good for
                     man to be alone, I had young ladies for companions. My life was grand,
                     superb—none of your low military exposure, like that borne by the miserable
                     privates and officers in the field! I slept in town, lived at a hotel, mounted
                     my horse after breakfast, at the Government stables near my lodgings, and went
                     gallantly at a gallop, to drill intantry for an hour or two at the camp of
                     instruction. This was a bore, I acknowledge, but life can not be all flowers.
                     It was soon over, however—I galloped gallantly back—dined with all the courses
                     at my hotel, and then lit my cigar and strolled up Franklin. I wore my uniform
                     and spurs on these promenades—wild horses tearing me would not have induced me
                     to doff the spurs! They were so martial! They jingled so! They gave a military
                     and ferocious set-off to my whole appearance, and were immensely admired by the
                     fair sex! Regularly on coming back from my arduous and dangerous duties at
                     camp, I brushed my uniform, put on my red sash, and with one hand resting with
                     dignity on my new sword belt, advanced to engage the enemy——on Franklin
                     street."
                  Tom Herbert's laugh was contagious; his whole bearing so sunny and riante that he was charming.
                  "Well, how did you awake from your dolce far
                        niente?" I said.
                  "By an effort of the will, old fellow—for I really could not stand that. It was
                     glorious, delightful—that war-making in town; but there was a thorn in it. I
                     was ashamed of myself. 'Tom Herbert you are not a soldier, you are an
                     impostor,' I said; 'you are young, healthy, as good food for powder as anybody
                     else, and yet here you are, safely laid away in a bomb-proof, while your
                     friends are fighting. Wake, rouse yourself, my friend! The only way to regain the path of rectitude is to
                     go back to the army!'"
                  "I said that, Surry," Tom continued, "and as I could not go back into the
                     infantry on account of my leg, I applied for an assignment to duty in the
                     cavalry. Then the war office had a time of it. I besieged the nabobs of the red
                     tape day and night, and they got so tired of me at last that they told me to
                     find a general who wanted an aid and they would assign me."
                  "Well, as I was coming out of the den I met General Jeb. Stuart going in. I
                     knew him well, and he was tenth cousin to my grandmother, which you know counts
                     for a great deal in Virginia."
                  "What's the matter, Tom?" he said.
                  "I want a place in the cavalry, general."
                  "What claim have you?"
                  "Shot in the leg—can't walk—am tired of drilling men in bomb-proof."
                  "Good!" he said. "That's the way to talk. Come in here."
                  "And he dragged me along. I found that one of his aids had just been
                     captured—he wanted another, and he applied for me. A month afterward his
                     application was approved—short for the war office. That was five days ago. I
                     got into the saddle,—pushed for the Rapidan—got to Middleburg—and arrived in
                     time for supper."
                  "That's my history, old fellow, except that I have just fallen in love—with the
                     young angel who waited on me at supper, Miss Katy Dare. I opened the campaign
                     in a corner last night—and I intend to win her, Surry, or perish in the
                     attempt!"
               
               
                  XVII. STUART GRAZES CAPTURE.
                  AS Tom Herbert uttered these words, a loud shout in front startled us.
                  Stuart had ridden on ahead of his column, through the immense deserted camps
                     around Wolf Run Shoals, attended only by two or three staff officers.
                  As I now raised my head quickly, I saw him coming back at headlong speed,
                     directing his horse by means of the halter only, and hotly pursued by a
                     detachment of Federal cavalry, firing on him as they pressed, with loud shouts,
                     upon his very heels.
                  "Halt!" shouted the enemy. And this order was followed by "bang! bang!
                     bang!"
                  Stuart did not obey the order.
                  "Halt! halt!"
                  And a storm of bullets whistled around our heads. I had drawn my sword, but
                     before I could go to Stuart's assistance, Tom shot ahead of me.
                  He came just in time. Two of the enemy had caught up with Stuart, and were
                     making furious cuts at him. He parried the blow of one of the Federal
                     cavalry-men—and the other fell from the saddle, throwing up his hands as he did
                     so. Tom Herbert had placed his pistol on his breast, and shot him through the
                     heart.
                  But by this time the rest had reached us. A sabre flashed above Tom's head;
                     fell, cutting him out of the saddle nearly; and he would have dropped from it,
                     had I not passed my arm around him.
                  In another instant, all three would have been killed or captured. But the
                     firing had given the alarm. A thunder of hoofs was heard: a squadron of our
                     cavalry dashed over the hill: in three minutes the enemy were flying, to escape
                     the edge of the sabre.
                  Stuart led the charge, and seemed to enjoy it with the zest of a fox-hunter. He
                     had indeed escaped from a critical danger. He had pushed on with a few of his
                     staff, as I have said, to Fairfax Station, had then stopped and slipped his
                     bridle to allow his horse to eat some "Yankee oats," and while standing beside
                     the animal, had been suddenly charged by the party of Federal cavalry, coming
                     down on a reconnoissance from the direction of the Court-House. So sudden was
                     their appearance that he was nearly "gobbled up." He had leaped on the
                     unbridled horse; seized the halter,
                     and fled at full speed. The enemy had pursued him; he had declined halting—and
                     the reader has seen the sequel.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Real.
                  
                  Stuart pressed the party hotly toward Sanxter's, but they escaped—nearly
                     capturing on the way, however, a party of officers at a blacksmith's shop. The
                     general came back in high good humor. The chase seemed to have delighted
                     him.
                  "Bully for old Tom Herbert!" he exclaimed. "You ought to have seen him when
                     they were cutting at him, and spoiling his fine new satchel!"
                  Tom Herbert did not seem to participate in the general's mirth. He was
                     examining the satchel which a sabre stroke had nearly cut in two.
                  "What are you looking at?" asked Stuart.
                  "This hole, general," replied Tom, uttering a piteous sigh.
                  "Well, it is a trifle."
                  "It is a serious matter, general."
                  "You have lost something?"
                  "Yes."
                  "What?"
                  "A joint of my new flute."
                  And Tom Herbert's expression was so melancholy that Stuart burst into
                     laughter.
                  "You may have lost your flute, Tom," he said, leaning on his shoulder, "but you
                     have won your spurs at least, in the cavalry!"
               
               
                  XVIII. DROWSYLAND.
                  AT daylight, on the next morning, Stuart had crossed the Poto mac into
                     Maryland.
                  He had advanced from Wolf Run Shoals to Fairfax Court House, where the men
                     rifled the sutlers' shops of tobacco, figs, white gloves, straw hats, and every
                     edible and wearable:—then the column pushed on toward Seneca Falls, where the
                     long wavering line of horsemen might have been seen hour after hour crossing
                     the moonlit river, each man, to prevent wetting, holding above his head a shot
                     or shell taken from the caissons. Then the artillery was dragged through: the
                     panting horses trotted on, and the first beams of day saw the long column of
                     Stuart ready to advance on its perilous pathway to the Susquehanna, by the
                     route between the Federal army and Washington.
                  The word was given, and with the red flags fluttering, Stuart moved toward
                     Rockville, unopposed, save by a picket, which was driven off by the advance
                     guard. Without further incident, he then pushed on, and entered the town in
                     triumph.
                  A charming reception awaited him. The place was thoroughly Southern; and the
                     passage of the cavalry was greeted with loud cheers. Unbounded was the delight,
                     above all, of a seminary of young girls. Doors and windows were crowded: bright
                     eyes shone; red lips laughed; waving handkerchiefs were seen everywhere; and
                     when Stuart appeared in person, he was received with wild rejoicing.
                  He bowed low, removing his plumed hat, but suddenly intelligence came which
                     forced him to push on. A long train of "government" wagons had come up from
                     Washington, and on discovering our presence, returned toward the city at a
                     gallop. But the ferocious rebels were after them. Stuart led the charging
                     column—the warlike teamsters were soon halted—the trains became our spoil—and
                     with countless kicking mules driven onward in droves before them, the cavalry,
                     escorting the captured wagons, continued their way toward Pennsylvania.
                  Moving all that night, Stuart came to Westminster, where Fitz Lee, the gallant,
                     drove the enemy's cavalry from their camp, and the town fell into the hands of
                     Stuart.
                  Here scowls instead of smiles greeted us. Every face was glum and forbidding,
                     with a few exceptions. So we hastened to depart from that "loyal" town, and
                     were soon on the soil of Pennsylvania.
                  Approaching Hanover we suddenly waked up the hornets. Chambliss, leading
                     Stuart's advance, pushed ahead and drove in a picket. Then that brave soldier
                     rushed on, and seemed intent tent on
                     taking the place, when I was sent by Stuart to order him "not to go too
                     far."
                  I came up with Chambliss as he was charging, but had scarcely given him the
                     order, when he was charged in turn by a heavy force and driven back.
                  The enemy rushed on, firing volleys, and the road was full of tramping
                     horsemen. To avoid being carried away with them, I diverged into a field, when
                     all at once Stuart appeared, retreating at full gallop before a party who were
                     chasing him.
                  It was a serious matter then, but I laugh now, remembering that "good run."
                  Stuart and myself retreated at a gallop, boot to boot; leaped ditches and
                     fences; and got off in safety.
                  A few moments afterward his artillery opened its thunders. From the lofty hill,
                     that hardy captain of the horse artillery, Breathed, roared obstinately,
                     driving them back. Hampton's guns on the right had opened too—and until night,
                     we held the heights, repulsing every advance of the enemy.
                  It was truly a fine spectacle, that handsome town of Hanover as I looked at it,
                     on the afternoon of the fair June day. In front extended green fields; then the
                     church spires rose above the roofs of the town; behind, a range of mountains
                     formed a picturesque background. It is true, the adjuncts of the scene were far
                     from peaceful. The green fields were full of blue sharpshooters; in the suburbs
                     were posted batteries; down the mountain road behind, wound a long compact
                     column of cavalry.
                  Breathed fought hard that day. From the waving field of rye on the upland his
                     guns thundered on—in the face of that fire, the enemy could not, or would not,
                     advance.
                  So the night came on, and Stuart's great train moved.
                  Those wagons were a terrible encumbrance to us on the march. But Stuart
                     determined not to abandon them, and they were dragged on—a line stretched to
                     infinity!
                  Thenceforth, dear reader, the march was a sort of dream to me. How can I relate
                     my adventures—the numerous spectacles and events of the time? I know not even
                     now if they were events or mere dreams, seeing that, all the long way, I was
                     half asleep in the saddle! It was a veritable Drowsyland that we moved through
                     on horseback! The Dutchmen, the "fraus," the "spreading," the sauer-kraut—the
                     conestogas, the red barns, the guttural voices, the strange faces—were these
                     actual things, or the mere fancies of a somnambulist? Was I an officer of real
                     cavalry making a real march; or a fanciful being, one of a long column of
                     phantoms?
                  I seem dimly to remember a pretty face, whose owner smiled on me—and a faint
                     memory remains of a supper which she gave me. If I am not mistaken I was left
                     alone in the town of Salem—hostile faces were around me—and I was falling
                     asleep when Hampton's cavalry came up.
                  I think, then, I rode on with him—having been left to direct him. That we
                     talked about horses, and the superiority of "blood" in animals; that at dawn,
                     Hampton said, "I am perishing for sleep!" and that we lay down, side by side,
                     near a haystack.
                  All that is a sort of phantasmagoria, and others were no better than myself.
                     Whole columns went to sleep, in the saddle, as they rode along; and General
                     Stuart told me afterward, that he saw a man attempt to climb over a fence, half
                     succeed only, and go to sleep on the top rail!
                  Some day I promise myself the pleasure of travelling in Pennsylvania. It
                     possesses all the attractions to me of a world seen in a dream!
                  But after that good sleep, side by side with the great Carolinian, things
                     looked far more real, and pushing on I again caught up with Stuart.
                  He advanced steadily on Carlisle, and in the afternoon we heard artillery from
                     the south.
                  I looked at my military map, and calculated the distance. The result was that I
                     said:—
                  "General, those guns are at a place called Gettysburg on this map."
                  "Impossible!" was his reply. "They can not be fighting there. You are certainly
                     wrong."
                  But I was right.
                  Those guns were the signal of the "First day's fight at Gettysburg."
               
               
                  
                  XIX. CARLISLE BY FIRELIGHT.
                  IT can not be said that we accomplished very enormous results at Carlisle. The
                     enemy defended it bravely.
                  Stuart sent in a flag, demanding a surrender: this proposition was politely
                     declined; and for fear that there might possibly remain some doubts on the
                     subject, the Federal commander of the post, opened with artillery upon the gray
                     cavalry.
                  That was the signal for a brisk fight, and a magnificent spectacle also.
                  As soon as the enemy's response to the flag of truce had been received, Stuart
                     advanced his sharp-shooters, replied with his artillery to their own, and
                     dispatched a party to destroy the extensive United States barracks, formerly
                     used as cantonments for recruits to the army.
                  In ten minutes the buildings were wrapped in flames; and the city of Carlisle
                     was illumined magnificently. The crimson light of the conflagration revealed
                     every house, the long lines of trees, and made the delicate church spires,
                     rising calmly aloft, resemble shafts of rose-tinted marble.
                  I recall but one scene which was equally picturesque—the "doomed city" of
                     Fredericksburg, on the night of December 11, 1862, when the church spires were
                     illumined by the burning houses, as those of Carlisle were in June, 1863.
                  So much for this new "Siege of Carlisle." Here my descripion ends. It was
                     nothing—a mere picture. An hour afterward Stuart ceased firing, the
                     conflagration died down; back into the black night sank the fair town of
                     Carlisle, seen then for the first and the last time by this historian.
                  The guns were silent, the cavalry retired; and Stuart, accompanied by his
                     staff, galloped back to a great deserted house where he established his
                     temporary head-quarters.
                  On the bold face there was an expression of decided ill-humor. He had just
                     received a dispatch, by courier, from General Lee.
                  That dispatch said, "Come, I need you urgently here," and the "here" in
                     question, was Gettysburg, at least twenty miles distant. Now, with worn-out men
                     and horses, twenty miles was a serious matter. Stuart's brows were knit, and he
                     mused gloomily.
                  Suddenly he turned and addressed me.
                  "You were right, Surry," he said, "those guns were at Gettysburg. This
                     dispatch, sent this morning, reports the enemy near there."
                  I bowed; Stuart reflected for some moments without speaking. Then he suddenly
                     said:—
                  "I wish you would go to General Lee, and say I am coming, Surry. How is your
                     horse?"
                  "Worn-out, general, but I can get another."
                  "Good; tell General Lee that I will move at once to Gettysburg, with all my
                     force, and as rapidly as possible!"
                  "I will lose no time, general."
                  And saluting, I went out.
                  From the captured horses I selected the best one I could find, and burying the
                     spurs in his sides, set out through the black night.
               
               
                  XX. THE HOUSE BETWEEN CARLISLE AND GETTYSBURG.
                  YOU know when you set out, the proverb says, but you know not when you will
                     arrive.
                  I left Carlisle, breasting the night, on the road to Gettysburg, little
                     thinking that a curious incident was to occur to me upon the way—an incident
                     closely connected with the destinies of some personages who play prominent
                     parts in this history.
                  I had ridden on for more than an hour, through the darkness, keeping a good
                     look-out for the enemy, whose scouting parties of cavalry were known to be
                     prowling around, when all at once, my horse, who was going at full speed,
                     struck his foot against a sharp point of rock, cropping out from the
                     surface.
                  
                  The animal stumbled, recovered himself, and went on as rapidly as before. A
                     hundred yards further his speed relaxed; then he began to limp painfully; then
                     in spite of every application of the spur I could not force him out of a slow
                     limping trot.
                  It was truly unfortunate. I was the bearer of an important message, and was
                     surrounded by enemies. The only chance was to pass through them, under shadow
                     of the darkness; with light they would perceive me, and my capture be
                     certain.
                  A hundred yards further, and I found I must decide at once upon the course to
                     pursue. My horse seemed about to fall. At every stroke of the spur he groaned
                     piteously, and his limp had become a stagger.
                  I looked around through the trees, and at the distance of a quarter of a mile I
                     saw the glimmer of a light. To obtain another horse was indispensable under the
                     circumstances; and looking to see that my revolver was loaded and capped, I
                     forced my tottering animal toward the mansion in which the light glimmered.
                  My design was simply to proceed thither, "impress" a fresh horse at the
                     pistol's muzzle; throw my saddle upon him; leave my own animal, and proceed on
                     my way.
                  Pushing across the fields, and dismounting to let down the fences which my
                     limping animal could not leap, I soon approached the light. It shone through
                     the window of a house of some size, with ornamental grounds around it, and
                     apparently the abode of a man of means.
                  At fifty paces from it I dismounted and tethered my horse in the shadow of some
                     trees. A brief reconnoissance under the circumstances was advisable; and
                     approaching the mansion silently, without allowing my sabre to make any
                     clatter, I gained the long portico in front, and went to a window reaching down
                     to the flooring of the verandah.
                  Through the half-closed venetians I could see into a large apartment, half
                     library, half sitting-room, as the easy chairs, mantel ornaments, desks, and
                     book-cases showed. On the centre-table burned a brilliant lamp—and by its light
                     I witnessed a spectacle which made me draw back in the shadow of the shutter,
                     and rivet my eyes on the interior.
                  Before me, in the illuminated apartment, I saw the woman whom Mohun had
                     captured on the Rappahannock; and beside her the personage with whom she had
                     escaped that morning in the wagon from Culpeper Court-House. I could not
                     mistake him. The large, prominent nose, the cunning eyes, the double chin, the
                     fat person, and the chubby hands covered with pinchbeck rings, were still fresh
                     in my memory.
                  The name of this personage had been revealed by Nighthawk. Swartz, the secret
                     agent, blockade-runner, and "best spy in the Federal army" was before me.
                  A glance at the woman revealed no change in her appearance. Before me was the
                     same lithe and graceful figure, clad as before in a gray dress. I saw the same
                     snow-white cheeks, red lips, and large eyes burning with a latent fire.
                  The two were busily engaged, and it was not difficult to understand their
                     occupation. The desks, drawers and chests of the apartment were all open; and
                     the female with rapid hands was transferring papers from them to Swartz, who
                     methodically packed them in a leathern valise. These papers were no doubt
                     important, and the aim to remove them to some place of safety beyond the reach
                     of the Confederates.
                  I gazed for some moments, without moving, upon the spectacle of these two
                     night-birds at their work. The countenance of the lady was animated; her
                     motions rapid; and from time to time she stopped to listen. Swartz, on the
                     contrary, was the incarnation of phlegmatic coolness. His face wore an
                     expression of entire equanimity; and he seemed to indulge no fears whatever of
                     intruders.
                  All at once, however, I saw his eyes glitter as they fell upon a paper which
                     she handed him to pack away with the rest. It was carefully folded, but one of
                     the folds flew open as he received it, and his eyes were suddenly fixed
                     intently upon the sheet.
                  Then his head turned quickly, and he looked at his companion. She was bending
                     over a drawer, and did not observe that glance. Thereupon Swartz folded up the
                     paper, quietly put it in his pocket, and went on packing the valise with his
                     former coolness; only a slight color in his face seemed to indicate concealed
                     emotion.
                  As he pocketed the paper, his companion turned round. It was plain that she had
                     not perceived the manœuvre.
                  
                  At the same moment I heard the sound of hoofs in rear of the house, and the
                     clatter of a sabre as a cavalier dismounted. A few indistinct words, apparently
                     addressed to a servant or orderly, followed. Then the door of the apartment
                     opposite the front window was thrown open, and a man entered.
                  In the new-comer I recognized Mohun's adversary at Upperville—Colonel Darke, of
                     the United States Cavalry.
               
               
                  XXI. FALLEN.
                  DARKE entered the apartment abruptly, but his appearance seemed to occasion no
                     surprise. The spy retained his coolness. The lady went on with her work. You
                     would have said that they had expected the officer, and recognized his
                     step.
                  Their greeting was brief. Darke nodded in apparent approbation of the task in
                     which the man and woman were engaged, and folding his arms in front of the
                     marble mantel, looked on in silence.
                  I gazed at him with interest, and more carefully than I had been able to do
                     during the fight at Upperville, when the smoke soon concealed him. Let me draw
                     his outline. Of all the human beings whom I encountered in the war, this one's
                     character and career were perhaps the most remarkable. Were I writing a
                     romance, I should be tempted to call him the real hero of this volume.
                  He was a man approaching middle age; low in stature, but broad, muscular, and
                     powerful. He was clad in the full-dress uniform of a colonel of the United
                     States Cavalry, wore boots reaching to the knee and decorated with large spurs;
                     and his arms were an immense sabre and a brace of revolvers in black leather
                     holsters attached to his belt. His face was swarthy, swollen by excess in drink
                     apparently, and half covered by a shaggy beard and mustache as black as night.
                     The eyes were deep-set, and wary: the poise of the head upon the shoulders,
                     haughty; the expression of the entire countenance cold, phlegmatic, grim.
                  Such was this man, upon the surface. But there was something more about him
                     which irresistibly attracted attention, and aroused speculation. At the first
                     glance, you set him down as a common-place ruffian, the prey of every brutal
                     passion. At the second glance, you began to doubt whether he was a mere vulgar
                     adventurer—you could see, at least, that this man was not of low birth. There
                     was in his bearing an indefinable something which indicated that he had "seen
                     better days." The surface of the fabric was foul and defiled, but the texture
                     beneath was of velvet, not "hodden gray."
                  "That brute," I thought, "was once a gentleman, and crime or drink has
                     destroyed him!"
                  Darke continued to gaze at Swartz and the gray woman as they plied their busy
                     work; and once or twice he pointed to drawers which they had failed to open.
                     These directions were promptly obeyed, and the work went on. The few words
                     which the parties uttered came in an indistinct murmur only through the window
                     at which I was stationed.
                  Such was the scene within the mansion, upon which I gazed with strong
                     curiosity: suddenly the neigh of a horse was heard in a clump of woods beyond
                     the front gate; and Darke quickly raised his head, and then came out to the
                     portico.
                  He passed within three feet of me, but did not perceive me, as I was concealed
                     by one of the open venetians. Then he paused and listened. The wind sighed in
                     the foliage, and a distant watch-dog was barking—that was all. No other noise
                     disturbed the silence of the July night.
                  Darke remained upon the portico for some moments, listening attentively. Then
                     turned and re-entered the house. Through the window, I could see him make his
                     appearance again in the illuminated apartment. In response to the glances of
                     inquiry from his companions he made a gesture only, but that said plainly:—
                  "Nothing is stirring. You can go on with your work."
                  In this, however, he was mistaken. Darke had scarcely re-entered the apartment,
                     when I discerned the hoof-strokes of
                     horses beyond the front gate—then the animals were heard leaping the low
                     fence—a moment afterward two figures came on at full gallop, threw themselves
                     from the saddle, and rapidly approached the house.
                  The rattle of a sabre which one of them wore attracted Darke's attention. He
                     reached the door of the room at a single bound—but at the same instant the new
                     comers rushed by me, and burst in.
                  As they passed I recognized them. One was Mohun, the other Nighthawk.
               
               
                  XXII. DARKE AND MOHUN.
                  WHAT followed was instantaneous.
                  The adversaries were face to face, and each drew his pistol and fired at the
                     same moment.
                  Neither was struck: they drew their swords; and, through the cloud of smoke
                     filling the apartment, I could see Darke and Mohun close in, in a hand to hand
                     encounter.
                  They were both excellent swordsmen, and the struggle was passionate and
                     terrible. Mohun's movements were those of the tiger springing upon his prey;
                     but Darke met the attack with a coolness and phlegm which indicated unshrinking
                     nerve; his expression seemed, even, to indicate that crossing swords with his
                     adversary gave the swarthy giant extreme pleasure. His face glowed, and a flash
                     darted from beneath the shaggy eyebrows. I could see him smile; but the smile
                     was strange.
                  From the adversaries my glance passed quickly to the gray woman. She was
                     leaning against the wall, and exhibited no emotion whatever; but the lurid
                     blaze in the great dark eyes, as she looked at Mohun, clearly indicated that a
                     storm was raging in her bosom. Opposite the woman stood Nighthawk—motionless,
                     but grasping a pistol. As to Swartz, that worthy had profited by an open window
                     near, and had glided through it and disappeared.
                  To return to the combatants. The passionate encounter absorbed all my
                     attention. Mohun and Darke were cutting at each other furiously. They seemed
                     equally matched, and the result was doubtful. One thing only seemed
                     certain—that in a few minutes one of the adversaries would be dead.
                  Such was the situation of affairs when shots were heard without, the clash of
                     sabres followed, and the door behind Darke was burst open violently by his
                     orderly, who rushed in, exclaiming:—
                  "Look out, colonel! The enemy are on you!"
                  As he uttered these words, the man drew a revolver and aimed at Mohun's
                     breast.
                  Before he could fire, however, an explosion was heard, and I saw the man
                     suddenly drop his weapon, which went off as it escaped from his nerveless
                     grasp. Then he threw up his hands, reeled, took two uncertain steps backward,
                     and fell at full length on the floor. Nighthawk had shot him through the
                     heart.
                  All this had taken place in far less time than it has taken to write it. I had
                     made violent efforts to break through the window; and finding this impossible,
                     now ran to the door and burst into the apartment.
                  The singular scene was to have as singular a denouement.
                  Darke evidently realized the great danger which he ran, for the house was now
                     surrounded, nearly, and his capture was imminent.
                  From the black eyes shot a glare of defiance, and advancing upon Mohun, he
                     delivered a blow at him which nearly shattered his opponent's sword. Mohun
                     struck in turn, aiming a furious cut at Darke; but as he did so, he stumbled
                     over the dead orderly, and nearly fell. For the moment he was at Darke's
                     mercy.
                  I rushed forward, sword in hand, to ward off the mortal stroke which I was
                     certain his adversary would deliver, but my intervention was useless.
                  Darke recoiled from his stumbling adversary, instead of striking at him. I
                     could scarcely believe my own eyes, but the fact was unmistakable.
                  Then the Federal colonel looked around, and his eye fell upon the woman.
                  "Kill him!" she said, coldly. "Do not mind me!—only kill him!"
                  
                  "No!" growled Darke. And seizing the woman in his arms:—
                  "They shall not take you prisoner!" he said.
                  And the swarthy Hercules passed through the door in rear, at a single bound,
                     bearing off the woman like a feather.
                  A moment afterward the hoof-strokes of a horse were heard.
                  Darke had disappeared with the gray woman.
                  I turned to look at Mohun. He was standing perfectly motionless, and looking
                     after Darke with a strange expression of gloom and astonishment.
                  "You are unhurt!" I said.
                  He turned quickly, and held out his hand.
                  "Slightly wounded—but I am not thinking of that."
                  "Of what, then?"
                  "I remember only one thing—that this man might have buried his sword in my
                     heart, and did not."
                  An hour afterward the skirmish was over; I had explained my presence at the
                     house to Mohun, parted with him, promising to see him soon again; and, mounted
                     upon a fresh animal which Mohun presented to me from among those captured, was
                     once more on my way to Gettysburg.
                  It was hard to realize that the scenes of the night were actual occurrences.
                     They were more like dreams than realities.
               
               
                  XXIII. GETTYSBURG.
                  I CAME in sight of Gettysburg at sunrise.
                  Gettysburg!—name instinct with so many tears, with so much mourning, with those
                     sobs which tear their way from the human heart as the lava makes its way from
                     the womb of the volcano!
                  There are words in the world's history whose very sound is like a sigh or a
                     groan; places which are branded "accursed" by the moaning lips of mothers,
                     wives, sisters, and orphans. Shadowy figures, gigantic and draped in mourning,
                     seem to hover above these spots: skeleton arms with bony fingers point to the
                     soil beneath, crowded with graves: from the eyes, dim and hollow, glare
                     unutterable things: and the grin of the fleshless lips is the gibbering mirth
                     of the corpse torn from its cerements, and erect, as though the last trump had
                     sounded, and the dead had arisen. No fresh flowers bloom in these dreary spots;
                     no merry birds twitter there; no streamlets lapse sweetly with musical murmurs
                     beneath the waterflags or the drooping boughs of trees. See! the blighted and
                     withered plants are like the deadly nightshade—true flowers of war, blooming,
                     or trying to bloom, on graves! Hear the voices of the few birds—they are sad
                     and discordant! See the trees—they are gnarled, spectral, and torn by
                     cannon-balls. Listen! The stream yonder is not limpid and mirthful like other
                     streams. You would say that it is sighing as it steals away, soiled and
                     ashamed. The images it has mirrored arouse its horror and make it sad. The
                     serene surface has not given back the bright forms of children, laughing and
                     gathering the summer flowers on its banks. As it sneaks like a culprit through
                     the scarred fields of battle, it washes bare the bones of the dead in crumbling
                     uniforms—bringing, stark and staring, to the upper air once more, the blanched
                     skeleton and the grinning skull.
                  Names of woe, at whose utterance the heart shudders, the blood curdles!
                     Accursed localities where the traveller draws back, turning away in horror! All
                     the world is dotted with them; everywhere they make the sunlight black. Among
                     them, none is gloomier, or instinct with a more nameless horror, than the once
                     insignificant village of Gettysburg.
                  I reached it on the morning of July 2, 1863.
                  The immense drama was in full progress. The adversaries had clashed together.
                     Riding across the extensive fields north of the town, I saw the traces of the
                     combat of the preceding day—and among the dying I remember still a poor Federal
                     soldier, who looked at me with his stony and half glazed eye as I passed; he
                     was an enemy, but he was dying and I pitied him.
                  A few words will describe the situation of affairs at that moment.
                  Lee had pressed on northward through the valley of the Cumberland berland, when news came that General Meade, who
                     had succeeded Hooker, was advancing to deliver battle to the invaders.
                  At that intelligence Lee arrested his march. Meade menaced his communications,
                     and it was necessary to check him. Hill's corps was, therefore, sent across the
                     South Mountain, toward Gettysburg; Ewell, who had reached York, was ordered
                     back; and Lee made his preparations to fight his adversary as soon as he
                     appeared.
                  The columns encountered each other in the neighborhood of Gettysburg—a great
                     centre toward which a number of roads converge, like the spokes of a wheel
                     toward the hub.
                  The head of Hill's column struck the head of Reynolds's—then the thunder
                     began.
                  The day and scene were lovely. On the waving wheat-fields and the forests in
                     full foliage, the light of a summer sun fell in flashing splendor. A slight
                     rain had fallen; the wind was gently blowing; and the leaves and golden grain
                     were covered with drops which the sunshine changed to diamonds. Over the
                     exquisite landscape drooped a beautiful rainbow.
                  Soon blood had replaced the raindrops, and the bright bow spanning the sky was
                     hidden by lurid smoke, streaming aloft from burning buildings, set on fire by
                     shell.
                  I give but a few words to this first struggle, which I did not witness.
                  The Federal forces rushed forward, exclaiming:—
                  "We have come to stay!"
                  "And a very large portion of them," said one of their officers, General
                     Doubleday. "never left that ground!"
                  Alas! many thousands in gray, too, "came to stay."
                  Hill was hard pressed and sent for assistance. Suddenly it appeared from the
                     woods on his left, where Ewell's bayonets were seen, coming back from the
                     Susquehanna.
                  Rodes, the head of Ewell's corps, formed line and threw himself into the
                     action.
                  Early came up on the left; Rodes charged and broke through the Federal centre.
                     Gordon, commanding a brigade then, closed in on their right flank, and the
                     battle was decided,
                  The great blue crescent was shattered, and gave way. The Confederates federates
                     pressed on, and the Federal army became a rabble. They retreated pellmell
                     through Gettysburg, toward Cemetery Hill, leaving their battle-flags and five
                     thousand prisoners in our hands.
                  Such was the first day's fight at Gettysburg. Lee's head of column had struck
                     Meade's; each had rapidly been re-enforced; the affair became a battle, and the
                     Federal forces were completely defeated.
                  That was the turning point of the campaign. If this success had only been
                     followed up—if we could only have seized upon and occupied Cemetery Hill!
                  Then General Meade would have been compelled to retire upon Westminster and
                     Washington. He would doubtless have fought somewhere, but it is a terrible
                     thing to have an army flushed with victory "after" you!
                  Cemetery Range was not seized that night. When the sun rose the next morning,
                     the golden moment had passed. General Meade was ready.
                  From right to left, as far as the eye could reach, the heights bristled with
                     blue infantry and artillery. From every point on the ridge waved the enemy's
                     battle flags. From the muzzles of his bronze war-dogs, Meade sent his defiant
                     challenge to his adversary to attack him.
                  "Come on!" the Federal artillery seemed to mutter fiercely.
                  And Lee's guns from the ridge opposite thundered grimly in reply,
                  "We are coming!"
               
               
                  XXIV. THE ARMY.
                  ALAS!——
                  That is the word which rises to the lips of every Southerner, above all to
                     every Virginian, who attempts to describe this terrible battle of
                     Gettysburg.
                  
                  The cheeks flush, the voice falters, and something like a fiery mist blinds the
                     eyes. What comes back to the memory of the old soldiers who saw that fight is a
                     great picture of heroic assaults, ending in frightful carnage only,—of charges
                     such as the world has rarely seen, made in vain,—of furious onslaughts, the
                     only result of which was to strew those fatal fields with the dead bodies of
                     the flower of the Southern race
                  And we were so near succeeding! Twice the enemy staggered; and one more
                     blow—only one more! promised the South a complete victory!
                  When Longstreet attacked Round Top Hill, driving the enemy back to their inner
                     line, victory seemed within our very grasp—but we could not snatch it. The
                     enemy acknowledge that, and it is one of their own poets who declares that 
                        
                           "The century reeled
                           "When Longstreet paused on the slope of the hill."
                        
                     
                  
                  Pickett stormed Cemetery Heights, and wanted only support. Five thousand men at
                     his back would have given him victory.
                  There is a name for the battle of Gettysburg which exactly suits it—"The Great
                     Graze!"
                  You must go to the histories, reader, for a detailed account of this battle. I
                     have not the heart to write it, and aim to give you a few scenes only. In my
                     hasty memoirs I can touch only upon the salient points, and make the general
                     picture.
                  The ground on which the battle was fought, is familiar to many thousands. A few
                     words will describe it. Cemetery Ridge, where General Meade had taken up his
                     position, is a range of hills running northward toward Gettysburg, within a
                     mile of which place it bends off to the right terminating in a lofty and
                     rock-bound crest.
                  This crest was Meade's right. His line stretched away southward then, and ended
                     at Round Top Hill, the southern extremity of the range, about four miles
                     distant.
                  From one end to the other of the extensive range, bayonets glistened, and the
                     muzzles of cannon grinned defiance.
                  Opposite the Cemetery Range was a lower line of hills, called Seminary Range.
                     Upon this Lee was posted, Ewell holding his left, A. P. Hill his centre, and
                     Longstreet his right.
                  Between the two armies stretched a valley, waving with grain and dotted with
                     fruit-trees, through which ran the Emmettsburg road, on the western side of a
                     small stream. The golden grain waved gently; the limpid water lapsed away
                     beneath grass and flowers; the birds were singing; the sun was shining—it was
                     the strangest of all scenes for a bloody conflict.
                  I rode along the line of battle, and curiously scanned the features of the
                     landscape. There is a frightful interest connected with ground which is soon
                     going to become the arena of a great combat. A glance told me that the enemy's
                     position was much the stronger of the two. Would Lee attack it?
                  From the landscape I turned to look at the army. Never had I seen them so
                     joyous. It would be impossible to convey any idea of the afflatus which buoyed
                     them up. Every man's veins seemed to run with quicksilver, instead of blood.
                     Every cheek was glowing. Every eye flashed with superb joy and defiance. You
                     would have supposed, indeed, that the troops were under the effect of champagne
                     or laughing gas. "I never even imagined such courage," said a Federal officer
                     afterward; "your men seemed to be drunk with victory when they charged us!"
                  That was scarce an exaggeration. Already on the morning of battle they
                     presented this appearance. Lying down in line of battle, they laughed, jested,
                     sang, and resembled children enjoying a holiday. On the faces of bearded
                     veterans and boy-soldiers alike was a splendid pride. The victories of
                     Fredericksburg, and Chancellorsville had electrified the troops. They thought
                     little of a foe who could be so easily driven; they looked forward to victory
                     as a foregone conclusion—alas! they did not remember that they
                     held the heights at Fredericksburg; and that Meade on Cemetery Hill was an
                     adversary very different from Hooker in the Spottsylvania Wilderness!
                  Such was the spectacle which I witnessed, when after delivering my message to
                     General Lee, I rode along the Southern line. I think the great commander shared
                     in some measure the sentiment of his troops. His bearing was collected; in his
                     eye you could read no trace of excitement; the lips covered by the gray
                     mustache were firm and composed; and he greeted me with quiet courtesy:—but in the cheeks of the great
                     soldier a ruddy glow seemed to betray anticipated victory.
                  I confess I shared the general sentiment. That strange intoxication was
                     contagious, and I was drunk like the rest with the thought of triumph. That
                     triumph would open to us the gates of Washington and bring peace. The North
                     scarcely denied that then—though they may deny it to-day. The whole country was
                     completely weary of the war. There seemed to be no hope of compelling the South
                     to return to the Union. A victory over Meade, opening the whole North to Lee,
                     promised a treaty of peace. The day had arrived, apparently when the army of
                     Northern Virginia, musket in hand, was about to dictate the terms of that
                     document.
                  "Lee has only to slip the leash," I thought, as I gazed at the army, "and these
                     war-dogs will tear down their prey!"
                  Alas! they tore it, but were torn too! they did all at Gettysburg that any
                     troops could do.
                  What was impossible, was beyond even their strength.
               
               
                  XXV. THE WRESTLE FOR ROUND TOP HILL.
                  FROM the morning of the second of July to the evening of the third, the fields
                     south of Gettysburg were one great scene of smoke, dust, uproar, blood; of
                     columns advancing and returning; cannon thundering; men shouting, yelling,
                     cheering, and dying; blue mingled with gray in savage and unrelenting
                     battle.
                  In that smoke-cloud, with the ears deafened, you saw or heard little
                     distinctly. But above the confused struggle rose two great incidents, which on
                     successive days decided every thing.
                  The first of them was Longstreet's assault on the enemy's left wing, in front
                     of Round Top Hill.
                  Lee had displayed excellent soldiership in determining upon this movement, and
                     it will be seen that it came within an inch of success. Standing upon Seminary
                     Range, near his centre, he had reconnoitered General Meade's position through
                     his field-glass, with great attention; and this examination revealed the fact
                     that the Federal line was projected forward in a salient in front of Round Top
                     Hill, a jagged and almost inaccessible peak, near which rested General Meade's
                     extreme left.
                  If this weak point could be carried, "it appeared" said Lee, "that its
                     possession would give facilities for assailing and carrying the more elevated
                     ground and crest beyond."
                  As to the importance of that crest—namely Round Top Hill—hear General
                     Meade:—
                  "If they had succeeded in occupying that, it would have prevented me from
                     holding any of the ground which I subsequently held to the last."
                  Lee determined to attack the salient, making at the same time a heavy
                     demonstration—or a real assault—upon the Federal right, opposite Ewell.
                  All his preparations were not made until the afternoon. Then suddenly,
                     Longstreet's artillery opened its thunders.
                  At that moment the spectacle was grand. The heights, the slopes, the fields,
                     and the rugged crest opposite, were enveloped in smoke and fire from the
                     bursting shell. The sombre roar ascended like the bellowing of a thousand
                     bulls, leaped back from the rocks, and rolled away, in wild echoes through the
                     hills. All the furies seemed let loose, and yet this was only the preface.
                  At four in the evening the thunder dropped to silence, and along the lines of
                     Hood and McLaws, which formed the charging column, ran a wild cheer, which must
                     have reached the ears of the enemy opposite.
                  That cheer told both sides that the moment had come. The word was given, and
                     Longstreet hurled his column at the blue line occupying a peach-orchard in his
                     front.
                  The blow was aimed straight at the salient in the Federal line, and in spite of
                     a brave resistance it was swept away; McLaws advancing rapidly toward the high
                     ground in its rear. At one blow the whole left wing of General Meade's army
                     seemed thrown into irretrievable confusion, and Hood pressing forward on
                     McLaws's right, hastened to seize upon the famous Round Top, from which he would be able to hurl his thunder
                     upon the flank and rear of the Federal line of battle.
                  The scene, like the conflict which now took place, was wild and singular. The
                     crest of Round Top Hill was a mass of rock, which rose abruptly from the rough
                     and jagged slope. It was unoccupied—for the sudden overthrow of the force in
                     front of it had not been anticipated—and one headlong rush on the part of Hood
                     alone seemed necessary to give him possession of the real key of the whole
                     position.
                  Hood saw that at a glance, and dashed up the slope at the head of his men. It
                     was scarcely an order of battle which his troops presented at this moment. But
                     one thought burned in every heart. The men swarmed up the hill-side; the woods
                     gave back the rolling thunder of their cheers; already the Southern
                     battle-flags carried by the foremost were fluttering on the crest.
                  The mass rushed toward the red flags; for an instant the gray figures were seen
                     erect upon the summit—then a sudden crash of musketry resounded—and a mad
                     struggle began with a Federal brigade which had hastened to the spot.
                  This force, it is said, was hurried up by General Warren, who finding the
                     Federal signal-officers about to retire, ordered them, to remain and continue
                     waving their flags to the last; and then, seizing on the first brigade he could
                     find, rushed them up the slope to the crest.
                  They arrived just in time. Hood's men were swarming on the crest. A loud cheer
                     arose, but all at once they found themselves face to face with a line of
                     bayonets, while beyond were seen confused and struggling masses, dragging up
                     cannon.
                  What followed was a savage grapple rather than an ordinary conflict. Only a
                     small part of Hood's force had reached the summit, and this was assailed by a
                     whole brigade. The fight was indescribable. All that the eye could make out for
                     some moments in the dust and smoke, was a confused mass of men clutching each
                     other, dealing blows with the butt-ends of muskets, or fencing with
                     bayonets—men in blue and gray, wrestling, cursing, falling, and dying, in the
                     midst of the crash of small-arms, and the thunder of cannon, which clothed the
                     crest in flame.
                  When the smoke drifted, it was seen that the Confederates had been repulsed,
                     and driven from the hill. Hood was falling back slowly, like a wounded tiger,
                     who glares at the huntsman and defies him to the last. The slope was strewed
                     with some of his bravest. The Federal cannon roaring on Round Top Hill, seemed
                     to be laughing hoarsely.
                  McLaws, too, had fallen back after nearly seizing upon the crest in his front.
                     The enemy had quickly re-enforced their left, with brigades, divisions, and
                     corps, and the Confederates had been hotly assailed in their turn. As night
                     descended, the whole Southern line fell back. The pallid moonlight shone on the
                     upturned faces of the innumerable dead.
                  Longstreet sat on a fence, cutting a stick with his penknife, when an English
                     officer near him exclaimed:—
                  "I would not have missed this for any thing?"
                  Longstreet, laughed grimly.
                  "I would like to have missed it very much!"*
                        he said.
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
               
               
                  XXVI. THE CHARGE OF THE VIRGINIANS.
                  LEE'S great blow at the enemy's left had failed. He had thrown his entire right
                     wing, under Longstreet, against it. The enemy had been driven; victory seemed
                     achieved;—but suddenly the blue lines had rallied, they had returned to the
                     struggle, their huge masses had rolled forward, thrown Longstreet back in turn,
                     and now the pale moon looked down on the battle-field where some of the bravest
                     souls of the South had poured out their blood in vain.
                  Lee had accomplished nothing, and one of his great corps was panting and
                     bleeding. It was not shattered or even shaken. The iron fibre would stand any
                     thing almost. But the sombre result remained—Longstreet had attacked and had
                     been repulsed.
                  What course would Lee now pursue? Would he retire?
                  
                  Retire? The army of Northern Virginia lose heart at a mere rebuff? Lee's
                     veteran army give up the great invasion, after a mere repulse? Troops and
                     commander alike shrunk from the very thought. One more trial of
                     arms—something—an attack somewhere—not a retreat!
                  
                  That was the spirit of the army on the night of the second of July.
                  A flanking movement to draw the enemy out of their works, or a second attack
                     remained.
                  Lee determined to attack.
                  Longstreet and Ewell had accomplished nothing by assailing the right and left
                     of the enemy. Lee resolved now to throw a column against its centre—to split
                     the stubborn obstacle, and pour into the gap with the whole army, when all
                     would be over.
                  That was hazardous, you will say perhaps to-day, reader. And you have this
                     immense argument to advance, that it failed. Ah! these arguments after
                        the event! they are so fatal, and so very easy.
                  Right or wrong, Lee resolved to make the attack; and on the third of July he
                     carried out his resolution.
                  If the writer of the South shrinks from describing the bloody repulse of
                     Longstreet, much more gloomy is the task of painting that last charge at
                     Gettysburg. It is one of those scenes which Lee's old soldiers approach with
                     repugnance. That thunder of the guns which comes back to memory seems to issue,
                     hollow and lugubrious, from a thousand tombs.
                  Let us pass over that tragedy rapidly. It must be touched on in these
                     memoirs—but I leave it soon.
                  It is the third of July, 1863. Lee's line of battle, stretching along the crest
                     of Seminary Ridge, awaits the signal for a new conflict with a carelessness as
                     great as on the preceding day. The infantry are laughing, jesting, cooking
                     their rations, and smoking their pipes. The ragged cannoneers, with flashing
                     eyes, smiling lips, and faces blackened with powder, are standing in groups, or
                     lying down around the pieces of artillery. Near the centre of the line a
                     gray-headed officer, in plain uniform, and entirely unattended, has dismounted,
                     and is reconnoitring the Federal position through a pair of field-glasses.
                  It is Lee, and he is looking toward Cemetery Heights, the Mount St. Jean of the
                     new Waterloo—on whose slopes the immense conflict is going to be decided.
                  Lee gazes for some moments through his glasses at the long range bristling with
                     bayonets. Not a muscle moves; he resembles a statue. Then he lowers the
                     glasses, closes them thoughtfully, and his calm glance passes along the lines
                     of his army. You would say that this glance penetrates the forest; that he sees
                     his old soldiers, gay, unshrinking, unmoved by the reverses of Long-street, and
                     believing in themselves and in him! The blood of the soldier responds to that
                     thought. The face of the great commander suddenly flushes. He summons a staff
                     officer and utters a few words in calm and measured tones. The order is given.
                     The grand assault is about to begin.
                  That assault is going to be one of the most desperate in all history.
                     Longstreet's has been fierce—this will be mad and full of headlong fury. At
                     Round Top blood flowed—here the earth is going to be soaked with it. Gettysburg
                     is to witness a charge recalling that of the six hundred horsemen at Balaklava.
                     Each soldier will feel that the fate of the South depends on him, perhaps. If
                     the wedge splits the tough grain, cracking it from end to end, the axe will
                     enter after it—the work will be finished—the red flag of the South will float
                     in triumph over a last and decisive field.
                  Pickett's division of Virginia troops has been selected for the hazardous
                     venture, and they prepare for the ordeal in the midst of a profound silence.
                     Since the morning scarce a gunshot has been heard. Now and then only, a single
                     cannon, like a signal-gun, sends its growl through the hills.
                  Those two tigers, the army of Northern Virginia and the army of the Potomac,
                     are crouching, and about to spring.
                  At one o'clock the moment seems to have arrived. Along the whole front of Hill
                     and Longstreet, the Southern artillery all at once bursts forth. One hundred
                     and forty-five cannon send their threatening thunder across the peaceful
                     valley. From Cemetery Heights eighty pieces reply to them; and for more than an
                     hour these two hundred and twenty-five cannon tear the air with their harsh
                     roar, hurled back in crash after crash from the rocky ramparts parts. That thunder is the most terrible yet
                     heard in the war. It stirs the coolest veterans. General Hancock, the composed
                     and unexcitable soldier, is going to say of it, "Their artillery fire was most
                     terrific; it was the most terrific cannonade I ever witnessed, and the most
                     prolonged. It was a most terrific and appalling cannonade, one possibly hardly
                     ever equalled."
                  For nearly two hours Lee continues this "terrific" fire. The Federal guns
                     reply—shot and shell crossing each other; racing across the blue sky; battering
                     the rocks; or bursting in showers of iron fragments.
                  Suddenly the Federal fire slackens, and then ceases. Their ammunition has run
                        low,*
                      or they are silenced by the Southern fire. Lee's guns also cease
                      firing. The hour has come.
                  
                     
                     *This was the real reason.
                  
                  The Virginians, under Pickett, form in double line in the edge of the woods,
                     where Lee's centre is posted. These men are ragged and travel-worn, but their
                     bayonets and gun-barrels shine like silver. From the steel hedge, as the men
                     move, durt lightnings.
                  From the Cemetery Heights the enemy watch that ominous apparition—the gray line
                     of Virginians drawn up for the charge.
                  At the word, they move out, shoulder to shoulder, at common time. Descending
                     the slope, they enter on the valley, and move steadily toward the heights.
                  The advance of the column, with its battle-flags floating proudly, and its
                     ranks closed up and dressed with the precision of troops on parade, is a
                     magnificent spectacle. Old soldiers, hardened in the fires of battle, and not
                     given to emotion, lean forward watching the advance of the Virginians with
                     fiery eyes. You would say, from the fierce clutch of the gaunt hands on the
                     muskets, that they wish to follow; and many wish that.
                  The column is midway the valley, and beginning to move more rapidly, when
                     suddenly the Federal artillery opens. The ranks are swept by round shot, shell,
                     and canister. Bloody gaps appear, but the line closes up, and continues to
                     advance. The fire of the Federal artillery redoubles. All the demons of the pit
                     seem howling, roaring, yelling, and screaming. The assaulting column is torn by
                     a whirlwind of canister, before which men fall in heaps mangled, streaming with
                     blood, their bosoms torn to pieces, their hands clutching the grass, their
                     teeth biting the earth. The ranks, however, close up as before, and the
                     Virginians continue to advance.
                  From common time, they have passed to quick time—now they march at the
                     double-quick. That is to say, they run. They have reached the slope; the
                     enemy's breastworks are right before them; and they dash at them with wild
                     cheers.
                  They are still three hundred yards from the Federal works, when the real
                     conflict commences, to which the cannonade was but child's play. Artillery has
                     thundered, but something more deadly succeeds it—the sudden crash of musketry.
                     From behind a stone wall the Federal infantry rise up and pour a galling fire
                     into the charging column. It has been accompanied to this moment by a body of
                     other troops, but those troops now disappear, like dry leaves swept off by the
                     wind. The Virginians still advance.
                  Amid a concentrated fire of infantry and artillery, in their front and on both
                     flanks, they pass over the ground between themselves and the enemy; ascend the
                     slope; rush headlong at the breastworks; storm them; strike their bayonets into
                     the enemy, who recoil before them, and a wild cheer rises, making the blood
                     leap in the veins of a hundred thousand men.
                  The Federal works are carried, and the troops are wild with enthusiasm. With a
                     thunder of cheers they press upon the flying enemy toward the crest.
                  Alas! as the smoke drifts, they see what is enough to dishearten the bravest.
                     They have stormed the first line of works only! Beyond, is another and a
                     stronger line still. Behind it swarm the heavy reserves of the enemy, ready for
                     the death-struggle. But the column can not pause. It is "do or die." In their
                     faces are thrust the muzzles of muskets spouting flame. Whole ranks go down in
                     the fire. The survivors close up, utter a fierce cheer, and rush straight at
                     the second tier of works.
                  Then is seen a spectacle which will long be remembered with a throb of the
                     heart by many. The thinned ranks of the Virginians are advancing, unmoved, into
                     the very jaws of death. They go forward—and are annihilated. At every step
                     death meets them. The furious fire of the enemy on both flanks and in their front, hurls them back, mangled and
                     dying. The brave Garnett is killed while leading on his men. Kemper is lying on
                     the earth maimed for life. Armistead is mortally wounded at the moment when he
                     leaps upon the breastworks:—he waves his hat on the point of his sword, and
                     staggers, and falls. Of fifteen field officers, fourteen have fallen.
                     Three-fourths of the men are dead, wounded, or prisoners. The Federal infantry
                     has closed in on the flanks and rear of the Virginians—whole corps assault the
                     handful—the little band is enveloped, and cut off from succor—they turn and
                     face the enemy, bayonet to bayonet, and die.
                  When the smoke drifts away, all is seen to be over. It is a panting,
                     staggering, bleeding remnant only of the brave division that is coming back so
                     slowly yonder. They are swept from the fatal hill—pursued by yells, cheers,
                     cannon-shot, musket-ball, and canister. As they doggedly retire before the
                     howling hurricane, the wounded are seen to stagger and fall. Over the dead and
                     dying sweeps the canister. Amid volleys of musketry and the roar of cannon, all
                     but a handful of Pickett's Virginians pass into eternity.
               
               
                  XXVII. THE GREAT MOMENT OF A GREAT LIFE.
                  I WAS gazing gloomily at the field covered with detachments limping back amid a
                     great whirlwind of shell, when a mounted officer rode out of the smoke. In his
                     right hand he carried his drawn sword—his left arm was thrown around a wounded
                     boy whom he supported on the pommel of his saddle.
                  In the cavalier I recognized General Davenant, whom I had seen near the village
                     of Paris, and who was now personally known to me. In the boy I recognized the
                     urchin, Charley, with the braided jacket and jaunty cap.
                  I spurred toward him.
                  "Your son—!" I said, and I pointed to the boy.
                  "He is dying I think, colonel!" was the reply in a hoarse voice. The gray
                     mustache trembled, and the eye of the father rested, moist but fiery, on the
                     boy.
                  "Such a child!" I said. "Could he have gone into the charge?"
                  "I could not prevent him!" came, in a groan, almost from the old cavalier. "I
                     forbade him, but he got a musket somewhere, and went over the breastworks with
                     the rest. I saw him then for the first time, and heard him laugh and cheer. A
                     moment afterward he was shot—I caught and raised him up, and I have ridden back
                     through the fire, trying to shield him—but he is dying! Look! his wound is
                     mortal, I think—and so young—a mere child—never was any one braver than my poor
                     child—!"
                  A groan followed the words: and bending down the old cavalier kissed the pale
                     cheek of the boy.
                  I made no reply; something seemed to choke me.
                  Suddenly a grave voice uttered some words within a few paces of us, and I
                     turned quickly. It was General Lee—riding calmly amid the smoke, and re-forming
                     the stragglers. Never have I seen a human being more composed.
                  General Davenant wheeled and saluted.
                  "We are cut to pieces, general!" he said, with something like a fiery tear in
                     his eye. "We did our best, and we drove them!—but were not supported. My
                     brigade—by brave old brigade is gone! This is my boy—I brought him out—but he
                     is dying too!"
                  The hoarse tones and fiery tears of the old cavalier made my heart beat. I
                     could see a quick flush rise to the face of General Lee. He looked at the pale
                     face of the boy, over which the disordered curls fell, with a glance of
                     inexpressible sympathy and sweetness. Then stretching out his hand, he pressed
                     the hand of General Davenant, and said in his deep grave voice:—
                  "This has been a sad day for us, general—a sad day, but we cannot expect always
                     to gain victories. Never mind—all this has been my fault. It is
                        I who have lost this fight, and you must help me out of it in
                     the best way you can."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                  As he uttered these measured words, General Lee saluted and disappeared in the
                     smoke.
                  General Davenant followed, bearing the wounded boy still upon his saddle.
                  Ten minutes afterward, I was riding to find General Stuart, who had sent me
                     with a message just before the charge.
                  I had gloomy news for him. The battle of Gettysburg was lost.
               
               
                  XXVIII. UNSHAKEN.
                  THE sun was sinking red and baleful, when I reached Stuart, beyond the left
                     wing of the army.
                  From the afternoon of the second to this night of the third of July, the
                     cavalry had met that of the enemy in stubborn conflict. The columns had hurled
                     together. General Hampton had been severely wounded in a hand-to-hand encounter
                     with sabres, while leading his men. Stuart had narrowly escaped death or
                     capture in the melée; and Fitz Lee had fought hilt to hilt with the Federal
                     horsemen, repulsing them, and coming back laughing, as was his wont.
                  All these scenes I have passed over, however. The greater drama absorbed me.
                     The gray horsemen were fighting heroically; but what was that encounter of
                     sabres, when the fate of Gettysburg was being decided at Cemetery Hill!
                  So I pass over all that, and hasten on now to the sequel. Memory finds few
                     scenes to attract it in the days that followed Gettysburg.
                  But I beg the render to observe that I should have no scenes of a humiliating
                     character to draw. Never was army less "whipped" than that of Lee after this
                     fight! Do you doubt that statement, reader? Do you think that the Southerners
                     were a disordered rabble, flying before the Federal bayonets? a flock of
                     panic-stricken sheep, hurrying back to the Potomac, with the bay of the Federal
                     war-dogs in their ears?
                  
                     
                        MEETING OF GENERALS LEE AND DAVENANT.
                     
                  
                  
                  That idea—entertained by a number of our Northern friends—is entirely
                     fanciful.
                  Lee's army was not even shaken. It was fagged, hungry, out of ammunition, and
                     it retired,—but not until it had remained for twenty-four hours in line of
                     battle in front of the enemy, perfectly careless of, even inviting, attack.
                  "I should have liked nothing better than to have been attacked," said
                     Longstreet, "and have no doubt I should have given those who tried, as bad a
                     reception as Pickett received."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  It may be said that this is the boast of the defeated side. But General Meade,
                     when interrogated before the war committee, stated the exact facts.
                  "My opinion is now," said Meade "that General Lee evacuated that position, not
                     from the fear that he would be dislodged from it by an active operations on my
                     part, but that he was fearful a force would be sent to Harper's Ferry to cut
                     off his communications. That was what caused him to retire."
                  "Did you discover," asked one of the committee, "after the battle of
                     Gettysburg, any symptoms of demoralization in Lee's army?"
                  "No, sir," was General Meade's reply, "I saw nothing of that kind."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †General Meade's testimony may be found in the Report on the Conduct of
                        the War. Part I., p. 387.
                  
                  That statement was just, and General Meade was too much of a gentleman and
                     soldier to withhold it. He knew that his great adversary was still unshaken and
                     dangerous—that the laurels snatched on Round Top and Cemetery Heights might
                     turn to cypress, if the wounded lion were assailed in his own position.
                  After the repulse of Pickett's column on the third of July, Lee had the choice
                     of two courses—to either attack again or retire. Meade was evidently determined
                     to, remain on the defensive. To engage him, Lee must once more charge the
                     Cemetery Heights. But a third failure might be ruinous; the Confederate
                     ammunition was nearly exhausted; the communications with the Potomac were
                     threatened,—and Lee determined to retire.
                  That is the true history of the matter.
                  
                  The force which fell back before Meade was an army of veterans, with unshaken
                     nerves. It required only a glance to see that these men were still dangerous.
                     They were ready to fight again, and many raged at the retreat. Like Lee's "old
                     war horse," they were anxious to try another struggle, to have the enemy return
                     the compliment, and come over to charge them!
                  
                  Then commenced that singular retreat.
                  The trains retired in a long line stretching over many miles, by the
                     Chambersburg road, while the army marched by the shorter route, between the
                     trains and the enemy, ready to turn and tear the blue huntsmen if they
                     attempted to pursue.
                  So the famous army of Northern Virginia—great in defeat as in victory—took its
                     slow way back toward the soil of Virginia. Never was spectacle stranger than
                     that retreat from Gettysburg. The badly wounded had been sent with the army
                     trains; but many insisted upon keeping their places in the ranks. There was
                     something grim and terrible in these bandaged arms, and faces, and forms of
                     Lee's old soldiers—but you did not think of that as you looked into their pale
                     faces. What struck you in those eyes and lips was the fire, and the smile of an
                     unconquerable courage. Never had I witnessed resolution more splendid and
                     invincible. In the ragged foot soldiers of the old army I could see plainly the
                     evidences of a nerve which no peril could shake. Was it race—or the cause—or
                     confidence, through all, in Lee? I know not, but it was there. These men were
                     utterly careless whether the enemy followed them or not. They were retreating
                     unsubdued. The terrible scenes through which they had passed, the sights of
                     horror, the ghastly wounds, the blood, agony, death of the last few days had
                     passed away from their memories; and they went along with supreme indifference,
                     ready to fight at any moment, and certain that they could whip any enemy who
                     assailed them.
                  General Meade did not attempt that. He kept Lee at arm's-length, and followed
                     so slowly that the civilians were in enormous wrath, and looked de haut en bas on him—on this timid soldier who had
                     not cut Lee to pieces.
                  Between Meade, however, and the bold civilians, there was this enormous
                     difference. The soldier knew the mettle of the man and the army retiring from
                     Gettysburg. The civilians did not. Meade retained the fruits of his victory
                     over Lee. The civilians would have lost them.
                  At Williamsport, Lee halted and drew up his army in line of battle. The
                     Potomac, swollen by rains, presented an impassable obstacle.
                  Meade, following slowly, was met at every step by Stuart's cavalry; but finally
                     faced his adversary.
                  Every thing presaged a great battle, and Lee's cannon from the hills south of
                     Hagerstown laughed,
                  "Come on!"
                  But General Meade did not come. Lee, standing at bay with the army of Northern
                     Virginia, was a formidable adversary, and the Federal commander had little
                     desire to charge the Confederates as they had charged him at Gettysburg—in
                     position.
                  Day after day the adversaries remained in line of battle facing each other.
                  Lee neither invited nor declined battle.
                  At last the Potomac subsided: Lee put his army in motion, and crossing on a
                     pontoon at Falling Waters took up his position on the south bank of the
                     river.
                  Stuart followed, bringing up the rear with his cavalry column; and the whole
                     army was once more on the soil of Virginia.
                  They had come back after a great march and a great battle.
                  The march carried their flags to the south bank of the Susquehanna; the battle
                     resulted in their retreat to the south bank of the Potomac. Thus nothing had
                     been gained, and nothing lost. But alas! the South had counted on a great and
                     decisive victory. When Lee failed to snatch that from the bloody heights of
                     Gettysburg—when, for want of ammunition, and to guard his communications, he
                     returned to the Potomac—then the people began to lose heart, and say that,
                     since the death of Jackson, the cause was lost.
                  Gettysburg in fact is the turning point of the struggle. From that day dated
                     the decadence of the Southern arms.
                  At Chancellorsville, the ascending steps of victory culminated—and stopped.
                  
                  At Gettysburg, the steps began to descend into the valley of defeat, and the
                     shadow of death.
                  What I shall show the reader in this final series of my memoirs, is Lee and his
                     paladins—officers and privates of the old army of Northern Virginia—fighting on
                     to the end, true in defeat as in victory, in the dark days as in the
                     bright—closing up the thin ranks, and standing by the colors to the last.
                  That picture may be gloomy—but it will be sublime, too.
               
            
            
               BOOK II.
               THE FLOWER OF CAVALIERS.
               
                  I. UNDER "STUART'S OAK."
                  CROSSING to the south bank of the Potomac, Stuart established his head-quarters
                     at "The Bower," an old mansion on the Opequon.
                  The family at the ancient hall were Stuart's cherished friends, and our
                     appearance now, with the red flag floating and the bugle sounding a gay salute
                     as we ascended the hill, was hailed with enthusiasm and rejoicing.
                  All at the "Bower," loved Stuart; they love him to-day; and will love him
                     always.
                  His tents were pitched on a grassy knoll in the extensive grounds, beneath some
                     ancient oaks resembling those seen in English parks. It was a charming spot.
                     Through the openings in the summer foliage you saw the old walls of the hall.
                     At the foot of the hill, the Opequon stole away, around the base of a firclad
                     precipice, its right bank lined with immense white-armed sycamores. Beyond,
                     extended a range of hills: and in the far west, the North Mountain mingled its
                     azure billows with the blue of the summer sky.
                  Such was the beautiful landscape which greeted our eyes: such the spot to which
                     the winds of war had wafted us. Good old "Bower," and good days there! How well
                     I remember you! After the long, hard march, and the incessant fighting, it was
                     charming to settle down for a brief space in this paradise—to listen idly to
                     the murmur of the Opequon, or the voice of the summer winds amid the foliage of
                     the century oaks!
                  
                  The great tree on the grassy knoll, under which Stuart erected his own tent, is
                     called "Stuart's Oak" to this day. No axe will ever harm it, I hope; gold could
                     not purchase it; for tender hearts cherish the gnarled trunk and huge boughs,
                     as a souvenir of the great soldier whom it sheltered in that summer of
                     1863.
                  So we were anchored for a little space, and enjoyed keenly the repose of this
                     summer nook on the Opequon. Soon the bugle would sound again, and new storms
                     would buffet us; meanwhile, we laughed and sang, snatching the bloom of the
                     peaceful hours, inhaling the odors, listening to the birds, and idly
                     dreaming.
                  For myself, I had more dreams than the rest of the gray people there! The Bower
                     was not a strange place to me. My brethren of the staff used to laugh, and say
                     that, wherever we went, in Virginia, I found kins-people. I found near and dear
                     ones at the old house on the Opequon; and a hundred spots which recalled my
                     lost youth. Every object carried me back to the days that are dead. The blue
                     hills, the stream, the great oaks, and the hall smiled on me. How familiar the
                     portraits, and wide fireplaces, and deers' antlers. The pictures of hawking
                     scenes, with ladies and gentlemen in the queerest costumes; the engravings of
                     famous race-horses, hanging between guns, bird-bags and fishing-rods in the
                     wide hall—these were not mere dead objects, but old and long-loved
                     acquaintances. I had known them in my childhood; looked with delight upon them
                     in my boyhood; now they seemed to salute me, murmuring—"Welcome! you remember
                     us!"
                  Thus the hall, the grounds, the pictures, the most trifling object brought back
                     to me, in that summer of 1863, a hundred memories of the years that had flown.
                     Years of childhood and youth, of mirth and joy, such as we felt before war had
                     come to harass us; when I swam in the Opequon, or roamed the hills, looking
                     into bright eyes, where life was so fresh and so young. The "dew was on the
                     blossom" then, the flower in the bud. Now the bloom had passed away, and the
                     dew dried up in the hot war-atmosphere. It was a worn and weary soldier who
                     came back to the scenes of his youth.
                  Suddenly, as I mused thus, dreaming idly under the great oak which sheltered
                     me, I heard a voice from Stuart's tent, sending its sonorous music on the air.
                     It was the great cavalier singing lustily— 
                        "The dew is on the blossom!"
                     
                  
                  At all hours of the day you could hear that gay voice. Stuart's head-quarters
                     were full of the most mirthful sounds and sights. The knoll was alive with
                     picturesque forms. The horses, tethered to the boughs, champed their bits and
                     pawed impatiently. The bright saddle-blankets shone under the saddles covered
                     with gay decorations. Young officers with clanking sabres and rattling spurs
                     moved to and fro. In front of the head-quarters tent the red battle-flag caught
                     the sunshine in its dazzling folds.
                  Suddenly, a new charm is added to the picturesque scene. Maiden figures advance
                     over the grassy lawn; bright eyes glimmer; glossy ringlets are lifted by the
                     fingers of the wind; tinkling laughter is heard;—and over all rings the wild
                     sonorous music of the bugle!
                  The days pass rapidly thus. The nights bring merriment, not sleep. The general
                     goes with his staff to the hospitable mansion, and soon the great drawing-room
                     is full of music and laughter. The song, the dance, the rattling banjo follow.
                     The long hours flit by like a flock of summer birds, and Sweeney, our old
                     friend Sweeney, is the king of the revel.
                  For Sweeney rattles as before on his banjo; and the "Old Gray Horse" flourishes
                     still in imperishable youth! It is the same old Sweeney, with his mild and
                     deferential courtesy, his obliging smile, his unapproachable skill in "picking
                     on the string." Listen! his voice rings again as in the days of '61 and '62. He
                     is singing still "Oh Johnny Booker, help this nigger!" "Stephen, come back,
                     come back, Stephen!" "Out of the window I did sail!" "Sweet Evelina," and the
                     grand, magnificent epic which advises you to "Jine the Cavalry!"
                  Hagan listens to him yonder with a twinkle of the eye—Hagan the black-bearded
                     giant, the brave whose voice resembles thunder, the devotee and factotum of
                     Stuart, whom he loves. And Sweeney rattles on. You laugh loud as you listen.
                     The banjo laughs louder than all, and the great apartment is full of uproar,
                     and mirth, and dance.
                  Then the couples sink back exhausted; a deep silence follows; Sweeney has made you laugh, and is now going to
                     make you sigh. Listen! You can scarcely believe that the singer is the same
                     person who has just been rattling through the "Old Gray Horse." Sweeney is no
                     longer mirthful; his voice sighs instead of laughing. He is singing his tender
                     and exquisite "Faded Flowers." He is telling you in tones as soft as the sigh
                     of the wind in the great oaks, how 
                        
                           "The cold, chilly winds of December,
                           Stole my flowers, my companions from me!"
                        
                     
                  
                  Alas! the cold, chilly winds of the coming winter will blow over the grave of
                     the prince of musicians! Sweeney, the pride and charm of the cavalry
                     head-quarters, is going to pass away, and leave his comrades and his banjo
                     forever!
                  You would say that the future throws its shadow on the present. Sweeney's tones
                     are so sweet and sorrowful, that many eyes grow moist—like Rubini, he "has
                     tears in his voice." The melting strains ascend and sigh through the old hall.
                     When they die away like a wind in the distance, the company remain silent,
                     plunged in sad and dreamy revery.
                  Suddenly Stuart starts up and exclaims:—
                  "Stop that, Sweeney! you will make everybody die of the blues. Sing the 'Old
                     Gray Horse' again, or 'Jine the Cavalry!'"
                  Sweeney smiles and obeys. Then, the gay song ended, he commences a reel. The
                     banjo laughs; his flying fingers race over the strings; youths and maidens
                     whirl from end to end of the great room—on the walls the "old people" in
                     ruffles and short-waisted dresses, look down smiling on their little
                     descendants!
                  O gay summer nights on the banks of the Opequon! you have flown, but linger
                     still in memory!
                  In the autumn of 1867, I revisited the old hall where those summer days of 1863
                     had passed in mirth and enjoyment; and then I wandered away to the grassy knoll
                     where "Stuart's oak" still stands. The sight of the great tree brought back a
                     whole world of memories. Seated on one of its huge roots, beneath the dome of
                     foliage just touched by the finger of autumn, I seemed to see all the past rise
                     up again and move before me, with its gallant figures, its bright scenes, and
                     brighter eyes. Alas! those days were dust, and Stuart sang and laughed no more.
                     The grass was green again, and the birds were singing; but no martial forms
                     moved there, no battle-flag rippled, no voice was heard. Stuart was dead;—his
                     sword rusting under the dry leaves of Hollywood, and his battle-flag was furled
                     forever.
                  That hour under the old oak, in the autumn of 1867, was one of the saddest that
                     I have ever spent.
                  The hall was there as before; the clouds floated, the stream murmured, the wind
                     sighed in the great tree, as when Stuart's tent shone under it. But the
                     splendor had vanished, the laughter was hushed—it was a company of ghosts that
                     gathered around me, and their faint voices sounded from another world!
               
               
                  II. BACK TO THE RAPIDAN.
                  BUT this is a book of incident, worthy reader. We have little time for musing
                     recollections. The halts are brief; the bugle is sounding to horse; events drag
                     us, and we are again in the saddle.
                  Those gay hours on the Opequan were too agreeable to last. The old hall was a
                     sort of oasis in the desert of war only. We paused for an instant; rested under
                     the green trees; heard the murmur of the waters—then the caravan moved,
                     breasting the arid wastes once more, and the coming simoom.
                  Stuart's head-quarters disappeared—we bade our kind friends good-bye—and,
                     mounting, set out for the Lowland, whither Lee's column was then marching.
                  The short lull had been succeeded by new activity. Meade was advancing along
                     the east slope of the Blue Ridge to cut Lee off from Richmond. But the
                     adventure succeeded no better now than in 1862. Meade failed, as McClellan had
                     failed before him.
                  The army passed the Blue Ridge; drove back the force sent to assail them in flank as they moved; and
                     descended to Culpeper, from which they withdrew behind the Rapidan. Here Lee
                     took up his position, crowned the south bank with his artillery, and, facing
                     General Meade, occupying the north bank, rested.
                  Such had been the result of the great campaign, in its merely military
                     aspect.
                  Lee had invaded the North, delivered battle on the territory of the enemy,
                     suffered a repulse, retired, and was again occupying nearly the same ground
                     which he had occupied before the advance. Moving backward and forward on the
                     great chessboard of war, the two adversaries seemed to have gained or lost
                     nothing. The one was not flushed with victory; the other was not prostrated by
                     defeat. Each went into camp, ceased active operations, and prepared for the new
                     conflict which was to take place before the end of the year.
                  I shall record some incidents of that rapid and shifting campaign, beginning
                     and ending in the month of October; then I pass on to the more important and
                     exciting pages of my memoirs: the mighty struggle between Lee and Grant.
                  To return for a moment to the cavalry. It held the front along the Rapidan and
                     Robertson rivers, from Madison Court-House on the left, to Chancellorsville on
                     the right. Stuart kept his lynx-eye on all the fords of the two rivers, having
                     his head-quarters in the forks of the streams not far from their junction.
                  I should like to speak of the charming hours spent at the hospitable mansion
                     near which head-quarters had been established The sun shone bright, at the
                     house on the grassy hill, but not so bright as the eyes which gave us friendly
                     welcome. Years have passed since that time—all things have changed—but neither
                     time or the new scenes will banish from some hearts the memory of that
                     beautiful face, and the music of that voice! We salute to-day as we saluted in
                     the past—health and happiness attend the fair face and the kindly heart!
                  I saw much of Mohun in those days, and became in course of time almost his
                     intimate friend. He exhibited still a marked reserve on the subject of his past
                     life: but I thought I could see that the ice was melting. Day by day he grew
                     gayer—gradually his cynicism seemed leaving him. Who was this singular man, and
                     what was his past history? I often asked myself these questions—he persisted in
                     giving me no clue to the secret—but I felt a presentiment that some day I
                     should "pluck out the heart of his mystery."
                  So much, in passing, for my relations with Mohun. We had begun to be friends,
                     and the chance of war was going to throw us together often. I had caught one or
                     two glimpses of a past full of "strange matters"—in the hours that were coming
                     I was to have every mystery revealed.
                  Meanwhile Lee was resting, but preparing for another blow. His army was in the
                     highest spirits. The camps buzzed, and laughed, and were full of mirth.
                     Gettysburg was forgotten, or if remembered, it only served to inflame the
                     troops, and inspire them with a passionate desire to "try again." In the blaze
                     of a new victory, the old defeat would disappear.
                  Such was the condition of things in the army of Northern Virginia in the first
                     days of October, 1863.
               
               
                  III. THE OPENING OF THE HUNT.
                  IT soon became obvious that Lee had resolved to strike a blow at his
                     adversary.
                  How to do so with advantage seemed a hard problem. Between the opponents lay
                     the Rapidan, which would be an ugly obstacle in the path of an army retreating
                     after defeat—and the same considerations which deterred General Meade from
                     attacking Lee, operated to prevent a like movement on the part of his
                     adversary.
                  Thus an advance of the Southern army on the enemy's front was far too hazardous
                     to be thought of—and the only course left was to assail their flank. This could
                     either be done by crossing lower down, and cutting the enemy off from the
                     Rappahannock, or crossing higher up, and cutting him off from Manassas. Lee determined on the latter—and in
                     a bright morning early in October the great movement began.
                  Leaving Fitz Lee's cavalry and a small force of infantry in the works on the
                     Rapidan fronting the enemy, General Lee put his columns in motion for the upper
                     fords.
                  The men hailed the movement with cheers of delight. As they wound along, with
                     glittering bayonets, through the hills and across the river, you could easily
                     see that the old army of Northern Virginia was still in full feather—that
                     Gettysburg had not shaken it—and that Lee could count on it for new campaigns
                     and harder combats than any in the past.
                  The head of the column was directed toward Madison Court-House, which would
                     enable Lee either to advance directly upon the enemy's flank by the Sperryville
                     road, or continue his flank movement, pass the Rappahannock, and cut off his
                     opponent from Washington.
                  The advance was an inspiring spectacle. The weather was magnificent, and the
                     crimson foliage of the wood rivalled the tints of the red battle-flags,
                     fluttering above the long glittering hedge of bayonets.
                  Stuart's cavalry had moved out on the right-flank to protect the column from
                     the observation of the enemy. The campaign of October, 1863, had opened.
                  It was to be one of the briefest, but most adventurous movements of the war.
                     Deciding little, it was yet rich in incident and dramatic scenes. A brilliant
                     comedy, as it were—just tinged with tragedy—was that rapid and shifting
                        raid of Lee's whole army, on Meade. Blood, jests, laughter,
                     mourning—these were strangely mingled, in the cavalry movements at least: and
                     to these I proceed.
                  From the heights, whence you see only the "great events," the movements of
                     armies, and the decisive battles, let us now descend into the lowland, good
                     reader. I will lay before you some incidents, not to be found in the "official
                     reports;" and I promise to carry you on rapidly!
               
               
                  IV. THE GAME A-FOOT.
                  IT was a magnificent morning of October.
                  Stuart leaped to saddle, and, preceded by his red flag rippling gayly in the
                     wind, set out from his head-quarters in the direction of the mountains.
                  He was entering on his last great cavalry campaign—and it was to be one of his
                     most successful and splendid.
                  The great soldier, as he advanced that morning, was the beau ideal of a
                     cavalier. His black plume floated proudly; his sabre rattled; his eyes danced
                     with joy; his huge mustache curled with laughter; his voice was gay, sonorous,
                     full of enjoyment of life, health, the grand autumn, and the adventurous and
                     splendid scenes which his imagination painted. On his brow he seemed already to
                     feel the breath of victory.
                  It was rather an immense war-machine, than a man which I looked at on that
                     morning of October, 1863. Grand physical health, a perfectly fearless soul, the
                     keenest thirst for action, a stubborn dash which nothing could break down—all
                     this could be seen in the face and form of Stuart, as he advanced to take
                     command of his column that day.
                  On the next morning at daylight he had struck the enemy.
                  Their outposts of cavalry, supported by infantry, were at Thoroughfare
                     Mountain, a small range above the little village of James City. Here Stuart
                     came suddenly upon them, and drove in their pickets:—a moment afterward he was
                     galloping forward with the gayety of a huntsman after a fox.
                  A courier came to meet him from the advance guard, riding at full gallop.
                  "Well!" said Stuart.
                  "A regiment of infantry, general."
                  "Where?"
                  "Yonder in the gap."
                  And he pointed to a gorge in the little mountain before us.
                  Stuart wheeled and beckoned to Gordon, the brave North Carolinian, who had made the stubborn charge at
                     Barbee's, in 1862, when Pelham was attacked, front and rear, by the Federal
                     cavalry.
                  "We have flushed a regiment of infantry, Gordon. Can you break them?"
                  "I think I can, general."
                  The handsome face of the soldier glowed—his bright eyes flashed.
                  "All right. Get ready, then, to attack in front. I will take Young, and strike
                     them at the same moment on the right flank!"
                  With which words Stuart went at a gallop and joined Young.
                  That gay and gallant Georgian was at the head of his column; in his sparkling
                     eyes, and the smile which showed the white teeth under the black mustache, I
                     saw the same expression of reckless courage which I had noticed on the day of
                     Fleetwood, when the young Georgian broke the column on the hill.
                  Stuart explained his design in three words:—
                  "Are you ready?"
                  "All ready, general!"
                  And Young's sabre flashed from the scabbard.
                  At the same instant the crash of carbines in front, indicated Gordon's
                     charge.
                  Young darted to the head of his column.
                  "Charge!" he shouted.
                  And leading the column, he descended like a thunderbolt on the enemy's
                     flank.
                  As he did so, Gordon's men rushed with wild cheers into the gorge. Shouts,
                     carbine-shots, musket-shots, yells resounded. In five minutes the Federal
                     infantry, some three hundred in number, were scattered in headlong flight,
                     leaving the ground strewed with new muskets, whose barrels shone like burnished
                     silver.
                  "Good!" Stuart exclaimed, as long lines of prisoners appeared, going to the
                     rear, "a fair beginning, at least!"
                  And he rode on rapidly.
               
               
                  V. THE CHASE.
                  THE cavalry pressed forward without halting and reached the hills above James
                     City—a magniloquent name, but the "city" was a small affair—a mere village
                     nestling down amid an amphi theatre of hills.
                  On the opposite range we saw the enemy's cavalry drawn up; and, as we afterward
                     learned, commanded by General Kilpatrick.
                  They presented a handsome spectacle in the gay autumn sunshine; but we did not
                     attack them. Stuart's orders were to protect the march of Ewell from
                     observation; and this he accomplished by simply holding the Federal cavalry at
                     arm's-length. So a demonstration only was made. Skirmishers advanced, and
                     engaged the enemy. The whole day thus passed in apparent failure to drive the
                     Federals.
                  A single incident marked the day. Stuart had taken his position, with his staff
                     and couriers, on a hill. Here, with his battle-flag floating, he watched the
                     skirmishers,—and then gradually, the whole party, stretched on the grass, began
                     to doze.
                  They were to have a rude waking. I was lying, holding my bridle, half asleep,
                     when an earthquake seemed to open beneath me. A crash like thunder accompanied
                     it. I rose quickly, covered with dust. A glance explained the whole. The enemy
                     had directed a gun upon the tempting group over which the flag rose, and the
                     percussion-shell had fallen and burst in our midst.
                  Strangest of all, no one was hurt.
                  Stuart laughed, and mounted his horse.
                  "A good shot!" he said, "look at Surry's hat!" which, on examination, I found
                     covered half an inch deep with earth.
                  In fact, the shell had burst within three feet of my head—was a "line shot,"
                     and with a little more elevation, would have just reached me. Then, exit Surry!
                     in a most unmilitary manner, by the bursting of a percussion-shell.
                  At nightfall the enemy was still in position, and Stuart had not advanced.
                  
                  We spent the night at a farm-house, and were in the saddle again at dawn.
                  The hills opposite were deserted. The enemy had retreated. Stuart pushed on
                     their track down the Sperryville road, passed the village of Griffinsburg, and
                     near Stonehouse Mountain came on, and pushed them rapidly back on Culpeper
                     Court-House.
                  All at once quick firing was heard on our right.
                  "What is that?" Stuart asked.
                  "An infantry regiment, general!" said Weller, one of our couriers, galloping
                     quickly up.
                  The words acted upon Stuart like the blow of a sword. A wild excitement seemed
                     to seize him.
                  "Bring up a squadron!" he shouted—for we were riding ahead without support;
                     "bring up the cavalry! I am going to charge! Bring me a squadron!"
                  And drawing his sword, Stuart rushed at full gallop, alone and unattended,
                     toward the Federal infantry, whose gun-barrels were seen glittering in the
                     woods.
                  Never had I seen him more excited. He was plainly on fire with the idea of
                     capturing the whole party.
                  The staff scattered to summon the cavalry, and soon a company came on at full
                     gallop. It was the "Jefferson Company," under that brave officer, Captain
                     George Baylor.
                  "Charge, and cut them down!" shouted Stuart, his drawn sword flashing as he
                     forced his horse over fallen trees and the debris of the great deserted
                     camp.
                  A fine spectacle followed. As the Federal infantry double-quicked up a slope,
                     Baylor charged.
                  As his men darted upon them, they suddenly halted, came to a front-face, and
                     the long line of gun-barrels fell, as though they were parts of some glittering
                     war-machine.
                  The muzzles spouted flame, and the cavalry received the fire at thirty
                     yards.
                  It seemed to check them, but it did not. They had come to an impassable ditch.
                     In another moment, the infantry broke, every man for himself, and making a
                     detour, the cavalry pursued, and captured large numbers.
                  For the second time Stuart had charged infantry and broken them. Pushing on now
                     through the great deserted camps of Stonehouse Mountain, he descended upon
                     Culpeper.
                  The enemy's cavalry retreated, made a stand on the hills beyond, with their
                     artillery; and seemed to have resolved to retreat no father.
                  Suddenly the thunder of artillery came up from the Rapidan. I was sitting my
                     horse near Stuart and Gordon. They were both laughing—indeed, Stuart seemed
                     laughing throughout the campaign.
                  "That is Fitz Lee!" he said; "he has crossed and driven them."
                  And turning round,—
                  "I wish you would go to General Lee, Surry—you will find him toward
                     Griffinsburg—and tell him we are driving the enemy, and Fitz Lee seems to be
                     coming up."
                  I saluted, and left the two generals laughing as before.
                  In half an hour I had found General Lee. He was in camp on the Sperryville
                     road, and was talking to Ewell.
                  It was a singular contrast. Lee, robust, ruddy, erect, with his large frank
                     eye—Ewell, slight, emaciated, pale, with small piercing eyes, and limping on
                     his crutch.
                  "Thank you, colonel," General Lee said, with his grave but charming courtesy;
                     "tell General Stuart to continue to press them back toward the river."
                  And turning to Ewell:—
                  "You had better move on with your command, general," he said, in his measured
                     voice.
                  Ewell bowed and turned to obey—I returned to Stuart.
                  He was pushing the Federal cavalry "from pillar to post." Driven back from the
                     hill, where they had planted their artillery, they had retreated on Brandy;
                     Stuart had followed like a fate; Gordon, sent round to the left, struck their
                     right flank with his old sabreurs; Fitz Lee, coming up on the right, thundered
                     down on their left—and in the woods around Brandy took place one of those
                     cavalry combats which, as my friends, the novelists say, "must be seen to be
                     appreciated!" If the reader will imagine, in the dusk of evening, a grand
                     hurly-burly made up of smoke, dust, blood, yells, clashing swords, banging
                        carbines bines, thundering
                     cannon, and wild cheers, he will have a faint idea of that "little affair" at
                     Brandy.
                  A queer circumstance made this fight irresistibly comic.
                  Fitz Lee had repulsed Buford on the Rapidan; followed him on his retreat,
                     harassing him at every step—when, just as Buford reached Brandy, with Fitz Lee
                     at his heels, Kilpatrick descended on Fitz Lee's rear by the Sperryville road,
                     and Stuart thundered down on his!
                  
                  Thus Fitz Lee was pursuing Buford; Kilpatrick, Fitz Lee; and Stuart,
                     Kilpatrick! It was a grand and comic jumble—except that it came very near being
                     any thing but comic to that joyous cavalier, "General Fitz," as we called
                     him—caught as he was between Generals Buford and Kilpatrick!
                  General Fitz was the man for a "tight place," however—and his people," as he
                     called his cavalry, soon cut through to Stuart.
                  It was a tough and heavy fight.
                  "Old Jeb cut off more than he could chaw, that time!" said a
                     veteran afterward, in describing the fight. And at one time it seemed that the
                     enemy were going to hold their ground.
                  Fleetwood, beyond, was lined with bayonets, and every knoll was crowned with
                     cannon: when night fell, however, the whole force had retreated and crossed the
                     Rappahannock, leaving the ground strewed with their dead and wounded.
                  In the dusky woods near Brandy, Stuart sat his horse, looking toward the
                     Rappahannock, and laughing still. He was talking with brave Fitz Lee, whose
                     stout figure, flowing beard, and eyes twinkling with humor, were plain in the
                     starlight. I shall show you that gallant figure more than once in this volume,
                     reader. You had but to look at him to see that he was the bravest of soldiers,
                     and the best of comrades.
                  So night fell on a victory. Stuart had driven the enemy at every step. He had
                     charged their infantry, cavalry, and artillery, routing all,—and he was once
                     more in sight of Fleetwood Hill, where he had defeated them in the preceding
                     June.
                  Singular current of war! It used to bear us onward; but be taken with a sudden
                     fancy to flow back to the old spots! See Manassas, Fredericksburg, Cold Harbor,
                     Chancellorsville!
                  Fleetwood takes its place with them—twice bloody and memorable rable. In sight
                     of it took place two of Stuart's hardest combats—and both were victories.
               
               
                  VI. THE RUSE.
                  BY sunrise Stuart was pushing rapidly up the bank of the Rappahannock toward
                     Warrenton Springs.
                  Meade had retreated from Culpeper, and was falling back rapidly. Lee was
                     pressing on to cut him off in the vicinity of Auburn.
                  A hot fight took place at Jeffersonton, a little village beyond Hazel River;
                     and here the enemy fought from house to house, but finally retreated.
                  Stuart followed, and came up with their rear retreating over the bridge at
                     Warrenton Springs.
                  On the northern bank the Federal sharp-shooters were posted in double line.
                  Stuart turned, and saw, not far from him, the Jefferson Company who had charged
                     so gallantly at Stonehouse Mountain. A movement of his hand, and they were
                     charging over the bridge.
                  Suddenly they recoiled. The head files had stopped,—the horses rearing. The
                     flooring in the centre of the bridge had been torn up—it was impossible to
                     cross.
                  The men wheeled and came back under a hot fire of sharpshooters. Stuart's face
                     was fiery.
                  "To the ford!" he shouted.
                  And placing himself in front of the men, sword in hand, he led them through the
                     ford, in face of a heavy fire, charged up the opposite slope, and the Federal
                     skirmishers scattered in wild flight.
                  The Twelfth Virginia Cavalry followed them, and they were cut down or
                     captured.
                  
                  As the column moved on, Stuart galloped along the line toward the front.
                  He had just faced death with these men, and at sight of him they raised a
                     cheer.
                  "Hurrah for old Jeb!" rose in a shout from the column.
                  Stuart turned: his face glowed: rising in his stirrups, he took off his hat and
                     exclaimed:—
                  "Bully for the old Twelfth!"
                  The words were unclassic, it may be, reader, but they raised a storm.
                  "I felt like I could die for old Jeb after that," one of the men said to
                     me.
                  Stuart disappeared, followed by tumultuous cheers, and his column continued to
                     advance upon Warrenton ahead of the army.
                  He had ridden on for a quarter of an hour, when he turned to me, and said:—
                  "I am getting uneasy about things at Culpeper. I wish you would ride back to
                     Rosser, who is there with two hundred men, and tell him to call on Young, if he
                     is pushed."
                  I turned my horse.
                  "You know where Young is?"
                  "On the Sperryville road."
                  "Exactly—Rosser can count on him. I am going on toward Warrenton."
                  And the general and myself parted, riding in opposite directions.
                  I returned toward Hazel River; passed that stream, and the long rows of army
                     wagons; and as the sun was sinking, drew near Culpeper.
                  As I pressed on, I heard the long thunder of cannon coming up from the
                     direction of Brandy.
                  What could that sound mean? Had the enemy again advanced and assailed the small
                     force of cavalry there?
                  Going on now at full speed, I heard the cannon steadily approaching Culpeper
                     Court-House. All at once, as I drew near the village, I heard a tremendous
                     clatter in the streets; a column of cavalry was advancing to the front—soon the
                     crack of carbines was heard beyond the town.
                  A short ride brought me to the field, and all was explained. Colonel Rosser had
                     been attacked by a whole corps of Federal infantry, and two divisions of
                     cavalry—while his own force was about two hundred men, and a single gun.
                  He had offered an obstinate resistance, however, fallen back slowly, and when
                     about to be driven into the town, Young had come to his aid.
                  Then followed one of the gayest comedies of the war. Young was the author of
                     it. You laugh sometimes still, do you not, old comrade, at the trick you played
                     our friends on that October evening?
                  Young threw himself into the fight with the true cavalry élan. Dismounting his
                     whole brigade, he opened a rapid fire on the advancing enemy; and this
                     obstinate resistance evidently produced a marked effect upon their
                     imaginations. They had been advancing—they now paused. They had been full of
                     audacity, and now seemed fearful of some trap. It was evident that they
                     suspected the presence of a heavy force of infantry—and night having descended,
                     they halted.
                  This was the signal for the fifth act of the comedy. Young kindled camp-fires
                     along two miles of front; brought up his brass band and played "The Bonnie Blue
                     Flag," and "Dixie." It was obvious to the enemy that at least a corps of Lee's
                     infantry was there in their front, ready to renew the action at dawn!
                  The finale was comic—I shared the blankets of the gallant Georgian that
                     night—when we rose the enemy's whole force had disappeared.
                  Such had been the result of the ruse, and I always regarded the affair as one
                     of the gayest incidents of the war.
                  When I left the brave Young, he was laughing in triumph.
                  If your eye meets this page, old comrade, it may give you another laugh—and
                     laughter is something in this dull epoch, is it not?
                  But whether you laugh or sigh, and wherever you may be, health and happiness
                     attend you!
                  In the afternoon, I was at Warrenton.
               
               
                  
                  VII. STUART CAUGHT IN THE TRAP.
                  I FOUND the general moving toward Auburn, on a reconnoissance.
                  Meade had been delayed much by uncertainty as to his adversary's designs—had
                     scarcely advanced beyond the Rappahannock—and the object of Stuart was to
                     discover his position and intentions.
                  That was the work always assigned to the "Eyes and Ears" of the army—Stuart's
                     cavalry; and the stout cavalier, now at the head of his column, was on for the
                     railroad, along which the enemy must retreat.
                  Another comedy was to follow—which came near being a tragedy.
                  Stuart steadily advanced, and about sunset had passed Auburn, when, as he was
                     riding at the head of his column, a messenger rode up hastily from Gordon,
                     holding the rear.
                  "Well!" said Stuart.
                  "The enemy are in your rear, general!"
                  "Impossible!"
                  "General Gordon sent me to say so."
                  Stuart turned and galloped back. Gordon came to meet him.
                  "The Yankee army are in our rear, general," said Gordon. "Come, and I will show
                     you."
                  And riding to an eminence he pointed out across the fields, in the gathering
                     gloom, long lines of infantry and artillery moving toward Manassas.
                  Stuart gazed at them keenly. As he sat looking toward them, a staff officer
                     from the front came up rapidly.
                  "Well, captain!"
                  "The enemy are in front, general."
                  "Infantry?"
                  "Yes, with artillery."
                  Stuart looked at Gordon.
                  "A real trap," he said coolly, knitting his brows.
                  "Have they seen you, Gordon?" he asked.
                  "I think not, general."
                  "Well, so far all is well. There is nothing to do but to lay low, and take the
                     chances of getting out."
                  Stuart's voice was never cooler. He looked quietly at the huge column cutting
                     off his retreat.
                  "A splendid chance to attack them!" he all at once exclaimed.
                  And tearing a leaf out of his dispatch-book, he wrote a hasty note to General
                     Lee. I afterward knew what it contained. Stuart described his situation, and
                     proposed that Rodes, then near Warrenton, should attack at dawn—when he would
                     open with his artillery, charge with his horsemen, and cut his way out.
                  "A good man in blue uniform now, Gordon."
                  Gordon sent off an aid, and the man soon appeared. From top to toe he was of
                     irreproachable blue; and he listened keenly to his instructions.
                  Five minutes afterward he had dismounted, given his horse to a comrade, and was
                     stealing on foot through the thicket toward the Federal column. A moment
                     afterward he had mingled with their column and disappeared.
                  Other messengers, also in Federal uniform, were dispatched: the whole force of
                     cavalry was massed, and concealed in the woods: then darkness descended; and
                     the long night of anxiety began.
                  The situation was not agreeable. Stuart was caught in a veritable trap. On both
                     sides—in his rear and his front—were passing heavy corps of Federal infantry;
                     their numerous artillery; and their long-drawn columns of cavalry. Discovery
                     was destruction; the only hope was that the enemy would not suspect our
                     proximity. If we were once known to be lurking there, good-bye to Stuart and
                     his men!
                  So the long night commenced. The hours passed on, and still we were not
                     discovered. It seemed miraculous that some noise did not betray Stuart's
                     hiding-place; but an Unseen Eye seemed to watch over him, and an Unseen Hand to
                     guard him.
                  More than once the neigh of a horse rang out on the air of night; and two or
                     three times the discordant bray of a mule attached tached to the artillery startled the silence of
                     the woods. But these sounds were unheeded. They evidently attracted no
                     attention from the enemy.
                  Leaning down in their saddles, the men, half overcome by sleep, but afraid of a
                     rough waking, passed sleepless hours, looking for the dawn.
                  Stuart was never cooler. On his horse, at the head of his men, he betrayed no
                     emotion. You would not have known, except for his subdued tones when speaking
                     to some one, that he and his command were in a veritable "tight place." Cool
                     and resolute, he was equal to any event. Certain capture or destruction of his
                     whole force was imminent.
                  Thus the night glided away. We had not been discovered. Over the trees was seen
                     the yellow streak of dawn.
                  I looked round. The men's faces were haggard from want of sleep. But they
                     evidently felt perfect confidence in Stuart.
                  He hastened to justify it.
                  No sooner had light come than he placed his artillery in position. As it grew
                     and broadened, the enemy were seen just on a hill in front of us, busily
                     cooking their breakfasts.
                  Suddenly a single cannon sent its long thunder, dull and reverberating, through
                     the woods, from the direction of Warrenton.
                  Stuart rose erect in his saddle, and looked in the direction of the sound, his
                     eyes glowing.
                  Another followed; then another; then a long, continuous bellow of artillery,
                     making the hills echo.
                  There was no longer any doubt about the fate of the messengers. Lee had
                     received the dispatches; Rodes had opened on the Federal columns, attacking as
                     that good soldier knew how to attack.
                  Stuart darted to his guns. On his countenance was a grim smile.
                  "Attention!" he exclaimed.
                  The cannoneers ran to their posts, a cheer rose, the next instant the guns
                     spouted flame; shell after shell in rapid succession screamed through the
                     woods—and bursting in the midst of the blue groups, threw them into the wildest
                     disorder.
                  Stuart did not allow the panic to subside. His sharp-shooters opened at the
                     same instant a determined fire; the great cavalier went at full speed to the
                     head of his column:—then rushing like an avalanche, troopers and artillery,
                     charged the column in front, burst through, trampling it as he went, and at a
                     gallop the gray horsemen, with guns following, broke out; and were again
                     free.
                  Stuart was out of the trap. From one of the "tightest places" that a commander
                     was ever in he had extricated his whole command.
                  Once in safety, he turned like a wild boar on his enemies. In ten minutes his
                     artillery had taken a new position—its thunders had opened—its roar told the
                     army, that his feather still floated, his star was still in the ascendant.
                  Such was that queer affair of Auburn. Few more curious incidents occurred in
                     the war.
                  A brave officer of the infantry had accompanied us as an amateur.
                  "I've got enough of the cavalry," he said, laughing; "I am going back to the
                     infantry. It is safer!"
               
               
                  VIII. GENERAL MEADE'S "EYE-TEETH."
                  STUART came back laughing from his adventure.
                  The army hailed his reappearance with joy and cheers.
                  They had already split the air with shouts in honor of the cavalry, on that
                     evening at Warrenton Springs, when Stuart charged through the ford.
                  "Hurrah for Stuart!" was now the exclamation everywhere. And let me add that
                     the stout cavalier keenly enjoyed his popularity. He was brave and fond of
                     glory—approbation delighted him. In his ears, praise, sympathy, admiration,
                     sounded sweet.
                  General Lee continued to press forward, but the golden moment for intercepting
                     Meade had fled.
                  
                  He had not been cut off in Culpeper; he had not been cut off at Warrenton; he
                     was not going to be cut off at Bristoe, near Manassas.
                  Hill had been sent in that direction to intercept the enemy's retreat, but on
                     the afternoon succeeding the adventure of Stuart, an ugly blow was dealt him on
                     the banks of Deep Run.
                  He came up with the enemy's rear guard under their brave General Warren;
                     assailed it in front of an embankment furiously, and suffered a heavy
                     repulse.
                  General Cooke was shot down at the head of his men; the brigade was nearly cut
                     to pieces; and Warren retreated across Deep Run, in grim triumph, carrying off
                     several pieces of Hill's artillery.
                  It was a grievous blow, and affected the brave Hill deeply. General Lee was no
                     less melancholy; it is said that he was both gloomy and restive. It was
                     reported, I know not upon what authority, that when he and General Hill were
                     riding over the field, and Hill essayed to explain the unfortunate affair, the
                     commander-in-chief shook his head, and said in grave tones:—
                  "Say no more, general—have these poor dead soldiers buried."
                  From the hill above Bristoe, General Lee, accompanied by Stuart, looked out in
                     the direction of Manassas. Not a blue coat was to be seen. Meade had made good
                     his retreat. Everywhere he had eluded the blows of his great adversary—and in
                     parting from him, finally, at Bristoe, had left blood in his footsteps—the
                     blood of some of Lee's best soldiers.
                  It is said that General Meade made this retreat under protest—and that he was
                     everywhere looking for a position to fight. A Northern correspondent described
                     how, sitting with him by the camp-fire, General Meade had said:—
                  "It was like pulling out my-eye teeth not to have had a fight!"
                  Did he say that? Then he was out-generalled.
                  But he had succeeded in retreating safely. He was behind the works of
                     Centreville: Lee had stopped the pursuit.
                  There was nothing more, indeed, to be done. Lee must retire, or attack the
                     enemy behind their earth-works. That was not very promising, and he fell back
                     toward his old camps, on the Rapidan.
                  Nothing prevented the cavalry, however, from "feeling" the enemy in their new
                     position; and Stuart rapidly advanced to Bull Run, across which Fitz Lee drove
                     the Federal horsemen.
                  A raid toward their rear, by Stuart, followed. He moved toward Groveton;
                     deflected to the left, and crossed the Catharpin in a violent storm; advanced
                     next day toward Frying-Pan; then striking the Second Corps of Meade, and
                     throwing it into confusion, by producing the impression that his force was
                     Lee's whole army, he quietly retired by the way he had come.
                  His disappearance revealed all. The enemy perceived that the attack was only a
                     "cavalry raid," and were seized with immense indignation. A picked division was
                     sent out in pursuit of the daring raiders—and this force of horsemen, about
                     three thousand in number, hurried across Bull Run to punish Stuart.
                  They were commanded by the ardent General Kilpatrick:—what followed is known as
                     the "Buckland Races."
               
               
                  IX. WHAT THE AUTHOR HAS OMITTED.
                  SUCH is a rapid summary of the cavalry operations succeeding the action of
                     Bristoe.
                  Those readers who cry out for "movement! movement!" are respectfully requested
                     to observe that I have passed over much ground, and many events in a few
                     paragraphs:—and yet I might have dwelt on more than one scene which, possibly,
                     might have interested the worthy reader.
                  There was the gallant figure of General Fitz Lee, at the head of his horsemen,
                     advancing to charge what he supposed to be the enemy's artillery near Bristoe,
                     and singing as he went, in the gayest voice:— 
                        
                           "Rest in peace! rest in peace!
                           Slumb'ring lady love of mine;
                           Rest in peace! rest in peace!
                           Sleep on!"
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  There was the charge over the barricade near Yates's Ford, where a strange
                     figure mingled just at dusk with the staff, and when arrested as he was edging
                     away in the dark, coolly announced that he belonged to the "First Maine
                     Cavalry."
                  There was the march toward Chantilly, amid the drenching storm, when Stuart
                     rode along laughing and shouting his camp songs, with the rain descending in
                     torrents from his heavy brown beard.
                  There was the splendid advance on the day succeeding, through the rich autumn
                     forest, of all the colors of the rainbow.
                  Then the fight at Frying-Pan; arousing the hornets' nest there, and the feat
                     performed by Colonel Surry, in carrying off through the fire of the
                     sharp-shooters, on the pommel of his saddle, a beautiful girl who declared that
                     she was "not at all afraid!"
                  These and many other scenes come back to memory as I sit here at Eagle's Nest.
                     But were I to describe all I witnessed during the war, I should never cease
                     writing. All these must be passed over—my canvas is limited, and I have so many
                     figures to draw, so many pictures to paint, that every square inch is
                     valuable.
                  That is the vice of "memoirs," reader. The memory is an immense receptacle—it
                     holds every thing, and often trifles take the prominent place, instead of great
                     events. You are interested in those trifles, when they are part of your own
                     experience; but perhaps, they bore your listener and make him yawn—a terrible
                     catastrophe!
                  So I pass to some real and bona fide
                     "events." Sabres are going to clash now, and some figures whom the reader I
                     hope has not forgotten are going to ride for the prize in the famous Buckland
                     Races!
               
               
                  X. I FALL A VICTIM TO TOM'S ILL-LUCK.
                  STUART had fallen back, and had reached the vicinity of Buckland.
                  There was a bright light in his blue eyes, a meaning smile on his mustached
                     lip, which in due time I was going to understand.
                  Kilpatrick was following him. From the rear guard came the crack of
                     skirmishers. It seemed hard to understand, but the fact was perfectly evident,
                     that Stuart was retreating.
                  I had fallen out of the column, and was riding with Tom Herbert. Have you
                     forgotten that worthy, my dear reader? Has the roar of Gettysburg driven him
                     quite from your memory? I hope not. I have not mentioned him for a long time,
                     so many things have diverted me—but we had ridden together, slept together,
                     fought together, and starved together! Tom had come to be one of my best
                     friends, in fact, and his charming good humor beguiled many a weary march. To
                     hear him laugh was real enjoyment; and when he would suddenly burst forth with, 
                        
                           "Oh look at the riggings
                           On Billy Barlo—o—o—ow!"
                        
                      the sternest faces relaxed, the sourest personages could not but
                     laugh.
                  Brave and honest fop! Where are you to-day, mon
                        garçon! I wish I could see you and hear you sing again!
                  But I am prosing. Riding beside Tom, I was looking down and thinking of a
                     certain young lady, when an exclamation from my companion made me raise my
                     head.
                  "By George! there's the house, old fellow!"
                  "The house?"
                  "Of the famous supper."
                  "So it is!"
                  "And my inamorata, Surry! I wonder if she is still there?"
                  "Inamorata? What is her other name?"
                  Tom laughed, and began to sing in his gayest voice, 
                        
                           "Oh, Katy! Katy!
                           Don't marry any other;
                           You'll break my heart, and kill me dead,
                           And then be hanged for murder!"
                        
                     
                  
                  "That is answer enough," I said, laughing.
                  "Suppose we go and see if they are still alive," Tom said, blushing; "tea
                     minutes will take us to the house."
                  
                  In fact, I saw across the fields, embowered in foliage, the hospitable mansion
                     in which we had eaten the famous supper, on the route to Pennsylvania.
                  "It is risky," I said, hesitating.
                  "But pleasing," retorted Tom, with a laugh.
                  And I saw, from his flushed face, that he had set his heart on the visit.
                  That conquered me. I never could refuse Tom Herbert any thing; and we were soon
                     cantering toward the house.
                  Leaving our horses in a little grove, near the mansion, in order that they
                     might not attract the attention of any of the enemy's vedettes, we hastened up
                     the steps.
                  As we reached the door, it opened, and Miss Katy Dare, the heroine of Tom's
                     dreams, very nearly precipitated herself into our arms.
                  "Oh, I am so glad to see you!" she exclaimed, with her auburn
                     ringlets dancing, her eyes sparkling,—and taking care to look at
                        me as she uttered the words.
                  Then a whole bevy of young ladies hastened out to welcome us.
                  Where had we been? Why were we going back? Could General Stuart intend to leave
                     them in the Yankee lines again? Oh, no! he could not! He could not have the
                     heart to! Was he coming to see them? Oh, the sight of gray uniforms was
                     HEAVENLY!!!
                  And the young damsels positively overwhelmed me with exclamations and
                     interrogatories. Eyes danced, lips smiled, cheeks glowed—they hung around me,
                     and seemed wild with enthusiasm and delight.
                  Around me, I say—for Tom and Miss Katy had accidentally strolled
                     into a conservatory near at hand. A glass door gave access to it, and they had
                     "gone to examine the flowers," the young ladies said, with rapturous smiles and
                     little nods.
                  Meanwhile, "the wants of the soldiers" were by no means forgotten. Busy hands
                     brought in china, silver, and snowy napkins. On the table the waiter was soon
                     deposited, containing a splendid, miraculous array of edibles, and these were
                     flanked by decanters containing excellent home-made wine.
                  This consumed half an hour—but at last the repast was ready, and one of the
                     young ladies hastened toward the conservatory, uttering a discreet little
                     "ahem!" which made her companions laugh.
                  In an instant Tom made his appearance with a decided color in his cheeks; and
                     Miss Katy—well, Miss Katy's face was the color of a peony, or a carnation.
                  Shall I reveal to you, gentle reader, what Tom told me long afterward? He had
                     advanced and been repulsed—had attacked and been "scattered." Pardon the slang
                     of the army, and admire the expeditious operations of the gentlemen of the
                     cavalry!
                  Tom was blushing, but laughing too. He was game, if he was
                     unfortunate. He did not even decline the material enjoyment of lunch, and
                     having led in the young Miss Katy, with a charmingly foppish air, took his seat
                     at the table, which promised so much pleasure of another description.
                  The fates frowned on us. Tom was unlucky that day, and I was drawn into the
                     vortex of bad fortune.
                  Suddenly a clatter of hoofs came from the grass plat in front of the house; the
                     rattle of sabres from a company of cavalry followed; and the young ladies had
                     just time to thrust us into the conservatory, when the door opened, and an
                     officer in blue uniform, accompanied by a lady, entered the apartment.
               
               
                  XI. I OVERHEAR A SINGULAR CONVERSATION.
                  I RECOGNIZED the new-comers at a glance. They were Darke, and the gray
                     woman.
                  There was no mistaking that powerful figure, of low stature, but herculean
                     proportions; that gloomy and phlegmatic face, half-covered with the black
                     beard; and the eye glancing warily, but with a reckless fire in them, from
                     beneath the heavy eyebrows.
                  
                  The woman wore an elegant gray riding habit—gray seemed a favorite with her.
                     Her cheeks were as white as ever, and her lips as red. Her bearing was
                     perfectly composed, and she advanced, with the long riding skirt thrown over
                     her arm, walking with exquisite grace.
                  All this I could easily see. The glass door of the conservatory had been left
                     ajar in the hurry of our retreat, and from behind the lemon-trees and
                     flower-bushes, we could see into the apartment without difficulty.
                  There was evidently little danger of our discovery. The newcomers had plainly
                     entered the house with no design to search it. Darke advanced into the
                     apartment; made the ladies a bow, which more than ever convinced me that he had
                     been familiar with good society; and requested food for the lady. She had
                     tasted none for many hours, and was faint. He would not ask it for himself,
                     inasmuch as he was an enemy.
                  He bowed again as he spoke, and was silent.
                  The young ladies had listened coldly. As he finished, they pointed to the
                     waiter, and without speaking, they left the apartment.
                  Darke was left alone with the woman in gray. She seemed to have regarded
                     ceremony as unnecessary. Going to the table, she had already helped herself,
                     and for some moments devoured, rather than ate, the food before her.
                  Then she rose, and went and took her seat in a rocking-chair near the fire.
                     Darke remained erect, gazing at her, in silence.
                  The lady rocked to and fro, pushed back her dark hair with the snowy hand, and
                     looking at her companion, began to laugh.
                  "You are not hungry?" she said.
                  "No," was his reply.
                  "And to think that a romantic young creature like myself should
                     be!"
                  "It was natural. I hoped that you would have given up this fancy of
                     accompanying me. You can not stand the fatigue."
                  "I can stand it easily," she said. "When we have a cherished object, weariness
                     does not count."
                  "A cherished object! What is yours?"
                  "Sit down, and I will tell you. I am tired. You can rejoin the column in ten
                     minutes."
                  "So be it," said Darke, gloomily.
                  And he sat down near her.
                  "You wish to be informed of my object in going with you everywhere," she said.
                     And her voice which had at first been gay and careless, assumed a mocking
                     accent, making the nerves tingle. "I can explain in a very few words my
                     romantic desire. I wish to see him fall."
                  "Humph!" ejaculated Darke, coldly; "you mean——"
                  "That man—yes. You promised to kill him, when you next met. Did you not promise
                     me that?"
                  Darke looked at the speaker with grim admiration.
                  "You are a singular woman," he said; "you never forget a wrong. And yet the
                     wrong, people might say, was committed by you—not
                        him."
                  "Do you say that?" exclaimed the woman with sudden venom in her
                     voice.
                  "I say nothing, madam," was the gloomy reply. "I only declare that you hate
                     much more strongly than I do. I hate him—and hate him honestly. But I would not
                     take him at disadvantage. You would strike him, wherever you met him—in the
                     dark—in the back—I think you would dance the war-dance around him, when he was
                     dying!"
                  And Darke uttered a short jarring laugh.
                  "You are right," said the woman, coolly. "I wish to see that man die—I expected
                     you to kill him on that night in Pennsylvania. You promised to do it;—redeem
                     your promise!"
                  "I will try to do so, madam," said Darke, coolly.
                  "And I wish to be present on the occasion."
                  Darke laughed as before.
                  "That doubtless has prevented you from having our good friend
                     Mohun—well—assassinated!"
                  The woman was silent for a moment. Then she said:—
                  "No, I have tried that."
                  "Ah!—recently?"
                  "Yes."
                  "By what means—who was your agent?"
                  
                  "Swartz."
                  Darke waited, listening.
                  "He has three times waylaid him behind the rebel lines, and fired
                     on him as he was riding at night through the woods," added the woman.
                  "Bah!" said Darke; "Swartz told you that?"
                  "He has done so."
                  "Hatred blinds you; I do not believe that story. But I design nothing of that
                     description against Colonel Mohun. I will fight him wherever I meet him in
                     battle—kill him, if I can—but no assassination."
                  A mocking smile came to the woman's lips.
                  "You seem to dislike the idea of—assassination," she said.
                  Darke uttered a sound resembling the growl of a wild animal, and a moment
                     after, seizing the decanter, he dashed some of its contents into a glass, and
                     raised it to his lips.
                  "Cursed stuff!" he suddenly exclaimed, setting the glass down violently. "I
                     want drink—real drink—to-day!"
                  The woman looked at him curiously, and said quietly:—
                  "What is the matter?"
                  Her companion's brows were knit until the shaggy masses united over the gloomy
                     eyes. Beneath burned a lurid fire.
                  "I have seen him again—General Davenant," he said, in a low voice;
                     "it is the second time."
                  As he uttered these words, Darke seemed the prey of some singular emotion.
                  "It was at Gettysburg first," he continued. "He was leading the charge, on the
                     third day, against Cemetery Heights. I was there by accident. They were
                     repulsed. When he rode back, he was carrying a bleeding boy in his arms through
                     the smoke. I recognized his tall form and gray hair; and heard his voice in the
                     midst of the cannon, as he cheered on his men."
                  The speaker's face had flushed. His breast rose and fell.
                  "That was the first time," he said. "The second was the other day when he was
                     riding among the enemy's guns near Bristoe—I made him out with my glasses."
                  Darke bent down, and gazed at the floor in silence. The fire in the dark eyes
                     had deepened. His heavy under lip was caught in the large, sharp teeth.
                  All at once a ringing laugh disturbed the silence. There was a mocking
                     intonation in it which was unmistakable.
                  "General Davenant!" exclaimed the woman. "Well, who is General Davenant?"
                  Darke looked at the mocking speaker sidewise.
                  "Who is General Davenant?" he said. "Is it necessary that I enlighten you,
                     madam? He is my bugbear—my death's head! The sight of him poisons my life, and
                     something gnaws at me, driving me nearly mad! To see that man chills me, like
                     the hand of death!"
                  The woman looked at him and then began to laugh.
                  "You do unbend your noble strength, my lord!" she said, "to think so
                     brainsickly of things!" throwing into the word, "brainsickly," exaggerated
                     stage-rant.
                  "One would say," she continued, "that the brave Colonel Darke had the blues
                     to-day! Take care how you meet Colonel Mohun in this mood! The result might be
                     unfortunate."
                  Darke made no reply for some moments. He was gazing with knit brows upon the
                     floor. Then he raised his head.
                  "You return to the subject of your friend," he said, coldly.
                  "Yes. The subject is agreeable."
                  "Well, I can give you intelligence of him—unless Swartz has anticipated
                     me."
                  "What intelligence?"
                  "Your friend Mohun is in love—again!"
                  The woman's face flushed suddenly.
                  "With whom?" she said.
                  "Ah! there is the curious part of the affair, madam!" returned Darke.
                  And in a low tone he added:—
                  "The name of the young lady is—Georgia Conway."
                  The woman half rose from her chair, with flashing eyes, and said:—
                  "Who told you that?"
                  Darke smiled. There was something lugubrious in that chilly mirth.
                  
                  "An emissary on whom I can rely, brought me the intelligence," he said,
                     "Colonel Mohun was wounded in the battle of Fleetwood, and entering a house
                     where she was nursing the wounded, fainted, and was caught in her
                     arms. From that moment the affair began. She nursed him, and he was soon
                     healed. I had myself inflicted the wound with a pistol ball—but the hurt was
                     trifling. He got well in a few days—and was ready to meet me again at
                     Upperville—but in those few days the young lady and himself became enamored of
                     each other. She is proud, they say, and had always laughed at love—he too is a
                     woman-hater—no doubt from some old affair, madam!—but both the young people
                     suddenly changed their views. Colonel Mohun became devoted; the young woman
                     forgot her sarcasm. My emissary saw them riding out more than once near
                     Culpeper Court-House; and since the return of the army, they have been billing
                     and cooing like two doves, quite love sick! That's agreeable, is it not,
                     madam?"
                  And Darke uttered a singular laugh. As for the woman she had grown so pale, I
                     thought she would faint.
                  "Do you understand, madam?" continued Darke. "Colonel Mohun is in love
                        again; and the name of his friend is—Georgia Conway!"
                  The woman was silent; but I saw that she was gnawing her nails.
                  "My budget is not exhausted, madam," continued Darke. "The young lady has a
                     sister; her name is Virginia. She too has a love affair with a young officer of
                     the artillery. His name is William Davenant!"
                  And the speaker clutched the arm of a chair so violently that the wood cracked
                     in his powerful grasp.
                  "That is all!" he added. "The Mohuns, Davenants and Conways, are about to
                     intermarry, you see! Their blood is going to mingle, their hands to clasp, in
                     spite of the gulf of fire that divides their people! All is forgotten, or they
                     care nothing. They are yonder, billing, and cooing, and kissing! the tender
                     hearts are throbbing—all the world is bright to them—while I am here, and you,
                     tearing our hearts out in despair!"
                  Darke stopped, uttering a sound between a curse and a groan. The woman had
                     listened with a bitter smile. As he finished, she rose and approached him. Her
                     eyes burned in the pale face like coals of fire.
                  "There is a better thing than despair!" she said.
                  "What?"
                  "Vengeance!"
                  And grasping his arm almost violently:—
                  "That man is yonder!" she said, pointing with the other hand toward Warrenton,
                     "Go and meet him, and kill him, and end all this at once! Remember the banks of
                     the Nottaway!—That sword thrust—that grave! Remember, he hates you with a
                     deadly hatred—has wounded you, laughed at you,—driven you back, when you met
                     him, like a hound under the lash! Remember me!—your oath! Break that oath and I
                     will go and kill him myself!"
                  As she uttered these words a cannon shot thundered across the woods.
                  "Listen!" the woman exclaimed.
                  Darke rose suddenly to his feet.
                  "You are right!" he said, gloomily. "You keep me to the work. I do not hate him
                     as you do—but he is an enemy, and I will kill him. Why do I yield to you, and
                     obey you thus? What makes me love you, I wonder!"
                  Suddenly a second gun roared from beyond Buckland.
                  "We will talk of that afterward," said the woman, with flushed cheeks; "think
                     of one thing only now—that he is yonder."
                  "Good!" said Darke, "and I hope that in an hour one of us will be dead, I care
                     not which—come, madam—but you must not expose yourself!"
                  "What am I!"
                  "All I have left!" he said.
                  And with a gloomy look he rushed from the house, followed by the gray
                     woman.
               
               
                  
                  XII. THE BUCKLAND RACES.
                  IN a moment the voice of Darke was heard, ordering "to horse!" a clatter of
                     sabres followed; and the company of cavalry sat out at full gallop toward the
                     firing.
                  At their head I saw Darke's burly figure. The woman, escorted by an orderly,
                     rode toward the rear.
                  In a few minutes the company of cavalry had entered a belt of woods and
                     disappeared.
                  We had hastened into the apartment—Tom and myself, and looked now toward the
                     highway. It was dark with a long column of Federal cavalry which seemed to be
                     in great agitation.
                  The column, as well as I could make out, numbered at least a division. Neither
                     the head nor the tail of the blue serpent was visible—only the main body, with
                     its drawn sabres glittering like silver scales in the sun.
                  I hesitated not many seconds. Something was evidently going on, and our present
                     whereabouts dangerous.
                  With a hasty salute to the young ladies who had hurried in, I made a sign to
                     Tom, and ran to my horse.
                  My companion did not join me for at least five minutes. Impatience began to
                     master me, when he appeared, laughing, and flourishing a knot of red ribbon,
                     which I had observed in Miss Katy's hair.
                  With a bound he was in the saddle—I saw him turn and make a gay salute toward
                     the ladies on the steps, and then we set out at full speed across the fields to
                     rejoin Stuart.
                  He was evidently engaged with the enemy. From the front came quick carbine
                     shots and shouts. From the woods, on the left flank and in rear of the enemy,
                     was heard the rapid thunder of cannon.
                  Suddenly every thing flashed upon me. I remembered Stuart's significant smile;
                     the absence of Fitz Lee; a trap had evidently been laid, and General Kilpatrick
                     had fallen into it.
                  I was not deceived. The gallant Fitz Lee had suggested the ruse. He was to move
                     toward Auburn, while Stuart retreated upon Warrenton, pursued by Kilpatrick.
                     Then Fitz Lee was to attack the enemy in flank and rear, from the direction of
                     Auburn—his cannon would be the signal for Stuart to turn. General Kilpatrick,
                     thus assailed in front, flank and rear, sauve qui
                        peut would, probably, be the order of the day with him.
                  Every thing turned out exactly as it had been arranged. Stuart retired steadily
                     on Warrenton. When the Federal rear approached Buckland, Fitz Lee came in on
                     their left flank, and then Stuart turned like a tiger, and bore down on the
                     head of their column.
                  That gun we had heard was the signal of Fitz Lee's attack. Those carbine shots
                     came from Stuart as his men charged.
                  We had set out at full speed to rejoin Stuart, as I have said; but he saved Tom
                     and myself the trouble of riding very far. He came to meet us, at full gallop,
                     with drawn sabre, driving the Federal troopers in disorder before him.
                  The affair that succeeded was one of the most animated of the war.
                  The enemy were completely dumbfoundered, but a part of Kilpatrick's force made
                     a hard fight. Sabres clashed, carbines cracked, Fitz Lee's artillery roared—the
                     fields and woods around Buckland were full of tumult and conflict.
                  In ten minutes we had caught up with Stuart. He was leading his column in
                     person. At the head of the front regiment rode Mohun, with drawn sabre, and
                     pressing his magnificent gray to headlong speed. In his eye was the splendid
                     joy of combat; his cheeks glowed; his laughing lips revealed the white teeth
                     under the black mustache. It was difficult to recognize in this gay cavalier,
                     the pale, bitter and melancholy cynic of the previous June.
                  "Look, Surry!" exclaimed Mohun, "we are driving our friend Kilpatrick! Stuart
                     is down on him like a lion!"
                  "You are driving a personal friend of yours, besides!" I said. "Yonder he
                     is—Colonel Darke!"
                  Mohun's smile disappeared suddenly. He looked at Darke, whose burly figure was
                     seen at the head of the charging column; and that glance was troubled and
                     doubtful.
                  
                  "I am sorry to meet him," he said, in a low tone.
                  "Why?"
                  "He would not strike me yonder, in Pennsylvania, when I was in his power."
                  "But he has sworn to kill you to-day!" I exclaimed. "I have just heard him
                     swear that! Look out, Mohun! here they are!"
                  In an instant the two columns had clashed together, like thunder. What followed
                     was a fierce and confused struggle—sabres clashing, carbines banging, men
                     shouting, groaning, and falling from their horses, which trampled over the dead
                     and wounded alike.
                  I was close beside Mohun as he closed in with Darke. The latter had plainly
                     resolved on his enemy's destruction; and in an instant the two men were cutting
                     furiously at each other with their sabres. They were body to body—their faces
                     flamed—it was rather a wrestle on horseback, than a sword fight.
                  Suddenly Mohun delivered a blow which fell upon his opponent's sword hand,
                     nearly cutting through the fingers. Darke's arm instinctively fell, and he was
                     at his adversary's mercy.
                  Instead of plunging his sword into Darke's breast, however, as he might have
                     done, Mohun let its point fall, and said:—
                  "Take your life! Now I am even with you, sir!"
                  Darke recoiled, and a furious flash darted from his eyes. Then his left hand
                     went to his hilt; he drew a pistol; and spurring close up to Mohun, placed the
                     weapon on his enemy's breast, and fired.
                  The bullet passed through Mohun's breast, but at the same instant Darke uttered
                     a fierce cry. Mohun had driven his sword's point through the Federal officer's
                     throat—the blood spouted around the blade—a moment afterward the two
                     adversaries had clutched, dragged each other from their rearing horses, and
                     were tearing each other with hands and teeth on the ground, wet with their
                     blood.
                  One of Mohun's men leaped from horseback and tore them apart.
                  "A sword! give me a sword," exclaimed Mohun, hoarsely.
                  And rising to his feet, he clutched at an imaginary weapon,—his lips foamed
                     with blood,—and reeling, he fell at full length on the body of his adversary,
                     who was bathed in blood, and seemed to be dying.
                  What is here described, all took place in a few minutes. In that time the
                     enemy's column had been broken, and hurled back. Suddenly the wild Southern
                     cheer rang above the woods. Stuart and Fitz Lee had united their forces; in one
                     solid column they pressed the flying enemy, banging and thundering on their
                     rear with carbines and cannon.
                  Kilpatrick was defeated; his column in hopeless rout.
                  "Stuart boasts of having driven me from Culpeper;" he is reported to have said
                     just before the fight, "and now I am going to drive him."
                  But Stuart was not driven. On the contrary, he drove Kilpatrick. Some of the
                     enemy's column did not stop, it is said, before they reached the banks of the
                     Potomac.
                  Such was the dramatic termination of the last great cavalry campaign of
                     Stuart.
                  The affair came to be known as "The Buckland Races," and Stuart's old sabreurs
                     still laugh as they recall the comedy.
               
               
                  XIII. TWO SCENES IN DECEMBER, 1863.
                  THE campaign of October, 1863, was over. Lee was behind the Rapidan.
                  In December General Meade struck a blow, in turn, at his adversary.
                  Shall we glance, in passing, at that affair of Mine Run? I saw a spectacle
                     there—and a sad one, too—which I am tempted to describe, though aware it has
                     little to do with my narrative. I have left Colonels Mohun and Darke in a
                     bloody embrace yonder near Buckland. I ought to relate at length how they were
                     not dead, and how they in due time recovered, but for the moment I think of a
                     fine sight, and a weeping face, which I saw in the woods below
                     Verdiersville.
                  
                  Let us ride thither, reader, it will not take long.
                  In December, then, General Meade crossed the lower Rapidan, and advanced to
                     assail General Lee in his works above.
                  A fiasco followed. Meade marched toward Verdiersville; found his adversary
                     behind earth-works, near that place; reconnoitered them, felt them, moved
                     backward and forward before them—and then, one morning, before General Lee was
                     aware of the fact, quietly disappeared, returning to the north bank of the
                     Rapidan.
                  You see I have no battles to describe on this occasion, reader. We had some
                     hard fighting in the cavalry, but I shall not dwell upon that. It is some
                     handsome fire-necklaces, and a talk with an old woman, which I shall speak
                     of.
                  The fire-necklaces were manufactured by General Meade's troops, just before
                     their retreat. The men had fallen into line at the word; moved silently toward
                     the Rapidan, and had not taken the trouble, in leaving the rebel woods, to
                     extinguish their bivouac fires, amid the thickets, carpeted with leaves. The
                     result was a splendid spectacle. The fires had gradually burned outward,
                     devouring the carpet of dry leaves. Great circles of flame were seen everywhere
                     in the woods, and these dazzling fire-necklaces grew larger and larger, twined
                     together, became entangled, twisted about, sparkled, crackled,—of all the
                     sights I ever saw I think this was the most curious!
                  From time to time the flames crawled along and reached the foot of some tall
                     tree, festooned with dry vines. Then the vine would catch; the flame would dart
                     through the festoons; climb the trunk; stream from the summit,—and above the
                     blazing rings, twisting in endless convolutions, would roar a mighty tongue of
                     flame, crimson, baleful, and menacing.
                  It was a new "torch of war," invented by General Meade.
                  Such was the picturesque spectacle which rose a moment ago to my memory.
                  Now for the sad scene which I witnessed, as I rode back with Stuart.
                  Passing a small house, a poor woman came out, and with eyes full of tears,
                     exclaimed, addressing Stuart:—
                  "Oh, child! stop a minute! Are they coming back? They have took every thing I
                     had—they are not coming back!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Her words.
                  
                  Stuart stopped. He was riding at the head of his staff, preceded by his
                     battle-flag. Not a trace of amusement was seen on his features, as he heard
                     himself addressed in that phrase, "Oh, child!"
                  "Have they treated you so badly?" he said, in his grave, kind voice.
                  "Oh, yes!" exclaimed the poor woman, weeping bitterly, "they have took every
                     hog, cow, and ear of corn I have, and every thing from my daughter; she is a
                     widow, and lives near us. These are her children, my grandchildren, come to get
                     out of the way."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Her words.
                  
                  And she pointed to two or three little girls, with frightened faces, and eyes
                     wet with tears.
                  Stuart seemed deeply affected. Under that stout heart, which never shrunk, was
                     a wealth of sweetness and kindness.
                  "Well, they are not coming back, my good woman," he said, in a voice of deep
                     feeling. "You need not be afraid—they are gone now."
                  The poor woman clasped her hands.
                  "Oh! do you believe that, child!"*
                        she said; "do you believe they'll never come back?"
                  
                     
                     *Her words.
                  
                  "I hope not, at least," Stuart replied, in a low tone.
                  "She clasped her hands, and for the third time addressing him as "child,"
                     sobbed:—
                  "Oh! if they will only never come back!"
                  That scene affected me deeply. The poor woman's tears brought something into my
                     throat which seemed to choke me. This time the Northern soldiers had been
                     impartial in their marauding. They had not only destroyed the property, and
                     carried off the slaves of the wealthy proprietors, the "bloated aristocrats;"
                     they had taken the bread out of the mouths of the widow and the
                     fatherless—leaving them bare and starving in that bleak December of '63.
                  War conducted in that manner is barbarous—is it not, reader? The cry of that widow and her children must have
                     gone up to Heaven.
                  Stuart returned to his bivouae in the pine wood near Verdiersville, where he
                     had slept without tents, by his camp-fire, all these freezing nights. Then the
                     army began to move; soon it resumed its former position; the cavalry was sent
                     to watch the fords of the Rapidan; and Stuart returned to his own head-quarters
                     near Orange Court-House, gayly singing, as he had left them to advance and meet
                     the enemy.
               
               
                  XIV. STUART'S WINTER QUARTERS.
                  COON HOLLOW!—
                  What gay memories are evoked by that familiar name! How we laughed and sang in
                     that hollow in the hills near Orange, in the cold winter of 1863!
                  Stuart called his head-quarters "Wigwam Independence," but the officers of his
                     staff gave them the sobriquet of "Coon Hollow;" and I adopt in my memoirs the
                     old familiar designation.
                  Never were soldiers more comfortable than the inhabitants of Coon Hollow!—and
                     Stuart's tent was the most comfortable of all. He had stretched a large canvas
                     beneath some sheltering trees; and filling up the opening at each end with a
                     picturesque wicker-work of evergreens, ensconced himself there in his sylvan
                     lodge, like some Robin Hood, or ranger of the greenwood in old times. The
                     woodland haunt and open air life seemed, at first, to charm the bold cavalier;
                     nothing seemed wanting to his happiness, lost here in the forest: but soon the
                     freezing airs "demoralized" even the stout cavalryman, and he exchanged his
                     canvas for a regular tent of the largest description, with a plank floor, a
                     camp-couch, and a mighty chimney, wherein sparkled, ere long, a cheerful fire
                     of hickory, driving away the blasts of the cold winter nights, which were sent
                     on their way with song.
                  Such was Stuart's own domicile. The staff tents were grouped around, with their
                     solid chimneys of rock. The "cavalry head-quarters" was complete—a warm nest in
                     the woods. Couriers came and went; sabres rattled; spurs jingled; the horses
                     whinnied from their stables, woven of pine boughs, near by; and in and out of
                     the general's tent played his two boisterous setters, Nip and Tuck, the
                     companions of his idle hours. We all messed together, under a broad canvas, at
                     one table: music resounded; songs were sung; Sweeney, soon, alas! to be dead,
                     was yet king of the woodland revels; Stuart joined in his songs, to the music
                     of the banjo; and not seldom did the bright faces of fair ladies shine on us,
                     bringing back all the warmth of the summer days—the blue sky, the sunshine, and
                     the smiles!
                  Such was good old "Coon Hollow." I recall it with delight. The chill airs cut
                     you to the bone when you ventured out on horseback from the sheltered nook; but
                     in Coon Hollow all was warm and bright. In the woods on the crest above, the
                     winds sighed: but in the hollow below, the banjo rattled; laughter resounded;
                     great fires roared; and, as though in open defiance of winter and its tempests,
                     Stuart, carolled in his clear and sonorous voice, his favorite ditty, 
                        "The dew is on the blossom."
                     
                  
                  So we sang and laughed all those long winter evenings. The winds carried away
                     the sound of jests, and banjo notes. The long hours of winter thus flew by like
                     birds lost, one by one, in the night of the past. Happy days! happy nights! I
                     remember them still. Stuart is dead—more than one of my dear companions have
                     followed him—but their voices sound again, their eyes again flash, their
                     friendly smiles linger in memory.
                  So the days fled by—and I wonder if our friends across the Rapidan, who were
                     going to crush us, were as gay as the folk about to be crushed? The future
                     looked stormy, but we laughed—and we did right, did we not, friend? That mirth
                     was not unseemly—not unworthy of approval. It is evidence at least of "game,"
                        non fractum esse fortunâ et retinere in rebus
                        asperis, dignitatem—is it not? Good fortune, wealth, and success,
                     are nothing compared to that. For my part, I would rather have the equal mind
                     in arduous things, than money in my purse, or victory. The army of Northern Virginia had that
                     in the winter of 1863, as they had had it in 1861 and '62, and were going to
                     have it in the dark year and black winter preceding April, 1865.
                  But I linger too long on those days at "Coon Hollow." The wave of war had
                     wafted us to that quiet nook; for a time, we laughed and sang; but the storm
                     was coming. Soon it struck us; and we left the harbor, driven by the
                     tempest.
                  So I dismiss Coon Hollow, lost amid the hills of Orange. The spot is desolate
                     to-day, and the bleak wood is silent. But for me, Stuart is singing there now
                     as then—and will sing in my memory forever!
               
               
                  XV. LEE'S "RAGGED REGIMENTS."
                  IT required a stout heart to laugh and sing, con
                        amore, in the last days of that winter, and the first days of
                     spring, 1864.
                  Those very figures, "1864," tell the story, and explain this. Do they not,
                     reader?
                  Each year of the war has its peculiar physiognomy.
                  1861—that is mirth, adventure, inexperience, bright faces, wreaths of flowers,
                     "boxes" from home, and "honorable mention" in reports, if you only waved your
                     sword and shouted "Hurrah!" Then you heard the brass bands playing, the drum
                     gayly rolling, the bugles sending their joyous notes across the fields and
                     through the forests—blooming fields, untouched forests!—and that music made the
                     pulses dance. Gayly-clad volunteers marched gallantly through the streets; the
                     crowds cheered; the new flags, shaped by fair hands, fluttered;—not a bullet
                     had torn through them, not a rent was seen in the new uniforms. As the trains
                     swept by with the young heroes on board, bevies of lovely girls cheered, waved
                     handkerchiefs, and threw nosegays. Eyes were sparkling, lips smiling, cheeks
                     glowing in '61. The youths had havelocks to ward off the sun; gaiters to keep
                     out the dust; woollen belts to prevent rheumatism tism; fanciful shirt bosoms,
                     and pretty needle-cases and tobacco pouches of silk and velvet, decked with
                     beads and gay needlework, by the dearest fingers in the world!
                  So they went to the wars—those stout and ruddy youths. Every one anxious to
                     have his head taken off by a cannon ball, all for the honor and glory of it.
                     They marched along cheering, as the white handkerchiefs waved; they proudly
                     kept step to the tap of the drum, or moved briskly beside the cannon, or
                     cantered by on their glossy and spirited horses.
                  The epoch was agitated, but joy coursed in every vein. And when the first
                     successes came, those small affairs were greeted with "thunders of
                     applause."
                  General Spoons marched to Bethel; took a look at the gray people; fired a gun
                     or two before retreating—and a thousand Southern journalists shouted "Io,
                     triumphe!—a grand victory!" The brave Del. Kemper fired a shot at the Federal
                     train approaching Vienna, and the journalists cried, "we have driven back the
                     whole Federal army!"
                  Then some real fighting came, and the applause was again tremendous. When the
                     news of the first Manassas flashed over the wires, the Southern people stood
                     upon their heads, and went wild. The war was ended—the affair was over—the
                     brass bands, and rolling drums, and dazzling uniforms had speedily done the
                     business. The power of the North was broken. She had run upon the breakers. The
                     great hulk was lying stranded, the waves were beating her, and she was about to
                     go to pieces.
                  Such was 1861—an era of mirth, inexperience, inflated views, brilliant
                     pageants, gay adventures, ruddy cheeks, sparkling eyes and splendid banners,
                     floating proudly in the sunshine of victory!
                  1862 came, and with it a new phase of the war. Sweat, dust, and blood had
                     replaced the music and wreaths of roses. Faces, were not so ruddy—they began to
                     look war-worn. The rounded cheeks had become gaunt. The bright uniforms were
                     battle-soiled. Smoke had stained them, the bivouac dimmed them, the sun had
                     changed the blue-gray to a sort of scorched yellow. Waving handkerchiefs still
                     greeted the troops—as they greeted them to the end of the war. But few flowers
                     were thrown now—their good angels looked on in silence, and prayed for
                     them.
                  
                  They were no longer holiday soldiers, but were hardened in battle. They knew
                     the work before them, and advanced to it with the measured tramp of veterans.
                     They fought as well as soldiers have ever fought in this world. Did they not?
                     Answer, Cold Harbor, Malvern Hill, Cedar Mountain, Manassas, Boonsboro',
                     Sharpsburg, and Fredericksburg! And every battle, nearly, was a victory. In the
                     lowlands and the mountains—in Virginia and Maryland—they bore aloft the banner
                     of the South in stalwart hands, and carried it forward with unshrinking hearts,
                     to that baptism of blood awaiting it. That was the great year for the South.
                     The hour was dark—a huge foe fronted us—but wherever that foe was met, he
                     seemed to reel before the mailed hand that buffeted his front. All frippery and
                     decoration had long been stripped from the army. The fingers of war—real
                     war—had torn off the gaudy trappings; and the grim lips had muttered, "What I
                     want is hard muscle, and the brave heart—not tinsel!" The bands were seldom
                     heard—the musicians were tending the wounded. The drums had ceased their jovial
                     rattle, and were chiefly used in the "long roll," which said "Get ready, boys!
                     they are coming!"
                  So in the midst of smoke and dust,—with yells of triumph, or groans of agony,
                     in place of the gay cheering—passed that year of battles, 1862.
                  The South was no longer romantic and elated on the subject of the war. The
                     soldiers no longer looked out for adventures, or for the glorious cannon-ball
                     to carry off their heads, and make their names immortal. At home, the old men
                     were arming, and the women sending words of cheer to their husbands and sons,
                     and praying. In the camps, the old soldiers had forgotten the wreaths of roses.
                     Their havelocks were worn out, and they no longer minded the sun. Gray flannel
                     had replaced the "fancy" shirt bosoms; they carried tobacco in their pockets;
                     and you saw them, seated on some log, busy sewing on buttons, the faces once so
                     round and ruddy, now gaunt and stained with powder.
                  1863 came, and it was an army of veterans that struck Hooker at
                     Chancellorsville. It was no longer a company of gay gallants marching by, amid
                     music, waving scarfs, and showers of nose-gays from fairy hands. It was a
                     stormy wave of gaunt warriors, in ragged clothes and begrimed faces, who
                     clutched their shining muskets, rushed headlong over the breastworks, and,
                     rolling through the blazing and crackling woods, swept the enemy at the point
                     of the bayonet, with the hoarse and menacing cry, "Remember Jackson!"
                     Gettysburg followed—never was grapple more fierce than that, as we have seen;
                     and when the veterans of Lee were hurled back, the soil of the continent seemed
                     to shake. They were repulsed and retreated, but as the lion retreats before the
                     huntsman, glaring back, and admonishing him not to follow too closely, if he
                     would consult his own safety. At Williamsport the wounded lion halted and
                     turned—his pursuer did not assail him—and he crossed the Potomac, and descended
                     to the Rapidan, to strike in turn that dangerous blow in October, when Meade
                     was nearly cut off from Washington.
                  With that campaign of Bristoe, and the fiasco of Mine Run, the year 1863
                     ended.
                  It left the South bleeding, and what was worse,—discouraged. Affairs were
                     mismanaged. The army had scarcely sufficient meat and bread to live on. The
                     croakers, clad in black coats, and with snowy shirt bosoms, began to mutter
                     under their breath, "It is useless to struggle longer!"—and, recoiling in
                     disgust from the hard fare of "war times," began to hunger for the flesh-pots
                     of Egypt. Manna was tasteless now; the task-master was better than the
                     wilderness and the scant fare. Oh! to sit by the flesh-pots and grow fat, as in
                     the days when they did eat thereof! Why continue the conflict? Why waste
                     valuable lives? Why think of still fighting when flour was a hundred dollars a
                     barrel, coffee twenty dollars a pound, cloth fifty dollars a yard, and good
                     whiskey and brandy not to be purchased at any price? Could patriotism live amid
                     trials like that? Could men cling to a cause which made them the victims of
                     Yankee cavalry? Why have faith any longer in a government that was
                     bankrupt—whose promises to pay originated the scoffing proverb, "as worthless
                     as a Confederate note!" Meat and drink was the religion of the croakers in
                     those days. Money was their real divinity. Without meat and drink, and with
                     worthless money, the Confederacy, in their eyes, was not the side to adhere to.
                     It was unfortunate—down with it! Let it be anathema-maranatha!
                  
                  The croakers said that—and the brave hearts whom they insulted could not
                     silence them. There were stout souls in black coats—but the croakers distilled
                     their poison, working busily in the darkness. It was the croakers who bought up
                     the supplies, and hoarded them in garrets, and retailed them in driblets,
                     thereby causing the enormous prices which, according to them, fore-told the
                     coming downfall. They evaded the conscript officers; grew fat on their
                     extortions; and one day you would miss them from their accustomed haunts—they
                     had flitted across the Potomac, and were drinking their wine in New York,
                     London, or Paris.
                  Meanwhile, three classes of persons remained faithful to the death:—the old
                     men, the army, and the women.
                  The gray-beards were taking down their old guns and swords, and forming
                     home-battalions, to fight the enemy to the death when his cavalry came to lay
                     waste the country.
                  The women were weaving homespun, knitting socks, nursing the wounded, and
                     praying. They had never ceased to pray, nor had they lost the heart of hope.
                     The croakers believed in success, and their patron saint was Mammon. The women
                     believed in the justice of the cause, and in God. In 1861, they had cheered the
                     soldiers, and waved their handkerchiefs, and rained bouquets. In 1862, they had
                     sent brave words of encouragement, and bade their sons, and brothers, and
                     husbands fight to the end. In 1863, they repeated that—sent the laggards back
                     to the ranks—and when they were not sewing, or nursing the sick, were praying.
                     O women of Virginia, and the great South to her farthest limits, there is
                     nothing in all history that surpasses your grand record! You hoped, in the dark
                     days as in the bright;—when bearded men shrunk, you fronted the storm unmoved!
                     Always you hoped, and endured, and prayed for the land. Had the rest done their
                     duty like the women and the army, the red-cross flag would be floating to-day
                     in triumph!
                  The army—that was unshaken. Gettysburg had not broken its strength, nor
                     affected its stout manhood. Lee's old soldiers believed in him after
                     Gettysburg, in the winter of '63, as they had believed in him after
                     Fredericksburg, in the winter of '62. They had confidence still in their great
                     leader, and in their cause. The wide gaps in their ranks did not dismay them;
                     want of food did not discourage them; hunger, hardships, nakedness,
                     defeat,—they had borne these in the past, they were bearing them still, they
                     were ready to bear them in the future. War did not fright them—though the
                     coming conflict was plainly going to be more bitter than any before. The great
                     array of Grant on the north bank of the Rapidan did not depress them—had they
                     not met and defeated at Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville a force as great,
                     and could not they do it again?
                  So they lay in their camps on the Rapidan, in that cold winter of 1863—a little
                     army of ragged and hungry men, with gaunt faces, wasted forms, shoeless feet;
                     with nothing to encourage them but the cause, past victories, and Lee's
                     presence. That was much; what was enough, however, was the blood in their
                     veins; the inspiration of the great race of fighting men from whom they derived
                     their origin. Does any one laugh at that? The winner will—but the truth
                     remains.
                  That ragged and famished army came of a fighting race. It was starving and
                     dying, but it was going to fight to the last.
                  When the cannon began to roar in May, 1864, these gaunt veterans were in line,
                     with ragged coats, but burnished bayonets. When Lee, the gray cavalier, rode
                     along their lines, the woods thundered with a cheer which said, "Ready!"
               
               
                  XVI. HAMMER AND RAPIER.
                  I PASS to the great collision of armies in the first days of May.
                  Why say any thing of that dark episode called "Dahlgren's raid?" A full account
                     would be too long—a brief sketch too short. And whatever our Northern friends
                     may think, it is not agreeable to us to dwell on that outrage. Was that
                        war? Was it civilized warfare to march in the darkness upon a
                     city full of women and children—to
                     plan the assassination of the Southern President and his cabinet; the
                     destruction of the city by the torch; the release of the Federal prisoners at
                     Belle Isle, to be let loose afterward with fire and sword on Richmond?
                  Alas! all that was planned. The orders were captured, and exist still. Was that
                     war? I repeat. Answer, friends of the North. Or, did you think us mere wild
                     beasts?
                  I omit all that; passing on to the real fighting.
                  General Ulysses S. Grant had been appointed commander-in-chief of the armies of
                     the United States, and had taken command in person of the army of the Potomac,
                     confronting Lee on the Rapidan.
                  Before the curtain rises, and the cannon begin to roar, let us glance at the
                     relative numbers, and the programme of the Federal leader.
                  Grant's "available force present for duty, May 1, 1864," was, according to the
                     report of the Federal Secretary of War, 141,166 men.
                  Lee's force, "present for duty," as his army rolls will show, was 52,626 men.
                     That is to say, rather more than one-third of his adversary's.
                  Lee afterward received about 10,000 re-enforcements from Beauregard's columns.
                     Grant received about 50,000.
                  With about 62,000 men Lee repulsed the attacks of Grant with about 200,000 men,
                     from the Rapidan to Petersburg—inflicting a loss on his adversary, by the
                     Federal statement of more than 60,000 men.
                  These numbers may be denied, but the proof is on record.
                  The programme of General Grant in the approaching campaign was one of very
                     great simplicity. He intended to "hammer continuously" as he wrote to President
                     Lincoln, and crush his adversary at whatever expense of money and blood. From
                     1861 to 1864, war had been war, such as the world understands it. Pitched
                     battles had been fought—defeats sustained—or victories gained.
                  Then the adversaries rested before new pitched battles: more defeats or
                     victories. General Grant had determined to change all that. It had been tried,
                     and had failed. He possessed a gigantic weapon, the army of the United States.
                     In his grasp was a huge sledge-hammer—the army of the Potomac. He was going to
                     clutch that tremendous weapon, whirl it aloft like a new Vulcan, and strike
                     straight at Lee's crest, and try to end him. If one blow did not suffice, he
                     was going to try another. If that failed, in its turn, he would strike another
                     and another. All the year was before him; there were new men to fill the places
                     of those who fell; blood might gush in torrents, but the end was worth the
                     cost. Would it hurl a hundred thousand men into bloody graves? That was
                     unfortunate, but unavoidable. Would the struggle frighten and horrify the
                     world? It was possible. But these things were unimportant. The rebellion must
                     be crushed. The sledge-hammer must strike until Lee's keen rapier was
                     shattered. Hammer and rapier were matched against each other—the combat was
                        à l'outrance—the hammer must beat down the
                     rapier, or fall from the grasp of him who wielded it.
                  Such was the programme of General Grant. It was not war exactly, in the old
                     acceptation of the term. It was not taught by Jomini, or practised by Napoleon.
                     You would have said, indeed, at the first glance, that it rejected the idea of
                     generalship in toto. Let us give General
                     Grant his just dues, however. He was not a great commander, but he
                        was a man of clear brain. He saw that brute force could alone
                     shatter the army of Northern Virginia; that to wear it away by attrition,
                     exhaust its blood drop by drop, was the only thing left—and he had the courage
                     to adopt that programme.
                  To come back to events on the Rapidan in the month of May, 1864.
                  Lee is ready for the great collision, now seen to be inevitable. His right,
                     under Ewell, occupies the works on the southern bank of the Rapidan, above
                     Chancellorsville. His centre, under A.P. Hill, lies near Orange Court-House.
                     His left, under Longstreet, is in reserve near Gordonsville.
                  The army of Northern Virginia is thus posted in echelon of corps, extending
                     from Gordonsville, by Orange, toward the fords of the Rapidan.
                  When the enemy cross on their great advance, Ewell is ready to face east; Hill will close in on his right;
                     and Longstreet in the same manner on Hill's right. Then the army will be in
                     line, ready to strike at Grant's flank as he moves through the Wilderness.
                  For Lee is going to strike at him. The fifty thousand are going to order the
                     one hundred and forty thousand to halt.
                  Stuart's cavalry is watching. It extends from Madison Court-House, along
                     Robertson River, on the left of the army; and on the right, from Ewell's camps,
                     past Chancellorsville, to Fredericksburg.
                  Such was the situation on the first of May. The two tigers were watching each
                     other—and one was about to spring.
               
               
                  XVII. FORT DELAWARE.
                  TO descend now from the heights of generalization to the plains of incident and
                     personal observation.
                  For this volume is not a history of the war in Virginia, but the memories of a
                     staff officer belonging to Stuart's cavalry.
                  May, 1864, had come; we were soon to be in the saddle; the thundering hammer of
                     General Grant was about to commence its performances.
                  One night—it was the night of the first of May—I was sitting in General
                     Stuart's tent, looking into his blazing log fire, and musing. In this luxury I
                     was not interrupted. It was nearly midnight, and the rest of the staff had
                     retired. Stuart was writing at his desk, by the light of a candle in a captured
                     "camp candlestick," and from time to time, without turning his head, ejaculated
                     some brief words upon any subject which came into his head.
                  After writing ten minutes, he now said briefly:—
                  "Surry."
                  "General," was my as brief response.
                  "I think Mohun was a friend of yours?"
                  "Yes, general, we became intimate on the march to Gettysourg."
                  "Well, I have just received his commission—"
                  "You mean as—"
                  "Brigadier-general. You know I long ago applied for it."
                  "I knew that—pity he has not been exchanged."
                  "A great pity,—and you miss a pleasure I promised myself I would give you."
                  "What pleasure, general?"
                  "To take Mohun his commission with your own hands."
                  "I am truly sorry I can not. You know he was terribly wounded, and we had to
                     leave him in Warrenton; then the enemy advanced; for a long time we thought him
                     dead. Thus I am sorry I am debarred the pleasure you offer. Some day I hope to
                     accept your offer."
                  "Accept it now, colonel," said a benignant voice at the door. I turned
                     suddenly, as did the general. At the opening of the tent, a head was seen—the
                     head passed through—was followed by a body,—and Mr. Nighthawk, private and
                     confidential emissary, glided in with the stealthy step of a wild-cat.
                  He was unchanged. His small eyes were as piercing, his smile as benignant, his
                     costume—black coat, white cravat, and "stove-pipe" hat—as clerical as
                     before.
                  "Good evening, gentlemen," said Mr. Nighthawk, smiling sweetly; "I bring news
                     of Colonel Mohun."
                  "And fly in like an owl, or your namesake!" laughed Stuart.
                  "An owl? I am told that is the bird of wisdom, gentlemen!"
                  "You hit the nail on the head, when you said 'gentlemen!'"*
                      replied Stuart, laughing; "but how about Mohun? Is he exchanged,
                      Nighthawk?"
                  
                     
                     *A favorite phrase of Stuart's.
                  
                  And Stuart wheeled round and pointed to a chair.
                  Nighthawk sat down modestly.
                  "Not exchanged, exactly, general; but safe!" he said.
                  "He escaped?"
                  "Exactly, general."
                  "And you helped him?"
                  "I believe so."
                  "Good! You really are a trump, Nighthawk—and you seem to have a peculiar fancy
                     for Mohun."
                  
                  "He is the best friend I have in the world, general."
                  "Well, that accounts for it. But how did he escape?"
                  "I will tell you in a few words, general. I rather pride myself on the manner
                     in which I conducted the little affair. You remember, Colonel Mohun was very
                     badly wounded when you defeated Kilpatrick at Buckland. It was in a fight with
                     Colonel Darke, of the Federal cavalry, who was also wounded and left dying, as
                     was erroneously supposed, at a small house on the roadside, when you fell back.
                     Colonel Mohun was left at Warrenton, his wound being so severe that he could
                     not be brought farther in his ambulance, and here he staid until he was
                     convalescent. His recovery was miraculous, as a bullet had passed through his
                     breast; but he is a gentleman of vigorous constitution, and he rallied at last,
                     but, unfortunately, to find himself a prisoner. General Meade had reoccupied
                     the country, and Colonel Mohun was transferred from hospital to Fort Delaware,
                     as a prisoner of war.
                  "I have informed you, general," continued Mr. Nighthawk, smiling, and turning
                     the rim of his black hat between his fingers, "that Colonel Mohun was one of my
                     best friends. For that reason, I went to see him at Warrenton, and had arranged
                     a very good plan for his escape, when, unfortunately, he was all at once sent
                     away, thereby disappointing all my schemes. I followed, however, saw that he
                     was taken to Fort Delaware, and proceeded thither at once. You have probably
                     not visited this place, general, or you, colonel. It is a fort, and outside is
                     a pen, or stockade as it is called, covering two or three acres. Inside are
                     cabins for the prisoners, in the shape of a semicircle, and grounds to walk in,
                     except in the space marked off by the 'dead line.' If any prisoner crosses that
                     he is shot by the sentries, whose beat is on a platform running round upon the
                     top of the stockade.
                  "Well, I went to the place, and found that Colonel Mohun was confined with
                     other officers in the pen, where they had the usual Federal ration of watery
                     soup, bad meat, and musty crackers. For a gentleman, like himself, accustomed
                     before the war to every luxury that unbounded wealth could supply, this was
                     naturally disagreeable, and I determined to omit no exertion to effect his
                     escape.
                  "Unfortunately, the rules of Fort Delaware are very strict, however. To cross
                     the 'dead line' is death; to attempt to burrow is confinement in irons, and
                     other degrading punishments; and to bribe the sentinels invariably resulted in
                     having the whole affair revealed, after they had received the money. It really
                     seemed as if Colonel Mohun were doomed to the living death of a filthy prison
                     until the end of the war, since exchanges had ceased, and it was only by
                     devising a ruse of very great risk that I accomplished the end in view."
                  "What was your plan, Nighthawk?" said Stuart, rising and moving to the
                     fireplace, where he stood basking in the warmth. "Original, I lay my life,
                     and—quiet."
                  "Exactly that, general."
                  And Nighthawk smiled sweetly.
               
               
                  XVIII. THE UNIFORM.
                  "I HAVE always observed, general," said Mr. Nighthawk, raising his eyes in
                     pious meditation, as it were, "that there is no better rule for a man's conduct
                     in life than to make friends with the mammon of unrighteousness—people in
                     power."
                  "A profound maxim," laughed Stuart; "friends are useful—that was your
                     principle?"
                  "Yes, general; and I made one of the quartermaster of the post—a certain major
                     Woodby—who was exceedingly fond of the 'root of all evil.' I made that
                     gentleman's acquaintance, applied for the place of sutler in the
                        pen; and this place I acquired by agreeing to pay a heavy bonus in
                     thirty days.
                  "This was Saturday night. On Monday morning I presented myself before the gate,
                     and demanded admittance as the newly appointed sutler of the pen.
                  "I was admitted, and taken before the officer of the day, in his quarters.
                  
                  "'Who are you?' he asked, gruffly.
                  "'The new sutler, lieutenant.'
                  "'Where are your papers?'
                  "I had them ready, and presented them to him. He read them carefully, looked at
                     me superciliously, and said:—
                  "'That is wholly informal.'
                  "I looked at him. He had a red nose.
                  "'I have some excellent French brandy, captain,' I said, promoting him.
                  "At sight of the portly flask which I drew half from my pocket and exhibited to
                     him, I saw his face relax.
                  "'You are a keen fellow, and know the world, I perceive,' he said.
                  "And taking the flask, he poured out nearly a glass full of the brandy, and
                     drank it.
                  "'Do you intend to keep that article of brandy?' he said.
                  "'For my friends, captain,' I replied, with a wink which he evidently
                     understood.
                  "'Let me see your papers again.'
                  "I unfolded them, and he glanced at them.
                  "'All right—they are in regular form. There is the key of the sutler's shop, on
                     that nail. Take possession.'
                  "And my friend the captain emptied a second glass of the brandy, and made me a
                     sign that I could go.
                  "I bowed profoundly; took the key; and went and opened the sutler's shop; after
                     which I strolled out to look at the prisoners in the area. The sentinel had
                     seen me visit the officer of the day, and go to the sutler's shop. Thus he did
                     not interfere with me when I went into the area, as I was obviously a good
                     Union man and an employee of the post.
                  "Such was the manner in which I secured a private interview with Colonel Mohun:
                     we could talk without the presence of a corporal; and we soon arranged the plan
                     for his escape.
                  "I had determined to procure a Federal uniform, to be smuggled in to him, and
                     an hour afterward, I left him, promising to see him again as soon as I could
                     visit Wilmington, and return with the intended disguise.
                  "A strange piece of good fortune aided me, or rather accomplished plished my
                     purpose at once. I had scarcely returned to the sutler's shop, and spread some
                     blankets to sleep upon, when the officer of the day came in, and I saw at a
                     glance that he was half intoxicated, in consequence of the large amount of
                     brandy which he had swallowed. In a thick and husky voice he cursed the 'stuff'
                     vended at the post, extolled 'the article' I carried, and demanded another pull
                     at the flask. I looked at him—saw that a little more would make him
                     dead-drunk—and all at once resolved on my plan.
                  "This was," continued Mr. Nighthawk, with modest simplicity, and smiling as he
                     spoke, "to make my friend, the officer of the day, dead-drunk, and then borrow
                     his uniform; and I succeeded. In half an hour he was maudlin. In three-quarters
                     of an hour, drunk. Five minutes afterward he fell out of his chair, and began
                     to snore, where he lay.
                  "I secured the door tightly, stripped off his uniform, then my own clothing;
                     put on his, and then replaced my own citizen's dress over all, concealed his
                     cap and boots beneath my overcoat, wrapped the prostrate lieutenant in my
                     blankets for fear he would take cold, and going out, locked the door and
                     proceeded to the quarters of the prisoners. Again the sentinel took no notice
                     of me. I found Colonel Mohun in his 'bunk.' Ten minutes afterward he had
                     replaced his gray uniform with that of the Federal lieutenant, and, watching
                     the moment when the back of the sentinel was turned, we walked together toward
                     the gate of the pen.
                  "That was the moment of real danger. Outside the narrow gate another sentinel
                     was posted, and the man might be personally acquainted with the officer of the
                     day, or have noticed his appearance. Luckily, the guard had been relieved about
                     an hour before—the new sentinel had not seen the officer of the day—and when
                     Colonel Mohun put his head through the little window beside the gate, ordering
                     'Open!' the gate flew open, the sentinel presented arms as he passed, and I
                     followed modestly—the door banging-to behind us."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
               
               
                  
                  XIX. THE NOTE.
                  "THUS the colonel was out of the pen," continued Nighthawk, smiling. "The rest
                     was not very dangerous, unless the alarm were given. They might miss the
                     locked-up officer—he might have been seen to go into the sutler's shop—and I
                     admonished Colonel Mohun, in a low tone, to proceed as rapidly as possible in a
                     direction which I pointed out.
                  "The path indicated led to a spot on the island where I had concealed a small
                     boat among some willows—and, once across on the mainland, I hoped that the
                     danger would be over.
                  "In spite of my admonitions, Colonel Mohun took his time. He is a cool one! He
                     even turned and walked toward the fort, which he carefully examined—counting
                     the guns, observing the ditches, and the ground around it.
                  "'That place could be taken, Nighthawk!' he said, with a laugh. And he
                     continued to stroll around the place, receiving at every moment respectful
                     salutes from passing soldiers, which he returned with the utmost coolness, and
                     an air of authority which I never have seen surpassed. I declare to you,
                     general, that it made the sweat burst out on my forehead, and it was fully an
                     hour before we reached the boat. I sprung in and seized the oars, for I saw a
                     dozen soldiers approaching us from the direction of the fort.
                  "'For heaven's sake, sit down, colonel,' I exclaimed; 'in five minutes we will
                     be lost!'
                  "He did not reply. He was feeling in the pockets of the lieutenant's coat; and
                     drew out a note-book with a pencil attached. Then, as the men came toward us,
                     he began to write. I looked over his shoulder—a bad habit I acknowledge,
                     general—and I read these words:—
                  "'Colonel Mohun, C. S. A., presents his compliments to the commanding officer
                     of Fort Delaware, and recommends the 10-inch Columbiad in place of the 30-lb.
                     Parrotts on the bastion near the southern angle of the work.
                  "'As Colonel M. is en route for Richmond
                        via Wilmington, and the train will soon
                     pass, he is compelled to refrain from other suggestions which occur to him.
                  "'The commandant of the post will pardon the want of ceremony of his departure.
                     This distressing separation is dictated by necessity.'"
                  Nighthawk smiled as he repeated the words of Mohun's note.
                  "Did you ever hear of a cooler hand, general? But I must end my long story. The
                     colonel wrote this note while the soldiers were coming toward us. When they had
                     come within ten steps, he beckoned to one of them—the man came up, saluting—and
                     the colonel said, 'Take this note to the commandant—go at once.'
                  "My heart had jumped to my throat, general! The next moment I drew a good long
                     breath of real relief. The Federal soldier touched his cap, took the note, and
                     went back toward the fort. Without further delay, I pushed out and rowed across
                     to the mainland, where we soon arrived.
                  "Then we left the boat, struck into the fields, and pushed for the nearest
                     station on the railroad. On the way, I could not refrain from upbraiding the
                     colonel with his imprudence. He only laughed, however, and we went on without
                     stopping. An hour afterward we reached the station, and the northern train soon
                     came. We got in, the cars started, and we were en
                        route for Baltimore. Suddenly the dull sound of a cannon-shot came
                     from the direction of Fort Delaware. A moment afterward came another, and then
                     a third.
                  "'A prisoner has escaped from Fort Delaware,' said one of the passengers near
                     us, raising his eyes from a newspaper. Colonel Mohun laughed, and said
                     carelessly, without sinking his voice in the least, 'Ten to one they have found
                     your friend, the lieutenant, Nighthawk!' Such a man, general! It was enough to
                     make your blood run cold! I thought I was cool, but I assure you,
                     I never imagined a man could equal that.
                  
                  "We reached Baltimore, made the connection with the train going west to
                     Wheeling, and disembarked at Martinsburg. There the colonel procured a
                     horse—rode to a friend's on the Opequan—changed his blue dress for a citizen's
                     suit, and proceeded to Staunton,
                     thence to Richmond, and yesterday rejoined his regiment, near
                     Chancellorsville."
               
               
                  XX. GENERAL GRANT'S PRIVATE ORDER.
                  STUART kicked a log, which had fallen on the hearth, back into the fire, and
                     said:—
                  "Well, Nighthawk, your narrative only proves one thing."
                  "What, general?"
                  "That the writer who hereafter relates the true stories of this war, will be
                     set down as a Baron Munchausen."
                  "No doubt of that, general."
                  "This escape of Colonel Mohun, for instance, will be discredited."
                  "No matter, it took place; but I have not told you what brought me over,
                     general."
                  "Over?"
                  "Yes, across the Rapidan. I did not go from Martinsburg to Richmond with
                     Colonel Mohun. I thought I would come down and see what was going on in
                     Culpeper. Accordingly I crossed the Blue Ridge at Ashby's Gap, reached
                     Culpeper—and last night crossed the Rapidan opposite Chancellorsville, where I
                     saw Colonel Mohun, before whom I was carried as a spy."
                  "You bring news, then?" said Stuart, with sudden earnestness and attention.
                  "Important news, general. The Federal army is about to move."
                  "To cross?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Where—when!—what force!"
                  "One hundred and forty thousand of all arms. I answer the last question
                     first."
                  "And—"
                  "The army will advance in two columns. The right—of Sedgwick's and Warren's
                     corps—will cross at Germanna Ford. The left, consisting of Hancock's corps, at
                     Ely's ford below They have pontoon and bridge trains—and the movement will
                     commence at midnight on the third—two days from now."
                  Stuart knit his brows, and buried his hand in his beard. Suddenly he called out
                     to the orderly:—
                  "Have two horses saddled in five minutes!" And seizing his hat, he said:—
                  "Get ready to ride to General Lee's head-quarters with me, Nighthawk!"
                  The clerical looking emissary put on his respectable black hat.
                  "You are certain of this intelligence?" Stuart said, turning with a piercing
                     glance to him.
                  "Quite certain, general," said Mr. Nighthawk, serenely.
                  "You were in the camps?"
                  "In all, I believe, and at army head-quarters."
                  "You overheard your intelligence?"
                  "No, I captured it, general."
                  "How?"
                  "A courier was sent in haste—I saw the commander-in-chief speaking to him. I
                     followed—came up with him in a hollow of the woods—and was compelled to blow
                     his brains out, as he would not surrender. I then searched his body, and found
                     what I wanted. There it is, general."
                  And Nighthawk drew forth a paper.
                  "What is it?" exclaimed Stuart.
                  "Grant's confidential order to his corps commanders, general, directing the
                     movements of his army."
                  Stuart seized it, read it hastily, and uttered an exclamation of satisfaction.
                     Ten minutes afterward he was going at full speed, accompanied by Nighthawk,
                     toward General Lee's head-quarters.
               
               
                  
                  XXI. "VIRGINIA EXPECTS EVERY MAN TO DO HIS DUTY!"
                  SOON after daylight, on the next morning, Stuart was up, and writing busily at
                     his desk.
                  He was perfectly cool, as always, and his manner when I went in exhibited no
                     sort of flurry. But the couriers going and coming with dispatches indicated
                     clearly that "something was in the wind."
                  I was seated by the fireplace when Stuart finished a dispatch and came toward
                     me. The next moment he threw himself upon a chair, leaned his head upon my
                     shoulder, and began to caress one of his dogs, who leaped into his lap.
                  "Well, Surry, old fellow, we are going to get into the saddle. Look out for
                     your head!"
                  "Excellent advice," I replied. "I recommend you to follow it.
                  "You think I expose myself, do you?"
                  "In the most reckless manner."
                  "For instance—come, an instance!" he laughed.
                  I saw Stuart was talking to rest himself.
                  "Well, at Mine Run, when you rode up to that fence lined with
                     sharp-shooters—and they fired on us at ten paces, nearly."
                  "In fact, you might have shot a marble at them—but I am not afraid of any ball
                        aimed at me."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "Then you believe in chance, general?"
                  "There is no chance, Surry," he said, gravely. "God rules over all things, and
                     not a sparrow, we are told, can fall without his permission. How can I, or you,
                     then?"
                  "You are right, general, and I have always been convinced of your religious
                     faith."
                  "I believe in God and our Saviour, with all my heart," said Stuart, solemnly.
                     "I may not show it, but I feel deeply."
                  "On the contrary, you show it—to me at least—even in trifles," I said, moved by
                     his earnestness. "Do you remember the other day, when an officer uttered a
                     sneer at the expense of a friend of his who had turned preacher?
                     You replied that the calling of a minister was the noblest in which any human
                     being could engage*
                     —and I regretted at that moment, that the people who laugh at you, and
                     charge you with vicious things, could not hear you."
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Stuart shook his head, smiling with a sadness on his lips which I had never
                     seen before.
                  "They would not believe me, my dear Surry; not one would give me credit for a
                     good sentiment or a pure principle! Am I not a drunkard, because my face is
                     burned red by the sun and the wind? And yet I never touched spirit in all my
                     life! I do not know the taste of it!*
                      Am I not given to women? And yet, God knows I am innocent,—that I
                     recoil in disgust from the very thought! Am I not frivolous, trifling,—laughing
                     at all things, reverencing nothing? And yet my laughter is only from high
                     health and animal spirits. I am young and robust; it is natural to me to laugh,
                     as it is to be pleased with bright faces and happy voices, with colors, and
                     music, and approbation. I am not as religious as I ought to be, and wish, with
                     all my heart, I had the deep and devout piety of that good man and great
                     military genius,*
                      Stonewall Jackson. I can lay no claim to it, you see, Surry; I am only
                     a rough soldier, at my hard work. I am terribly busy, and my command takes
                     every energy I possess; but I find time to read my Bible and to pray. I pray
                     for pardon and forgiveness, and try to do my duty, and leave the rest to God.
                     If God calls me—and He may call me very soon—I hope I will be ready, and be
                     able to say, 'Thy will be done.' I expect to be killed in this war;*
                     —Heaven knows, I would have my right hand chopped off at the wrist to
                     stop it!*
                     —but I do not shrink from the ordeal before me, and I am ready to lay
                     down my life for my country."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Stuart paused, and leaned his arm upon the rude shelf above the fireplace,
                     passing his hand over his forehead, as was habitual with him.
                  "A hard campaign is coming, Surry," he said, at length, more cheerfully; "I
                     intend to do my duty in it, and deserve the good opinion of the world, if I do not secure
                     it. I have perilled my life many times, and shall not shrink from it in future.
                     I am a Virginian, and I intend to live or die for Old Virginia! The tug is
                     coming; the enemy are about to come over and 'try again!' But we will meet
                     them, and fight them like men, Surry! Our army is small, but with strong hands
                     and brave hearts much can be done. We must be up and doing, and do our duty to
                     the handle.*
                      For myself, I am going to fight whatever is before me,—to win victory,
                     with God's blessing, or die trying! Once more, Surry, remember that we are
                     fighting for our old mother, and that Virginia expects every man to do his
                     duty!"
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  His face glowed as he spoke; in his dazzling blue eyes burned the fire of an
                     unconquerable resolution, a courage that nothing seemed able to crush.
                  Years have passed since then, a thousand scenes have swept before me; but still
                     I see the stalwart cavalier, with his proud forehead raised, and hear his
                     sonorous voice exclaim:—
                  "Virginia expects every man to do his duty!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
               
               
                  XXII. WHAT OCCURRED AT WARRENTON.
                  THIS conversation took place at an early hour of the morning. Two hours
                     afterward, I was in the saddle and riding toward Chancellorsville, with the
                     double object of inspecting the pickets and taking Mohun his commission.
                  I have described in my former Memoirs that melancholy country of
                     the Wilderness; its unending thickets; its roads, narrow and deserted, which
                     seem to wind on forever; the desolate fields, here and there covered with
                     stunted bushes; the owls flapping their dusky wings; the whip-poor-will, crying
                     in the jungle; and the moccasin gliding stealthily amid the ooze, covered with
                     its green scum.
                  Strange and sombre country! lugubrious shades where death lurked! Already two
                     great armies had clutched there in May, 1863. Now, in May, '64, the tangled
                     thicket was again to thunder; men were going to grapple here in a mad wrestle
                     even more desperate than the former!
                  Two roads stretch from Orange Court-House to Chancellorsville—the old turnpike,
                     and the plank road—running through Verdiersville.
                  I took the latter, followed the interminable wooden pathway through the
                     thicket, and toward evening came to the point where the Ely's Ford road comes
                     in near Chancellorsville. Here, surrounded by the rotting weapons, bones and
                     skulls of the great battle already fought, I found Mohun ready for the battle
                     that was coming.
                  He commanded the regiment on picket opposite Ely's Ford; and was pointed out to
                     me at three hundred yards from an old torn down house which still remains
                     there, I fancy.
                  Mohun had dismounted, and, leaning against the trunk of a tree, was smoking a
                     cigar. He was much thinner and paler than when I had last seen him; but his eye
                     was brilliant and piercing, his carriage erect and proud. In his fine new
                     uniform, replacing that left at Fort Delaware, and his brown hat, decorated
                     with a black feather, he was the model of a cavalier, ready at a moment's
                     warning to meet the enemy.
                  We exchanged a close grasp of the hand. Something in this man had attracted me,
                     and from acquaintances we had become friends, though Mohun had never given me
                     his confidence.
                  I informed him of Nighthawk's visit and narrative, congratulated him on his
                     escape, and then presented him with his appointment to the grade of
                     brigadier-general.
                  "Hurrah for Stuart! He is a man to count on!" exclaimed Mohun, "and here
                     inclosed is the order for me to take command of four regiments!"
                  "I congratulate you, Mohun."
                  "I hope to do good work with them, my dear Surry—and I think they are just in
                     time."
                  With which words Mohun put the paper in his pocket.
                  "You know the latest intelligence?" he said.
                  
                  "Yes; but do not let us talk of it. Tell me something about yourself—but first
                     listen to a little narrative from me."
                  And I described the visit which I had made with Tom Herbert to the house near
                     Buckland; the scene between Darke and his companion; and, to keep back nothing,
                     repeated the substance of their conversation.
                  Mohun knit his brows; then burst into a laugh.
                  "Well!" he said, "so those two amiable characters are still bent on making
                     mince-meat of me, are they? Did you ever hear any thing like it? They are
                     perfect tigers, thirsting for blood!"
                  "Nothing more nor less," I said; "the whole thing is like a romance."
                  "Is it not?"
                  "A perfect labyrinth."
                  "The very word!"
                  "And I have not a trace of a key."
                  Mohun looked at me for some moments in silence. He was evidently hesitating;
                     and letting his eyes fall, played with the hilt of his sword.
                  Then he suddenly looked up.
                  "I have a confidence to make you, Surry," he said, "and would like to make it
                     this very day. But I cannot. You have no doubt divined that Colonel Darke is my
                     bitter enemy—that his companion is no less, even more, bitter—and some day I
                     will tell you what all that means. My life has been a strange one. As was said
                     of Randolph of Roanoke's, 'the fictions of romance cannot surpass it." These
                     two persons alluded to it—I understand more than you possibly can—but I do
                        not understand the allusions made to General Davenant. I am
                        not the suitor of his daughter—or of any one. I am not in
                     love—I do not intend to be—to be frank with you, friend, I have little
                     confidence in women—and you no doubt comprehend that this strange one whom you
                     have thrice met, on the Rappahannock, in Pennsylvania, and near Buckland, is
                     the cause."
                  "She seems to be a perfect viper."
                  "Is she not? You would say so, more than ever, if I told you what took place at
                     Warrenton."
                  And again Mohun's brows were knit together. Then his bitter expression changed
                     to laughter.
                  "What took place at Warrenton!" I said, looking at him intently.
                  "Exactly, my dear friend—it was a real comedy. Only a poignard played a
                     prominent part in the affair, and you know poignards belong exclusively to
                     tragedy."
                  Mohun uttered these words with his old reckless satire. A sort of grim and
                     biting humor was plain in his accents.
                  "A poniard—a tragedy—tell me about it, Mohun," I said.
                  He hesitated a moment. "Well, I will do so," he said, at length. "It will amuse
                     you, my guest, while dinner is getting ready."
                  "I am listening."
                  "Well, to go back. You remember my fight with Colonel Darke near Buckland?"
                  "Certainly; and I was sure that you had killed each other."
                  "You were mistaken. He is not dead, and you see I am not. He was wounded in the
                     throat, but my sabre missed the artery, and he was taken to a house near at
                     hand, and thence to hospital, where he recovered. My own wound was a bullet
                     through the chest; and this gave me so much agony that I could not be carried
                     in my ambulance farther than Warrenton, where I was left with some friends who
                     took good care of me. Meanwhile, General Meade had again advanced and occupied
                     the place—I was discovered, and removed as soon as possible to the Federal
                     hospital, where they could have me under guard. Faith! they are smart
                     people—our friends the Yankees! They are convinced that 'every little helps,'
                     and they had no idea of allowing that tremendous Southern paladin, Colonel
                     Mohun, to escape! So I was sent to hospital. The removal caused a return of
                     fever—I was within an inch of the grave—and this brings me to the circumstance
                     that I wish to relate for your amusement.
                  "For some days after my removal to the Federal hospital, I was delirious, but
                     am now convinced that much which I then took for the wanderings of a fevered
                     brain, was real.
                  "I used to lie awake a great deal, and one gloomy night I saw, or dreamed I
                     saw, as I then supposed, that woman enter my ward, in company with the surgeon. She bent over me,
                     glared upon me with those dark eyes, which you no doubt remember, and then
                     drawing back said to the surgeon:—
                  "'Will he live?'"
                  "'Impossible to say, madam,' was the reply. 'The ball passed through his
                     breast, and although these wounds are almost always mortal, men do now and then
                     recover from them.'
                  "'Will this one?'
                  "'I cannot tell you, madam, his constitution seems powerful.'
                  "I saw her turn as he spoke, and fix those glaring eyes on me again. They were
                     enough to burn a hole in you, Surry, and made me feel for some weapon. But
                     there was none—and the scene here terminated—both retired. The next night,
                     however, it was renewed. This time the surgeon felt my pulse, touched my
                     forehead, placed his ear to my breast to listen to the action of the heart, and
                     rising up said, in reply to madam's earnest glance of inquiry:—
                  "'Yes, I am sure he will live. You can give yourself no further anxiety about
                     your cousin, madam.'
                  "Her cousin! That was not bad, you see. She had gained access, as
                     I ascertained from some words of their conversation, by representing herself as
                     my cousin. I was a member of her family who had 'gone astray' and embraced the
                     cause of the rebellion, but was still dear to her! Womanly heart! clinging
                     affection! not even the sin of the prodigal cousin could sever the tender chord
                     of her love! I had wandered from the right path—fed on husks with the
                     Confederate swine; but I was wounded—had come back; should the fatted calf
                     remain unbutchered, and the loving welcome be withheld?
                  "'You can give yourself no further uneasiness about your cousin,
                        madam!'
                  "Such was the assurance of the surgeon, and he turned away to other patients,
                     of whom there were, however, very few in the hospital, and none near me. As he
                     turned his back, madam looked at me. Her face was really diabolical, and I
                     thought at the moment that she was a nightmare—that I dreamed her!
                     Closing my eyes to shut out the vision, I kept them thus shut for some moments.
                     When I reopened them she was gone.
                  "Well, the surgeon's predictions did not seem likely to be verified fied. My
                     fever returned. Throughout the succeeding day I turned and tossed on my couch;
                     as night came, I had some hideous dreams. A storm was raging without, and the
                     rain falling in torrents. The building trembled, the windows rattled—it was a
                     night of nights for some devil's work; and I remember laughing in my fever, and
                     muttering, 'Now is the time for delirium, bad dreams, and ugly shapes, to flock
                     around me!'
                  "I fell into a doze at last, and had, as I thought, a decidedly bad dream—for I
                     felt certain that I was dreaming, and that what I witnessed was the sport of my
                     fancy. What I saw, or seemed to see, was this: the door opened slowly—a head
                     was thrust in, and remained motionless for an instant; then the head moved, a
                     body followed; madam, the lady of the dark eyes, glided stealthily toward my
                     cot. It was enough to make one shudder, Surry, to have seen the stealthy
                     movement of that phantom. I gazed at it through my half-closed eyelids—saw the
                     midnight eyes burning in the white face half covered by a shawl thrown over the
                     head—and, under that covering, the right hand of the phantom grasped something
                     which I could not make out.
                  "In three quick steps it was beside me. I say it, for
                     the figure resembled that of a ghost, or some horrible thing. From
                     the eyes two flames seemed to dart, the lips opened, and I heard, in a low
                     mutter:—
                  "'Ah! he is going to recover, then!'
                  "As the words left the phantom's lips, it reached my cot at a bound; something
                     gleamed aloft, and I started back only in time to avoid the sharp point of a
                     poniard, which grazed my head and nearly buried itself in the pillow on which I
                     lay.
                  "Well, I started up and endeavored to seize my assailant; but she suddenly
                     broke away from me, still clutching her weapon. Her clothing was torn from her
                     person—she recoiled toward the door—and I leaped from my couch to rush after
                     and arrest her. I had not the strength to do so, however. I had scarcely taken
                     three steps when I began to stagger.
                  "'Murderess!' I exclaimed, extending my arms to arrest her flight.
                  "It was useless. A few feet further I reeled—my head seemed turning round—and
                     again shouting 'Murderess!' I fell at full length on the floor, at the moment when the
                     woman disappeared.
                  "That was curious, was it not? It would have been a tragical dream—it was more
                     tragical in being no dream at all, but a reality. What had taken place was
                     simple, and easy to understand. That woman had come thither, on this stormy
                     night, to murder me; and she had very nearly succeeded. Had she found me
                     asleep, I should never have waked. Fortunately, I was awake. Some noise
                     frightened her, and she disappeared. A moment afterward one of the nurses came,
                     and finally the surgeon.
                  "When I told him what had taken place, he laughed.
                  "'Well, colonel, go back to bed,' he said, 'such dreams retard your recovery
                     more than every thing else.'
                  "I obeyed, without taking the trouble to contradict him. My breast was bleeding
                     again, and I did not get over the excitement for some days. The phantom did not
                     return. I slowly recovered, and was taken in due time to Fort Delaware—the rest
                     you know.
                  "I forgot to tell you one thing. The surgeon almost persuaded me that I had
                     been the victim of nightmare. Unfortunately, however, for the theory of the
                     worthy, I found a deep hole in my pillow, where the poniard had entered.
                  "So you see it was madam, and not her ghost, who had done me the honor of a
                     visit, Surry."
               
               
                  XXIII. THE GRAVE OF ACHMED.
                  AN hour afterward I had dined with Mohun at his head-quarters, in the woods;
                     mounted our horses; and were making our way toward the Rapidan to inspect the
                     pickets.
                  This consumed two hours. We found nothing stirring. As sunset approached, we
                     retraced our steps toward Chancellorsville. I had accepted Mohun's invitation
                     to spend the night with him.
                  As I rode on, the country seemed strangely familiar. All at once I recognized
                     here a tree, there a stump—we were passing over the road which I had followed
                     first in April, 1861, and again in August, 1862, when I came so unexpectedly
                     upon Fenwick, and heard his singular revelation.
                  We had been speaking of Mordaunt, to whose brigade Mohun's regiment belonged,
                     and the young officer had grown enthusiastic, extolling Mordaunt as 'one of the
                     greatest soldiers of the army, under whom it was an honor to serve.'
                  "Well," I said, "there is a spot near here which he knows well, and where a
                     strange scene passed on a night of May, 1863."
                  "Ah! you know the country, then?" said Mohun.
                  "Perfectly well."
                  "What are you looking at?"
                  "That hill yonder, shut in by a thicket. There is a house there."
                  And I spurred on, followed by Mohun. In five minutes we reached the
                     brush-fence; our horses easily cleared it, and we rode up the hill toward the
                     desolate-looking mansion.
                  I surveyed it intently. It was unchanged, save that the porch seemed rotting
                     away, and the window-shutters about to fall—that on the window to the right
                     hung by a single hinge. It was the one through which I had looked in August,
                     1862. There was the same door through which I had burst in upon Fenwick and his
                     companion.
                  I dismounted, threw my bridle over a stunted shrub, and approached the house.
                     Suddenly I stopped.
                  At ten paces from me, in a little group of cedars, a man was kneeling on a
                     grave, covered with tangled grass. At the rattle of my sabre he rose, turned
                     round—it was Mordaunt.
                  In a moment we had exchanged a pressure of the hand; and then turning to the
                     grave:—
                  "That is the last resting-place of poor Achmed," he said; adding, in his deep,
                     grave voice:—
                  "You know how he loved me, Surry."
                  
                  "And how you loved him, Mordaunt. I can understand your presence
                     at his grave, my dear friend.
                  Mordaunt sighed, then saluted Mohun, who approached.
                  "This spot," he said, "is well known to Colonel Surry and myself, Mohun."
                  Then turning to me, he added:—
                  "I found a melancholy spectacle awaiting me here."
                  "Other than Achmed's grave?"
                  "Yes; come, and I will show you."
                  And he led the way into the house. As I entered the squalid and miserable
                     mansion, the sight which greeted me made me recoil.
                  On a wretched bed lay the corpse of a woman; and at a glance, I recognized the
                     woman Parkins, who had played so tragic a part in the history of Mordaunt. The
                     face was hideously attenuated; the eyes were open and staring; the lower jaw
                     had fallen. In the rigid and bony hand was a dry and musty crust of bread.
                  "She must have starved to death here," said Mordaunt, gazing at the corpse.
                     And, approaching it, he took the crust from the fingers. As he did so, the
                     teeth seemed grinning at him.
                  "Poor creature!" he said, "this crust was probably all that remained to her of
                     the price of her many crimes! I pardon her, and will have her buried!"
                  As Mordaunt turned away, I saw him look at the floor.
                  "There is Achmed's blood," he said, pointing to a stain on the plank; "and the
                     other is the blood of Fenwick, who was buried near his victim."
                  "I remember," I murmured. And letting my chin fall upon my breast, I returned
                     in thought to the strange scene which the spot recalled so vividly.
                  "There is but one other actor in that drama of whom I know nothing,
                     Mordaunt!"
                  "You mean——"
                  "Violet Grafton."
                  Mordaunt raised his head quickly. His eyes glowed with a serene sweetness.
                  "She is my wife," he said; "the joy and sunlight of my life! I no longer read
                        Les Misérables, and sneer at my species—I no
                     longer scowl, Surry, and try to rush against the bullet that is to end me. God
                     has rescued a lost life in sending me one of his angels; and it was she who
                     made me promise to come hither and pray on the grave of our dear Achmed!"
                  Mordaunt turned toward the door as he spoke, and inviting me to ride with him,
                     left the mansion. As I had agreed to stay with Mohun, I was obliged to
                     decline.
                  Five minutes afterward he had mounted, and with a salute, the tall form
                     disappeared in the forest.
                  We set out in turn, and were soon at Mohun's bivouac.
               
               
                  XXIV. A NIGHT BIRD.
                  I SHARED Mohun's blankets, and was waked by the sun shining in my face.
                  My companion had disappeared, but I had scarcely risen when he was seen
                     approaching at full gallop.
                  Throwing himself from his horse, he grasped my hand, his face beaming.
                  "All right, Surry!" he exclaimed; "I have seen Mordaunt; my command is all
                     arranged; I have four superb regiments; and they are already in the
                     saddle."
                  "I congratulate you, my dear general! Make good use of them—and I think you are
                     going to have the opportunity at once."
                  "You are right—the enemy's cavalry are drawn up on the north bank of the
                     river."
                  "Any firing in front?"
                  "They are feeling at all the fords."
                  "Are you going there?"
                  "At once."
                  "I will go with you."
                  And I mounted my horse which stood saddled near by.
                  
                  Swallowing some mouthfuls of bread and beef as we rode on, we soon reached
                     Mohun's command. It consisted of four regiments, drawn up in column, ready to
                     move—and at sight of the young sabreur, the
                     men raised a shout.
                  Mohun saluted with drawn sabre, and galloped to the front.
                  A moment afterward the bugle sounded, and the column advanced toward the
                     Rapidan, within a mile of which it halted—Mohun and myself riding forward to
                     reconnoitre at Germanna Ford, directly in our front.
                  The pickets were engaged, firing at each other across the river. On the
                     northern bank were seen long columns of Federal cavalry, drawn up as though
                     about to cross.
                  I rode with Mohun to the summit of the lofty hill near the ford, and here,
                     seated on his horse beneath a tree, we found Mordaunt. It was hard to realize
                     that, on the evening before, I had seen this stern and martial figure, kneeling
                     in prayer upon a grave—had heard the brief deep voice grow musical when he
                     spoke of his wife. But habit is every thing. On the field, Mordaunt was the
                     soldier, and nothing but the soldier.
                  "You see," he said, "the game is about to open," pointing to the Federal
                     cavalry. "You remember this spot, and that hill yonder, I think."
                  "Yes," I replied, "and your charge there when we captured their artillery in
                     August, '62."
                  As he spoke, a dull firing, which we had heard for some moments from the
                     direction of Ely's Ford, grew more rapid. Five minutes afterward, an officer
                     was seen approaching from the side of the firing, at full speed.
                  When he was within a hundred yards, I recognized Harry Mordaunt. He was
                     unchanged; his eyes still sparkled, his plume floated, his lips were
                     smiling.
                  He greeted me warmly, and then turned to General Mordaunt, and reported the
                     enemy attempting to cross at Ely's.
                  "I will go, then; will you ride with me, Surry? Keep a good look out here,
                     Mohun."
                  I accepted Mordaunt's invitation, and in a moment we were galloping,
                     accompanied by Harry, toward Ely's.
                  "Glad to see you again, colonel!" exclaimed the young man, in his gay voice,
                     "you remind me of old times, and a young lady was speaking of you lately."
                  "A certain Miss Fitzhugh, I will wager!"
                  "There's no such person, colonel."
                  "Ah! you are married!"
                  "Last spring; but I might as well be single! That's the worst of this
                     foolishness,—I wish they would stop it! I don't mind hard tack, or fighting, or
                     sleeping in the rain; what I do mind is never being able to go home! I wish old
                     Grant would go home and see his wife, and let me go and see
                        mine! We could then come back, and blaze away at each other
                     with some satisfaction!"
                  Harry was chattering all the way, and I encouraged him to talk; his gay voice
                     was delightful. We talked of a thousand things, but they interested me more
                     than they would interest the reader, and I pass on to matters more
                     important.
                  Pushing rapidly toward Ely's, we soon arrived, and found the enemy making a
                     heavy demonstration there. It lasted throughout the day, and I remained to
                     witness the result. At sunset, however, the firing stopped, and, declining
                     Mordaunt's invitation to share the blankets of his bivouac, I set out on my way
                     back to Orange.
                  Night came almost before I was aware of it, and found me following the Brock
                     road to get on the Orange plank road.
                  Do you know the Brock road, reader? and have you ever ridden over it on a
                     lowering night? If so, you have experienced a peculiar sensation. It is
                     impossible to imagine any thing more lugubrious than these strange thickets. In
                     their depths the owl hoots, and the whippoorwill cries; the stunted trees, with
                     their gnarled branches, are like fiends reaching out spectral arms to seize the
                     wayfarer by the hair. Desolation reigns there, and you unconsciously place your
                     hand on your pistol as you ride along, to be ready for some mysterious and
                     unseen enemy.
                  At least, I did so on that night. I had now penetrated some distance, and had
                     come near the lonely house where so many singular events had occurred.
                  I turned my head and glanced over my shoulder, when, to my surprise, I saw a
                     light glimmering through the window. What was its origin? The house was certainly
                     uninhabited, even by the dead—for Mordaunt had informed me that a detail had,
                     that morning, buried the corpse.
                  There was but one means of solving the mystery, and I leaped the fence, riding
                     straight toward the house; soon reaching it, I dismounted and threw open the
                     door.
                  What should greet my eyes, but the respectable figure of Mr. Nighthawk, seated
                     before a cheerful blaze, and calmly smoking his pipe!
               
               
                  XXV. THE APPOINTMENT.
                  AS I entered, Mr. Nighthawk rose politely, without exhibiting the least mark of
                     astonishment.
                  "Good evening, colonel," he said, smiling, "I am glad to see you."
                  "And I, never more surprised to see any one than you, here, Nighthawk!"
                  "Why so, colonel?"
                  I could not help laughing at his air of mild inquiry.
                  "Did I not leave you at our head-quarters?"
                  "That was two days ago, colonel."
                  "And this is your residence, perhaps?"
                  "I have no residence, colonel; but am here, temporarily, on a little matter of
                     business."
                  "Ah! a matter of business!"
                  "I think it might be called so, colonel."
                  "Which it would be indiscreet to reveal to me, however. That is a pity, for I
                     am terribly curious, my dear Nighthawk!"
                  Nighthawk looked at me benignly, with a philanthropic smile.
                  "I have not the least objection to informing you, colonel. You are a gentleman
                     of discretion, and have another claim on my respect."
                  "What is that?"
                  "You are a friend of Colonel Mohun's."
                  "A very warm one."
                  "Then you can command me; and I will tell you at once that I am awaiting the
                     advance of General Grant."
                  "Ah! Now I begin to understand."
                  "I was sure you would at the first word I uttered, colonel. General Grant will
                     cross the Rapidan to-night—by to-morrow evening his whole force will probably
                     be over—and I expect to procure some important information before I return to
                     General Stuart. To you I am Mr. Nighthawk, an humble friend of the cause,
                     employed in secret business,—to General Grant I shall be an honest farmer, of
                     Union opinions, who has suffered from the depredations of his troops, and goes
                     to head-quarters for redress. You see they have already stripped me of every
                     thing," continued Mr. Nighthawk, waving his arm and smiling; "not a cow, a hog,
                     a mule, or a mouthful of food has been left me. They have destroyed the very
                     furniture of my modest dwelling, and I am cast, a mere pauper, on the cold
                     charities of the world!"
                  Mr. Nighthawk had ceased smiling, and looked grave; while it was I who burst
                     into laughter. His eyes were raised toward heaven, with an expression of meek
                     resignation; he spread out both hands with the eloquence of Mr. Pecksniff; and
                     presented the appearance of a virtuous citizen accepting meekly the most trying
                     misfortunes.
                  When I had ceased laughing, I said:—
                  "I congratulate you on your histrionic abilities, Nighthawk. They deserve to be
                     crowned with success. But how did you discover this house?"
                  "I was acquainted with its former owner, Mrs. Parkins. She was a sister of a
                     friend of mine, whom I think you have seen, colonel."
                  "What friend?"
                  "His name is Swartz, colonel."
                  "Not the Federal spy?"
                  "The same, colonel."
                  "Whom we saw last in the house between Carlisle and Gettysburg?"
                  "I saw him the other day," returned Mr. Nighthawk, smiling sweetly.
                  
                  "Is it possible!"
                  "Near Culpeper Court-House, colonel. And, to let you into a little secret, I
                     expect to see him to-night."
                  I looked at the speaker with bewilderment.
                  "That man will be here!"
                  "If he keeps his appointment, colonel."
                  "You have an appointment?"
                  "Yes, colonel."
                  "In this house?"
                  "To-night."
                  "With what object, in heaven's name!"
                  Nighthawk hesitated for some moments before replying.
                  "The fact is, colonel," he said, "that I inadvertently mentioned my appointment
                     with Swartz without reflecting how singular it must appear to you, unless I
                     gave you some explanation. But I am quite at my ease with you—you are a friend
                     of Colonel Mohun's—and I will explain as much of my business as propriety will
                     permit. To be brief, I am anxious to procure a certain document in Swartz's
                     possession."
                  "A certain document?" I said, looking intently at the speaker.
                  "Exactly, colonel."
                  "Which Swartz has?"
                  "Precisely, colonel."
                  "And which he stole from the papers of Colonel Darke on the night of Mohun's
                     combat with Darke, in the house near Carlisle?"
                  Mr. Nighthawk looked keenly at me, in turn.
                  "Ah! you know that!" he said, quickly.
                  "I saw him steal it, through the window, while the woman's back was
                     turned."
                  "I am deeply indebted to you, colonel," said Mr. Nighthawk, gravely, "for
                     informing me of this fact, which, I assure you, is important. Swartz swore to
                     me that he had the paper, and had procured it in that manner, but I doubted
                     seriously whether he was not deceiving me. He is a very consummate
                     rascal, knows the value of that document, and my appointment with him tonight
                     is with an eye to its purchase from him."
                  "Do you think he will come?"
                  "I think so. He would sell his soul for gold."
                  "And that woman? he seems to be her friend."
                  "He would sell her for silver!"
                  After uttering which bon mot, Mr. Nighthawk
                     smiled.
                  This man puzzled me beyond expression. His stealthy movements were strange
                     enough—it was singular to meet him in this lonely house—but more singular still
                     was the business which had brought him. What was that paper? Why did Nighthawk
                     wish to secure it? I gave up the inquiry in despair.
                  "Well," I said, "I will not remain longer; I might scare off your friend, and
                     to eaves-drop is out of the question, even if you were willing that I should be
                     present."
                  "In fact, colonel, I shall probably discuss some very private matters with my
                     friend Swartz, so that—"
                  "You prefer I should go."
                  Mr. Nighthawk smiled; he was too polite to say "yes."
                  "You are not afraid to meet your friend in this lonely place?" I said,
                     rising.
                  "Not at all, colonel."
                  "You are armed?"
                  Mr. Nighthawk opened his coat, and showed me a brace of revolvers.
                  "I have these, but they are unnecessary, colonel."
                  "Unnecessary?"
                  "I have an understanding with Swartz, and he with me."
                  "What is that?"
                  "That we shall not employ the carnal weapon; only destroy each other by
                     superior generalship."
                  "You speak in enigmas, Nighthawk!"
                  "And yet, my meaning is very simple. If I can have Swartz arrested and hung, or
                     he me, it is all fair. But we have agreed not to fight."
                  "So, if you caught him to-night, you could have him hung as a spy?"
                  "Yes, colonel; but nothing would induce me to betray him."
                  "Ah!"
                  "I have given him my parol, that he shall have safe conduct!"
                  
                  I laughed, bade Nighthawk good-bye, and left him smiling as I had found him. In
                     ten minutes I was again on the Brock road, riding on through the darkness,
                     between the impenetrable thickets.
               
               
                  XXVI. STUART SINGS.
                  MY reflections were by no means gay. The scenes at the lonely house had not
                     been cheerful and mirth-inspiring.
                  That grinning corpse, with the crust of bread in the bony fingers; that stain
                     of blood on the floor; the grave of Achmed; lastly, the appointment of the
                     mysterious Nighthawk with the Federal spy; all were fantastic and
                     lugubrious.
                  Who was Nighthawk, and what was his connection with Mohun? Who was Mohun, and
                     what had been his previous history? Who was this youth of unbounded wealth, as
                     Nighthawk had intimated, in whose life personages supposed to be dead, but
                     still alive, had figured?
                  "Decidedly, Mohun and Nighthawk are two enigmas!" I muttered, "and I give the
                     affair up."
                  With which words I spurred on, and soon debouched on the Orange plank road,
                     leading toward Mine Run.
                  As I entered it, I heard hoof-strokes on the resounding boards, and a company
                     of horsemen cantered toward me through the darkness. As they came, I heard a
                     gay voice singing the lines:— 
                        
                           "I wake up in the morning,
                           I wake up in the morning,
                           I wake up in the morning,
                           Before the break o' day!"
                        
                     
                  
                  There was no mistaking that gay sound. It was Stuart, riding at the head of his
                     staff and couriers.
                  In a moment he had come up, and promptly halted me.
                  "Ah! that's you, Surry!" he exclaimed with a laugh, "wandering about here in
                     the Wilderness! What news?"
                  I reported the state of things in front, and Stuart exclaimed:—
                  "All right; we are ready for them! Coon Hollow is evacuated—head-quarters are
                     in the saddle! Hear that whippoorwill! It is a good omen. Whip 'em well! Whip
                     'em well!—and we'll do it too!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Stuart laughed, and began to sing— 
                        
                           "Never mind the weather
                           But get over double trouble!
                           We are bound for the
                           Happy land of Lincoln!"
                        
                     
                  
                  As the martial voice rang through the shadowy thickets, I thought, "How
                     fortunate it is that the grave people are not here to witness this singular
                     'want of dignity' in the great commander of Lee's cavalry!"
                  Those "grave people" would certainly have rolled their eyes, and groaned, "Oh!
                     how undignified!" Was not the occasion solemn? Was it not sinful to laugh and
                     sing? No, messieurs! It was right; and much better than rolling the eyes, and
                     staying at home and groaning! Stuart was going to fight hard—meanwhile he sang
                     gayly. Heaven had given him animal spirits, and he laughed in the face of
                     danger. He laughed and sang on this night when he was going to clash against
                     Grant, as he had laughed and sung when he had clashed against Hooker—when his
                     proud plume floated in front of Jackson's veterans, and he led them over the
                     breastworks at Chancellorsville, singing, "Old Joe Hooker, will you come out of
                     the Wilderness!"
                  Stuart cantered on: we turned into the Brock road, and I found myself retracing
                     my steps toward the Rapidan.
                  As I passed near the lonely house, I cast a glance toward the glimmering light.
                     Had Nighthawk's friend arrived?
                  We soon reached Ely's Ford, and I conducted Stuart to Mordaunt's bivouac, which
                     I had left at dusk. He had just wrapped his cloak around him, and laid down
                     under a tree, ready to mount at a moment's warning.
                  "What news, Mordaunt?" said Stuart, grasping his hand.
                  "Some fighting this evening, but it ceased about nightfall, general."
                  
                  Stuart looked toward the river, and listened attentively.
                  "I hear nothing stirring."
                  And passing his hand through his beard he muttered half to himself:—
                  "I wonder if Grant can have made any change in his programme?"
                  "The order at least was explicit—that brought by Nighthawk," I said.
                  Stuart turned toward me suddenly.
                  "I wonder where he could be found? If I knew, I would send him over the river
                     to-night, to bring me a reliable report of every thing."
                  I drew the general aside.
                  "I can tell you where to find Nighthawk."
                  "Where."
                  "Shall I bring him?"
                  "Like lightning, Surry! I wish to dispatch him at once!"
                  Without reply I wheeled my horse, and went back rapidly toward the house in the
                     Wilderness. I soon reached the spot, rode to the window, and called to
                     Nighthawk, who came out promptly at my call.
                  "Your friend has not arrived?" I said.
                  "He will not come till midnight, colonel."
                  "When, I am afraid, he will not see you, Nighthawk—you are wanted.
                  And I explained my errand. Nighthawk sighed—it was easy to see that he was much
                     disappointed.
                  "Well, colonel," he said, in a resigned tone, "I must give up my private
                     business—duty calls. I will be ready in a moment."
                  And disappearing, he put out the light—issued forth in rear of the
                     house—mounted a horse concealed in the bushes—and rejoined me in front.
                  "Swartz will not know what to think," he said, as we rode rapidly toward the
                     river; "he knows I am the soul of punctuality, and this failure to keep my
                     appointment will much distress him."
                  "Distress him, Nighthawk?"
                  "He will think some harm has happened to me."
                  And Mr. Nighthawk smiled so sadly, that I could not refrain from laughter.
                  We soon reached the spot where Stuart awaited us. At sight of Nighthawk he
                     uttered an exclamation of satisfaction, and explained in brief words his
                     wishes.
                  "That will be easy, general," said Nighthawk.
                  "Can you procure a Federal uniform?"
                  "I always travel with one, general."
                  "And Mr. Nighthawk unstrapped the bundle behind his saddle, drawing forth a
                     blue coat and trowsers, which in five minutes had replaced his black clothes.
                     Before us stood one of the "blue birds." Nighthawk was an unmistakable
                     "Yankee."
                  Stuart gave him a few additional instructions, and having listened with the air
                     of a man who is engraving the words he hears upon his memory, Nighthawk
                     disappeared in the darkness, toward the private crossing, where he intended to
                     pass the river.
                  Half an hour afterward, Stuart was riding toward Germanna Ford. As we
                     approached, Mohun met us, and reported all quiet.
                  Stuart then turned back in the direction of Chancellorsville, where Nighthawk
                     was to report to him, before daylight, if possible.
               
               
                  XXVII. MOHUN RIDES.
                  I LINGERED behind a moment to exchange a few words with Mohun. Something told
                     me that he was intimately connected with the business which had occasioned the
                     appointment between Nighthawk and Swartz—and at the first words which I
                     uttered, I saw that I was not mistaken.
                  Mohun raised his head quickly, listened with the closest attention, and when I
                     had informed him of every thing, said abruptly:—
                  "Well, I'll keep Nighthawk's appointment for him!"
                  
                  "You!" I said.
                  "Yes, my dear Surry—this is a matter of more importance than you think. The
                     business will not take long—the enemy will not be moving before daylight—and
                     you said, I think, that the appointment was for midnight?"
                  "Yes."
                  Mohun drew out his watch; scratched a match which he drew from a small metal
                     case.
                  "Just eleven," he said; "there is time to arrive before midnight, if we ride
                     well—will you show me the way?"
                  I saw that he was bent on his scheme, and said no more. In a few moments we
                     were in the saddle, and riding at full speed toward the house where the meeting
                     was to take place.
                  Mohun rode like the wild huntsman, and mile after mile disappeared behind
                     us—flitting away beneath the rapid hoofs of our horses. During the whole ride
                     he scarcely opened his lips. He seemed to be reflecting deeply, and to scarcely
                     realize my presence.
                  At last we turned into the Brock road, and were soon near the lonely house.
                  "We have arrived," I said, leaping the brushwood fence. And we galloped up the
                     knoll toward the house, which was as dark and silent as the grave.
                  Dismounting and concealing our horses in the bushes, we opened the door. Mohun
                     again had recourse to his match-case, and lit the candle left by Nighthawk on
                     an old pine table, and glanced at his watch.
                  "Midnight exactly!" he said; "we have made a good ride of it, Surry."
                  "Yes; and now that I have piloted you safely, Mohun, I will discreetly
                     retire."
                  "Why not remain, if you think it will amuse you, my dear friend?"
                  "But you are going to discuss your private affairs, are you not?"
                  "They are not private from you, since I have promised to relate my whole life
                     to you."
                  "Then I remain; but do you think our friend will keep his appointment?"
                  "There he is," said Mohun, as hoof-strokes were heard without. "He is
                     punctual."
               
               
                  XXVIII. THE SPY.
                  A MOMENT afterward we heard the new-comer dismount. Then his steps were heard
                     on the small porch. All at once his figure appeared in the doorway.
                  It was Swartz. The fat person, the small eyes, the immense double chin, and the
                     chubby fingers covered with pinchbeck rings, were unmistakable.
                  He was clad in citizens clothes, and covered with dust as from a long ride.
                  Mohun rose.
                  "Come in, my dear Mr. Swartz," he said coolly; "you see we await you."
                  The spy recoiled. It was plain that he was astonished beyond measure at seeing
                     us. He threw a glance behind him in the direction of his horse, and seemed
                     about to fly.
                  Mohun quietly drew his revolver, and cocked it.
                  "Fear nothing, my dear sir," he said, "and, above all, do not attempt to
                     escape."
                  Swartz hesitated, and cast an uneasy glance upon the weapon.
                  "Does the sight of this little instrument annoy you?" said Mohun, laughing. "It
                     shall not be guilty of that impoliteness, Mr. Swartz."
                  And he uncocked the weapon, and replaced it in its holster.
                  "Now," he continued, "sit down, and let us talk."
                  Swartz obeyed. Before Mohun's penetrating glance, his own sank. He took his
                     seat in a broken-backed chair; drew forth a huge red bandanna handkerchief;
                     wiped his forehead; and said quietly:—
                  "I expected to meet a friend here to-night, gentlemen, instead of—"
                  
                  "Enemies?" interrupted Mohun. "We are such, it is true, my dear sir, but you
                     are quite safe. Your friend Nighthawk is called away; he is even ignorant of
                     our presence here."
                  "But meeting him would have been different, gentlemen. I had his safe
                     conduct!"
                  "You shall have it from me."
                  "May I ask from whom?" said Swartz.
                  "From General Mohun, of the Confederate army."
                  Swartz smiled this time; then making a grotesque bow, he replied:—
                  "I knew you very well, general—that is why I am so much at my ease. I am
                     pleased to hear that you are promoted. When I last saw you, you were only a
                     colonel, but I was certain that you would soon be promoted or killed."
                  There was a queer accent of politeness in the voice of the speaker. He did not
                     seem to have uttered these words in order to flatter his listener, but to
                     express his real sentiment. He was evidently a character.
                  "Good!" said Mohun, with his habitual accent of satire. "These little
                     compliments are charming. But I am in haste tonight—let us come to business, my
                     dear sir. I came hither to ask you some questions, and to these I expect plain
                     replies."
                  Swartz looked at the speaker intently, but without suspicion. His glance, on
                     the contrary, had in it something strangely open and unreserved.
                  "I will reply to all your questions, general," he said, "and reply truthfully.
                     I have long expected this interview, and will even say that I wished it. You
                     look on me as a Yankee spy, and will have but little confidence in what I say.
                     Nevertheless, I am going to tell you the whole truth about every thing. Ask
                     your questions, general, I will answer them."
                  Mohun was leaning one elbow on the broken table. His glance, calm and yet
                     fiery, seemed bent on penetrating to the most secret recess of the spy's
                     heart.
                  "Well," he said, "now that we begin to understand each other, let us come to
                     the point at once. Where were you on the morning of the thirteenth of December,
                     1856?"
                  Swartz replied without hesitation:—
                  "On the bank of Nottoway River, in Dinwiddie, Virginia, and bound for
                     Petersburg."
                  "The object of your journey?"
                  "To sell dried fruits and winter vegetables."
                  "Then you travelled in a cart, or a wagon?"
                  "In a cart, general."
                  "You reached Petersburg without meeting with any incident on the way?"
                  "I met with two very curious ones, general. I see you know something about the
                     affair, and are anxious to know every thing. I will tell you the whole truth;
                     but it will be best to let me do it in my own way."
                  "Do so, then," said Mohun, fixing his eyes more intently upon the spy.
                  Swartz was silent again for more than a minute, gazing on the floor. Then he
                     raised his head, passed his red handkerchief over his brow, and said:—
                  "To begin at the beginning, general. At the time you speak of, December, 1856,
                     I was a small landholder in Dinwiddie, and made my living by carting vegetables
                     and garden-truck to Petersburg. Well, one morning in winter—you remind me that
                     it was the thirteenth of December,—I set out, as usual, in my cart drawn by an
                     old mule, with a good load on board, to go by way of Monk's Neck. I had not
                     gone two miles, however, when passing through a lonely piece of woods on the
                     bank of the river, I heard a strange cry in the brush. It was the most
                     startling you can think of, and made my heart stop beating. I jumped down from
                     my cart, left it standing in the narrow road, and went to the spot. It was a
                     strange sight I saw. On the bank of the river, I saw a woman lying drenched
                     with water, and half-dead. She was richly dressed, and of very great beauty—but
                     I never saw any human face so pale, or clothes more torn and draggled."
                  The spy paused. Mohun shaded his eyes from the light, with his hands, and said
                     coolly:—
                  "Go on."
                  "Well, general—that was enough to astonish anybody—and what is more astonishing
                     still, I have never to this day discovered the meaning of the woman's being
                     there—for it was plain that she was
                     a lady. She was half-dead with cold, and had cried out in what seemed to be a
                     sort of delirium. When I raised her up, and wrung the wet out of her clothes,
                     she looked at me so strangely that I was frightened. I asked her how she had
                     come there, but she made no reply. Where should I take her? She made no reply
                     to that either. She seemed dumb—out of her wits—and, to make a long story
                     short, I half led and half carried her to the cart in which I put her, making a
                     sort of bed for her of some old bags.
                  "I set out on my way again, without having the least notion what I should do
                     with her—for she seemed a lady—and only with a sort of idea that her friends
                     might probably pay me for my trouble, some day.
                  "Well, I went on for a mile or two farther, when a new adventure happened to
                     me. That was stranger still—it was like a story-book; and you will hardly
                     believe me—but as I was going through a piece of woods, following a by-road by
                     which I cut off a mile or more, I heard groans near the road, and once more
                     stopped my cart. Then I listened. I was scared, and began to believe in
                     witchcraft. The groans came from the woods on my left, and there was no doubt
                     about the sound—so, having listened for some time, I mustered courage to go in
                     the direction of the sound. Can you think what I found, general?"
                  "What?" said Mohun, in the same cool voice; "tell me."
                  "A man lying in a grave;—a real grave, general—broad and deep—a man with a hole
                     through his breast, and streaming with blood."
                  "Is it possible?"
                  And Mohun uttered a laugh.
                  "Just as I tell you, general—it is the simple, naked truth. When I got to the
                     place, he was struggling to get out of the grave, and his breast was bleeding
                     terribly. I never saw a human being look paler. 'Help!' he cried out, in a
                     suffocated voice like, when he saw me—and as he spoke, he made such a strong
                     effort to rise, that his wound gushed with blood, and he fainted."
                  "He fainted, did he? And what did you do?" said Mohun.
                  "I took him up in my arms, general, as I had taken the woman, carried him to my
                     cart, when I bound up his breast in the best way I could, and laid him by the
                     side of the half-drowned lady."
                  "To get a reward from his friends, too, no doubt?"
                  "Well, general, we must live, you know. And did I not deserve something for
                     being so scared—and for the use of my mule?"
                  "Certainly you did. Is not the laborer worthy of his hire? But go on, sir—your
                     tale is interesting."
                  "Tale, general? It is the truth—on the word of Swartz!"
                  "I no longer doubt now, if I did before," said Mohun; "but tell me the end of
                     your adventure."
                  "I can do that in a few words, general. I whipped up my old mule, and went on
                     through the woods, thinking what I had best do with the man and the woman I had
                     saved. I could take them to Petersburg, and tell my story to the mayor or some
                     good citizen, who would see that they were taken care of. But as soon as I said
                     'mayor' to myself, I thought 'he is the chief of police.'
                     Police!—that is one of the ugliest words in the language, general!
                     Some people shiver, and their flesh crawls, when you cut a cork, or scratch on
                     a window pane—well, it is strange, but I have always felt in that way when I
                     heard, or thought of, the word, police! And here I was going to
                     have dealings with the said police! I was going to say 'I found
                     these people on the Nottoway—one half-drowned, and the other in a newly dug
                     grave!' No, I thank you! We never know what our characters will stand, and I
                     was by no means certain that mine would stand that! Then the reward—I wished to
                     have my lady and gentleman under my eye. So, after thinking over the matter for
                     some miles, I determined to leave them with a crony of mine near Monk's Neck,
                     named Alibi, who would take care of them and say nothing. Well, I did so, and
                     went on to Petersburg, where I sold my truck. When I got back they were in bed,
                     and on my next visit they were at the point of death. About that time I was
                     taken sick, and was laid up for more than three months. When I went to see my
                     birds at Monk's Neck, they had flown!"
                  "Without leaving you their adieux?"
                  "No, they were at least polite. They left me a roll of bank notes—more than I
                     thought they had about them."
                  
                  "You had searched them, of course, when they were lying in your cart," said
                     Mohun.
                  Swartz smiled.
                  "I acknowledge it, general—I forgot to mention the fact. I had found only a
                     small amount in the gentleman's pocket-book—nothing on the lady—and I never
                     could understand where he or she had concealed about their persons such a
                     considerable amount of money—though I suppose, in a secret pocket."
                  Mohun nodded.
                  "That is often done—well, that was the last of them?"
                  Swartz smiled, and glanced at Mohun.
                  "What is the use of any concealment, my dear Mr. Swartz?" said the latter. "You
                     may as well tell the whole story, as you have gone this far."
                  "You are right, general, and I will finish. The war broke out, and I sold my
                     truck patch, and invested in a better business—that is, running the blockade
                     across the Potomac, and smuggling in goods for the Richmond market. On one of
                     these trips, I met, plump, in the streets of Washington, no less a person than
                     the lady whom I had rescued. She was richly dressed, and far more beautiful,
                     but there was no mistaking her. I spoke to her; she recognized me, took me to
                     her house, and here I found the gentleman, dressed in a fine new
                     uniform. He was changed too—his wound had long healed, he was stout and strong,
                     but I knew him, too, at a glance. Well, I spent the evening, and when I left
                     the house had accepted an offer made me to combine a new business with that of
                     blockade runner."
                  "That of spy, you mean?" said Mohun.
                  Swartz smiled.
                  "You speak plainly, general. We call ourselves 'secret agents'—but either word
                     expresses the idea!"
               
               
                  XXIX. THE PAPER.
                  MOHUN raised his head, and looked Swartz full in the face. His glance had
                     grown, if possible, more penetrating than before, and a grim smile responded to
                     the unctuous expression of the spy.
                  "Well, my dear Mr. Swartz," he said coolly, "that is a curious history. Others
                     might doubt its accuracy, but I give you my word that I do not! I did well to
                     let you proceed in your own way, instead of questioning you—but I have not yet
                     done; and this time shall return to the method of interrogation."
                  "At your orders, general," said Swartz, whose quick glance showed that he was
                     on his guard, and foresaw what was coming.
                  Mohun leaned toward the spy.
                  "Let us proceed to 'call names,'" he said. "The man you rescued from the grave
                     was Colonel Darke?"
                  "Exactly, general."
                  "Is that his real name, or a false one?"
                  Swartz hesitated; then replied:—
                  "A false one."
                  "His real name?"
                  "Mortimer."
                  "And the lady is——?"
                  "His wife, general."
                  "Good," said Mohun, "you are well informed, I see, my dear Mr. Swartz; and it
                     is a pleasure to converse with a gentleman who knows so much, and knows it so
                     accurately."
                  "You flatter my pride, general!"
                  "I do you justice—but to the point. Your story was cut off in the middle. After
                     the interview in Washington, you continued to see Colonel Darke and his
                     wife?"
                  "I saw them frequently, general."
                  "In the army—and at their home, both?"
                  "Yes, general."
                  "Where did they live?"
                  "Near Carlisle, Pennsylvania."
                  
                  "Where you were on a visit, just before the battle of Gettysburg?"
                  "Yes, general."
                  "Very good!"
                  And rising quickly, Mohun confronted the spy, who drew back unconsciously.
                  "Where is the paper that you stole from the woman that night?" he said.
                  Swartz was unable to sustain the fiery glance directed toward him by Mohun.
                  "Then Nighthawk has told you all!" he exclaimed.
                  "Colonel Surry saw you hide the paper."
                  Swartz looked suddenly toward me—his smiles had all vanished.
                  "The paper! give me the paper!" exclaimed Mohun; "you shall have gold for
                     it!"
                  "I have left it in Culpeper, general."
                  "Liar!—give me the paper!
                  Swartz started to his feet.
                  Mohun caught at his throat—the spy recoiled—when suddenly a quick firing was
                     heard coming rapidly from the direction of Germanna Ford.
                  "The enemy have crossed, Mohun!" I cried.
                  Mohun started, and turned his head in the direction of the sound.
                  "They are advancing!" I said, "but look out!—the spy!—"
                  Mohun wheeled, drawing his pistol.
                  Swartz had profited by the moment, when our attention was attracted by the
                     firing, to pass through the door, gain his horse at a bound, and throw himself
                     into the saddle, with an agility that was incredible in one so fat.
                  At the same moment Mohun's pistol-shot responded, but the bullet whistled
                     harmlessly over the spy's head. In an instant he had disappeared in the
                     woods.
                  Mohun rushed to his horse, I followed, and we were soon riding at full speed in
                     the direction of the firing.
                  As we advanced, however, it receded. We pushed on, and reached the bank of the
                     Rapidan just as Mohun's men had driven a party of the enemy over.
                  It was only a small body, who, crossing at a private ford and surprising the
                     sleepy picket, had raided into the thicket, to retire promptly when they were
                     assailed.
                  The affair was nothing. Unfortunately, however, it had enabled the Federal spy
                     to elude us.
                  Swartz had disappeared like a bird of the night; and all pursuit of him in such
                     a wilderness was impossible.
                  An hour afterward, I had rejoined Stuart.
               
               
                  XXX. GRANT STRIKES HIS FIRST BLOW.
                  SUCH were the singular scenes which I witnessed, amid the shadows of the
                     Spottsylvania Wilderness, in the first days of May, 1864.
                  The narrative has brought the reader now to an hour past midnight on the third
                     of May.
                  An hour before—that is to say, at midnight precisely—the Federal forces began
                     to move: at six in the morning, they had massed on the north bank of the
                     Rapidan; and as the sun rose above the Wilderness, the blue columns began to
                     cross the river.
                  General Grant, at the head of his army of 140,000 men, had set forth on his
                     great advance toward Richmond—that advance so often tried, so often defeated,
                     but which now seemed, from the very nature of things, to be destined to
                     succeed.
                  Any other hypothesis seemed absurd. What could 50,000 do against nearly thrice
                     their number? What could arrest the immense machine rolling forward to crush
                     the Confederacy? A glance at Grant's splendid array was enough to make the
                     stoutest heart sink. On this 4th day of May, 1864, he was crossing the Rapidan
                     with what resembled a countless host. Heavy masses of blue infantry, with
                     glittering bayonets—huge parks of rifled artillery, with their swarming
                     cannoneers—long columns of horsemen, armed with sabre and repeating carbines,
                     made the earth shake, and the woods
                     echo with their heavy and continuous tramp, mingled with the roll of
                     wheels.
                  In front of them, a little army of gaunt and ragged men, looked on and waited,
                     without resisting their advance. What did that waiting mean? Did they intend to
                     dispute the passage of that multitude toward Richmond? It seemed incredible,
                     but that was exactly the intention of Lee.
                  It is now known that General Grant and his officers felicitated themselves
                     greatly on the safe passage of the Rapidan, and were convinced that Lee would
                     hasten to retreat toward the South Anna.
                  Instead of retreating, Lee advanced and delivered battle.
                  The first collision took place on the 5th of May, when the Federal army was
                     rapidly massing in the Wilderness.
                  Ewell had promptly advanced, and about noon was forming line of battle across
                     the old turnpike, when he was vigorously attacked by Warren, and his advance
                     driven back. But the real obstacle was behind. Ewell's rear closed up—he
                     advanced in his turn; assailed Warren with fury; swept him back into the
                     thicket; seized two pieces of his artillery, with about 1,000 prisoners; and
                     for the time completely paralyzed the Federal force in his front.
                  Such was the first blow struck. It had failed, and General Grant turned his
                     attention to A. P. Hill, who had hastened up, and formed line of battle across
                     the Orange plank road, on Ewell's right.
                  Hancock directed the assault here, and we have General Lee's testimony to the
                     fact, that the Federal attempts to drive back Hill were "repeated and
                     desperate." All failed. Hill stubbornly held his ground. At night the enemy
                     retired, and gave up all further attempts on that day to make any headway.
                  Grant had expected to find a mere rear-guard, while Lee's main body was
                     retreating upon Richmond.
                  He found two full corps in his front; and there was no doubt that a third—that
                     of Longstreet—was approaching.
                  Lee was evidently going to fight—his aim was, plainly, to shut up Grant in the
                     Wilderness, and drive him back beyond the Rapidan, or destroy him.
               
               
                  XXX. THE REPORT.
                  IT was twilight, and the fighting was over.
                  The two tigers had drawn back, and, crouching down, panted heavily,—resting and
                     gathering new strength for the fiercer conflict of the next day.
                  From the thickets rose the stifled hum of the two hosts. Only a few shots were
                     heard, now and then, from the skirmishers, and these resembled the last drops
                     of a storm which had spent its fury.
                  I had been sent by General Stuart with an order to General Hampton, who
                     commanded the cavalry on Hill's right.
                  Hampton was sitting his horse in a field extending, at this point, between us
                     and the enemy; and, if it were necessary, I would draw his outline. It is not
                     necessary, however; every one is familiar with the figure of this great and
                     faithful soldier, in his old gray coat, plain arms and equipments, on his large
                     and powerful war-horse,—man and horse ready for battle. In the war I saw many
                     great figures,—Hampton's was one of the noblest.
                  Having delivered my message to General Hampton, who received it with his air of
                     grave, yet cordial courtesy, I turned to shake hands with Captain Church—a
                     thorough-bred young officer, as brave as steel, and one of my best friends—when
                     an exclamation from the staff attracted my attention, and looking round, I saw
                     the cause.
                  At the opposite extremity of the extensive field, a solitary horseman was seen
                     darting out of the woods occupied by the Federal infantry, and this man was
                     obviously a deserter, making his way into our lines.
                  At a sign from General Hampton, Captain Church went to meet him, and as my
                     horse was fresh, I accompanied my friend in his ride.
                  The deserter came on at full speed to meet us, and for a moment, his horse
                     skimmed the dusky expanse like a black-winged bird.*
                      Then, all at once, his speed moderated; he approached at a jog-trot,
                     and through the gathering gloom I recognized, above the blue uniform, the
                     sweetly smiling countenance of Nighthawk!
                  
                     
                     *This scene is real.
                  
                  "Good evening, colonel," said Nighthawk; "I am glad to see you again, and hope
                     you are well."
                  "So you have turned deserter, Nighthawk?" I said, laughing heartily.
                  "Precisely, colonel. I could not get off before. Will you inform me where I can
                     find General Stuart?"
                  "I will take you to him."
                  And riding back with Captain Church and Nighthawk, I soon found myself again in
                     presence of General Hampton.
                  A word from me explained the real character of the pseudo-deserter. General
                     Hampton asked a number of questions, Nighthawk replied to them, and then the
                     latter begged me to conduct him to General Stuart. I did so without delay, and
                     we soon reached Stuart's bivouac, where he was talking with his staff by a
                     camp-fire.
                  At sight of the blue figure he scarcely turned; then suddenly he recognized
                     Nighthawk, and burst into laughter.
                  "Well, my blue night-bird!" he exclaimed, "here you are at last! What news? Is
                     Grant going to cross the river?"
                  Nighthawk hung his head, and sighed audibly.
                  "I could not help it, general."
                  "Why didn't you come before?"
                  "It was impossible, general."
                  Stuart shook his head.
                  "Strike that word out of your dictionary, my friend."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  "That is good advice, general; but this time they nonplussed me. They blocked
                     every road, and I had to join their army."
                  "Well, I hope you got the $600 bounty," said Stuart, laughing.
                  "That was another impossibility, general; but I enjoyed the very best society
                     yonder."
                  "What society, Nighthawk?"
                  "That of Grant, Meade, and Sedgwick."
                  "Ah! my old friend, General Sedgwick! But where are Grant's head-quarters,
                     Nighthawk? Tell me every thing!"
                  "At Old Wilderness Tavern, general."
                  "And you saw him there?"
                  "In the midst of his generals,—I was temporarily one of his couriers."
                  "I understand. Well, their intended movements?"
                  Nighthawk shook his head.
                  "I could have foretold you those of to-day, general."
                  "How?"
                  "I heard General Meade dictating his order, through the window of his
                     head-quarters, and can repeat it verbatim, if
                     you desire."
                  "By all means, Nighthawk,—it will reveal his programme. But is it possible that
                     you can do so?"
                  "I can, general; I engraved every word on my memory."
                  And, fixing his eyes intently upon vacancy, Nighthawk commenced in a low,
                     monotonous voice:—
                  "The following movements are ordered for the 5th May, 1864. General Sheridan,
                     commanding cavalry corps, will move with Gregg's and Torbert's divisions
                     against the enemy's cavalry, in the direction of Hamilton's Crossing. General
                     Wilson, with the Third cavalry division, will move at 5 A. M., to Craig's
                     meeting-house, on the Catharpin road. He will keep out parties on the Orange
                     Court-House pike, and plank road, the Catharpin road, Pamunkey road, and in the
                     direction of Troyman's store and Andrews's store, or Good Hope church. 2.
                     Major-General Hancock, commanding Second Corps, will move at 5 A. M., to Shady
                     Grove church, and extend his right toward the Fifth Corps at Parker's store. 3.
                     Major-General Warren, commanding Fifth Corps, will move at 5 A. M., to Parker's
                     store, on the Orange Court-House plank road, and extend his right toward the
                     Sixth Corps at Old Wilderness Tavern. 4. Major-General Sedgwick, commanding
                     Sixth Corps, will move to the Old Wilderness Tavern, on the Orange Court-House
                     pike, as soon as the road is clear."
                  The monotonous voice stopped. I had listened with astonishment, and found it
                     difficult to credit this remarkable feat of memory, though it took place before
                     my eyes, or rather, in my ears.
                  
                  'It is really wonderful," said Stuart, gravely.
                  "You see," said Nighthawk, returning to his original voice, so to speak, "you
                     see, general, this would have been of some importance yesterday."
                  "It is very important now," said Stuart; "it indicates Grant's programme—his
                     wish to get out of the Wilderness. He is at Old Wilderness Tavern?"
                  "He was this morning, general, with Meade and Sedgwick."
                  "You were there?"
                  "I was, general."
                  "What did you gather, Nighthawk?"
                  "Little or nothing, general. True, I heard one or two amusing things as I
                     loitered among the couriers near."
                  "What?"
                  "General Grant came out talking with Meade, Sedgwick, and Warren. General Meade
                     said, 'They have left a division to fool us here, while they concentrate,
                        and prepare a position toward the North Anna,—and what I want is to prevent
                        these fellows from getting back to Mine Run.'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Stuart laughed.
                  "Well, 'these fellows' don't appear to be going back. What did Grant say?"
                  "He smoked, general."
                  "And did not open his lips?"
                  "Only once, when General Meade said something about 'manœuvring.'"
                  "What did he say?"
                  "I can give you his words. He took his cigar from his lips—puffed out the
                     smoke—and replied, 'Oh! I never manœuvre!'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "So much the better," said Stuart: "the general that does not manœuvre
                     sacrifices his men: and I predict that General Grant will soon alter his
                     programme."
                  Stuart had ordered his horse to be saddled, and now mounted to go to General
                     Lee's head-quarters.
                  "By the bye," he said, "did you hear Warren or Sedgwick say any thing,
                     Nighthawk?"
                  Nighthawk smiled.
                  "I heard Sedgwick utter a few words, general."
                  "What?"
                  "He said to Warren, 'I hear Hood is to take Stuart's place. I am glad of
                        it, for Stuart is the best cavalry officer ever foaled in North
                        America!'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
               
               
                  XXXII. THE UNSEEN DEATH.
                  THE morning of the 6th of May was ushered in with thunder.
                  The battle of the preceding day had been a sort of "feeler"—now the real
                     struggle came.
                  By a curious coincidence, Grant and Lee both began the attack and at the same
                     hour. At five o'clock in the morning the blue and gray ranks rushed together,
                     and opened fire on each other. Or rather, they fired when they heard each
                     others' steps and shouts. You saw little in that jungle.
                  I have already spoken more than once of this sombre country—a land of
                     undergrowth, thicket, ooze; where sight failed, and attacks had to be made by
                     the needle, the officers advancing in front of the line with
                     drawn—compasses!
                  The assaults here were worse than night fighting; the combats strange beyond
                     example. Regiments, brigades, and divisions stumbled on each other before they
                     knew it; and each opened fire, guided alone by the crackling of steps in the
                     bushes. There was something weird and lugubrious in such a struggle. It was not
                     a conflict of men, matched against each other in civilized warfare. Two wild
                     animals were prowling, and hunting each other in the jungle. When they heard
                     each others' steps, they sprang and grappled. One fell, the other fell upon
                     him. Then the conqueror rose up and went in pursuit of other game—the dead was
                     lost from all eyes.
                  
                  In this mournful and desolate country of the Spottsylvania Wilderness, did the
                     bloody campaign of 1864 begin. Here, where the very landscape seemed dolorous;
                     here, in blind wrestle, as at midnight, did 200,000 men, in blue and gray,
                     clutch each other—bloodiest and weirdest of encounters.
                  War had had nothing like it. Destruction of life had become a science, and was
                     done by the compass.
                  The Genius of Blood, apparently tired of the old common-place mode of killing,
                     had invented the "Unseen Death," in the depths of the jungle.
                  On the morning of May 6th, Lee and Grant had grappled, and the battle became
                     general along the entire line of the two armies. In these rapid memoirs I need
                     only outline this bitter struggle—the histories will describe it.
                  Lee was aiming to get around the enemy's left, and huddle him up in the
                     thicket—but in this he failed.
                  Just as Longstreet, who had arrived and taken part in the action, was advancing
                     to turn the Federal flank on the Brock road, he was wounded by one of his own
                     men; and the movement was arrested in mid career.
                  But Lee adhered to his plan. He determined to lead his column in person, and
                     would have done so, but for the remonstrances of his men.
                  "To the rear!" shouted the troops, as he rode in front of them; "to the
                     rear!"
                  And he was obliged to obey.
                  He was not needed.
                  The gray lines surged forward: the thicket was full of smoke and quick flashes
                     of flame: then the woods took fire, and the scene of carnage had a new and
                     ghastly feature added to it. Dense clouds of smoke rose, blinding and choking
                     the combatants: the flames crackled, soared aloft, and were blown in the men's
                     faces; and still, in the midst of this frightful array of horrors, the carnival
                     of destruction went on without ceasing.
                  At nightfall, General Lee had driven the enemy from their front line of
                     works—but nothing was gained.
                  What could be gained in that wretched country, where there was
                     nothing but thicket, thicket!
                  General Grant saw his danger, and, no doubt, divined the object of his
                     adversary,—to arrest and cripple him in this tangle-wood, where numbers did not
                     count, and artillery could not be used.
                  There was but one thing to do—to get out of the jungle.
                  So, on the day after this weird encounter, in which he had lost nearly 20,000
                     men, and Lee about 8,000, Grant moved toward Spottsylvania.
                  The thickets of the Wilderness were again silent, and the blue and gray objects
                     in the undergrowth did not move.
                  The war-dogs had gone to tear each other elsewhere.
               
               
                  XXXIII. BREATHED AND HIS GUN.
                  IN the din and smoke of that desperate grapple of the infantry, I have lost
                     sight of the incessant cavalry combats which marked each day with blood.
                  And now there is no time to return to them. A great and sombre event drags the
                     pen. With one scene I shall dismiss those heroic fights—but that scene will be
                     superb.
                  Does the reader remember the brave Breathed, commanding a battalion of the
                     Stuart horse artillery? I first spoke of him on the night preceding
                     Chancellorsville, when he came to see Stuart, at that time he was already
                     famous for his "do-or-die" fighting. A Marylander by birth, he had "come over
                     to help us:" had been the right-hand man of Pelham; the favorite of Stuart; the
                     admiration of the whole army for a courage which the word "reckless" best
                     describes;—and now, in this May, 1864, his familiar name of "Old Jim Breathed,"
                     bestowed by Stuart, who held him in high favor, had become the synonym of
                     stubborn nerve and élan, unsurpassed by that
                     of Murat. To fight his guns to the muzzles, or go in with the sabre, best
                     suited Breathed. A veritable bull-dog in combat, he shrank at nothing, and led
                     everywhere. I saw brave men in the war—none braver than Breathed. When he failed in any thing, it was
                     because reckless courage could not accomplish it.
                  He was young, of vigorous frame, with dark hair and eyes, and tanned by sun and
                     wind. His voice was low, and deep; his manners simple and unassuming; his ready
                     laugh and off-hand bearing indicated the born soldier; eyes mild, friendly, and
                     full of honesty. It was only when Breathed was fighting his guns, or leading a
                     charge, that they resembled red-hot coals, and seemed to flame.
                  To come to my incident. I wish, reader, to show you Breathed; to let you see
                     the whole individual in a single exploit. It is good to record things not
                     recorded in "history." They are, after all, the real glory of the South—of
                     which nothing can deprive her. I please myself, too, for Breathed was my
                     friend. I loved and admired him—and only a month or two before, he had made the
                     whole army admire—and laugh with—him too.
                  See how memory leads me off! I am going to give ten words, first, to that
                     incident which made us laugh.
                  In the last days of winter, a force of Federal cavalry came to make an attack
                     on Charlottesville—crossing the Rapidan high up toward the mountains, and
                     aiming to surprise the place. Unfortunately for him, General Custer, who
                     commanded the expedition, was to find the Stuart horse artillery in winter
                     quarters near. So sudden and unexpected was Custer's advance, that the
                     artillery camps were entirely surprised. At one moment, the men were lying down
                     in their tents, dozing, smoking, laughing—the horses turned out to graze, the
                     guns covered, a profound peace reigning—at the next, they were running to arms,
                     shouting, and in confusion, with the blue cavalry charging straight on their
                     tents, sabre in hand.
                  Breathed had been lounging like the rest, laughing and talking with the men.
                     Peril made him suddenly king, and, sabre in hand, he rushed to the guns,
                     calling to his men to follow.
                  With his own hands he wheeled a gun round, drove home a charge, and trained the
                     piece to bear upon the Federal cavalry, trampling in among the tents within
                     fifty yards of him.
                  "Man the guns!" he shouted, in his voice of thunder. "Stand to your guns, boys!
                     You promised me you would never let these guns be taken!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  A roar of voices answered him. The bull-dogs thrilled at the voice of the
                     master. Suddenly the pieces spouted flame; shell and canister tore through the
                     Federal ranks. Breathed was everywhere, cheering on the cannoneers. Discharge
                     succeeded discharge; the ground shook: then the enemy gave back, wavering and
                     losing heart.
                  Breathed seized the moment. Many of the horses had been caught and hastily
                     saddled. Breathed leaped upon one of them, and shouted:—
                  "Mount!"
                  The men threw themselves into the saddle—some armed with sabres, others with
                     clubs, others with pieces of fence-rail, caught up from the fires.
                  "Charge!" thundered Breathed.
                  And at the head of his men, he lead a headlong charge upon the Federal cavalry,
                     which broke and fled in the wildest disorder, pursued by the ragged cannoneers,
                     Breathed in front, with yells, cheers, and cries of defiance.
                  They were pursued past Barboursville to the Rapidan, without pause. That night
                     Stuart went after them: their officers held a council of war, it is said, to
                     decide whether they should not bury their artillery near Stannardsville, to
                     prevent its capture. On the day after this, they had escaped.
                  In passing Barboursville, on their return from Charlottesville, one of the
                     Federal troopers stopped to get a drink of water at the house of a citizen.
                  "What's the matter?" asked the citizen.
                  "Well, we are retreating."
                  "Who is after you?"
                  "Nobody but old Jim Breathed and his men, armed with fence-rails."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Such was one of a dozen incidents in Breathed's life. Let me come to that which
                     took place near Spottsylvania Court-House.
                  Grant had moved, as we have seen, by his left flank toward that place. General
                     Fitzhugh Lee opposed him on the way, and at every step harassed the head of the
                     Federal column with his dismounted sharp-shooters and horse artillery. Near
                        Spottsylvania Court-House, it was
                     the stand made by Fitz Lee's cavalry that saved the position, changing the
                     aspect of the whole campaign.
                  Sent by Stuart with a message to the brave "General Fitz," I reached him near
                     Spottsylvania Court-House, at the moment when he had just ordered his cavalry
                     to fall back slowly before the advancing enemy, and take a new position in
                     rear.
                  Two guns which had been firing on the enemy were still in battery on a hill;
                     upon these a heavy Federal skirmish line was steadily moving: and beside the
                     guns, Breathed and Fitzhugh Lee sat their horses, looking coolly at the
                     advancing line.
                  "Give them a round of canister, Breathed!" exclaimed General Fitz Lee.
                  Breathed obeyed, but the skirmish line continued bravely to advance. All at
                     once, there appeared in the woods behind them, a regular line of battle
                     advancing, with flags fluttering.
                  To remain longer on the hill was to lose the guns. The bullets were whizzing
                     around us, and there was but one course left—to fall back.
                  "Take the guns off, Breathed!" exclaimed the general; "there is no time to
                     lose! Join the command in the new position, farther down the road!"
                  Breathed looked decidedly unwilling.
                  "A few more rounds, general!"
                  And turning to the men, he shouted:—
                  "Give them canister!"
                  At the word, the guns spouted flame, and the canister tore through the line of
                     skirmishers, and the Federal line of battle behind; but it did not check them.
                     They came on more rapidly, and the air was full of balls.
                  "Look out for the guns, Breathed! Take them off!" exclaimed the general.
                  Breathed turned toward one of the pieces, and ordered:—
                  "Limber to the rear!"
                  The order was quickly obeyed.
                  "Forward!"
                  The piece went off at a thundering gallop, pursued by bullets.
                  "Only a few more rounds, general!" pleaded Breathed; "I won't lose the
                     guns!"
                  "All right!"
                  As he spoke, the enemy rushed upon the single gun.
                  Breathed replied by hurling canister in their faces. He sat his horse,
                     unflinching. Never had I seen a more superb soldier.
                  The enemy were nearly at the muzzle of the piece.
                  "Surrender!" they were heard shouting; "surrender the gun!"
                  Breathed's response was a roar, which hurled back the front rank.
                  Then, his form towering amid the smoke, his eyes flashing, his drawn sabre
                     whirled above his head, Breathed shouted,—
                  "Limber up!"
                  The cannoneers seized the trail; the horses wheeled at a gallop; the piece was
                     limbered up; and the men rushed down the hill to mount their horses, left
                     there.
                  Then around the gun seemed to open a volcano of flame. The Federal infantry
                     were right on it. A storm of bullets cut the air. The drivers leaped from the
                     horses drawing the piece, thinking its capture inevitable, and ran down the
                     hill.
                  In an instant they had disappeared. The piece seemed in the hands of the
                     enemy—indeed, they were almost touching it—a gun of the Stuart horse artillery
                     for the first time was to be captured!
                  That thought seemed to turn Breathed into a giant. As the drivers disappeared,
                     his own horse was shot under him, staggered, sunk, and rolled upon his rider.
                     Breathed dragged himself from beneath the bleeding animal, rose to his feet,
                     and rushing to the lead horses of the gun, leaped upon one of them, and struck
                     them violently with his sabre to force them on.
                  As he did so, the horse upon which he was mounted fell, pierced by a bullet
                     through the body.
                  Breathed fell upon his feet, and, with the edge of his sabre, cut the two
                     leaders out of the traces. He then leaped upon one of the middle horses—the gun
                     being drawn by six—and started off.
                  He had not gone three paces, when the animal which he now rode fell dead in
                     turn. Breathed rolled upon the ground, but rising to his feet, severed the dead
                     animal and his companion from the piece, as he had done the leaders.
                  
                  He then leaped upon one of the wheel-horses—these alone being now left—struck
                     them furiously with his sabre—started at a thundering gallop down the hill—and
                     pursued by a hail-storm of bullets, from which, as General Lee says in his
                     report, "he miraculously escaped unharmed," carried off the gun in safety, and
                     rejoined the cavalry, greeted by a rolling thunder of cheers.
                  Such was the manner in which Breathed fought his artillery, and the narrative
                     is the barest and most simple statement of fact.
                  Breathed came out of the war a lieutenant-colonel only. Napoleon would have
                     made him a marshal.
               
               
                  XXXIV. MY LAST RIDE WITH STUART.
                  MORE than one stirring incident marked those days of desperate fighting, when,
                     barricading all the roads, and charging recklessly, Stuart opposed, at every
                     step, Grant's advance toward the Po.
                  But I can not describe those incidents. They must be left to others. The pen
                     which has paused to record that exploit of Breathed, is drawn onward as by the
                     hand of Fate toward one of those scenes which stand out, lugubrious and bloody,
                     from the pages of history.
                  From the moment when Grant crossed the Rapidan, Stuart had met the horsemen of
                     Sheridan everywhere in bitter conflict; and the days and nights had been
                     strewed all over with battles.
                  Now, on the ninth of May, when the two great adversaries faced each other on
                     the Po, a more arduous service still was demanded of the great sabreur.
                     Sheridan had been dispatched to sever General Lee's communications, and, if
                     possible, capture Richmond. The city was known to be well nigh stripped of
                     troops, and a determined assault might result in its fall. Sheridan accordingly
                     cut loose a heavy column, took command of it in person, and descended like a
                     thunderbolt toward the devoted city.
                  No sooner, however, had he begun to move, than Stuart followed on his track. He
                     had no difficulty in doing so. A great dust-cloud told the story. That cloud
                     hung above the long column of Federal cavalry accompanied it wherever it moved,
                     and indicated clearly to Stuart the course which his adversary was
                     pursuing.
                  If he could only interpose, with however small a force, between Sheridan and
                     Richmond, time would be given for preparation to resist the attack, and the
                     capital might be saved. If he failed to interpose, Sheridan would accomplish
                     his object—Richmond would fall.
                  It was a forlorn hope, after all, that he could arrest the Federal commander.
                     General Sheridan took with him a force estimated at 9,000. Stuart's was, in
                     all, about 3,000; Gordon, who was not in the battle at Yellow Tavern, included.
                     That action was fought by Fitz Lee's division of 2,400 men all told. But the
                     men and officers were brave beyond words; the incentive to daring resistance
                     was enormous; they would do all that could be done.
                  Such was the situation of affairs on the 9th of May, 1864.
                  Stuart set out at full gallop on his iron gray, from Spottsylvania Court-House,
                     about three o'clock in the day, and reached Chilesburg, toward Hanover
                     Junction, just as night fell.
                  Here we found General Fitz Lee engaged in a hot skirmish with the enemy's
                     rear-guard; and that night Stuart planned an attack upon their camp, but
                     abandoned the idea.
                  His spirits at this time were excellent, but it was easy to see that he
                     realized the immense importance of checking the enemy.
                  An officer said in his presence:—
                  "We won't be able to stop Sheridan."
                  Stuart turned at those words; his cheeks flushed; his eyes flamed, and he
                     said:—
                  "No, sir! I'd rather die than let him go on!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  On the next morning, he moved in the direction of Hanover Junction; riding boot
                     to boot with his friend General Fitz Lee. I had never seen him more joyous. Some events
                     engrave themselves forever on the memory. That ride of May 10th, 1864, was one
                     of them.
                  Have human beings a presentiment, ever, at the near approach of death? Does the
                     shadow of the unseen hand ever reveal itself to the eye? I know not, but I know
                     that no such presentiment came to Stuart; no shadow of the coming event
                     darkened the path of the great cavalier. On the contrary, his spirits were
                     buoyant beyond example, almost; and, riding on with General Fitz Lee, he sang
                     in his gallant voice his favorite ditties "Come out of the Wilderness!" and
                     "Jine the Cavalry!"
                  As he rode on thus, he was the beau ideal of a cavalier. His seat in the saddle
                     was firm; his blue eyes dazzling; his heavy mustache curled with laughter at
                     the least provocation. Something in this man seemed to spring forward to meet
                     danger. Peril aroused and strung him. All his energies were stimulated by it.
                     In that ride through the May forest, to attack Sheridan, and arrest him or die,
                     Stuart's bearing and expression were superbly joyous and inspiring. His black
                     plume floated in the spring breeze, like some knight-errant's; and he went to
                     battle humming a song, resolved to conquer or fall.
                  Riding beside him, I found my eyes incessantly attracted to his proud face; and
                     now I see the great cavalier as then, clearly with the eyes of memory. What a
                     career had been his! what a life of battles!
                  As we went on through the spring woods, amid the joyous songs of birds, all the
                     long, hard combats of this man passed before me like an immense panorama. The
                     ceaseless scouting and fighting in the Shenandoah Valley; the charge and route
                     of the red-legged "Zouaves" at Manassas; the falling back to the Peninsula, and
                     the fighting all through Charles City; the famous ride around McClellan; the
                     advance and combats on the Rapidan and Rappahanock, after Cedar Mountain; the
                     night attack on Catlett's, when he captured Pope's coat and papers; the march
                     on Jackson's flank, and the capture of Manassas; the advance into Maryland; the
                     fights at Frederick, Crampton's, and Boonsboro', with the hard rear-guard work,
                     as Lee retired to Sharpsburg; his splendid handling of artillery on the left
                     wing of the army there; the retreat, covered by his cavalry; the second ride
                     around McClellan, and safe escape from his clutches; the bitter conflicts at
                     Upperville and Barbee's, as Lee fell back; the hard fighting thereafter, on the
                     banks of the Rappahannock; the "crowding 'em with artillery," on the night of
                     Fredericksburg; the winter march to Dumfries; the desperate battle at Kelly's
                     Ford; the falling back before Hooker; the battle of Chancellorsville, when he
                     succeeded Jackson; the stubborn wrestle of Fleetwood; the war of giants below
                     Upperville; the advance across Maryland into Pennsylvania, when the long march
                     was strewed all over with battles, at Westminister, Hanover, Carlisle,
                     Gettysburg, where he met and repulsed the best cavalry of the Federal army; the
                     retreat from Gettysburg, with the tough affair near Boonsboro'; guarding the
                     rear of the army as it again crossed the Potomac; then the campaign of October,
                     ending with Kilpatrick's route at Buckland; the assault on Meade's head of
                     column, when he came over to Mine Run; the bold attack on his rear there; and
                     the hard, incessant fighting since Grant had come over to the Wilderness;—I
                     remembered all these splendid scenes and illustrious services as I rode on
                     beside Stuart, through the fields and forests of Hanover, and thought, "This is
                     one of those great figures which live forever in history, and men's
                     memories!"
                  To-day, I know that I was not mistaken, or laboring under the influence of
                     undue affection and admiration. That figure has passed from earth, but still
                     lives!
                  Stuart is long dead, and the grass covers him; but there is scarce a foot of
                     the soil of Virginia that does not speak of him. He is gone, but his old mother
                     is proud of him—is she not?
                  Answer, mountains where he fought—lowlands, where he fell—river, murmuring a
                     dirge, as you foam through the rocks yonder, past his grave!
               
               
                  
                  XXXV. "SOON WITH ANGELS I'LL BE MARCHING."
                  LET me rapidly pass over the events of the tenth of May.
                  Gordon's little brigade had been ordered to follow on the rear of the enemy,
                     while Fitz Lee moved round by Taylorsville to get in front of them.
                  Stuart rode and met Gordon, gave the brave North Carolinian, so soon to fall,
                     his last orders; and then hastened back to Fitz Lee, who had continued to press
                     the enemy.
                  They had struck the Central railroad, but the gray cavaliers were close on
                     them. Colonel Robert Randolph, that brave soul, doomed like Gordon, charged
                     them furiously here, took nearly a hundred prisoners, and drove them across the
                     road.
                  At this moment Stuart returned, and pushed forward toward Taylorsville, from
                     which point he intended to hasten on and get in their front.
                  About four in the afternoon we reached Fork church, and the command halted to
                     rest.
                  Stuart stretched himself at full length, surrounded by his staff, in a field of
                     clover; and placing his hat over his face to protect his eyes from the light,
                     snatched a short sleep, of which he was very greatly in need.
                  The column again moved, and that night camped near Taylorsville, awaiting the
                     work of the morrow.
                  At daylight on the 11th, Stuart moved toward Ashland. Here he came up with the
                     enemy; attacked them furiously, and drove them before him, and out of the
                     village, killing, wounding, and capturing a considerable number.
                  Then he put his column again in motion, advanced rapidly by the Telegraph road
                     toward Yellow Tavern, a point near Richmond, where he intended to intercept the
                     enemy—the moment of decisive struggle, to which all the fighting along the
                     roads of Hanover had only been the prelude, was at hand.
                  Stuart was riding at the head of his column, looking straight forward, and with
                     no thought, apparently, save that of arriving in time.
                  He was no longer gay. Was it the coming event; was it the loss of sleep; the
                     great interest at stake; the terrible struggle before him? I know not; but he
                     looked anxious, feverish, almost melancholy.
                  "My men and horses are tired, jaded, and hungry, but all right," he had written
                     to General Bragg, from Ashland.
                  And these words will serve in large measure to describe the condition of the
                     great commander himself.
                  I was riding beside him, when he turned to me and said, in a low tone:—
                  "Do you remember a conversation which we had at Orange, Surry, that night in my
                     tent?"
                  "Yes, general."
                  "And what I said?"
                  "Every word is engraved, I think, upon my memory."
                  "Good. Do not let one thing ever escape you. Remember, that I said what I say
                     again to-day, that 'Virginia expects every man to do his duty!'"
                  "I will never forget that, general,"
                  He smiled, and rode on. For half a mile he was silent. Then I heard escape from
                     his lips, in a low, musing voice, a refrain which I had never heard him sing
                     before— 
                        "Soon with angels I'll be marching!"*
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Real.
                  
                  I know not why, but that low sound made me shiver.
               
               
                  XXXVI. YELLOW TAVERN, MAY 11, 1864.
                  YELLOW TAVERN! At the mention of that name, a sort of tremor agitates me even
                     to-day, when nearly four years have passed.
                  
                  In my eyes, the locality is cursed. A gloomy cloud seems ever hanging over it.
                     No birds sing in the trees. The very sunshine of the summer days is sad
                     there.
                  But I pass to my brief description of the place, and the event which made it
                     one of the black names in Southern history.
                  Yellow Tavern is an old dismantled hostelry, on the Brook road, about six miles
                     from Richmond. Nothing more dreary than this desolate wayside inn can be
                     imagined. Its doors stand open, its windows are gone, the rotting floor
                     crumbles beneath the heel, and the winds moan through the paneless sashes, like
                     invisible spirits hovering near and muttering some lugubrious secret. "This is
                     the scene of some deed of darkness!" you are tempted to mutter, as you place
                     your feet upon the threshold. When you leave the spot behind you, a weight
                     seems lifted from your breast—you breathe freer.
                  Such was the Yellow Tavern when I went there in the spring of 1864. Is it
                     different to-day? Do human beings laugh there? I know not; but I know that
                     nothing could make it cheerful in my eyes. It was, and is, and ever will be, a
                     thing accursed!
                  For the military reader, however, a few words in reference to the topographical
                     features of the locality are necessary.
                  Yellow Tavern is at the forks of the Telegraph and Mountain roads, six miles
                     from Richmond. The Telegraph road runs north and south—over this road Stuart
                     marched. The Mountain road comes into it from the northwest. By this road
                     Sheridan was coming.
                  Open the left hand, with the palm upward; the index finger pointing north. The
                     thumb is the Mountain road; the index-finger the Telegraph road; where the
                     thumb joins the hand is the Yellow Tavern in open fields; and Richmond is at
                     the wrist.
                  Toward the head of the thumb is a wood. Here Wickham, commanding Stuart's
                     right, was placed, his line facing the Mountain road so as to strike the
                     approaching enemy in flank.
                  From Wickham's left, or near it, Stuart's left wing, under Lomax, extended
                     along the Telegraph road to the Tavern—the two lines thus forming an obtuse
                     angle.
                  On a hill, near Lomax's right, was Breathed with his guns.
                  The object of this disposition of Stuart's force will be seen at a glance.
                     Lomax, commanding the left, was across the enemy's front; Wickham, commanding
                     the right, was on their flank; and the artillery was so posted as to sweep at
                     once the front of both Stuart's wings.
                  The enemy's advance would bring them to the first joint of the thumb. There
                     they would receive Lomax's fire in front; Wickham's in flank; and Breathed's
                     transversely. The cross fire on that point, over which the enemy must pass,
                     would be deadly. Take a pencil, reader, and draw the diagram, and lines of
                     fire. That will show Stuart's excellent design.
                  Stuart had reached Yellow Tavern, and made his dispositions before the arrival
                     of Sheridan, who was, nevertheless, rapidly advancing by the Mountain road.
                     Major McClellan, adjutant-general, had been sent to General Bragg, with a
                     suggestion that the latter should attack from the direction of the city, at the
                     moment when the cavalry assailed the Federal flank. All was ready.
                  It was the morning of May 11th, 1864.
                  Never was scene more beautiful and inspiring. The men were jaded, like their
                     horses; but no heart shrank from the coming encounter. Stretching in a thin
                     line from the tavern into the woods on the right of the Mountain road, the men
                     sat their horses, with drawn sabres gleaming in the sun; and the red
                     battle-flags waved proudly in the fresh May breeze, as though saluting Stuart,
                     who rode in front of them.
                  Such was the scene at Yellow Tavern. The moment had come. At about eight, a
                     stifled hum, mixed with the tramp of hoofs, was heard. Then a courier came at a
                     gallop, from the right, to Stuart. The enemy were in sight, and advancing
                     rapidly.
                  Stuart was sitting his horse near Yellow Tavern when that intelligence reached
                     him. He rose in his saddle, took his field-glasses from their leathern case,
                     and looked through them in the direction of the woods across the Mountain
                     road.
                  Suddenly, quick firing came on the wind—then, loud shouts. Stuart lowered his
                     glasses, shut them up, replaced them in their case, and drew his sabre.
                  Never had I seen him present an appearance more superb. His head was carried
                     proudly erect, his black plume floated, his blue eyes flashed—he was the beau ideal of a soldier, and as one of his bravest
                        officers*
                      afterward said to me, looked as if he had resolved on "victory or
                     death." I had seem him often aroused and strung for action. On this morning he
                     seemed on fire, and resembled a veritable king of battle.
                  
                     
                     *Breathed.
                  
                  Suddenly, the skirmish line of the enemy appeared in front of the woods, and a
                     quick fire was opened on Stuart's sharp-shooters under Colonel Pate, in the
                     angle of the two roads; Stuart hastened to take the real initiative. He posted
                     two guns on a rising ground in the angle, and opened a heavy fire; and galled
                     by this fire, the enemy suddenly made a determined charge upon the guns.
                  Stuart rose in his stirrups and gazed coolly at the heavy line advancing upon
                     him, and forcing Pate's handful back.
                  "Take back the guns!" he said.
                  They were limbered up, and went off rapidly.
                  At the same moment Colonel Pate appeared, his men obstinately contesting every
                     foot of ground as they fell back toward the Telegraph road, where a deep cut
                     promised them advantage.
                  Colonel Pate was a tall, fair-haired officer, with a ready smile, and a cordial
                     bearing. He and Stuart had bitterly quarrelled, and the general had
                     court-martialed the colonel. It is scarcely too much to say that they had been
                     deadly enemies.
                  For the first time now, since their collision, they met. But on this day their
                     enmity seemed dead. The two men about to die grasped each other's hands.
                  "They are pressing you back, colonel!" exclaimed Stuart.
                  "Yes, general. I have but three skeleton squadrons! and you see their
                     force."
                  "You are right. You have done all that any man could. Can you hold this
                     cut?"
                  "I will try, general."
                  Their glances crossed. Never was Stuart's face kinder.
                  "If you say you will, you will do it! Hold this position to the last,
                     colonel."
                  "I'll hold it until I die, general."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  With a pressure of the hand they parted.
                  Fifteen minutes afterward, Pate was dead. Attacked at once in front and on both
                     flanks in the road, his little force had been cut to pieces. He fell with three
                     of his captains, and his handful were scattered.
                  Stuart witnessed all, and his eye grew fiery.
                  "Pate has died the death of a hero!"*
                        he exclaimed.
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "Order Wickham to dismount his brigade, and attack on the right!" he added to
                     Lieutenant Garnett, aid-de-camp.
                  Twenty minutes afterward, Wickham's men were seen advancing, and driving the
                     enemy before them. This relieved the left, and Wickham continued to push on
                     until he struck up against a heavy line behind rail breastworks in the
                     woods.
                  He then fell back, and each side remained motionless, awaiting the movement of
                     the other.
                  Such was the preface to the real battle of Yellow Tavern,—the species of
                     demonstration which preluded the furious grapple.
                  Stuart's melancholy had all vanished. He was in splendid spirits. He hastened
                     back his artillery to the point from which it had been driven, and soon its
                     defiant roar was heard rising above the woods.
                  At the same moment a courier galloped up.
                  "What news?"
                  "A dispatch from Gordon, general.
                  Stuart took it and read it with high good humor.
                  "Gordon has had a handsome little affair this morning," he said; "he has
                     whipped them."
                  And looking toward the northwest—
                  "I wish Gordon was here,"*
                        he said.
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  The guns continued to roar, and the enemy had not again advanced. It was nearly
                     four o'clock. Night approached.
                  But the great blow was coming.
                  Stuart was sitting his horse near the guns, with Breathed beside him. Suddenly
                     the edge of the woods on the Mountain road swarmed with blue horsemen. As they
                     appeared, the long lines of sabres darted from the scabbards; then they rushed
                     like a hurricane toward the guns.
                  
                  The attack was so sudden and overpowering, that nothing could stand before it.
                     For a short time the men fought desperately, crossing sabres and using their
                     pistols. But the enemy's numbers were too great. The left was driven back. With
                     triumphant cheers, the Federal troopers pressed upon them to drive them
                     completely from the field.
                  Suddenly, as the men fell back, Stuart appeared, with drawn sabre, among them,
                     calling upon them to rally. His voice rose above the fire, and a wild cheer
                     greeted him.
                  The men rallied, the enemy were met again, sabre to sabre, and the field became
                     a scene of the most desperate conflict.
                  Stuart led every charge. I shall never forget the appearance which he presented
                     at that moment; with one hand he controlled his restive horse, with the other
                     he grasped his sabre; in his cheeks burned the hot blood of the soldier.
                  "Breathed!" he exclaimed.
                  "General!"
                  "Take command of all the mounted men in the road, and hold it against whatever
                     may come! If this road is lost, we are gone!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Breathed darted to the head of the men and shouted:—
                  "Follow me!"
                  His sword flashed lightning, and digging the spur into his horse, he darted
                     ahead of the column, disappearing in the middle of a swarm of enemies.
                  A superb sight followed. Breathed was seen in the midst of the Federal cavalry
                     defending himself, with pistol and sabre, against the blows which were aimed at
                     him on every side.
                  He cut one officer out of the saddle; killed a lieutenant with a pistol ball;
                     was shot slightly in the side, and a sabre stroke laid open his head. But five
                     minutes afterward he was seen to clear a path with his sabre, and reappear,
                     streaming with blood.†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †This incident, like all here related as attending this battle, is rigidly
                        true.
                  
                  The momentary repulse effected nothing. The enemy re-formed their line, and
                     again charged the guns, which were pouring a heavy fire upon them. As they
                     rushed forward, the hoofs of their horses shook the ground A deafening cheer
                     arose from the blue line.
                  Stuart was looking at them, and spurred out in front of the guns. His eyes
                     flashed, and, taking off his brown felt hat, he waved it and cheered.
                  Then he wheeled to take command of a column of Lomax's men, coming to meet the
                     charge.
                  They were too late. In a moment the enemy were trampling among the guns. All
                     but one were captured, and that piece was saved only by the terror of the
                     drivers. They lashed their horses into a gallop, and rushed toward the
                     Chickahominy, followed by the cannoneers who were cursing them, and
                     shouting:—
                  "For God's sake, boys, let's go back! They've got Breathed! Let's go back to
                        him!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Their words.
                  
                  That terror of the drivers, which the cannoneers cursed so bitterly, ended all.
                     The gun, whirling on at wild speed, suddenly struck against the head of the
                     column advancing to meet the enemy. A war-engine hurled against it could not
                     have more effectually broken it. Before it could re-form the enemy had struck
                     it, forced it back; and then the whole Federal force of cavalry was hurled upon
                     Stuart.
                  His right, where Fitz Lee commanded in person, was giving back. His left was
                     broken and driven. The day was evidently lost; and Stuart, with a sort of
                     desperation, rushed into the midst of the enemy, calling upon his men to rally,
                     and firing his pistol in the faces of the Federal cavalrymen.
                  Suddenly, one of them darted past him toward the rear, and as he did so, placed
                     his pistol nearly on Stuart's body, and fired.
                  As the man disappeared in the smoke, Stuart's hand went quickly to his side, he
                     reeled in the saddle, and would have fallen had not Captain Dorsay, of the
                     First Virginia Cavalry, caught him in his arms.
                  The bullet had passed through his side into the stomach, and wounded him
                     mortally. In its passage, it just grazed a small Bible in his pocket. The Bible
                     was the gift of his mother—but the Almighty had decreed that it should not turn
                     the fatal bullet.
                  Stuart's immense vitality sustained him for a moment. Pale, and tottering in
                     the saddle, he still surveyed the field, and called on the men to rally.
                  
                  "Go back," he exclaimed, "and do your duty, as I have done mine! And our
                     country will be safe!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  A moment afterward he called out again to the men passing him:—
                  "Go back! go back! I'd rather die than be whipped!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  The old lightning flashed from his eyes as he spoke. Then a mist passed over
                     them; his head sank upon his breast; and, still supported in the saddle, he was
                     led through the woods toward the Chickahominy.
                  Suddenly, Fitzhugh Lee, who had been stubbornly fighting on the right, galloped
                     up, and accosted Stuart. His face was flushed, his eyes moist.
                  "You are wounded!" he exclaimed.
                  "Badly," Stuart replied, "but look out, Fitz! Yonder they come!"
                  A glance showed all. In the midst of a wild uproar of clashing sabres, quick
                     shots, and resounding cries, the Federal cavalry were rushing forward to
                     overwhelm the disordered lines.
                  Stuart's eye flashed for the last time. Turning to General Fitzhugh Lee, he
                     exclaimed in a full, sonorous voice:—
                  "Go ahead, Fitz, old fellow! I know you will do what is right!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  This was the last order he ever gave upon the field. As he spoke, his head
                     sank, his eyes closed, and he was borne toward the rear.
                  There was scarcely time to save him from capture. His wound seemed to have been
                     the signal for his lines to break. They had now given way everywhere—the enemy
                     were pressing them with loud shouts. Fighting with stubborn desperation, they
                     fell back toward the Chickahominy, which they crossed, hotly pressed by the
                     victorious enemy.
                  Stuart had been placed in an ambulance and borne across the stream, where Dr.
                     Randolph and Dr. Fontaine made a brief examination of his wound. It was plainly
                     mortal—but he was hastily driven, by way of Mechanicsville, into Richmond.
                  His hard fighting had saved the city. When Sheridan attacked, he was
                     repulsed.
                  
                     
                        DEATH OF STUART
                     
                  
                  
                  But the capital was dearly purchased. Twenty-four hours afterward Stuart was
                     dead.
                  The end of the great cavalier had been as serene as his life was stormy. His
                     death was that of the Christian warrior, who bows to the will of God, and
                     accepts whatever His loving hand decrees for him.
                  He asked repeatedly that his favorite hymns should be sung for him; and when
                     President Davis visited him, and asked:—
                  "General, how do you feel?"
                  "Easy, but willing to die," he said, "if God and my country think I have
                     fulfilled my destiny, and done my duty."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  As night came, he requested his physician to inform him if he thought he would
                     live till morning. The physician replied that his death was rapidly
                     approaching, when he faintly bowed his head, and murmured:—
                  "I am resigned, if it be God's will. I should like to see my wife, but God's
                     will be done."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  When the proposed attack upon Sheridan, near Mechanicsville, was spoken of in
                     his presence, he said:—
                  "God grant that it may be successfull I wish I could be there."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Turning his face toward the pillow, he added, with tears in his eyes, "but I
                     must prepare for another world."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Feeling now that his end was near, he made his last dispositions.
                  "You will find in my hat," he said to a member of his staff, "a little
                     Confederate flag, which a lady of Columbia, South Carolina, sent me, requesting
                     that I would wear it on my horse in battle, and return it to her. Send it to
                        her."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  He gave then the name of the lady, and added:—
                  "My spurs—those always worn in battle—I promised to give to Mrs. Lily Lee, at
                     Shepherdstown. My sabre I leave to my son."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  His horses and equipments were then given to his staff—his papers directed to
                     be sent to his wife.
                  A prayer was then offered by the minister at his bedside: his lips moved as he
                     repeated the words. As the prayer ended he murmured:—
                  "I am going fast now—I am resigned. God's will be done!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  As the words escaped from his lips, he expired.
               
            
            
               
               BOOK III.
               BEHIND THE SCENES.
               
                  I. WHAT I DID NOT SEE.
                  I WAS not at Stuart's bedside when he died. While aiding the rest to hold him
                     in the saddle, I had been shot through the shoulder; and twenty-four hours
                     afterward I lay, at the house of a friend in Richmond, turning and tossing with
                     fever.
                  In my delirium I heard a mournful tolling of bells. It was many days, however,
                     before I knew that they were tolling for Stuart.
                  When, at last, after more than a month's confinement to my bed, I rose, and
                     began to totter about,—pale, faint, and weak, but convalescent—my great loss,
                     for the first time, struck me in all its force.
                  Where should I turn now—and whither should I go? Jackson dead at
                     Chancellorsville—Stuart at Yellow Tavern—thenceforth I seemed to have lost my
                     support, to grope and totter in darkness, without a guide! These two kings of
                     battle had gone down in the storm, and, like the Knight of Arthur, I looked
                     around me, with vacant and inquiring eyes, asking whither I was now to direct
                     my steps, and what work I should work in the coming years. Jackson! Stuart!—who
                     could replace them? They had loved and trusted me—their head-quarters had been
                     my home. Now, when they disappeared, I had no friends, no home; and an
                     inexpressible sense of loss descended upon me, as a dark cloud descends and
                     obscures a landscape, smiling and full of sunshine.
                  Another woe had come to me. My father was dead. The war had snapped the chords
                     of that stout heart as it snapped the chords of thousands, and the illustrious
                     head of the house had descended into the tomb. From this double blow I scarcely
                     had strength to rise. For weeks I remained in a sort of dumb stupor; and was
                     only aroused from it by the necessity of looking after my family affairs.
                  As soon as I had strength to mount my horse, I rode to Eagle's Nest. A good
                     aunt had come and installed herself as the friend and protector of my little
                     Annie; and with the arms of my young sister around me, I wept for my
                     father.
                  I remained at Eagle's Nest more than two months. The long ride had made the
                     wound in my shoulder reopen, and I was again stretched upon a bed of illness,
                     from which, at one time, I thought I should not rise. More than once I made a
                     narrow escape from scouting parties of Federal cavalry in the neighborhood; and
                     on one occasion, an officer entered my chamber, but left me unmolested, under
                     the impression that I was too ill to live.
                  It was late in the month of August before I rose from my bed again, and set out
                     on my return.
                  In those three months and a half—counting from the time I left Spottsylvania
                     with Stuart—great events had happened in Virginia. Grant's hammer and Lee's
                     rapier had been clashing day and night. Hill and valley, mountain and
                     lowland—Virginia and Maryland—had thundered.
                  General Grant had hastened forward from the Wilderness, only to find Lee
                     confronting him behind breastworks at Spottsylvania Court-House. The
                     Confederate commander had taken up a defensive position on the line of the Po;
                     and for more than two weeks Grant threw his masses against the works of his
                     adversary, in desperate attempts to break through.
                  On the 12th of May, at daylight, he nearly succeeded. "The Horse Shoe" salient
                     was charged in the dusk of morning; the Southerners were surprised, and
                     bayoneted in the trenches; the works carried; the artillery captured; and a
                     large number of prisoners fell into the hands of the enemy.
                  The blow was heavy, but General Grant derived little advantage from it. Lee
                     rallied his troops; formed a new line; and repulsed every assault made on it, throughout the entire
                     day. When night fell, Grant had not advanced further; Lee's position was
                     stronger than before, and plainly impregnable.
                  For many days, Grant was occupied in reconnoitring and feeling his adversary.
                     At the end of a week, the hope of breaking Lee's line was seen to be
                     desperate.
                  Then commenced the second great "movement by the left flank" toward
                     Richmond.
                  Grant disappeared one morning, and hastened toward Hanover Junction. When he
                     arrived, Lee was there in his front, ready to receive him. And the new position
                     was stronger, if any thing, than that of Spottsylvania. Grant felt it;
                     abandoned the attempt to carry it, at once; and again moved, on his swift and
                     stealthy way, by the left flank toward Richmond. Crossing the Pamunkey at
                     Hanovertown, he made straight for the capital; but reaching the Tottapotomoi,
                     he found Lee again awaiting him.
                  Then the days and nights thundered, as they had been thundering since the day
                     when Grant crossed the Rapidan. Lee could not be driven, and the Federal
                     movement by the left flank began again.
                  Grant made for Cold Harbor, and massed his army to burst through the
                     Chickahominy, and seize Richmond. The huge engine began to move at daylight, on
                     the third of June. Half an hour afterward, 13,000 of General Grant's forces
                     were dead or wounded. He was repulsed and driven back. His whole loss, from the
                     moment of crossing the Rapidan, had been about 60,000 men.
                  That ended all hopes of forcing the lines of the Chickahominy. The Federal
                     commander gave up the attempt in despair, and resumed his Wandering-Jew march.
                     Moving still by the left flank, he hastened to cross James River and advance on
                     Petersburg. But Lee was again too rapid for him. In the works south of the
                     Appomatox the gray infantry, under the brave General Wise, confronted the
                     enemy. They repulsed every assault, and Grant sat down to lay siege to Richmond
                     from the distance of thirty miles.
                  Such had been the great campaign of the summer of 1864 in Virginia. Lee had
                     everywhere stood at bay, and repulsed every attack: he had also struck in
                     return a great aggressive blow, in Maryland.
                  At Cold Harbor, early in June, news had arrived that a Federal column, under
                     Hunter, was advancing on Lynchburg. A force was sent to intercept Hunter, under
                     the command of Early. That hard fighter crossed the mountains; attacked his
                     adversary; drove him beyond the Alleghanies; and then, returning on his steps,
                     hurried down the Shenandoah Valley toward the Potomac, driving every thing
                     before him. Once at the Potomac, he hastened to cross into Maryland. Once in
                     Maryland, Early advanced, without loss of time, upon Washington. At Monocacy he
                     met and defeated General Wallace; pressed after him toward Washington; and
                     reaching the outer works, advanced his lines to the assault.
                  But he had but a handful, after the long and prostrating march. His numbers
                     were wholly inadequate to storm the defences of the capital. Grant had sent
                     forward, in haste, two army corps to defend the city, and Early was compelled
                     to retreat across the Potomac to the Shenandoah Valley, with the sole
                     satisfaction of reflecting that he had given the enemy a great "scare," and had
                     flaunted the red-cross flag in front of the ramparts of Washington.
                  I have not space to describe the cavalry movements of the summer. Hampton had
                     succeeded Stuart in command of all the cavalry, and the country soon heard the
                     ring of his heavy blows.
                  In June, Sheridan was sent to capture Gordonsville and Charlottesville; but
                     Hampton checked and defeated him in a fierce action near Trevillian's, and in
                     another at Charlottesville; pursued him to the White House; hurried him on to
                     James River; and Sheridan crossed that stream on pontoons, glad, no doubt, to
                     get back to the blue infantry. Hampton crossed also; penetrated to Dinwiddie;
                     defeated the enemy at Sappony church, capturing their men and
                     artillery—everywhere they had been routed, with a total loss of more than 2,000
                     prisoners.
                  Such were the events which had taken place during my tedious illness. They came
                     to me only in vague rumors, or by means of chance newspapers sent by my
                     neighbors. At last, however, I rose
                     from my sick couch, and embracing my aunt and sister, who were to remain
                     together at Eagle's Nest, set out on my return.
                  Stuart's staff were all scattered, and seeking new positions. I was one of
                     them, and I again asked myself more gloomily than at first, "Where shall I
                     go?"
                  The gentlemen of the red tape at Richmond would doubtless inform me, however;
                     and riding on steadily, with a keen look out for scouting parties, I at last
                     reached the city.
                  On the next day I filed my application in the war office, to be assigned to
                     duty.
                  A week afterward I had not heard from it.
                  Messieurs, the red tapists, were evidently not in the least bit of a hurry—and
                     hat in hand I awaited their good pleasure.
               
               
                  II. THE "DOOMED CITY."
                  RICHMOND presented a singular spectacle in that summer of 1864.
                  It was styled "the doomed city," by our friends over the border, and in truth
                     there was something gloomy and tragic in its appearance—in the very atmosphere
                     surrounding it.
                  On every countenance you could read anxiety, poverty, the wasting effect of the
                     terrible suffering and suspense of the epoch. All things combined to deepen the
                     colors of the sombre picture. Hope long deferred had sickened the stoutest
                     hearts. Men were nervous, anxious, burnt up by the hot fever of war. Provisions
                     of every description were sold at enormous prices. Fathers of families could
                     scarcely procure the plainest food for their wives and children. The streets
                     were dotted with poor widows, bereaved sisters, weeping mothers, and pale
                     daughters, whose black dresses told the story of their loss to all eyes. Hunger
                     clutched at the stomach; agony tore the heart. Soldiers, pale and tottering
                     from their wounds, staggered by. Cannon rattled through the streets. Couriers
                     dashed backward and forward from the telegraph office to the war office. The
                     poor starved—the rich scarcely fared any better. Black hair had become white.
                     Stalwart frames were bent and shrunken. Spies and secret emissaries lurked, and
                     looked at you sidewise. Forestallers crowded the markets. Bread was doled out
                     by the ounce. Confederate money by the bushel. Gold was hoarded and buried.
                     Cowards shrunk and began to whisper—"the flesh pots! the flesh pots! they were
                     better!" Society was uprooted from its foundations. Strange characters were
                     thrown up. The scum had come to the top, and bore itself bravely in the
                     sunshine. The whole social fabric seemed warped and wrenched from its base; and
                     in the midst of this chaos of starving women, feverish men, spies,
                     extortioners, blockade-runners,—over the "doomed city," day and night, rolled
                     the thunder of the cannon, telling that Grant and Lee were still holding their
                     high debate at Petersburg.
                  Such was Richmond at the end of summer in 1864. Society was approaching one of
                     those epochs, when all things appear unreal, monstrous, gliding toward some
                     great catastrophe. All rascaldom was rampant. The night-birds had come forth.
                     Vice Stalked, and flaunted its feathers in the light of day. Chaos seemed
                     coming, and with it all the powers of darkness.
                  That spectacle was singular to a soldier, bred in camps, and habituated, now,
                     for some years, to the breezy airs of "the field." I looked on with
                     astonishment. The whole drama seemed unreal—the characters mere players. Who
                     was A, and B, and what did C do for a living? You knew not, but they bowed, and
                     smiled, and were charming. They grasped your hand, offered you cigars, invited
                     you to supper—they wanted nothing. And they found no difficulty in procuring
                     guests. I was no better than the rest, reader—there is an honest
                     confession—and, looking back now, I can see that I knew, and dined or supped
                     with some queer characters in those days.
                  Shall I give you a brief sketch of one of these worthies and his surroundings?
                     It will afford some idea of the strange contrasts then presented in the
                     "doomed" and starving city.
               
               
                  
                  III. I DINE WITH MR. BLOCQUE.
                  HE was a prominent personage at that time—my friend (in a parliamentary sense
                     at least) Mr. Blocque.
                  He was a charming little fellow, acquainted with everybody—an "employee of
                     government," but employed to do heaven knows what; and while others were
                     starving, Mr. Blocque was as plump as a partridge. He wore the snowiest shirt
                     bosoms, glittering with diamond studs; the finest broadcloth coats; the most
                     brilliant patent leather shoes; and his fat little hands sparkled with costly
                     rings. He was constantly smiling in a manner that was delightful to behold;
                     hopped about and chirped like a sparrow or tomtit; and was the soul of good
                     humor and enjoyment. There was no resisting his charms; he conquered you in
                     five minutes. When he linked his arm in yours, and chirped, "My dear friend,
                     come and dine with me—at five o'clock precisely—I shall certainly expect you!"
                     it was impossible to refuse the small gentleman's invitation. Perhaps you asked
                     yourself, "Who is my dear friend, Mr. Blocque—how does he live so well, and
                     wear broadcloth and fine linen?" But the next moment you smiled, shrugged your
                     shoulders, elevated your eyebrows, and—went to dine with him.
                  I was like all the world, and at five o'clock one evening was shown into Mr.
                     Blocque's elegant residence on Shockoe Hill, by a servant in white gloves, who
                     bowed low, as he ushered me in. Mr. Blocque hastened to receive me, with his
                     most charming smile; I was introduced to the guests, who had all arrived; and
                     ten minutes afterward the folding doors opened, revealing a superb banquet—for
                     the word "dinner" would be too common-place. The table was one mass of silver.
                     Waxlights, in candelabra, were already lit; and a host of servants waited,
                     silent and respectful, behind every chair.
                  The guests were nearly a dozen in number, and more than one prominent
                     "government official" honored Mr. Blocque's repast. I had been introduced among
                     the rest to Mr. Torpedo, member of Congress, and bitter foe of President Davis;
                     Mr. Croker, who had made an enormous fortune by buying up, and hoarding in
                     garrets and cellars, flour, bacon, coffee, sugar, and other necessaries; and
                     Colonel Desperade, a tall and warlike officer in a splendid uniform, who had
                     never been in the army, but intended to report for duty, it was supposed, as
                     soon as he was made brigadier-general.
                  The dinner was excellent. The table literally groaned with every delicacy.
                     Everywhere you saw canvass-back ducks, grouse, salmon, paté de foie gras,
                     oysters; the champagne, was really superb; the Madeira and sherry beyond
                     praise; and the cigars excellent Havanas, which at that time were rarely seen,
                     and cost fabulous prices. Think, old army comrades, starving on a quarter of a
                     pound of rancid bacon during that summer of '64—think of that magical bill of
                     fare, that array of wonders!
                  Who was the magician who had evoked all this by a wave of his wand? How could
                     smiling Mr. Blocque roll in luxury thus, when everybody else was starving? How
                     could my host wear broadcloth, and drink champagne and smoke Havanas, when
                     ragged clothing, musty bacon, and new apple-abomination, were the order of the
                     day with all others?
                  These questions puzzled me extremely; but there was the magician before us,
                     smiling in the most friendly manner, and pressing his rich wines on his guests,
                     as they sat around the polished mahogany smoking their cigars. Elegantly clad
                     servants hovered noiselessly behind the convives—the wine circulated—the
                     fragrant smoke rose—the conversation became general—and all was animation.
                  "No, sir!" says Mr. Torpedo, puffing fiercely at his cigar, "the President
                     never will assign Johnston to command again, sir! You call Mr. Davis
                     'pig-headed,' Mr. Croker—you are wrong, sir! You do injustice to the pigs, sir!
                     Pigs are not insane, sir!"
                  And Mr. Torpedo sucks at his cigar, as though he were a vampire, extracting the
                     blood of his victim.
                  Mr. Croker sips his wine; he is large and portly; ruddy and pompous; his watch
                     seals jingle; and he rounds his periods with the air of a millionaire, who is
                     accustomed to be listened to with deference.
                  
                  "You are right, my dear, sir," says Mr. Croker, clearing his throat. "The
                     Government has assuredly been administered, from its very inception, in a
                     manner which the most enthusiastic adherents of the Executive will scarcely
                     venture to characterize as either judicious or constitutional. In the year
                     which has just elapsed, things have been managed in a manner which must excite
                     universal reprobation. Even the alleged performances of the army are
                     problematical, and—"
                  "I beg your pardon, sir," says Colonel Desperade, twirling his mustache in a
                     warlike manner; "do I understand you to call in question the nerve of our brave
                     soldiers, or the generalship of our great commander?"
                  "I do, sir," says Mr. Croker, staring haughtily at the speaker. "I am not of
                     those enthusiasts who consider General Lee a great soldier. He has succeeded in
                     defensive campaigns, but is deficient in genius—and I will add, sir, as you
                     seem to be surprised at my remarks, sir, that in my opinion the Southern
                     Confederacy will be overwhelmed, sir, and the South compelled to return to the
                     Union, sir!"
                  "Upon what do you ground that extraordinary assumption, may I ask, sir?"
                  "On common sense and experience, sir," returns Mr. Croker, severely; "look at
                     the currency—debased until the dollar is merely a piece of paper. Look at
                     prices—coffee, twenty dollars a pound, and sugar the same. Look at the army
                     starving—the people losing heart—and strong, able-bodied men," adds Mr. Croker,
                     looking at Colonel Desperade, "lurking about the cities, and keeping out of the
                     way of bullets."
                  The mustached warrior looks ferocious—his eyes dart flame.
                  "And who causes the high prices, sir? Who makes the money a rag? I answer—the
                     forestallers and engrossers—do you know any, sir?"
                  "I do not, sir!"
                  "That is singular!'
                  And Colonel Desperade twirls his mustache satirically—looking at the pompous
                     Mr. Croker in a manner which makes that worthy turn scarlet.
                  I was laughing to myself quietly, and listening for the expected pected
                     outbreak, when Mr. Blocque interposed with his winning voice.
                  "What are you discussing, gentlemen?" he said, with his charming smile. "But
                     first tell me your opinion of this Madeira and those cigars. My agent writes me
                     word that he used every exertion to procure the best. Still, I am not entirely
                     pleased with either the wine or brand of cigars, and hope you will excuse them.
                     Were you speaking of our great President, Mr. Torpedo? And you, Mr. Croker—I
                     think you were referring to the present state of affairs. They appear to me
                     more hopeful than at any previous time, and his Excellency, President Davis, is
                     guiding the helm of state with extraordinary courage and good judgment. I know
                     some of you differ with me in these views, my friends. But let us not be
                     censorious—let us look on the bright side. The troubles of the country are
                     great, and we of the South are suffering every privation—but we must bear up,
                     gentlemen; we must keep brave hearts, and endure all things. Let us live on dry
                     bread if it comes to that, and bravely fight to the last! Let us cheerfully
                     endure hardships, and oppose the enemy at all points. Our present troubles and
                     privations will soon come to an end—we shall again be surrounded by the
                     comforts and luxuries of life—and generations now unborn will bless our names,
                     and pity our sufferings in these days that try men's souls!"
                  Mr. Blocque ceased, and smoothing down his showy shirt bosom, pushed the wine.
                     At the same moment, an alabaster clock on the marble mantel-piece struck
                     seven.
                  "So late?" said Colonel Desperade. "I have an appointment at the war
                     office!"
                  Mr. Blocque drew out a magnificent gold watch.
                  "The clock is fast," he said, "keep your seats, gentlemen,—unless you fancy
                     going to the theatre. My private box is at your disposal, and carriages will be
                     ready in a few minutes."
                  As the charming little gentleman spoke, he led the way back to the
                     drawing-room—the folding doors flanked by silent and respectful servants as the
                     guests passed in.
                  In five minutes, coffee and liqueurs were served; both were superb, the white
                     sugar sparkled like crystal in the silver dish, and the cream in the solid jug
                     was yellow and as thick as a syrup.
                  
                  "Shall it be the theatre, gentlemen?" said Mr. Blocque, with winning smiles.
                     "We can amuse ourselves with cards for an hour, as the curtain does not rise
                     before eight."
                  And he pointed to a silver basket on the centre table of carved walnut,
                     surmounted by a slab of variegated marble. I looked, and saw the crowning
                     wonder. The silver basket contained piles of gold coin and greenbacks! Not a
                     trace of a Confederate note was visible in the mass!
                  Packs of fresh cards were brought quickly by a servant, on a silver waiter; the
                     guests helped themselves to the coin and bank notes; in ten minutes they were
                     playing furiously.
                  As I do not play, I rose and took my leave. Mr. Blocque accompanied me to the
                     door, smiling sweetly to the last.
                  "Come again very soon, my dear colonel," he said, squeezing my hand, "my poor
                     house, and all in it, is at your service at all times!"
                  I thanked my host, shook hands, and went out into the darkness,—determined
                     never to return.
                  I had had an excellent dinner, and, physically, had never felt better. Morally,
                     I must say, I felt contaminated, for, unfortunately, I had begun to think of
                     Lee's hungry soldiers, lying in rags, in the Petersburg trenches.
                  "Eight o'clock! All is well!" came from the sentinel, as I passed by the
                     capitol.
               
               
                  IV. JOHN M. DANIEL.
                  ON the day after this scene, a trifling matter of business led me to call on
                     John M. Daniel, editor of the Examiner.
                  
                  The career of this singular personage had been as remarkable as his character.
                     He was not a stranger to me. I had known him in 1849 or '50, when I accompanied
                     my father on a visit to Richmond, and I still recall the striking appearance of
                     the individual vidual at that time. He had come, a poor boy of gentle birth,
                     from the bleak hills of Stafford, to the city of Richmond, to seek his fortune,
                     and, finding nothing better to do, had accepted the position of librarian to
                     the Richmond library, waiting for something to "turn up," and ready to grasp
                     it. About the same time, that experienced journalist, the late B. M. De Witt,
                     had founded the Examiner. He, no doubt, saw the eminent talents
                     of the youth from Stafford, and the result had been an invitation to assist in
                     the editorial department of the journal.
                  Going to the Richmond library, to procure for my father some volume for
                     reference, I had made the acquaintance of the youthful journalist. At the first
                     glance, I felt that I was in the presence of an original character. His labors
                     on the Examiner had just commenced. He was seated,
                     half-reclining, in an arm-chair, surrounded by "exchanges," from which he
                     clipped paragraphs, throwing the papers, as soon as he had done so, in a pile
                     upon the floor. His black eyes, long black hair, brushed behind the ears, and
                     thin, sallow cheeks, were not agreeable; but they made up a striking
                     physiognomy. The black eyes glittered with a sullen fire; the thin lips were
                     wreathed with a sardonic smile; and I was informed that the youth lived the
                     life of a solitaire, voluntarily absenting
                     himself from society, to give his days and nights to exhausting study.
                  He read every thing, it was said—history, poetry, political economy, and
                     theology. Swift was said to be his literary divinity, and Rabelais was at his
                     elbow always. Poor, uneducated, ignorant of nearly every thing, he was
                     educating himself for the future—sharpening, by attrition with the strongest
                     minds in all literatures, ancient and modern, that trenchant weapon which
                     afterward flashed its superb lightnings in the heated atmosphere of the great
                     epoch in which he figured.
                  Bitter, misanthropic, solitary; burning the midnight lamp, instead of moving
                     among his fellows in the sunshine, he yet possessed hardy virtues and a high
                     pride of gentleman. He hated the world at large, it was said, but loved his few
                     friends with an ardor which shrank at nothing. One of them owed a sum of
                     money—and Daniel went on foot, twenty-two miles, to Petersburg, paid it, and
                     returned in the same manner. Afterward he went in person to Charlottesville, to purchase a
                     house for the use of another friend of limited means. For his friends he was
                     thus willing to sacrifice his convenience and his means, without thought of
                     return. All who were not his friends, he is said to have hated or despised. An
                     acquaintance was in his room one day, and showed him a valuable pen-knife.
                     Daniel admired it, and the gentleman said "You may have it, if you like it."
                     Daniel turned upon him, scowled at him, his lip curled, and he replied, "What
                     do you expect me to do for you?"
                  His other virtues were self-denial, and a proud independence. At the library,
                     he lived on bread and tea—often making the tea himself. Too poor to possess a
                     chamber, he slept on a lounge in the public room. He would owe no man any
                     thing, asked no favors, and fawned on nobody. He would fight his own fight,
                     make his own way; with the intellect heaven had sent him, carve out his own
                     future, unassisted. The sallow youth, groaning under dyspepsia, with scarce a
                     friend, and nothing but his brain, promised himself that he would one day rise
                     from his low estate, and wield the thunderbolts of power, as one born to grasp
                     and hurl them.
                  He was not mistaken, and did not overestimate his powers. When I saw him in
                     1849 or '50, he was obscurest of the obscure. Two or three years afterward he
                     had made the Examiner one of the great powers of the political
                     world, and was living in a palace at Turin, minister to Sardinia. He had
                     achieved this success in life by the sheer force of his character; by the vigor
                     and recklessness of his pen, and the intensity of his invective. Commencing his
                     editorial career, apparently, with the theory that, in order to rise into
                     notice, he must spare nothing and no one he had entered the arena of partisan
                     politics like a full armed gladiator; and soon the whole country resounded with
                     the blows which he struck. Bitter personality is a feeble phrase to describe
                     the animus of the writer in those days. There was something incredibly
                     exasperating in his comments on political opponents. He flayed and roasted them
                     alive. It was like thrusting a blazing torch into the raw flesh of his victims.
                     Nor was it simple "abuse." The satirist was too intelligent to rely upon that.
                     It was his scorching wit which made opponents shrink. His scalpel divided the
                     arteries, and touched the vitals of the living subject. Personal peculiarities
                     were satirized with unfailing acumen. The readers of the
                        Examiner, in those days, will still recall the tremendous
                     flaying which he administered to his adversaries. It may almost be said, that
                     when the remorseless editor had finished with these gentlemen, there was
                     "nothing of them left"—what lay before him was a bleeding and mortally wounded
                     victim. And what was worse, all the world was laughing. Those who looked with
                     utter disapproval upon his ferocious course, were still unable to resist the
                     influence of his mordant humor. They denounced the Examiner
                     without stint, but they subscribed to it, and read it every morning. "Have you
                     seen the Examiner to-day?" asked the friend whom you met on the
                     street. "John M. Daniel is down on Blank!" said A to B, rubbing his hands and
                     laughing. Blank may have been the personal acquaintance and friend of Mr. A,
                     but there was no resisting the cartoon of him, traced by the pen of the
                     satirist! The portrait might be a caricature, but it was a terrible likeness!
                     The long nose was very long; the round shoulders, very round; the cast in the
                     eye, a frightful squint; but the individual was unmistakable. The bitter humor
                     of the artist had caught and embodied every weakness. Thenceforth, the
                     unfortunate adversary went on his way before all eyes, the mark of suppressed
                     ridicule and laughing whispers. Whether you approved or disapproved, you read
                     those tremendous satires. Not to see the Examiner in those days
                     was to miss a part of the history of the times. The whole political world felt
                     the presence of a power in journalism. Into all the recesses of
                     the body politic, those shafts of ridicule or denunciation penetrated. That
                     venomous invective pierced the hardest panoply. For the first time in American
                     journalism, the world saw the full force of ridicule; and tasted a bitterness
                     of invective unknown since the days of Swift.
                  Out of these personal attacks grews numerous duels. The butts of the editor's
                     ridicule sent him defiances, and he was engaged in several affairs, which,
                     however, resulted in nothing, or nearly nothing, as I believe he was wounded
                     only once. They did not induce him to change his course. He seemed to have
                     marked out his career in cold blood, and was plainly resolved to adhere to his programme—to write himself into
                     power. In this he fully succeeded. By dint of slashing and flaying, he
                     attracted the attention of all. Then his vigorous and masculine intellect
                     riveted the spell. Hated, feared, admired, publicly stigmatized as one who
                     "ruled Virginia with a rod of iron," he had reached his aim; and soon the
                     material results of success came. The director of that great political engine,
                     the Richmond Examiner, found no difficulty in securing the
                     position which he desired; and he received the appointment of minister to
                     Sardinia, which he accepted, selling his newspaper, but reserving the right to
                     resume editorial control of it on his return.
                  His ambition was thus gratified—for the moment at least. The unknown youth,
                     living once on bread and tea, and too poor to possess a bed, was now a foreign
                     minister; had an Italian count for his chef de
                        cuisine; and drew a salary which enabled him to return, some years
                     afterward, to the United States with savings amounting to $30,000.
                  It was a contrast to his past. The sallow youth was M.
                        le ministre! The garret in Richmond had been turned into a marble
                     palace in Turin. He had a nobleman for a cook, instead of making his own tea.
                     And the Examiner had done all that for him!
                  When war became imminent, he returned to Virginia, and resumed control of the
                        Examiner. With the exception of brief military service with
                     General Floyd, and on the staff of A. P. Hill, in the battles around Richmond,
                     when he was slightly wounded in the right arm, he remained in editorial harness
                     until his death.
                  As soon as he grasped the helm of the Examiner again, that great
                     battle-ship trembled and obeyed him. It had been powerful before, it was now a
                     mighty engine, dragging every thing in its wake. Commencing by supporting the
                     Government, it soon became bitterly inimical to President Davis and the whole
                     administration. The invective in which it indulged was not so violent as in the
                     past, but it was even more powerful and dangerous. Every department was lashed,
                     in those brief, terse sentences which all will remember—sentences summing up
                     volumes in a paragraph, condensing oceans of gall into a drop of ink. Under
                     these mortal stabs, delivered coolly and deliberately, the authors of public
                     abuses shrank, recoiled, and sought safety in silence. They writhed, but knew
                     the power of their adversary too well to reply to him. When once or twice they
                     did so, his rejoinder was more mortal than his first attack. The whole country
                     read the Examiner, from the chief officers of the administration
                     to the humblest soldier in the trenches. It shaped the opinions of thousands,
                     and this great influence was not due to trick or chance. It was not because it
                     denounced the Executive in terms of the bitterest invective; because it
                     descended like a wild boar on the abuses or inefficiency of the departments;
                     but because this journal, more, perhaps, than any other in the South, spoke the
                     public sentiment, uttered its views with fearless candor, and conveyed those
                     views in words so terse, pointed, and trenchant—in such forcible and excellent
                     English—that the thought of the writer was driven home, and remained fixed in
                     the dullest apprehension.
                  The Examiner, in one word, had become the controlling power,
                     almost, of the epoch. Its views had become those even of men who bitterly
                     stigmatized its course. You might disapprove of its editorials often, and
                     regret their appearance—as I did—but it was impossible not to be carried onward
                     by the hardy logic of the writer: impossible not to admire the Swift-like pith
                     and vigor of this man, who seemed to have re-discovered the lost well of
                     undefiled English.
                  When I went to see John M. Daniel, thus, in this summer of 1864, it was not a
                     mere journalist whom I visited, but a historic character. For it was given to
                     him, invisible behind the scenes, to shape, in no small degree, the destiny of
                     the country, by moulding the views and opinions of the actors who contended on
                     the public arena.
                  Was that influence for good or for evil? Let others answer. To-day this man is
                     dead, and the cause for which he fought with his pen has failed. I reproduce
                     his figure and some scenes of that great cause—make your own comments,
                     reader.
               
               
                  
                  V. THE EDITOR IN HIS SANCTUM.
                  KNOCKING at the door of the journalist's house on Broad Street, nearly opposite
                     the "African church," I was admitted by a negro servant, sent up my name, and
                     was invited by Mr. Daniel to ascend to his sanctum on the second story.
                  I went up, and found him leaning back in a high chair of black horse-hair, in
                     an apartment commanding a view southward of James River and Chesterfield. On a
                     table beside him were books and papers—the furniture of the room was plain and
                     simple.
                  He greeted me with great cordiality, bowing very courteously, and offering me a
                     cigar. I had not seen him since his return from Europe, and looked at him with
                     some curiosity. He was as sallow as before—his eyes as black and sparkling; but
                     his long, black hair, as straight as an Indian's, and worn behind his ears,
                     when I first knew him, was close-cut now; and his upper lip was covered by a
                     black mustache. His dress was simple and exceedingly neat. It was impossible
                     not to see that the famous journalist was a gentleman.
                  As I had visited him purely upon a matter of business, I dispatched it, and
                     then rose to take my departure. But he urged me with persistent cordiality, not
                     to desert him. He saw few persons, he said; I must stay and dine with him. I
                     had business? Then I could attend to it, and would do him the favor to
                     return.
                  Looking at my watch, I found that it was nearly two o'clock—he had informed me
                     that he dined at four—and, not to detain the reader with these details,
                     recurring to a very retentive memory, I found myself, two hours afterward,
                     seated at table with the editor of the Examiner.
                  
                  The table was of ancient, and brilliantly polished mahogany. The dinner
                     consisted of only two or three dishes, but these were of the best quality,
                     excellently cooked, and served upon china of the most costly description.
                     Coffee followed—then a great luxury—and, not only the sugar-dish, cream-jug and
                     other pieces of the service were of silver; the waiter upon which they rested
                     was of the same material—heavy, antique, and richly carved.
                  We lingered at table throughout the entire afternoon, my host having resisted
                     every attempt which I made to depart, by taking my hat from my hand, and
                     thrusting upon me another excellent Havana cigar. Cordiality so extreme, in one
                     who bore the reputation of a man-hater, was at least something piquant—and as my host had appealed to my weak
                     side, by greatly praising a slight literary performance of mine ("he would be
                     proud," he assured me, "to have it thought that he had written
                     it)," I yielded, surrendered my hat, lit the cigar offered me, and we went on
                     talking.
                  I still recall that conversation, the last but one which I ever had with this
                     singular man. Unfortunately, it does not concern the narrative I now write, and
                     I would not like to record his denunciations and invective directed at the
                     Government. He handled it without mercy, and his comments upon the character of
                     President Davis were exceedingly bitter. One of these was laughable for the
                     grim humor of the idea. Opening a volume of Voltaire—whose complete works he
                     had just purchased—he showed me a passage in one of the infidel dramas of the
                     great Frenchman, where King David, on his death-bed, after invoking
                     maledictions upon his opponents, declares that "having forgiven all his enemies
                        en bon Juif, he is ready to die."
                  A grim smile came to the face of the journalist, as he showed me the
                     passage.
                  "That suits Mr. Davis exactly," he said. "He forgives his enemies en bon Juif! I believe I will make an editorial,
                     and quote the passage on him—but he wouldn't understand it!"
                  That was bitter—was it not, reader? I raised my pen to draw a line through the
                     incident, but it can do no harm now.
                  The solitary journalist-politician spoke freely of himself and his intentions
                     for the future. With a few passages from our talk on this point, I will
                     terminate my account of the interview.
                  "You see I am here chained to the pen," he said, "and, luckily; I have that
                     which defies the conscript officers, if the Government takes a fancy to order
                     editors into the ranks."
                  
                  Smiling slightly as he spoke, he showed me his right hand, the fingers of which
                     he could scarcely bend.
                  "I was wounded at Cold Harbor, in June, 1862," he added; "not much wounded
                     either; but sufficient to prevent me from handling a sword or musket. It is a
                     trifle. I should like to be able to show an honorable scar*
                      in this cause, and I am sorry I left the army. By this time I might
                     have been a brigadier—perhaps a major-general."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "Possibly," I replied; "but the position of an editor is a powerful one."
                  "Do you think so?"
                  "Don't you?"
                  "Yes, colonel; but what good is the Examiner doing? What can all
                     the papers in the Confederacy effect? Besides, I like to command men. I love
                        power."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  I laughed.
                  "I would recommend the philosophic view of things," I said. "Why not take the
                     good the gods provide? As a soldier, you would be in fetters—whatever your
                     rank—to say nothing of the bullet that might cut short your career. And yet
                     this life of the brain is wearing too,—"
                  "But my health is all the better for it," he said. "A friend was here to see me
                     the other day, and I startled him by the observation 'I shall live to eat the
                     goose that eats the grass over your grave.'*
                      When he inquired my meaning, I replied, 'For two reasons—I come of a
                     long-lived race, and have an infallible sign of longevity; I never dream, and
                     my sleep is always sound and refreshing.'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "Do you believe in that dictum?" I said.
                  "Thoroughly," he replied, laughing. "I shall live long, in spite of the
                     enmities which would destroy me in an instant, if the secret foes I have could
                     only accomplish their end without danger to themselves."
                  "You do not really believe, surely, that you have such foes?"
                  "Not believe it? I know it. You have them, colonel, too. How long
                     do you think you would live, if your enemies had their way with you? Perhaps
                     you think you have no enemies who hate you enough to kill you. You are greatly
                     mistaken—every man has his enemies. I have them by the thousand, and I have no
                     doubt you, too, have them, though they are probably not so numerous as
                        mine."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "But their enmity comes to nothing."
                  "Because to indulge it, would bring them into trouble," he replied. "Neither
                     your enemies or mine would run the risk of murdering us in open day; but
                     suppose they could kill us by simply wishing it? I should drop
                     down dead before your eyes—and you would fall a corpse in Main Street before
                     you reached your home!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "A gloomy view enough, but I dare not deny it."
                  "It would be useless, colonel. That is the way men are made. For myself, I
                     distrust all of them—or nearly all."
                  He uttered the words with intense bitterness, and for a moment remained
                     silent.
                  "This is gloomy talk," he said, "and will not amuse you. Let us change the
                     topic. When I am not discussing public affairs—the doings of this wretched
                     administration, and the old man of the sea astride upon the country's back—I
                     ought to try and amuse myself."
                  "You find the Examiner a heavy weight upon you?"
                  "It is a mill-stone around my neck."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "Why not throw it off, if you find it onerous?"
                  "Because I look to-this journal as a father does to an only son—as my pet, my
                     pride, and the support and honor of myself and my name in the future."
                  "You are proud of it."
                  "It has made me, and it will do more for me hereafter than it has ever done
                     yet."
                  He paused, and then went on, with a glow in his swarthy face:
                  "Every man has his cherished object in this world, colonel. Mine is the success
                     and glory of the Examiner. I intend to make of it what the
                     London Times is in England, and the world—a great power, which
                     shall lay down the law, control cabinets, mould parties, and direct events. It
                     has given me much trouble to
                     establish it, but ça ira now! From the
                        Examiner I expect to realize the great dream of my life."
                  "The dream of your life? What is that?—if I may ask without intrusion."
                  "Oh! I make no secret of it, and as a gentleman speaking to a gentleman, can
                     say what I could not in the society of roturiers or common people. My family is an old and honorable one
                     in Virginia—this, by way of explanation only, I beg you to note. We are thus,
                     people of old descent, but my branch of the family is ruined. My object is to
                     reinstate it; and you will perhaps compare me to the scheming young politician
                     in Bulwer's 'My Novel,' who seeks to restore the family fortunes, and brighten
                     up the lonely old house—in Yorkshire, is it? You remember?"
                  "Yes," I said.
                  "Well, I always sympathized with that character. He is morally bad, you say:
                     granted; but he is resolute and brave—and his object is noble."
                  "I agree with you, the object is noble."
                  "I am glad you think so, colonel. I see I speak to one who has the old Virginia
                     feeling. You respect family."
                  "Who does not? There are those who profess to care naught for it, but it is
                     because they are new-comers."
                  "Yes," was the journalist's reply, "mushrooms—and very dirty ones!"
                  I laughed at the speaker's grimace.
                  "For my own part," I said, "I do not pretend to be indifferent whether or not
                     my father was a gentleman. I bow as politely to the new-comer as if it were the
                     Conqueror he came over with; but still I am glad my father was a gentleman. I
                     hope no one will quarrel with that."
                  "You are mistaken. They will hate you for it."
                  "You are right—but I interrupted you."
                  "I am glad the interruption came, colonel, for it gave you an opportunity of
                     showing me that my views and your own are in exact accord on this subject. I
                     will proceed, therefore, without ceremony, to tell you what I design doing some
                     day."
                  I listened with attention. It is always interesting to look into the recesses
                     of a remarkable man's character. This human being was notable in an epoch
                     filled with notabilities; and chance was about to give me an insight into his
                     secret thoughts.
                  He twirled a paper-cutter in his fingers, reflected a moment, and said:—
                  "I am still young—not very young either, for I will soon be forty—but I know no
                     young man who has better prospects than myself, and few who have done so well.
                     I suppose I am worth now nearly $100,000 in good money. I have more gold coin
                     than I know what to do with. The Examiner is very valuable
                     property, and is destined to be much more so. I expect to live long, and if I
                     do, I shall be rich. When I am rich, I shall buy the old family estate in
                     Stafford County, and shall add to it all the land for miles around. I shall
                     build a house to my fancy, and, with all my possessions walled in, I shall
                     teach these people what they never knew—how to live like a gentleman."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This paragraph is in Mr. J. M. Daniel's words.
                  
                  The glow had deepened on the sallow face. It was easy to see that the speaker
                     had unfolded to me the dream of his life.
                  "Your scheme is one," I said, "which takes my fancy greatly. But why do you
                     intend to wall in your property?"
                  "To keep out those wolves called men."
                  "Ah! I forgot. You do not like those bipeds without feathers."
                  "I like some of them, colonel; but the majority are worse than my dogs, Fanny
                     and Frank, yonder. Sometimes I think they are human—they bite each other
                     so!"
                  I laughed. There was something piquant in the
                     grim humor of this singular personage.
                  "What is your ideal man?" I said, "for, doubtless, you have such an ideal?"
                  "Yes. I like a man of bronze, who does not snivel or weep. I like Wigfall for
                     his physique and his magnificent courage. It is the genuine thing. There is no
                        put on there. He has native pluck—the actual article—and it is
                     no strain on him to exhibit it. The grit is in him, and you can't shake
                        him."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This paragraph is in Mr. J. M. Daniel's words.
                  
                  "You would admit your men of bronze, then, into the walled-up domain in
                     Stafford?"
                  
                  "I don't know," he said grimly. "With my violin, a good cook, English books and
                     papers—I hate your Yankee trash—and occasional travel, I think I could get
                     through life without very great ennui. I do not expect to be governor of
                     Virginia for ten years yet!"
                  And smiling, the journalist said:—
                  "Let us change the subject. What are people talking about? I never ask what is
                     the news.*
                      Is any thing said of evacuating Virginia? That is a pernicious
                        idea!*
                      Whom have you seen lately?"
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "A queer set," I said.
                  And I gave him an account of my dinner at Mr. Blocque's.
                  "What a little wretch!" he said. "I think I will run a pin through that bug,
                     and impale him. He would make a fine dish served up à
                        la Victor Hugo. You have read Les
                        Misérables yonder? It is a trashy affair."
                  And taking up the elegantly bound volume, which must have cost him a
                     considerable sum, he quietly pitched it out of the window.
                  As he did so, the printer's devil appeared at the door, holding proof in his
                     hand.
                  "You see I am never safe from intrusion, colonel. This Examiner
                     newspaper keeps me at the oar."
                  I rose and put on my hat.
                  "Come and see me again soon, if it suits your convenience," he said. "I am
                     going to write an editorial, and I think I will serve up your host,
                     Blocque."
                  "Do not use his name."
                  "Be tranquil. He will be the type only."
                  And, escorting me to the door, Mr. Daniel bestowed a courteous bow upon me,
                     which I returned. Then the door closed.
               
               
                  VI. AN EDITORIAL IN THE EXAMINER.
                  ON the following morning I opened the Examiner, and the first
                     article which I saw was the following one, on
                  
                     THE BLOCKADE-RUNNER.
                     "We owe to the kindness of SHEM'S Express Company, which has charge of the
                        line between the front door of the State Department and the back door of the
                        Tuileries kitchen, the advance sheets of a new novel by VICTUS HAUTGOUT,
                        which bears the striking title, Les Fortunés,
                        and which consists of five parts—ABRAHAM, ISAAC, JACOB, JUDAH, and BENJAMIN.
                        Of course, the discerning reader will not suppose for a moment that there is
                        any connection between Les Fortunés and Les Misérables; between the chaste style of
                        HAUTGOUT and the extravaganzas of HUGO; whose works, in former days, were
                        not considered fit reading for an Anglo-Saxon public, whose latest and most
                        corrupt fiction owes its success (let us hope) rather to the dearth of new
                        literature than to the vitiated taste of the Southern people. How great the
                        difference between the two authors is, can best be appreciated by comparing
                        the description of the gamin in
                           Marius, with the following extracts from HAUTGOUT'S
                        portraiture of the BLOCKADE-RUNNER:—
                     
                        "Yankeedom has a bird, and the crocodile has a bird. The crocodile's bird
                           is called the Trochilus. Yankeedom's bird is called the blockade-runner.
                           Yankeedom is the crocodile. The blockade-runner is the Trochilus.
                        "Couple these two ideas—Yankeedom and the crocodile. They are worth the
                           coupling. The crocodile is asleep. He does not sleep on both ears; he
                           sleeps with one eye open; his jaws are also open. Rows of teeth appear,
                           sharped, fanged, pointed, murderous, carnivorous, omnivorous. Some of the
                           teeth are wanting: say a dozen. Who knocked those teeth out? A demon.
                           What demon? Or perhaps an angel. What angel? The angel is secession: the
                           demon is rebellion. ORMUZD and
                           AHRIMAN: BALDUR and LOKI: the DEVIL and ST. DUNSTAN. So we go.
                        "The Trochilus picks the crocodile's teeth. Does the crocodile object?
                           Not he. He likes to have his teeth picked. It is good for his health. It
                           promotes his digestion. It is, on the whole, a sanitary measure. 'Feed
                           yourself,' he says, 'my good Trochilus, on the broken meats which lie
                           between my grinders. Feed your little ones at home. I shan't snap you up
                           unless I get very hungry. There are Confederates enough. Why should I eat
                              you?'
                        "This little creature—this Trochilus
                              obsidionalis—this blockade-running tomtit—is full of joy. He
                           has rich food to eat every day. He goes to the show every evening, when
                           he is not on duty. He has a fine shirt on his back; patent-leather boots
                           on his feet; the pick and choice of a dozen houses. He is of any
                           age—chiefly of the conscript age; ranges singly or in couples; haunts
                           auction houses; dodges enrolling officers; eats canvass-backs; smells of
                           greenbacks; swears allegiance to both sides; keeps faith with neither; is
                           hand and glove with ABE'S detectives as well as with WINDER'S Plugs;
                           smuggles in an ounce of quinine for the Confederate Government, and
                           smuggles out a pound of gold for the Lincolnites; fishes in troubled
                           waters; runs with the hare and hunts with the hounds; sings Yankee Doodle
                           through one nostril, and My Maryland through the other; is on good terms
                           with everybody—especially with himself—and, withal, is as great a rascal
                           as goes unhung.
                        
                        "He has sports of his own; roguish tricks of his own, of which a hearty
                           hatred of humdrum, honest people is the basis. He has his own
                           occupations, such as running for hacks, which he hires at fabulous
                           prices; crossing the Potomac in all kinds of weather; rubbing off Yankee
                           trade-marks and putting English labels in their stead. He has a currency
                           of his own, slips of green paper, which have an unvarying and well
                           regulated circulation throughout this gipsy band.
                        
                        "He is never satisfied with his pantaloons unless they have a watch-fob,
                           and never satisfied with his watch-fob unless it contains tains a gold
                           watch. Sometimes he has two watch-fobs; sometimes a score.
                        
                        "This rosy child of Richmond lives, develops, gets into and out of
                           scrapes—a merry witness of our social unrealities. He looks on ready to
                           laugh; ready also for something else, for pocketing whatever he can lay
                           his hands on. Whoever you are, you that call yourselves Honor, Justice,
                           Patriotism, Independence, Freedom, Candour, Honesty, Right, beware of the
                           grinning blockade-runner. He is growing. He will continue to grow.
                        "Of what clay is he made? Part Baltimore street-dirt, part James River
                           mud, best part and worst part sacred soil of Palestine. What will become
                           of him in the hands of the potter, chance? Heaven grant that he may be
                           ground into his original powder before he is stuck up on our
                           mantel-pieces as a costly vase, in which the choice flowers of our
                           civilization can but wither and die."
                     
                     Admire that grim humor, reader—the firm stroke with which this Aristophanes
                        of 1864 drew my friend, Mr. Blocque. See how he reproduced every trait,
                        delineated the worthy in his exact colors, and, at the foot of the picture,
                        wrote, as it were, "Here is going to be the founder of 'one of the old
                        families,'—one of the ornaments of the future, who will come out of the war
                        rich, and be a costly vase, not a vessel of dishonor, as at present."
                     Grim satirist! You saw far, and I think we want you today!
                  
               
               
                  VII. UNDER THE CROSSED SWORDS.
                  I HAD dined with Mr. Blocque; two days afterward I went to sup with Judge
                     Conway.
                  Does the reader remember his appearance at Culpeper Court-House, on the night
                     of the ball after the review in June, 1863? On that evening he had excited my astonishment
                     by abruptly terminating the interview between his daughter and Captain
                     Davenant; and I little supposed that I would ever penetrate the motive of that
                     action, or become intimate with the performer.
                  Yet the chance of war had decreed that both events should occur. All will be,
                     in due time, explained to the reader's satisfaction; at present we will simply
                     make the acquaintance of one of the most distinguished statesmen of the
                     epoch.
                  My friendly relations with the judge came about in a very simple manner. He was
                     an intimate associate of the gentleman at whose house I was staying; had taken
                     great interest in my recovery after Yellow Tavern; and therefore had done me
                     the honor to bestow his friendship upon me.
                  On the day to which we have now come, Judge Conway had made a speech of
                     surpassing eloquence, in Congress, on the condition of the country, and I had
                     listened, thrilling at the brave voice which rang out its sonorous, "All's
                     well!" amid the storm. I was now going to call on the statesman to express my
                     admiration of his eloquent appeal, and converse upon the exciting topics of the
                     hour.
                  I found him in a mansion not far from the splendid residence of Mr. Blocque.
                     Here he occupied "apartments," or rather a single room,—and, in 1864, my dear
                     reader, that was a very common mode of living.
                  Like others, Judge Conway was too poor to occupy a whole house,—even too poor
                     to board. He had a single apartment, containing a few chairs and a bed; was
                     waited on by a maid; and, I think, prepared his own meals, which were plain to
                     poverty.
                  He met me at the door of his bare and poor-looking apartment, extending his
                     hand with the gracious and stately courtesy of the ancient regime. His figure
                     was small, slight, and bent by age; his face, thin and pale; his hair nearly
                     white, and falling in long curls upon his shoulders; under the gray brows
                     sparkled keen, penetrating, but benignant eyes.
                  As I pressed the hand of my host, and looked around the poor apartment, I could
                     not refrain from a sentiment of profound bitterness. Two days before I had
                     dined at the table of a peddling blockade-runner, who ate canvass-backs, drank
                     champagne, wore "fine linen," and, dodging the conscript officers, revelled in
                     luxury and plenty. And now here before me was a gentleman of ancient lineage,
                     whose ancestors had been famous, who had himself played a great part in the
                     history of the commonwealth,—and this, gentleman was poor, lived in lodgings,
                     had scarce a penny; he had been wealthy, and was still the owner of great
                     possessions; but the bare land was all that was left him for support. He had
                     been surrounded with luxury, but had sacrificed all to the cause. He had had
                     two gallant sons, but they had fallen at the first Manassas—their crossed
                     swords were above his poor bare mantel-piece.
                  From the splendid table of the sneaking blockade-runner, I had come to the
                     poverty-stricken apartment of this great statesman and high-bred gentleman.
                  "Oh, Juvenal!" I muttered, "it is your satires, not the bucolics of Virgil,
                     that suit this epoch!"
                  The old statesman pointed, with all the grace of a nobleman, to a bare
                     rocking-chair, and received my congratulations upon his speech with modest
                     simplicity.
                  "I am glad that my views are honored by your good opinion, colonel," he said,
                     "and that you approve of the tone of them. I am naturally given to invective—a
                     habit derived from my friend, the late Mr. Randolph; but the country wants
                     encouragement."
                  "And yet not to satirize is so hard, my dear sir!"
                  "Very hard."
                  "Think of the army depleted—the soldiers starving—the finances in ruin, and
                     entire destruction threatening us!"
                  The old statesman was silent. A moment afterward he raised his head, and with
                     his thin finger pointed to the crossed swords above his mantel-piece.
                  "I try to bear and forbear since I lost my poor boys," he said. "They died for
                     their country—I ought to live for it, and do what I can in my sphere—to
                     suppress my bitterness, and try to utter words of good cheer. But we are
                     discussing gloomy topics. Let us come to more cheerful matters. I am in very
                     good spirits to-day. My daughters have come to make me a visit," and the old
                     face glowed with smiles; its expression was quite charming.
                  "I see you do not appreciate that great treat, my dear colonel," he added, smiling. "You are yet
                     unmarried, though I rejoice to hear you are soon to be united to a daughter of
                     my old friend, Colonel Beverly, of "The Oaks." Some day I hope you will know
                     the great charm of paternity. This morning I was lonely—this evening I am no
                     longer so. Georgia and Virginia have come up from my house, "Five Forks,"
                     escorted by my faithful old Juba, and they burst in upon me like the
                     sunshine!"
                  The words had scarcely been uttered when a tap came at the door; a voice said,
                     "May we come in, papa?" and a moment afterward the door opened, and admitted
                     Miss Georgia Conway and her sister Virginia.
                  Miss Georgia was the same tall and superb beauty, with the dark hair and eyes;
                     Miss Virginia the same winning little blonde, with the blue eyes, and the
                     smiles which made her lips resemble rose-buds. The young ladies were clad in
                     poor, faded-looking calicoes, and the slippers on the small feet, peeping from
                     their skirts, were full of holes. Such was the appearance presented in that
                     summer of 1864, my dear reader, by two of the most elegant and "aristocratic"
                     young ladies of Virginia!
                  But you did not look at the calicoes, and soon forgot the holes in the shoes.
                     My bow was such as I should have bestowed on two princesses, and the young
                     ladies received it with a grace and courtesy which were charming.
                  In ten minutes we were all talking like old friends, and the young ladies were
                     making tea.
                  This was soon ready; some bread, without butter, was placed upon the little
                     table; and the meal was the most cheerful and happy imaginable. "Oh, my dear
                     Mr. Blocque!" I could not help saying to myself, "keep your champagne, and
                     canvass-backs, and every luxury, and welcome! I like dry bread and tea, with
                     this company, better!"
                  I have not room to repeat the charming words, mingled with laughter, of the
                     young women, on that evening. Their presence was truly like sunshine, and you
                     could see the reflection of it upon the old statesman's countenance.
                  Only once that countenance was overshadowed. I had uttered the name of Willie
                     Davenant, by accident; and then all at once remembering the scene at Culpeper
                     Court-House, had looked quietly at Judge Conway and Miss Virginia. A deep frown
                     was on his face—that of the young girl was crimson with blushes, and two tears
                     came to her eyes, as she caught her father's glance of displeasure.
                  I hastened to change the topic—to banish the dangerous subject; and in a few
                     moments everybody was smiling once more. Miss Georgia, in her stately and
                     amusing way, was relating their experiences from a scouting party of the enemy,
                     at "Five Forks."
                  "I heard something of this from old Juba," said the Judge; "you do not mention
                     your deliverer, however."
                  "Our deliverer, papa?"
                  "General Mohun."
                  Miss Georgia unmistakably blushed in her turn.
                  "Oh, I forgot!" she said, carelessly, "General Mohun did drive
                     them off. Did I not mention it?—I should have done so before finishing,
                     papa."
                  As she spoke, the young lady happened to catch my eye. I was laughing quietly.
                     Thereupon her head rose in a stately way—a decided pout succeeded—finally, she
                     burst into laughter.
                  The puzzled expression of the old Judge completed the comedy of the occasion—we
                     all laughed in a perfectly absurd and foolish way—and the rest of the evening
                     passed in the most cheerful manner imaginable.
                  When I bade my friends good evening, I knew something I had not known
                     before:—namely, that Mohun the woman-hater, had renewed his "friendly
                     relations" with Miss Georgia Conway, at her home in Dinwiddie.
                  Exchanging a pressure of the hand with my host and his charming daughters, I
                     bade them good evening, and returned homeward. As I went along, I thought of
                     the happy circle I had left; and again I could not refrain from drawing the
                     comparison between Judge Conway and Mr. Blocque.
                  At the fine house of the blockade-runner—champagne, rich viands, wax-lights,
                     gold and silver, and profuse luxury.
                  At the poor lodgings of the great statesman,—a cup of tea and cold bread;
                     stately courtesy from my host, charming smiles from his beautiful daughters,
                     clad in calico, with worn-out shoes—and above the simple happy group, the
                     crossed swords of the brave youths who had fallen at Manassas!
               
               
                  
                  VIII. MR. X——.
                  IT was past ten in the evening when I left Judge Conway. But I felt no
                     disposition to retire; and determined to pay a visit to a singular character of
                     my acquaintance.
                  The name of this gentleman was Mr. X——.
                  Looking back now to the days spent in Richmond, in that curious summer of '64,
                     I recall, among the representative personages whom I encountered, no individual
                     more remarkable than the Honorable Mr. X——. You are acquainted with him, my
                     dear reader, either personally or by reputation, for he was a prominent
                     official of the Confederate Government, and, before the war, had been famous in
                     the councils of "the nation."
                  He resided at this time in a small house, on a street near the capitol. You
                     gained access to his apartment after night—if you knew the way—by a winding
                     path, through shrubbery, to the back door of the mansion. When you entered, you
                     found yourself in presence of a tall, powerful, gray-haired and very courteous
                     personage, who sat in a huge arm-chair, near a table littered with papers, and
                     smoked, meditatively, a cigar, the flavor of which indicated its excellent
                     quality.
                  I enjoyed the intimacy of Mr. X—— in spite of the difference of our ages and
                     positions. He had been the friend of my father, and, in my turn, did me the
                     honor to bestow his friendship upon me. On this evening I was seized with the
                     fancy to visit him—and passing through the grounds of the capitol, where the
                     bronze Washington and his great companions looked silently out into the
                     moonlight, reached the small house, followed the path through the shrubbery,
                     and opening the door in the rear, found myself suddenly enveloped in a cloud of
                     cigar smoke, through which loomed the portly figure of Mr. X——.
                  He was seated, as usual, in his large arm-chair, by the table, covered with
                     papers; and a small bell near his hand seemed placed there for the convenience
                     of summoning an attendant, without the trouble of rising. Near the bell lay a
                     package of foreign-looking documents. Near the documents lay a pile of
                     telegraphic dispatches. In the appearance and surroundings of this man you read
                     "Power."
                  Mr. X—— received me with easy cordiality.
                  "Glad to see you, my dear colonel," he said, rising and shaking my hand; then
                     sinking back in his chair, "take a cigar, and tell me the news."
                  I sat down,—having declined the proffered cigar.
                  "The news!" I said, laughing; "I ought to ask that of you."
                  "Ah! you think I am well-informed?"
                  I pointed to the dispatches. Mr. X—— shrugged his shoulders.
                  "Papers from England and France—they are not going to recognize us. And those
                     telegrams—nothing. We get little that is worth attention, except a line now and
                     then, signed 'R. E. Lee.'"
                  "Well, there is that signature," I said, pointing to an open paper.
                  "It is a private letter to me—but do you wish to see a line which I have just
                     received? It is interesting, I assure you.
                  And he handed me a paper.
                  It was a telegram announcing the fall of Atlanta!
                  "Good heavens!" I said, "is it possible? Then there is nothing to stop
                     Sherman."
                  "Nothing whatever," said Mr. X——, coolly.
                  "What will be the consequence?"
                  "The Confederacy will be cut in two. Sherman will be at Savannah before Grant
                     reaches the Southside road—or as soon, at least."
                  "You think Grant will reach that?"
                  "Yes, by April; and then—you know what!"
                  "But Lee will protect it."
                  Mr. X—— shrugged his shoulders.
                  "Shall I tell you a secret?"
                  I listened.
                  "Lee's force is less than 50,000—next spring it will not number 40,000. Grant's
                     will be at least four times that."
                  "Why can not our army be re-enforced?"
                  Mr. X—— helped himself to a fresh cigar.
                  
                  "The people are tired, and the conscript officers are playing a farce," he
                     said. "The commissary department gives the army a quarter of a pound of rancid
                     meat. That even often fails, for the quartermaster's department does not supply
                     it. The result is—no conscripts, and a thousand desertions. The soldiers are
                     starving; their wives and children are writing them letters that drive them
                     mad—the end is not far off; and when Grant reaches the Southside road we are
                     gone."
                  Mr. X—— smoked his cigar with extreme calmness as he spoke.
                  "But one thing remains," I said.
                  "What is that?"
                  "Lee will retreat from Virginia."
                  Mr. X—— shook his head.
                  "He will not."
                  "Why not?"
                  "He will be prevented from doing so."
                  "Under any circumstances?"
                  "Until too late, at least."
                  "And the result?"
                  "Surrender—though he said to me the other day, when he came to see me here,
                     'For myself, I intend to die sword in hand.'"
                  I could not refrain from a sentiment of profound gloom, as I listened to these
                     sombre predictions. It seemed incredible that they could be well founded, but I
                     had more than once had an opportunity to remark the extraordinary prescience of
                     the remarkable man with whom I conversed.
                  "You draw a black picture of the future," I said. "And the South seems moving
                     to and fro, on the crust of a volcano."
                  "No metaphor could be more just."
                  "And what will be the result of the war?"
                  "That is easy to reply to. Political slavery, negro suffrage, and the bayonet,
                     until the new leaven works."
                  "The new leaven?"
                  "The conviction that democratic government is a failure."
                  "And then—?"
                  "An emperor, or dictator—call him what you will. The main fact is, that he will
                     rule the country by the bayonet—North and South impartially."
                  Mr. X—— lit a fresh cigar.
                  "Things are going on straight to that," he said. "The future is perfectly plain
                     to me, for I read it in the light of history. These events are going to follow
                     step by step. Lee is brave—no man is braver; a great leader. I think him one of
                     the first captains of the world. But in spite of his courage and skill—in spite
                     of the heroism of his army—in spite of the high character and pure motives of
                     the president—we are going to fail. Then the rest will follow—negro suffrage
                     and the bayonet. Then the third era will begin—the disgust of the white man at
                     the equality of the negro; his distrust of a government which makes such a
                     farce possible; consequent revulsion against democracy; a tendency toward
                     monarchy; a king, emperor or dictator, who will restore order out of the chaos
                     of misrule and madness. England is rushing toward a democracy, America is
                     hastening to become an empire. For my own part I think I prefer the imperial to
                     the popular idea—Imperator to Demos. It is a matter of taste, however."
                  And Mr. X—— turned his head, calling out, calmly,
                  "Come in!"
                  The door opened and a stranger glided into the apartment. He was clad in a blue
                     Federal uniform, half-concealed by a brown linen overall. His face was almost
                     covered by a red beard; his lips by a mustache of the same color; and his eyes
                     disappeared behind huge green goggles.
                  "Come in," repeated Mr. X——, who seemed to recognize the intruder; "what
                     news?"
                  The personage glanced quickly at me.
                  "Speak before him," said Mr. X——, "he is a friend."
                  "I am very well acquainted with Colonel Surry," said the other, smiling, "and
                     have the honor to number him, I hope, among my own friends."
                  With which words, the new-comer quietly removed his red beard, took off his
                     green spectacles, and I saw before me no less a personage than Mr.
                     Nighthawk!
               
               
                  
                  IX. "SEND ME A COPY.—IN CANADA!"
                  NOTHING was more surprising in this singular man than these sudden appearances
                     at places and times when you least expected him.
                  I had parted with him in Spottsylvania, on the night when he "deserted" from
                     the enemy, and rode into our lines; and he was then the secret agent of General
                     Stuart. Now, he reappeared in the city of Richmond, with an excellent
                     understanding, it was evident, between himself and Mr. X——!
                  Our greeting was cordial, and indeed I never had classed Night-hawk among
                     professional spies. General Stuart assured me one day, that he invariably
                     refused all reward; and his profound, almost romantic devotion to Mohun, had
                     deeply impressed me. Love of country and watchful care of the young cavalier,
                     whose past life was as mysterious as his own, seemed the controlling sentiments
                     of Nighthawk; and he always presented himself to me rather in the light of a
                     political conspirator, than as a "spy."
                  His first words now indicated that he was a secret agent of the Government. He
                     seemed to have been everywhere, and gained access to everybody; and once more,
                     as in June, 1863, when he appeared at Stuart's head-quarters, near Middleburg,
                     he astonished me by the accuracy and extent of his information. Political and
                     military secrets of the highest importance, and calling for urgent action on
                     the part of the Government, were detailed by Nighthawk, in his calm and
                     benignant voice; he gave us an account of a long interview which he had had at
                     City Point, with General Grant; and wound up as usual by announcing an
                     impending battle—a movement of the enemy, which duly took place as he
                     announced.
                  Mr. X—— listened with close attention, asking few questions.
                  When Nighthawk had made his report, the statesman looked at his watch, said,
                        sotto voce, "Midnight—too late," and added
                     aloud:—
                  "Come back at ten to-morrow morning, my friend; your information is highly
                     interesting and important."
                  Nighthawk rose, and I did likewise, declining the courteous request of Mr. X——
                     to prolong my visit. He held the door open with great politeness and said,
                     smiling:—
                  "I need not say, my dear colonel, that the views I have expressed this evening
                     are confidential—for the present, at least."
                  "Assuredly," I replied, with a bow and a smile.
                  "Hereafter you are at liberty to repeat them, if you wish, only I beg you will
                     ascribe them to Mr. X——, an unknown quantity. If you write a book, and put me
                     in it, send me a copy—in Canada!"
                  A moment afterward I was wending my way through the shrubbery, thinking of the
                     curious personage I had left.
                  At the gate Nighthawk awaited me, and I scarcely recognized him. He had resumed
                     his red beard, and green glasses.
                  "I am glad to see you again, colonel," he said benignantly; "I heard that you
                     were in the city and called at your lodgings, but found you absent."
                  "You wished to see me particularly, then, Nighthawk."
                  "Yes, and to-night, colonel."
                  "Ah!"
                  "I know you are a friend of General Mohun's."
                  "A very sincere friend."
                  "Well, I think we will be able to do him a very great service by attending to a
                     little matter in which he is interested, colonel. Are you disengaged, and
                     willing to accompany me?"
               
               
                  X. THE WAY THE MONEY WENT.
                  I LOOKED intently at Nighthawk. He was evidently very much in earnest.
                  "I am entirely disengaged, and perfectly willing to accompany you," I said;
                     "but where?"
                  
                  Nighthawk smiled.
                  "You know I am a mysterious person, colonel, both by character and profession.
                     I fear the habit is growing on me, in spite of every exertion I make. I predict
                     I will end by burning my coat, for fear it will tell some of my secrets."
                  "Well," I said with a smile, "keep your secret then, and lead the way. I am
                     ready to go far to oblige Mohun in any thing."
                  "I thank you, colonel, from my heart. You have only to follow me."
                  And Nighthawk set out at a rapid pace, through the grounds of the capitol,
                     toward the lower part of the city.
                  There was something as singular about the walk of my companion, as about his
                     appearance. He went at a great pace, but his progress was entirely noiseless.
                     You would have said that he was skimming along upon invisible wings.
                  In an incredibly short time we had reached a street below the capitol, and my
                     companion, who had walked straight on without turning his head to the right or
                     the left, all at once paused before a tall and dingy-looking house, which would
                     have appeared completely uninhabited, except for a bright red light which shone
                     through a circular opening in the door.
                  At this door Nighthawk gave a single tap. The glass covering the circular space
                     glided back, and a face reconnoitred. My companion uttered two words; and the
                     door opened, giving access to a stairs, which we ascended, the janitor having
                     already disappeared.
                  At the head of the stairs was a door which Nighthawk opened, and we found
                     ourselves in an apartment where a dozen persons were playing faro.
                  Upon these Nighthawk threw a rapid glance—some one whom he appeared to be
                     seeking, was evidently not among the players.
                  Another moment he returned through the door, I following, and we ascended a
                     second flight of stairs, at the top of which was a second door. Here another
                     janitor barred the way, but my companion again uttered some low words,—the door
                     opened; a magnificently lit apartment, with a buffet of liquors, and every
                     edible, presented itself before us; and in the midst of a dozen personages, who
                     were playing furiously, I recognized—Mr. Blocque, Mr. Croker, Mr. Torpedo, and
                     Colonel Desperade.
                  For some moments I stood watching the spectacle, and it very considerably
                     enlarged my experience. Before me I saw prominent politicians, officers of high
                     rank, employees of government holding responsible positions, all gambling with
                     an ardor that amounted to fury. One gentleman in uniform—apparently of the
                     quartermaster's department—held in his hand a huge package of Confederate
                     notes, of the denominations, of $100 and $500, and this worthy staked, twice,
                     the pretty little amount of $10,000 upon a card, and each time lost.
                  The play so absorbed the soldiers, lawgivers, and law-administrators, that our
                     presence was unperceived. My friend, Mr. Blocque, did not turn his head; Mr.
                     Croker, Mr. Torpedo, and Colonel Desperade, were red in the face and
                     oblivious.
                  After that evening I knew where some of the public money went.
                  As I was looking at the strange scene of reckless excitement, one of the
                     players, a portly individual with black mustache, rich dark curls, gold
                     spectacles, and wearing a fine suit of broadcloth—rose and looked toward us.
                     Nighthawk was already gazing at him; and suddenly I saw their glances cross
                     like steel rapiers. They had evidently recognized each other; and going up to
                     the gentleman of the spectacles, Nighthawk said a few words in a low voice,
                     which I did not distinguish.
                  "With pleasure, my dear friend," said the portly gentleman, "but you are sure
                     you are not provided with a detective of General Winder's?"
                  "Can you believe such a thing?" returned Nighthawk, reproachfully.
                  "I thought it possible you might have one waiting below; but if you give me
                     your word, Nighthawk—"
                  And without further objection the worthy followed Nighthawk and myself down the
                     stairs.
                  As we approached the outer door, the invisible janitor opened it; we issued
                     forth into the street; and the portly gentleman, fixing a keen look upon me in
                     the clear moonlight, said:—
                  "I believe we have had the pleasure of meeting before, colonel."
                  
                  "I am ashamed to say I do not remember where, sir," I said.
                  "My memory is better, colonel; we met last May, in a house in the Wilderness,
                     near Chancellorsville."
                  "Is it possible that you are—"
                  "Swartz, very much at your service. It is wonderful what a difference is made
                     by a wig and spectacles!"
                  As he spoke, he gracefully removed his black wig and the gold spectacles. In
                     the man with gray hair, small eyes, and double chin, I recognized the spy of
                     the Wilderness.
               
               
                  XI. THE PASS.
                  REPLACING his wig and spectacles. Mr. Swartz smiled in a good-humored manner,
                     and said:—
                  "May I ask to what I am indebted for this visit?"
                  Nighthawk replied even more blandly:—
                  "I wish to have a conversation with you, my dear Swartz, before arresting
                     you."
                  "Ah! you intend to arrest me!"
                  "Unless you make it unnecessary."
                  "How?"
                  "By producing the paper which we spoke of in the Wilderness," said Nighthawk,
                     briefly.
                  Swartz shook his head.
                  "That is not in my power, my friend. I did not bring it with me."
                  "Will you think me very impolite if I say I do not believe you, my dear
                     Swartz?"
                  Swartz smiled.
                  "Well, that would be speaking without ceremony, my friend—but I assure you I am
                     unable to do as you desire."
                  "Aha! you repeat that curious statement, my dear Swartz! Well, oblige me by
                     accompanying me to the provost-marshal's."
                  "You arrest me?"
                  "Precisely."
                  "As a spy?"
                  "Why not?"
                  "It is impossible, Nighthawk!"
                  "You resist?"
                  "I might do so."
                  And, opening his coat, Mr. Swartz exhibited a bowie-knife and revolver.
                  "I show you these little toys," said he, laughing good-humoredly, "to let you
                     see, my friend, that I might oppose your project—and you know I am not backward
                     in using them on occasion. But I make a difference. You are not a common
                     police-officer or detective, Nighthawk—you are a friend and comrade, and I am
                     going to prove that I appreciate your feelings, and respect your wishes."
                  Nighthawk fixed his eyes on the speaker and listened.
                  "You are a friend of General Mohun's," said Mr. Swartz, with bland good humor;
                     "you wish to secure a certain document in which he is interested; you fancy I
                     have that document here in the city of Richmond; and your object, very
                     naturally, is to force me to surrender it. Well, I do not object to doing
                     so—for a consideration. I fully intend to produce it, when my terms are
                     accepted. I would have stated them to you in the Wilderness, but you were
                     unable to meet me—or to General Mohun, but his violence defeated every thing.
                     You meet me now, and without discussion, demand the paper. I reply, that I have
                     not brought it with me, but three days from this time will meet you at a spot
                     agreed on, with the document, for which you will return me—my
                     consideration."
                  Nighthawk shook his head.
                  "Unfortunately, my dear Swartz, experience tells me that the present is always
                     the best time for business—that 'a bird in the hand is worth two in the
                     bush.'"
                  Mr. Swartz smiled sweetly.
                  "And I am the bird in your hand?"
                  "Something like it."
                  "I am a spy?"
                  "Don't use hard names, my friend."
                  "By no means, my dear Nighthawk, and if I have hurt your feelings, I deeply regret it. But I am speaking
                     to the point. You regard me as a Federal spy, lurking in Richmond—you penetrate
                     my disguise, and are going to arrest me, and search my lodgings for that
                     paper."
                  "The necessity is painful," said Nighthawk.
                  "It is useless, my friend."
                  "I will try it."
                  Swartz smiled, and drew a paper from his pocket, which he unfolded.
                  "You are then determined to arrest your old comrade, Nighthawk."
                  "Yes, my dear Swartz."
                  "As a spy?"
                  "Exactly."
                  "In spite of this?"
                  And Mr. Swartz held out the paper.
                  "Do me the favor to read this, colonel, and then oblige me by returning
                     it."
                  I took the paper, and easily read it by moonlight. It contained the following
                     words:—
                  "The bearer is employed on secret service, by the Confederate Government, and
                     will not be molested."
                  The paper was signed by a personage of high position in the government, and was
                     stamped with the seal of the department over which he presided. There could be
                     no doubt of the genuineness of the paper. The worthy Mr. Swartz loomed up
                     before me in the novel and unexpected light of a Confederate
                     emissary!
                  I read the paper aloud to Nighthawk, and pointed to the official signature and
                     seal.
                  Nighthawk uttered a groan, and his chin sank upon his breast.
                  That spectacle seemed to excite the sympathy of his friend.
                  "There, my dear Nighthawk," said Mr. Swartz, in a feeling tone, "don't take the
                     blow too much to heart. I have beaten you, this game, and your hands are tied
                     at present. But I swear that I will meet you, and produce that paper."
                  "When?" murmured Nighthawk.
                  "In three days from this time."
                  "Where?"
                  "At the house of our friend Alibi, near Monk's Neck, in Dinwiddie."
                  "On your word?"
                  "On the word of Swartz!"
                  "That is enough, my dear Swartz; I will be at Alibi's, when we will come to
                     terms. And now, pardon this visit, which has put you to so much inconvenience.
                     I was merely jesting, my dear friend, when I spoke of arresting you. Arrest
                     you! Nothing could induce me to think of so unfriendly a proceeding. And now,
                     good night, my dear friend. I will return with you, colonel."
                  With which words Nighthawk saluted his "friend," and we returned toward the
                     upper part of the city.
                  Such were the scenes of a night in the summer of 1864.
               
               
                  XII. THE GRAVE OF STUART.
                  ON the next morning a piece of good fortune befell me. In spite of continued
                     visits to the war-office, and an amount of importunity which must have been
                     exceedingly annoying to the gentlemen of the red tape, I found myself, at the
                     end of August, apparently no nearer to an "assignment to duty" than at
                     first.
                  It really seemed that the Confederate States had no need of my services; that
                     the privilege of performing military duty in behalf of the Government was one
                     jealously guarded, and not to be lightly bestowed upon any one. I was in
                     despair, and was revolving the project of resigning my empty commission, and
                     enlisting in the cavalry as a private soldier, when the deus ex machinâ to extricate me from all my troubles, appeared in
                     the person of Colonel P——, of army head-quarters.
                  This accomplished soldier and gentleman met me as I was coming out of the
                     war-office, on the morning after the visit to Mr. X——, looking I suppose, like
                     some descendant of the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance, and stopped to
                     inquire the cause of my dejection. I
                     informed him of the whole affair, and he laughed heartily.
                  "You have set about your affairs, my dear colonel, in a manner entirely wrong,"
                     he said. "You should have gone to some general, discovered that your
                     grandmother and his own were third cousins; expressed your admiration of his
                     valor; denounced the brother-general with whom he was quarreling; written puffs
                     to the papers about him; and then, one morning said, 'By the by, general, you
                     are entitled to another staff officer.' The result would have been a glowing
                     letter to the war department, requesting your assignment—you would have
                     attained your object—you would have been torn from the horrors of Richmond, and
                     once more enjoyed the great privilege of being shot at!"
                  I echoed the colonel's laugh.
                  "Alas!" I said, "I have no genius for all that. I never yet could 'crook the
                     hinges of the knee that thrift might follow fawning,' and I suppose I shall be
                     compelled to resign, and enter the ranks. Why not? Better men are there,
                     carrying musket or carbine, or pulling the lanyard."
                  "Still you gained your rank by your services—and I am going to make you an
                     offer which will enable you to retain it. Come and be my assistant
                     inspector-general—an officer is required to inspect the cavalry and horse
                     artillery, which is so distant, often, that I have no time to visit them."
                  "A thousand thanks, colonel! You could not offer me a more pleasant duty."
                  "You will have to ride a great deal, but will have a great deal of freedom. If
                     you consent to my proposition, I will have the matter arranged at once, and
                     will request you to make a tour of inspection to General Early's army, near
                     Winchester."
                  He looked at me, laughing.
                  "'The Oaks' is a charming place," he added, "and you are certain to be very
                     tired when you reach the vicinity of Markham's! If you find it convenient to
                     stop there—say, for a day or more—present my regards to Colonel Beverly, and
                     any of the family you find present!"
                  With which words he laughed again, shook me by the hand, and then his tall form
                     disappeared in the doorway of the war office.
                  On the next day I found my assignment awaiting me. I was appointed assistant
                     inspector-general of the cavalry and horse artillery of the army of Northern
                     Virginia. Tremendous title!
                  That evening I went by railway to Petersburg, to visit Colonel P——, and receive
                     his instructions. Returning the same night, the next day set out on horseback
                     for the Valley of the Shenandoah, by way of Orange, Gaines's Cross Roads, and
                     Ashby's Gap.
                  Of this journey it is unnecessary for me to speak in the present volume. Some
                     curious adventures occurred to me, in the valley, near Millwood, and I made the
                     acquaintance of St. Leger Landon, of "Bizarre," one of the bravest and truest
                     gentlemen I have ever known. The adventures alluded to, and some events in the
                     strange history of my friend, Captain Landon, are embraced in a separate
                     memoir, to which I have given the fanciful title, Hilt to Hilt, or Days
                        and Nights on the Banks of the Shenandoah.
                  
                  I remained in the valley from the first to the eighteenth of September, when I
                     set out on my return to Petersburg, little thinking that, on the very next day,
                     General Early would be attacked on the Opequan, driven from Winchester, and
                     forced to retreat up the valley, in spite of fighting which was never
                     surpassed.
                  I had received some rough handling in a cavalry combat near the Old Chapel,
                     beyond Millwood, and my ride back was tedious. But at last I reached Richmond,
                     and made preparations to set out at once for the army. On the evening before my
                     departure, I went to visit the grave of Stuart at Hollywood, on the beautiful
                     hill above the falls, west of the city.
                  As I approached the lonely spot, where the great cavalier was lying beside his
                     little Flora, of whom he had often spoken to me with tears, a thousand memories
                     knocked at the door of my heart. With head bent down, and chin resting on my
                     breast, I drew near the grassy mound over which waved the autumn foliage,
                     tinted with yellow and crimson—and in these few moments, all the splendid
                     career of Stuart passed before me, as on that day when I rode with him toward
                     the fatal field of Yellow Tavern.
                  I remembered all his hard combats, his glorious encounters, his victories over
                     such odds as vindicated his claim to a descent from the dashing Rupert, and
                     ranked him with the most famous leaders ers of cavalry in all history. I recalled the
                     courage, the joy, the gay laughter of the great soldier—the blue eyes that
                     flashed so—the sonorous voice singing the merry songs. I remembered all the
                     occasions when he had led his men in the charge—how he had wept for Jackson,
                     bowed his head above the cold face of Pelham—how he had met the torrent
                     unmoved, shrunk from nothing in his path, fallen to save the Virginia capital,
                     and died murmuring "God's will be done!"—I remembered all that, and with
                     something in my throat that seemed choking me, drew near the quiet mound,
                     beneath which rested such a career, and so much glory.
                  The birds were twittering and singing, the foliage waving gently—I raised my
                     head—when suddenly I became aware that a solitary mourner was bending over the
                     grave.
                  He was an officer in gray uniform. He held a flower in his hand, which he
                     dropped upon the grave, uttering a low sob as he did so.
                  At the same moment he turned round, and I recognized the great partisan,
                     Colonel Mosby.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Real.
                  
               
               
                  XIII. THE CEDARS.
                  TWENTY-FOUR hours after, I had passed over the same number of miles, and found
                     myself at the staff head-quarters, on the left bank of the Appomattox, above
                     Petersburg.
                  I had soon pitched my tent, with the assistance of a servant; had erected a
                     hedge of cedar boughs to protect it from the cutting blasts of the coming
                     winter; and, a few day afterwards, was surrounded with many objects of comfort.
                     My tent had been floored; at one end rose an excellent chimney; strips of
                     planks, skilfully balanced on two logs, supplied a spring bed; I had secured a
                     split bottom chair, and my saddle and bridle were disposed upon a rough rack,
                     near a black valise containing my small stock of apparel, and the pine table
                     and desk holding official papers.
                  Having christened this castle "The Cedars," I settled down for a long
                     winter,—and it was not a great while before I congratulated myself on the good
                     fortune which had provided me with that warm nest. More than once, however, I
                     experienced something like a sentiment of shame, when, in the dark and freezing
                     nights, with the hail rattling on my tent, I sat by my warm fire, and heard the
                     crack of the sharp-shooters, along the lines beyond Petersburg. What right had
                     I to be there, by that blazing fire, in my warm tent, when my brethren—many of
                     them my betters—were yonder, fighting along the frozen hills? What had I done
                     to deserve that comfort, and exemption from all pain? I was idling, or reading
                     by my blazing fire,—they were keeping back the enemy, and,
                     perhaps, falling and dying in the darkness. I was musing in my chair, gazing
                     into the blaze, and going back in memory to the fond scenes of home, so
                     clearly, that I laughed the heart's laugh, and was happy. And they? They, too,
                     were thinking of home, perhaps,—of their wives and children, to sink down the
                     next moment shivering with cold, or stagger and fall, with spouting blood, as
                     the bullet pierced them. Why should I be thus favored by a good
                     Providence? I often asked myself that question, and I could not answer it. I
                     could only murmur, "I did not sneak here to get out of the way of the
                     bullets,—those, yonder, are my betters,—God guard and keep the brave soldiers
                     of this army!"
                  And now, worthy reader, having given you some idea of the manner in which the
                     more fortunate ones wintered near Petersburg, in 1864, I am going to drop the
                     subject of army head-quarters, and my surroundings there. Jackson and Stuart
                     are dead, and have become figures of history. I have drawn them as well as I
                     could,—I dare not attempt to do the same with the great commander in-chief. He
                     is alive. May he live long!—and, saluting him, I pass on.
                  So if I speak of General Lee, it will be of the individual in his official
                     character. What he utters, he will have uttered in the hearing of many.
                  With these words of preface, I resume the thread of my history.
               
               
                  
                  XIV. THE SITUATION.
                  OCTOBER, 1864, had come.
                  The "situation" may be described in a few words.
                  Grant had drawn his lines from a point in Charles City, on the left bank of
                     James River, across that stream and across the Appomattox, around Petersburg to
                     the Squirrel Level road, where he threatened the Southside railroad, Lee's line
                     of communication with the south and west. Fort Harrison had just been taken.
                     Grant was gradually hemming in his opponent along the immense line extending
                     across the two rivers, past the scene of the famous "Crater" explosion, to the
                     vicinity of the Rowanty, a distance of nearly forty miles. One incessant crash
                     and thunder went up, day and night. Grant was "hammering continuously,"
                     carrying out his programme; and, the military view apart, never was spectacle
                     more picturesque than that presented in these combats.
                  The long lines of works were wreathed with the smoke of battle. The glare of
                     cannon lit the smoke-cloud; mortar shells rose, described their fiery curves,
                     and descended in the trenches, and these were saluted as they rose and fell by
                     the crack of musketry, the roar of artillery, the echoing cheers of the blue
                     and gray people, who never seemed weary of fighting, yelling, and paying their
                     compliments to each other. At night the spectacle was superb; the mortars were
                     like flocks of fire-birds, swooping down upon their prey. The horizon glared at
                     each cannon-shot; shell burst in vivid lightnings, shining for a moment, then
                     extinguished. And yonder object, like a blood-shot eye, shining grimly through
                     the darkness,—what is that? It is a lamp, my dear reader, with a transparent
                     shade; and on this shade is written, for the information of the graybacks:— 
                        
                           "While yet the lamp holds out to burn,
                           The vilest rebel may return."
                        
                     
                  
                  Lee's lines faced Grant's, following the blue cordon across the rivers, around
                     Petersburg, toward the Southside railroad.
                  Beyond the right of the Confederate infantry stretched the cavalry, which
                     consisted of the divisions of Wade Hampton and W. H. F. Lee,—the former
                     commanding. Fitz Lee, with his division, was in the Valley.
                  Such, reader was the situation, when I joined the army. The great fifth act of
                     the tragic drama was approaching.
               
               
                  XV. MOHUN AGAIN.
                  THREE days after my arrival, I mounted my horse, crossed the Appomattox,
                     followed the Boydton road, struck southward at the Quaker road, and soon found
                     myself in the heart of the shadowy pine woods of that singular country,
                     Dinwiddie.
                  My official duty was to inspect and report the condition of the cavalry and
                     horse artillery of the army at the beginning and middle of each month. And now,
                     first assuring the reader that I performed my duty in all weather, and amid
                     every difficulty, I will drop the official phase of my history, and proceed to
                     matters rather more entertaining.
                  On the day after my departure from Petersburg, I had made my inspections, and
                     was returning.
                  I had been received by my old friends of the cavalry with every mark of cordial
                     regard. General Hampton, General Lee, and the various officers and men whom I
                     had known as a staff-officer of General Stuart, seemed to welcome the sight of
                     a face which, perhaps, reminded them of their dead leader; and I had pressed
                     all these warm hands, and received these friendly greetings not without
                     emotion—for I, too, was carried back to the past.
                  I saw Mordaunt and Davenant, but not Mohun—he was absent, visiting his picket
                     line. Mordaunt was the same stately soldier—his grave and friendly voice
                     greeted me warmly as in old days; and Willie Davenant, now a major, commanding
                     a battalion of horse artillery,
                     shook hands with me, as shy and blushing as before—and even more sad.
                  "How had his suit prospered? Were things more encouraging?"
                  I asked him these questions with a laugh, apologizing for my intrusion.
                  He assured me sadly that it was not in the least an intrusion; but that he had
                     not seen the person to whom I alluded, for many months.
                  And executing a blush which would have become a girl, this young tiger of the
                     horse artillery—for such he always proved himself, in a fight—hastened to
                     change the subject. Soon afterward I took my departure, turned my horse's head
                     toward Petersburg, and set out at a round trot between the walls of pine.
                  It was dusk when I reached the debouchment of the "military road," and, tired
                     and hungry, I was contemplating ruefully the long ride still before me, when
                     rapid hoof-strokes behind me attracted my attention, and, turning my head, I
                     recognized the bold figure of Mohun.
                  He was mounted on a fine animal, and came at full speed.
                  In a moment he had caught up, recognized, and we exchanged a warm grasp of the
                     hand.
                  "I am delighted to see you, Surry. I thought you had deserted us, old fellow.
                     The sight of you is a treat!"
                  "And the sight of you, my dear Mohun. You look beaming."
                  Indeed, Mohun had never presented a better appearance, with his dark eyes; his
                     tanned and glowing cheeks; his raven mustached lips, which, parting with a
                     smile, showed white and regular teeth. He was the picture of a gallant soldier;
                     all his old melancholy and cynical bitterness gone, as mist is swept away by
                     the morning sunshine.
                  "You are positively dazzling, Mohun. Where are you going, and what has happened
                     to you? Ah!—I begin to understand!"
                  And pointing northward, I said:—
                  "Five Forks is not far from here, is it?"
                  Mohun colored, but, the next moment, burst into laughter.
                  "You are right, old friend! It is impossible to hide any thing from you."
                  "And a friend of yours is there—whom you are going to see?"
                  "Yes, my dear Surry," was his reply, in a voice of sudden earnestness, "you are
                     not mistaken, and you see I am like all the rest of the world. When we first
                     met on the Rapidan, I was a woman-hater. I despised them all, for I had had
                     reason. That was my state of mind, when a very beautiful and noble girl, whom
                     you have seen, crossed my path. Events threw us together—first, the wound I
                     received at Fleetwood—she caught me as I was falling on that day—and several
                     times afterward I saw and conversed with her, finding her proud, satirical,
                     indifferent to admiration, but as honest and true as steel. Still, our
                     relations did not proceed beyond friendship, and when I told you one day in the
                     Wilderness that I was not her suitor, I spoke the truth. I am not exactly able
                     to say as much to-day!—But to finish my account of myself: I came here to
                     Dinwiddie on the right of the army, and a week or two after my arrival the
                     enemy made a cavalry raid toward the Southside railroad. I followed, and came
                     up with them as they were plundering a house not far from Five Forks. Well, I
                     charged and drove them into the woods—when, who should make her appearance at
                     the door but Miss Conway, whom I had last seen in Culpeper! As you know, her
                     father resides here—he is now at Richmond—and, after following the enemy back
                     to their own lines, hurrying them up with sabre and carbine, I came back to
                     inquire the extent of their depredations at Five Forks.
                  "Such is the simple explanation of the present 'situation,' my dear friend.
                     Miss Virginia cordially invited me to come whenever I could do so, and although
                     Miss Georgia was less pressing—in fact, said nothing on the subject—I was not
                     cast down thereby! I returned, have been often since, and—that's all."
                  Mohun laughed the heart's laugh. You have heard that, have you not, reader?
                     "Now tell me about yourself," he added, "and on the way to Five Forks! I see
                     you are tired and hungry. Come! they have the easiest chairs yonder, and are
                     the soul of hospitality!"
                  The offer was tempting. Why not accept it? My hesitation lasted exactly three
                     seconds.
                  At the end of that time, I was riding beside Mohun in the direction of Five Forks, which we reached just
                     as I terminated my account of myself since Mohun and I had parted in the
                     Wilderness.
               
               
                  XVI. "FIVE FORKS."
                  "FIVE FORKS" was an old mansion not far from the place of the same name, now
                     become historical. It was a building of large size; the grounds were extensive,
                     and had been elegant; the house had evidently been the home of a long line of
                     gentlemen, whose portraits, flanked by those of their fair helpmates, adorned
                     the walls of the great drawing-room, between the lofty windows. In the hall
                     stood a tall bookcase, filled with law books, and volumes of miscellany. From
                     the woodwork hung pictures of race-horses, and old engravings. Such was the
                     establishment which the Federal cavalry had visited, leaving, as always, their
                     traces, in broken furniture, smashed crockery, and trampled grounds.
                  I shall not pause to describe my brief visit to this hospitable house. The
                     young ladies had returned from Richmond some time before, escorted by the
                     gray-haired Juba, that faithful old African retainer; and, as a result of the
                     evenings which I had spent with them and their father, I had the honor to be
                     received in the character of an old friend.
                  Ten minutes after my arrival I saw that Mohun was passionately in love with
                     Miss Georgia; and I thought I perceived as clearly that she returned his
                     affection. Their eyes—those telltales—were incessantly meeting; and Mohun
                     followed every movement of the queenly girl with those long fixed, glances,
                     which leave nothing in doubt.
                  The younger sister, Miss Virginia, received me with charming sweetness, but a
                     secret melancholy weighed down the dusky eyelashes. The blue eyes were sad; the
                     very smiles on the rosy lips were sad. All was plain here, too, at a single
                     glance. The pure girl had given her heart to the brave Willie Davenant, and
                     some mysterious hostility of her father toward the young officer, forced them
                     apart.
                  What was the origin of that hostility? Why had Judge Conway so abruptly torn
                     his daughter away from Davenant at the ball in Culpeper—and why had that shadow
                     passed over the old statesman's brow when I uttered the name of the young man
                     in Richmond?
                  I asked myself these questions vainly—and decided in my mind that I should
                     probably never know.
                  I was mistaken. I was going to know before midnight.
                  After an excellent supper, over which Miss Georgia presided with stately
                     dignity—for she, too, had changed, in as marked a degree as Mohun,—I rose,
                     declared I must return to Petersburg, and bade the young ladies, who cordially
                     pressed me to remain, good-night.
                  Mohun declared that he would remain an hour longer—and having promised a visit
                     soon, at his camp on the Rowanty, I mounted my horse, and set out, through the
                     darkness, for Petersburg.
               
               
                  XVII. GENERAL DAVENANT.
                  FOLLOWING the White Oak road, I passed Hatcher's Run at Burgess's mill, and
                     went on over the Boydton road, reflecting upon the scene I had just left.
                  All at once my horse placed his foot upon a sharp root in the road, stumbled,
                     nearly fell, and when I touched him with the spur I found that he limped
                     painfully.
                  Dismounting, I examined his foot. The sharp point had entered it, and it was
                     bleeding profusely. The accident was unfortunate—and, attempting to ride on, I
                     found the hurt worse than I had expected. My gray staggered on as if the limb
                     were broken.
                  I dismounted once more, led him slowly by the bridle, and continued my way on foot. A quarter of a mile
                     farther, the animal was in such agony that I looked around for some light, by
                     which to examine the hurt more fully.
                  On the right, a glimmer was seen through the trees. I made straight toward it,
                     through the woods, and soon found myself near a group of tents, one of which
                     was lit up.
                  "Whose head-quarters are these?" I asked of a man on post, near.
                  "Mine, my dear colonel," said a voice in the darkness near. "My candle yonder
                     is hospitable and enables me to recognize you."
                  With which words the figure advanced into the light, and I recognized the tall
                     and stately form of General Davenant.
                  He gave me his hand cordially, and I explained my dilemma.
                  "You are unfortunate, but fortunate, too," said Davenant, "as I have a man
                     among my couriers who knows all about horses. I will send yours to him;
                     meanwhile come into my tent."
                  And intrusting my horse to the orderly with some brief directions, the general
                     led the way into his head-quarters tent.
                  A cheerful fire burned in the rude log-built chimney. On one side were a plain
                     desk and two camp-stools; on the other a rough couch of pine logs, filled with
                     straw, and spread with blankets. Upon the blankets a boy of about fourteen was
                     sound asleep, the light auburn curls tossed in disorder over the rosy young
                     face. At a glance I recognized the youth who had entered the ranks at
                     Gettysburg, taken part in Pickett's charge, and been borne out through the
                     smoke, wounded and bleeding, in the arms of his father. The young Charley had
                     evidently recovered, and was as ruddy as before. His little braided jacket was
                     as jaunty, his face as smiling, as on that evening near Paris.
                  An hour afterward, General Davenant and myself were conversing like old
                     friends. We were by no means strangers, as I had repeatedly been thrown with
                     him in the army, and my intimacy with Will doubtless commended me to the brave
                     soldier's regard. An accident now seemed about to make us still better
                     acquainted. The orderly had reported that it would be impossible to proceed
                     farther with my horse that night, and I had accepted the invitation of General
                     Davenant to remain with him until morning.
                  "My brigade is holding the right of the army, colonel," he had said; "we have
                     just moved to this position, and have not had time to become very comfortable.
                     But I can offer you a tolerable supper and a camp-bed after it, with a warm
                     welcome, I assure you."
                  I declined the supper, but accepted the bed; and seated opposite the grizzled
                     old cavalier, in his gray uniform, had begun to converse.
                  Something about the stately general of infantry, drew me irresistibly toward
                     him. His bearing was lofty, and not without a species of hauteur; but under all
                     was an exquisite high-breeding and courtesy, which made his society quite
                     charming.
                  At some words of mine, however, in reference to my visit on this day to his
                     son, a decided expression of gloom had obscured the smiles of the old
                     soldier.
                  "Yes, colonel," he said, with something like a sigh, "Willie has lost his good
                     spirits, and has been much depressed for more than a year. You are his
                     friend—you share his confidence—you doubtless know the origin of this
                     depression."
                  "I do, general; a very common cause of trouble to young men—a young lady."
                  "A young lady," repeated General Davenant, in the same gloomy tone. "He has
                     committed the imprudence of falling in love, as the phrase is, with—Miss
                     Conway."
                  He paused before the words "Miss Conway," and uttered them with evident
                     repugnance. They issued from his lips, indeed, with a species of jerk; and he
                     seemed glad to get rid of them, if I may so express myself.
                  "I can talk of this affair with you, colonel," he added, gloomily, "for Will
                     has told me of your regard for him."
                  I bowed, and said:—
                  "You are not wrong in supposing that I am one of your son's best friends,
                     general. I was long in the cavalry with him—there is no more heroic soldier in
                     the army—and it has given me sincere sorrow to see him laboring under such
                     melancholy."
                  General Davenant, with his hand covering his brow, listened in silence.
                  "I have not inquired the origin of this depression," I added— "that would have been indiscreet—though I know
                     Will would tell me. I guessed it, however, and I have visited the young lady at
                     her house to-night. I will certainly use my utmost exertions to remove all
                     obstacles."
                  General Davenant suddenly rose erect. His eye was flashing.
                  "I beg you will not, colonel!" he exclaimed. "The barrier between himself
                     and—Miss Conway—can never be removed."
                  I looked at the speaker's flushed face with positive wonder, and replied:—
                  "You astonish me, general! Are there any such obstacles in life?"
                  "There are!"
                  I made no reply.
                  "There are, colonel," repeated the now fiery old soldier. "Judge Conway has
                     been guilty of a gross wrong to me. No son of mine shall ever form an alliance
                     with his family!"
                  I looked up with deep astonishment.
                  "This is a very great surprise to me, my dear general," I said; "I thought,
                     from many things, that it was Judge Conway who opposed this alliance; and from
                     the belief that you had done him some great
                     wrong."
                  General Davenant had taken his seat again, after his outburst. Once more his
                     forehead was covered with his hand. For some moments he preserved a silence so
                     profound, that nothing disturbed the night but the long breathing of the
                     sleeping boy, and the measured tramp of the sentinel.
                  Then, all at once, the general raised his head. His expression was no longer
                     fiery—it was unutterably sad.
                  "I have been reflecting, colonel," he said gravely, "and, in these few minutes,
                     have come to a somewhat singular determination."
                  "What is that, general?"
                  "To tell you why my son can never marry the daughter of Judge
                     Conway!"
               
               
                  XVIII. TWO MEN AND A WOMAN.
                  GENERAL DAVENANT leaned his elbow on the desk, rested his forehead in his hand,
                     and said in a deep, measured voice:—
                  "My story need not be a long one, colonel. Those who relate gay adventures and
                     joyous experiences, indulge in endless details—memory is charming to them at
                     such moments—they go back to the past, with a smile on the lips, recalling
                     every little detail, every color of the bright picture.
                  "My own narrative will be brief, because it is a gloomy one. It is far from
                     pleasant to return to the scenes I propose to describe. I only do so to erase a
                     stigma which seems to attach to my family and myself; to show you that, in
                     spite of Judge Conway, I deserve your good opinion. Assuredly I do not propose
                     any pleasure to myself in relating these events. Alas! one of the bitterest
                     things to a proud man—and I am proud—is to even seem to defend his good name
                     from imputed dishonor!"
                  Knitting his brows as he spoke, the old soldier looked gloomily into the blaze
                     before us. In a moment, he went on:—
                  "I was born in the county of Dinwiddie, colonel, where my family had lived from
                     the time of the first settlement of Virginia. My father was a large landholder,
                     and his most intimate friend was Mr. Conway, the father of the present judge.
                     The family friendship was inherited by the young people of the two families—and
                     my two most intimate friends were George and William Conway. One is dead, the
                     other is Judge William Conway, member of Congress. We had played together as
                     children, been companions at school. When our fathers died, and we in turn
                     became the representatives of the two families, our friendship became even more
                     close. I was half my time at 'Five Forks'—they paid long visits to me at 'The
                     Pines'—we hunted together, went to entertainments together, drank wine
                     together, and were inseparable.
                  "George was especially my favorite. He was the soul of amiability; everybody
                     loved him; and I entertained for him the most tender friendship. His brother
                     William was equally estimable ble,
                     but did not attract you as strongly. Although a person of the highest sense of
                     honor, and universally respected for talents of the first order, he was
                     irascible, bitter, and, when once aroused, allowed nothing to restrain him. At
                     such moments his best friends avoided him, for he was dangerous. He brooked no
                     opposition. His anger was like a consuming fire; and a friendship which he had
                     formed with that gentleman of splendid powers, but venomous antipathies, John
                     Randolph of Roanoke, served still more to encourage him in the indulgence of
                     the natural acerbity of his disposition. More than once, I have seen him almost
                     foam at the mouth as he denounced some political adversary from the stump, and
                     when one of these fits of passion seized him, he became as ungovernable as a
                     wild animal. You can scarcely realize that, now. Sorrow has chastened him;
                     trouble has softened him; I have nothing to say against the Judge William
                     Conway of to-day. He is a self-sacrificing patriot, a gentleman of
                     irreproachable courtesy, and sweetness of character; but, as a young man, he
                     was a firebrand, and I think the fire is still unquenched beneath the gray
                     hairs of the man of seventy.
                  "Such were George and William Conway, when I knew them as young men—the one
                     mild, amiable, the soul of kindness and good-nature; the other proud,
                     honorable, but subject to fits of stormy passion, which made all avoid him when
                     the paroxysm was upon him.
                  "From this hasty description, you will understand why George was a greater
                     favorite with me than his brother. Our friendship was, indeed, as close and
                     tender as possible, and we passed our majority and approached the age of
                     twenty-five, without ever having had a moment's interruption of our
                     intimacy.
                  "Then, all at once, there appeared upon the stage, that cause of so much
                     happiness, woe, joy, grief, to mankind—a woman. To make a long story short,
                     George Conway and myself were so unfortunate as to become attached to the same
                     young lady, and very soon this sentiment amounted, both on his part and on my
                     own, to a wild and consuming passion. The young lady—it is unnecessary to
                     mention her name—was a person of rare beauty, and mistress of all the wiles
                     which bring young men to the feet of women. She used these unsparingly, too,
                     for nothing delighted her so much as to attract admiration and inspire love.
                     Perceiving the effect which her grace and loveliness had produced upon myself
                     and George, she made every exertion to increase our infatuation—encouraged
                     first one, then the other; and, in the end, succeeded in breaking those close
                     ties of friendship which had bound us from the time when we had played together
                     as children.
                  "That is a sad confession, colonel, but it is the truth. The bright eyes and
                     smiles of a girl had terminated a life-long friendship. The mere love of
                     admiration in the heart of a young girl had interrupted the affection of
                     years—making George and myself cold and distrait toward each other. Soon things became still worse. From
                     friends we had become mere acquaintances—from acquaintances we became
                     strangers, and finally foes. Busy-bodies whispered, tale-bearers blew the
                     flames. If the young lady smiled on me at a party where George was present, the
                     good people around us looked at him with satirical meaning. If she
                     smiled on George, their eyes were turned toward me, and they giggled and
                     whispered.
                  "That is all tedious—is it not? An old story, which every country neighborhood
                     knows. You laugh, perhaps, at hearing it told of A and B,—but you do not laugh
                     when you are one of the actors. Well, not to lengthen my history unduly, an
                     open rivalry and enmity at last arose between myself and poor George. We had
                     been spurred on to hate each other, and narrowly escaped having an 'affair'
                     together—appealing to the pistol as the arbiter.
                  "It never came to that, however. I saw, ere long, that the young lady had made
                     up her mind. George was in every way a more attractive and lovable person than
                     myself; and after drawing me on, encouraging me, and inducing me to offer her
                     my hand, she turned her back on me, and married George!
                  "Such was the result of the campaign. George had won,—and I am obliged to say
                     that I hated him cordially. I should never have done so, from the simple fact
                     of his success. I am not so ignoble as that, my dear colonel. Bitter as was my
                     disappointment, I could have bowed to the fiat—pardoned the young lady—and
                     offered my hand to dear George; but there were our 'friends,' the busy-bodies
                     and talebearers. They were unresting
                     in their exertions—took the whole affair under their personal supervision, and
                     invented a hundred fables to sting and arouse me. You would have said that they
                     were bloody minded—the busy-bodies—and bent on trouble; that their aim was to
                     profoundly enrage me, and cause bloodshed. George had laughed at me, they said;
                     never had had a moment's doubt of the young lady's sentiments; had often jested
                     about me, and expressed his pity for my 'silly presumption;' had even amused
                     himself and the young lady, by mimicking my peculiarities, and raising a laugh
                     at my expense.
                  "These reports were persistently and regularly repeated for my information: I
                     was baited, and worried, and driven nearly mad by them—finally a duel nearly
                     resulted; but that last step was not taken. I simply made my bow to the happy
                     pair, left them without a word, and returned home, determined to drop the whole
                     matter—but none the less enraged and embittered.
                  "From that moment George and myself rarely met, and never as friends. I had
                     been brought to hate him—he knew the fact—and although he was innocent of all
                     wrong to me, as I know to-day, made no effort to win my regard again. He was as
                     proud as myself—he said nothing—and our paths here separated forever.
                  "Such is the necessary introduction, colonel," said General Davenant, "to the
                     events which I propose to relate."
               
               
                  XIX. THE MURDER.
                  "MORE than twenty years had passed," continued General Davenant, "when that old
                     hatred which had been aroused in me, toward George Conway, produced bitter
                     fruits.
                  "I was to be taught by a terrible experience that hatred is a deadly sin; that
                     God punishes it more severely than all other sins, for it is the poison which
                     turns the whole heart to bitterness. I had indulged it—made no effort to banish
                     it—nourished it like a snake in the recesses of my breast, and now God decreed,
                     as a punishment, that the snake should turn and sting me.
                  "To go back for a moment, however. George had married—a year afterward I had
                     imitated him. My wife was an angel upon earth—she is an angel in heaven now—and
                     in comparison with the deep affection which I felt for her, the ephemeral fancy
                     for the young lady whom my rival had married, appeared the veriest trifle.
                     William Conway had also married, and he and George, with their wives, were
                     living at Five Forks. William was judge of the circuit—George managed the
                     estate—and their affection for each other, at this period of their mature
                     manhood, was said to exceed that of their youth.
                  "'Was said to,' I say, colonel; for I never saw either of them. All intercourse
                     between "The Pines" and "Five Forks" had ceased twenty years before; and George
                     and William Conway were as much strangers to me, as if we lived in opposite
                     quarters of the globe; for time had not changed—or rather restored—the entente cordial of the past. On the contrary, the
                     feud had become chronic—the gulf separating us had grown deeper. When I met
                     either of the brothers, we exchanged no greetings—passed without looking at
                     each other—and the 'family feud' between the Davenants and the Conways was not
                     even alluded to; it had become an old story, and lost its interest.
                  "Such was the condition of things—such the attitude which I occupied toward the
                     two brothers—when the event, which I am about to relate, took place. The event
                     in question was tragic and terrible. It came without warning, to shock the
                     entire surrounding country. One night, on his return from the county seat,
                     whither he was said to have gone upon some matter of business, George Conway
                     was murdered, and his body concealed in some bushes by the roadside.
                  "The body was not discovered until the morning succeeding the murder. His
                     riderless horse was then seen standing at the door of the stable at Five Forks,
                     and in great terror. Judge Conway set out rapidly to look for his brother, who
                     was supposed to have met with some accident. Two or three neighbors, whom he chanced to meet, joined in the
                     search; the body was discovered; and, on examination, revealed a deep gash in
                     the region of the heart, apparently inflicted by a dagger or a knife.
                  "The blow had evidently been mortal—no other hurt was visible. George Conway
                     seemed to have been waylaid by some unknown person, and murdered on his return
                     from the courthouse.
                  "It was impossible to divine the perpetrator of the crime, or form any idea of
                     his motive. Upon the person of the murdered man a large sum of money, which he
                     had received that day, was discovered. He had not been waylaid, thus, by one
                     designing to rob him; and his peaceful and amiable character excluded the
                     hypothesis that he had aroused such enmity as could have led to the bloody
                     deed. The whole affair was a profound mystery—no clue could be discovered to
                     the perpetrator, or the motive of the crime—and the body was borne to "Five
                     Forks," where it was laid in state to await burial on the next day.
                  "Judge Conway, it was said, had nearly lost his reason at this sudden and
                     terrible blow. He had loved his brother with extraordinary affection; and the
                     event struck him like a thunderbolt. His stupor of grief was succeeded by rage.
                     He fell into one of his paroxysms. With finished face, bloodshot eyes, and
                     mouth foaming with a species of fury, he mounted his horse, went at full speed
                     to the court-house, made inquiries of everybody who had seen his brother, asked
                     with whom he had last been seen, and left no stone unturned to ferret out the
                     author of the crime.
                  "Meanwhile, the whole county was discussing, with awe-struck eyes, the
                     extraordinary event. Who could have perpetrated the act? Who could have waylaid
                     and murdered a man so universally popular? Who was safe, if such a state of
                     things could exist in a peaceful community,—if a good citizen could not ride to
                     see a neighbor, or to the county seat, without danger of being murdered?
                  "Grief, indignation, horror, were the universal sentiments. Some one must be
                     discovered upon whom to lay the crime. And that some one was the individual
                     before you, colonel!"
               
               
                  XX. THE KNIFE.
                  "LET me continue, I beg," continued General Davenant, gloomily. "Your look of
                     astonishment is quite natural; you feel the indignation of a gentleman at my
                     words; but allow me to go on with my narrative.
                  "Poor George Conway was buried on the day after the discovery of his body, and
                     an immense concourse accompanied him to his grave. The funeral procession was a
                     mile long, for the notoriety attached to the event had drawn people from far
                     and near; and when the body reached the grave-yard, the crowd nearly filled the
                     small inclosure.
                  "I was present in my carriage with my wife, and my son Charles yonder, then a
                     child in arms. You will understand, colonel, that I had not the heart to be
                     absent. I had long ceased to feel a sentiment of any great regard for the
                     Conways; but at the intelligence of George's sudden death, all my old
                     friendship had revived—the old kindly feeling came back; pity banished all
                     enmity. I thought of his former love for me, and I determined to do all that
                     remained in my power to show my sympathy—attend his funeral among those who
                     mourned him.
                  "Well, the body was borne to the grave, the service read, and the remains of
                     the unfortunate gentleman deposited in their last resting-place. Then the clods
                     rattled on the coffin, the service ended, and George Conway had passed away
                     from all eyes.
                  "I looked at his poor wife and brother with tears in my eyes. All my enmity was
                     gone—my memory went back to the old scenes; at that instant I could have
                     reached out my arms, and drawn the bereaved brother to my heart, mingling my
                     tears with his own.
                  "All at once, however, I looked at Judge Conway with astonishment. I had
                     expected to see him overwhelmed with grief—but as he now raised his head, and
                     turned in the direction of the spot where I was standing, I saw that his
                     features were convulsed with wrath. His cheeks were crimson, his teeth
                     clenched, his eyes injected with
                     blood. Suddenly these bloodshot eyes met my own—the cheeks a moment before so
                     red, grew pale—and exclaiming, 'It is you who murdered my brother!' he threw
                     himself upon me with the fury of a wild animal, and his fingers were nearly
                     buried in my throat.
                  "The assault was so sudden and terrible that I staggered back, and nearly fell
                     over the grave.
                  "Then regaining my self-possession, I caught Judge Conway by the throat in
                     turn, hurled him from me, and stood confronting him, pale, panting, my throat
                     bleeding—and resolved if he attacked me again to put him to death with the
                     first weapon upon which I could lay my hand.
                  "He was, meanwhile, struggling in the hands of his friends, who, by main force,
                     held him back.
                  "'Let me go!' he shouted, foaming at the mouth with rage—'that man murdered my
                     brother! I will take the law into my own hands! he shall not leave this spot
                     alive! He dares to come here in the presence of the dead body of George
                     Conway—and he is his murderer!'
                  "These words were rather howled than uttered. The speaker seemed to have lost
                     his reason, from pure excess of rage. If his friends had not restrained him by
                     main force, he would have thrown himself upon me a second time, when one of us
                     would have lost his life, colonel, for I was now as violently enraged as
                     himself.
                  "That I should be thus publicly branded with the basest crime!
                     that the representative of the old and honorable house of the Davenants, should
                     be thus grossly insulted, his person assailed, his good name torn from him—that
                     he should be denounced thus in the presence of all as a felon and murderer!
                  "'You are insane, sir!' I at length said, struggling to regain my coolness.
                     'Your grief has affected your brain! I can pardon much in you to-day, sir, but
                     beware how you again attempt to degrade me!'
                  "'Hear him!' was the hoarse and furious reply of Judge Conway; and reaching out
                     his thin fingers, a habit he had caught from Mr. Randolph—he pointed at me
                     where I stood.
                  "'Hear him! He affects innocence! He is outraged! He is indignant! And yet he
                     waylaid my brother, whom he has hated for twenty years—he waylaid him like an
                     assassin, and murdered him! There is the proof!'
                  "And drawing from his pocket a knife, covered with clotted blood, he threw it
                     upon the grave before all eyes.
                  "Good God! It was my own!"
               
               
                  XXI. THE CHAIN OF EVIDENCE.
                  "AT the sight of that terrible object" continued General Davenant, "I staggered
                     back, and nearly fell. I could not believe my eyes—never thought of denying the
                     ownership of the fearful witness.—I could only gaze at it, with a wild horror
                     creeping over me, and then all these terrible emotions were too much for
                     me.
                  "I took two steps toward the grave, reached out with a shudder to grasp the
                     knife whose clots of blood seemed to burn themselves into my brain—then vertigo
                     seized me, and letting my head fall, I fainted.
                  "When I regained my senses, I was in my carriage, supported by the arms of my
                     wife, and rolling up the avenue to my own house.
                  "Opposite me, in the carriage, little Charley, who, dimly realized apparently
                     that some trouble had come to me, was crying bitterly, and a rough personage
                     was endeavoring to quiet his sobbing.
                  "The personage in question was a constable. When I fainted at the grave, my
                     friends had caught me in their arms—protested with burning indignation that the
                     charge against me was a base calumny—and the magistrate who was summoned by
                     Judge Conway to arrest me, had declined to do more than direct a constable to
                     escort me home, and see that I did not attempt to escape.
                  "That was kind. I was a murderer, and my proper place a jail. Why should
                        I be more favored than some poor common man charged with that crime? Had such a person
                     been confronted with such a charge, supported by such damning evidence as the
                     bloody knife, would any ceremony have been observed? 'To jail!' all would have
                     cried, 'No bail for the murderer!' And why should the rich Mr. Davenant be
                     treated with more consideration?
                  "On the day after my arrest—I spare you all the harrowing scenes, my poor
                     wife's agony, and every thing, colonel—on the day after, I got into my
                     carriage, and went and demanded to be confined in jail. It was the first time a
                     Davenant had ever been in jail—but I went thither without
                     hesitation, if not without a shudder. No sooner had I taken this step than the
                     whole country seemed to have left their homes to visit me in my prison. On the
                     evening of the scene at the grave, twenty persons had called at the 'Pines,' to
                     express their sympathy and indignation at the charge against me. Now, when the
                     iron door of the law had closed upon me, and I was a real prisoner, the
                     visitors came in throngs without number. One and all, they treated the charge
                     as the mere result of Judge Conway's fury—some laughed at, others denounced it
                     as an attempt to entrap and destroy me—all were certain that an investigation
                     would at once demonstrate my innocence, and restore me to liberty and
                     honor.
                  "Alas! I could only thank my friends, and reply that I hoped that such would be
                     the result. But when they had left me alone, I fell into fits of the deepest
                     dejection.
                  "What proofs could I give that I was innocent? There was a terrible array of
                     circumstances, on the contrary, to support the hypothesis of my guilt—much more
                     than I have mentioned, colonel. I had visited the court-house on the same day
                     with poor George Conway, and for the first time in twenty years had exchanged
                     words with him. And the words were unfriendly. We had both been in the clerk's
                     office of the county, when that gentleman asked me some common-place
                     question—in what year such a person had died, and his will had been recorded, I
                     think. I replied, mentioning a year. The clerk shook his head, declaring that
                     it must have been later, and appealed to poor George Conway, who agreed with
                     him, adding, 'Mr. Davenant is certainly in the wrong.' I was much annoyed that
                     day—made some curt reply— poor George made a similar rejoinder, and some harsh,
                     almost insulting words, passed between us. The affair went no further, however.
                     I left the clerk's office, and having attended to the business which brought
                     me, left the court-house about dusk. As I mounted my horse, I saw poor George
                     Conway riding out of the place. I followed slowly, not wishing to come up with
                     him, turned into a by-road which led toward my own house—and knew nothing of
                     the murder until it was bruited abroad on the next day.
                  "That is much like the special pleading of a criminal—is it not, colonel? If I
                     had really murdered the poor man, would not this be my method of explaining
                     every thing? You see, I do not deny what several witnesses could prove; the
                     fact that I quarreled with Conway, came to high words, uttered insults,
                     exhibited anger, followed him from the court-house at dusk—I acknowledge all
                     that, but add, that I struck into a by-road and went home! That sounds
                     suspicious, I assure you, even to myself, to-day. Imagine the effect it
                     promised to have then, when I was a man charged with murder—who would naturally
                     try to frame such a statement as would clear him—and when a large portion of
                     the community were excited and indignant at the murder.
                  "Such had been the truly unfortunate scene in the clerk's office,—the fatality
                     which made me follow the man going to his death, and my known enmity of long
                     standing, supported the hypothesis of my guilt. There was another, and even
                     more fatal circumstance still,—the discovery of the knife with which George
                     Conway had been slain. That knife was my own; it was one of peculiar shape,
                     with a handle of tortoise-shell, and I had often used it in presence of my
                     friends and others. A dozen persons could make oath to it as my property; but
                     it was not needed; the scene at the grave made that useless. I evidently did
                     not deny the ownership of the weapon which had been used in the commission of
                     the murder. At the very sight of it, on the contrary, in the hands of the
                     brother of my victim, I had turned pale and fainted!
                  "This was the condition of things when the special term of the court, held
                     expressly to try me, commenced at Dinwiddie."
               
               
                  
                  XXII. THE TRIAL.
                  "A GREAT crowd assembled on the day of the trial. Judge Conway had vacated the
                     bench, as personally interested, and the judge from a neighboring circuit had
                     taken his place.
                  "Below the seat of the judge sat the jury. Outside the railing, the spectators
                     were crowded so closely that it was with difficulty the sheriff made a passage
                     for my entrance.
                  "To one resolution I had adhered in spite of the remonstrances of all my
                     friends,—to employ no counsel. In this determination nothing could shake me. A
                     disdainful pride sustained me, mingled with bitter obstinacy. If I, the
                     representative of one of the oldest and most honorable families in the county
                     of Dinwiddie was to be branded as a murderer,—if my past life, my family and
                     personal character, did not refute the charge,—if I was to be dragged to death
                     on suspicion, gibbeted as a murderer, because some felon had stolen my
                     pocket-knife, and committed a crime with it,—then I would go to my death
                     unmoved. I would disdain to frame explanations; let the law murder
                        me if it would; no glib counsel should save my life by
                     technicalities; I would be vindicated by God and my past life, or would
                     die.
                  "Such was my state of mind, and such the origin of my refusal to employ
                     counsel. When the court now assigned me counsel, I rose and forbade them to
                     appear for me. In the midst of a stormy scene, and with the prosecuting
                     attorney sitting dumb in his chair, resolved to take no part in the trial, the
                     witnesses appeared upon the stand, and, rather by sufferance than the judge's
                     consent, the jury proceeded to interrogate them.
                  "The circumstances which I have detailed to you were all proved in the clearest
                     manner; the altercation in the clerk's office on the day of the murder; my long
                     enmity against him, dating back more than twenty years; the fact that I had
                     followed him out of the village just at dusk on the fatal night; and the
                     discovery of my knife in the tall grass by the roadside near the body.
                  "I had summoned no witnesses, but some appeared of their own accord, and gave
                     important testimony. Many neighbors testified that my enmity toward George
                     Conway had almost entirely disappeared in the lapse of years, and that I had
                     spoken of him, upon more than one occasion, with great kindness. The clerk of
                     the county described the scene in his office, stating that the affair had
                     appeared to him a mere interchange of curt words, without exhibition of the
                     least malice on my part. The most important witness, however, was a poor man,
                     living in the neighborhood, who made oath that he had been riding toward the
                     court-house on the evening of the murder; had passed Mr. Conway, and, riding on
                     farther, came in sight of me, and he had, before reaching me, seen me turn into
                     the by-road which led toward my own residence. I could not have committed the
                     murder, he added, for Mr. Conway had time to pass the spot where his body was
                     found before I could have ridden back to the high-road and caught up with
                     him.
                  "Unfortunately, the witness who gave this testimony bore a very indifferent
                     character, and I could see that more than one of the jurors suspected that he
                     was perjuring himself.
                  "Another ugly-looking circumstance also intervened to neutralize the favorable
                     impression thus made. From the irregular mode of proceeding, the fatal knife
                     had not been exhibited in court. Suddenly, a juror called for it, and it could
                     nowhere be found! The sheriff swore that he had left it in the clerk's office,
                     where he supposed it to be entirely safe. Upon searching for it, however, in
                     the drawer where he had deposited it, the weapon was missing.
                  "When that fact was stated, I saw a curious expression pass over the faces of
                     more than one of the jury. They evidently suspected foul play.
                  "'Was the door of the office locked?' asked one of them.
                  "'Yes, sir,' was the reply.
                  "'Were the windows secured?'
                  "'By shutters with bolts.'
                  "'Are all the bolts on the windows of this building firm?'
                  
                  "'I think so, sir.'
                  "'There is one, that is not!' said the juror.
                  "And he pointed to a long iron bolt on one of the windows, which bore evident
                     traces of having been rent from its socket.
                  "The sheriff looked in amazement in the direction indicated.
                  "'You are right, sir!' he said; 'some one has entered the court-house by
                     breaking open the shutter, and stolen that knife from the clerks' officie,
                     which is never locked.'
                  "A meaning silence followed the words. It was not difficult to understand it.
                     The jury looked at each other, and in their glances I could read this—'Mr.
                     Davenant is on trial for his life. He or his friends suborn testimony to prove
                     an alibi on the night of the murder, and not content with that, they hire a
                     burglar to enter the court-house and steal the knife which proves his
                     connection with the deed—that it may not appear in evidence against him.'
                  "The evidence closed. I had not uttered a word. I had sworn in my heart that I
                     would not stir a finger in the matter—but now, stung beyond endurance, I rose
                     and addressed the jury in impassioned words. 'Their verdict,' I told them, 'was
                     of little importance if I was to lose the respect of my fellow-citizens. I had
                     made no effort to shape their decision, but now on the brink, it might be of a
                     felon's grave, I would utter my dying words. I would confine myself to
                     protesting before God, and on my honor, that I had long since forgiven George
                     Conway the wrongs done me—that the scene on the day of his murder was the
                     result of momentary irritability, caused by business annoyances, and not
                     malice—that I had forgotten it in an hour—returned directly to my own house—and
                     only heard of the murder on the day after its commission. As to the knife—I had
                     been suspected if not charged with having had the weapon stolen. Well! my
                     answer to that was to declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
                        the murder was committed with my own knife! More than that. A
                     witness had sworn that he saw me turn into the road to my own residence, at
                     such a distance behind George Conway that I could not have rejoined him before
                     he had passed the fatal spot. The witness was mistaken. There was time.
                        By riding across the angle through the thicket, I could easily have
                        rejoined him!
                  
                  "'And now, gentlemen,' I said, 'I have done. I have left you no ground to
                     charge me with suborning testimony—with having the evidence of my crime
                     stolen—with plotting in darkness, to hide my crime and blind your eyes in
                     determining my guilt or innocence. That knife was mine, I repeat. It was
                     possible for me to rejoin Mr. Conway, and do him to death by a blow with it.
                     Now, retire, gentlemen! Bring in your verdict! Thank God! no taint of real
                     dishonor will rest upon a Davenant, and I can appear before my Maker as I stand
                     here to-day—innocent!'
                  "Ten minutes afterward the jury had retired, with every mark of agitation upon
                     their faces. The great concourse of spectators seemed moved almost beyond
                     control.
                  "Suddenly the crowd opened, I saw my wife hastening through the space thus
                     made—a living wall on each side—and in an instant she had thrown herself into
                     my arms, with a low cry which brought tears to the roughest faces of the
                     auditory. I placed my arm around her, remonstrated with her for this
                     ill-advised proceeding, and was trying to soothe her, when she hastily gave me
                     a letter. A strange man had brought it an hour before, she said—it was marked
                     'In haste—this will save Mr. Davenant's life.' She had mounted her riding
                     horse, and brought it at full speed in person, without waiting to question the
                     stranger, who had at once disappeared.
                  "I opened the letter—glanced at its contents—at the same instant the jury made
                     their appearance—and the clerk said:—
                  "'Gentlemen of the jury, have you agreed upon a verdict?'
                  "'We have, sir,' said the foreman.
                  "'What is it?'
                  "'Not guilty!'
                  "The court-house rang with applause. The crowd rushed toward me to shake me by
                     the hand and congratulate me. Suddenly, in the midst of the tumult, I heard the
                     furious words:—
                  "'Murderer! you have escaped, but I brand you before God and man as the
                     murderer of my brother!'
                  "It was Judge Conway, who, mounted upon a bench, with glaring eyes, foaming
                     lips, teeth clenched, in a wild fury, shook his arm at me, and denounced me as
                     a convict before God, if not before man."
               
               
                  
                  XXIII. WHAT THE LETTER CONTAINED.
                  GENERAL DAVENANT was silent for a moment. The deep voice, so long resounding in
                     my ears, made the silence oppressive.
                  "Now you know, my dear colonel," he suddenly added, "why my son can not form an
                     alliance with a daughter of Judge Conway."
                  I bowed my head. The whole mystery was patent before me.
                  "The family opposition is mutual," said General Davenant, with a proud smile;
                     "he objects because he believes that I murdered his brother—and I object
                     because he believes it! He insulted me, outraged me—at the grave, in the
                     court-house, in public, as in private; and I could not think of beseeching his
                     honor to give his consent to the marriage of his daughter with the son of an
                     'escaped murderer.'"
                  The old soldier uttered these words with gloomy bitterness; but in a moment he
                     had regained his coolness.
                  "That was the end of the affair," he said. "I went home, accompanied by a
                        cortége of friends who seemed never weary
                     of congratulating me; and on the next day, I wrote a mortal defiance to Judge
                     Conway, which I placed in the hands of a friend to convey to him. An hour
                     afterward, I had mounted my horse, ridden rapidly, caught up with this friend
                     on his way to Five Forks, and had taken from him the challenge, which I tore to
                     pieces. You will probably comprehend the motive which compelled me to do this.
                     It was not repugnance to the modern form of single combat, I am sorry to say.
                     Old as I was, I had still the ancient hallucination on that subject. I did not
                     then know that duels were mere comedies—child's play; that one infantry
                     skirmish results in the shedding of more blood than all the affairs of a
                     generation. The motive that induced me to withdraw my challenge, was one which
                     you will probably understand. The pale face of the dead George Conway had risen
                     up before me—I knew his brother's deep love for him—that he regarded me as the
                     dead man's murderer; and I no longer writhed under that public insult in the
                     court-house, or, at least controlled myself. 'Let him go on his way, poor,
                     stricken heart!' I said with deep pity; 'I forgive him, and will not avenge
                     that affront to me!'
                  "Such is my history, colonel. It is sad, you see. I have related it to explain
                     what has come to your knowledge—the bitter hostility which Judge Conway
                     indulges toward me, and his frowns at the very name of Davenant. These events
                     occurred more than ten years ago. During all that time, he has been laboring
                     under the belief that I am really guilty of his brother's blood. See where my
                     'high pride' has conducted me," said General Davenant, with a smile of
                     inexpressible melancholy and bitterness. "I was proud and disdainful on the day
                     of my trial—I would not use the common weapons of defence—I risked my life by
                     refusing counsel, and acknowledging the ownership of that knife. Pride,
                     hauteur, a sort of disdain at refuting a charge of base dishonor—that was my
                     sentiment then, and I remain as haughty to-day! I am a Davenant—I was found
                     'not guilty'—why go and tell Judge Conway the contents of that letter received
                     in the court-house?"
                  "The contents of the letter, general?"
                  "Yes, colonel."
                  "What did it contain?—I beg you to tell me!"
                  "The confession of the murderer of George Conway!"
               
               
                  XXIV. "BLOOD."
                  GENERAL DAVENANT had scarcely uttered the words which I have just recorded,
                     when rapid firing was heard in the woods, a quarter of a mile from his
                     head-quarters; and a moment afterward a courier came at a gallop, bearing a
                     dispatch.
                  "My horse!" came in the brief tone of command.
                  And General Davenant tore open the dispatch, which he read attentively.
                  
                  "The enemy are advancing to attack me," he said; "this note was written ten
                     minutes since. The attack has commenced. Will you go and see it, colonel?"
                  "Willingly."
                  General Davenant ordered another horse, as my own was useless; we mounted and
                     rode at full speed through the woods; in five minutes we were at the scene of
                     action.
                  A heavy assault was in progress. The enemy had massed a large force in front of
                     the hastily erected earth-works, and were endeavoring, by a determined charge,
                     to carry them.
                  General Davenant was everywhere amid the fight, the guiding and directing head,
                     and beside him I saw distinctly in the starlight, the brave figure of little
                     Charley, who had started from his couch, buckled on a huge sword, and was now
                     galloping to and fro, cheering on the men as gallantly as his father. It was an
                     inspiring sight to see that child in his little braided jacket, with his jaunty
                     cap balanced gallantly on his auburn curls—to see his rosy cheeks, his smiling
                     lips, and his small hand flourishing that tremendous sabre, as he galloped
                     gaily amid the fire.
                  "And yet," I said, "there are those who will not believe in
                     blood——or race!"
                  Fill the space which that dash occupies, my dear reader, with an abrupt "duck"
                     of the head, as a bullet went though my hat!
                  The charge was repulsed in twenty minutes; but the firing continued throughout
                     the night. When it ceased, toward daybreak, and I rode back with General
                     Davenant and Charley, who was as gay as a lark, and entertained me with
                     reminiscences of Gettysburg, I was completely broken down with fatigue.
                     Throwing myself upon a bed, in General Davenant's tent, I fell asleep.
                  When I opened my eyes the sun was high in the heavens. I looked around for the
                     general, he was invisible.
                  I rose, and at the door of the tent met Charley, with bright eyes, and cheeks
                     like roses.
                  "The general has gone to corps head-quarters, colonel, and told me to present
                     you his compliments, and beg that you will remain to breakfast."
                  After which formal and somewhat pompous sentence the youthful ful Charley drew
                     near, slapped me in a friendly way upon the back, and exclaimed, with dancing
                     eyes:—
                  "I say, colonel! wasn't that a jolly old he-fight we had last night?"
                  My reply was a laugh, and a glance of admiration at the gay boy.
                  I declined the invitation of General Davenant, as I had to return. My horse was
                     brought, and I found his foot much easier. In half an hour I was on the road to
                     Petersburg.
               
               
                  XXV. THE BLUE SERPENT.
                  ONCE back at the "Cedars," I reflected deeply upon the history which I had
                     heard from the lips of General Davenant.
                  I shall refrain, however, from recording these reflections. If the reader will
                     cast his eyes back over the pages of these memoirs, he will perceive that I
                     have confined myself generally to the simple narration of events—seldom pausing
                     to offer my own comments upon the scenes passing before me. Were I to do so,
                     what an enormous volume I should write, and how the reader would be bored! Now,
                     to bore a reader, is, in my eyes, one of the greatest crimes of which an author
                     can be guilty. It is the unpardonable sin, indeed, in a writer. For which
                     reason, and acting upon the theory that a drama ought to explain itself and be
                     its own commentator, I spare the worthy reader of these pages all those
                     reflections which I indulged in, after hearing General Davenant's singular
                     narrative.
                  "Pride! pride!" I muttered, rising at the end of an hour. "I think I can
                     understand that—exceptional as is this instance; but I wish I had heard who was
                     the 'real murderer' of George Conway!"
                  Having thus dismissed the subject, I set about drawing up my official report, and this charmingly
                     common-place employment soon banished from my mind every more inviting
                     subject!
                  It was nearly ten days after this my first ride into the wilds of Dinwiddie,
                     before I again set out to look after the cavalry. The end of October was
                     approaching. Grant had continued to hammer away along his immense line of
                     earth-works; and day by day, step by step, he had gone on extending his left in
                     the direction of the Southside railroad.
                  If the reader will keep this in view, he will understand every movement of the
                     great adversaries. Grant had vainly attempted to carry Lee's works by assault,
                     or surprise,—his only hope of success now was to gradually extend his lines
                     toward the South-side road; seize upon that great war artery which supplied
                     life-blood to Lee's army; and thus compel the Confederate commander to retreat
                     or starve in his trenches. One thing was plain—that when Grant reached the
                     Southside railroad, Lee was lost, unless he could mass his army and cut his way
                     through the forces opposed to him. And this fact was so obvious, the situation
                     was so apparent—that from the moment when the Weldon road was seized upon by
                     General Grant, that officer and his great adversary never removed their eyes
                     from the real point of importance, the true key of the lock—namely the
                     Southside railroad, on Lee's right.
                  Elsewhere Grant attacked, but it was to cover some movement, still toward his
                     left. He assaulted Lee's works, north of the James—but it was south of the
                     Appomattox that he was looking. The operations of the fall and winter, on the
                     lines around Petersburg were a great series of marches and counter-marches to
                     and fro, suddenly bursting into battles. Grant massed his army heavily in front
                     of the works in Charles City opposite the left of Lee; attempted to draw in
                     that direction his adversary's main force; then suddenly the blue lines
                     vanished; they were rushed by railroad toward Petersburg, and Grant hastened to
                     thrust his columns still farther beyond Lee's right, in order to turn it and
                     seize the Southside road.
                  That was not the conception of a great soldier, it may be, reader; but it was
                     ingenious. General Grant was not a man of great military brain—but he was
                     patient, watchful, and persevering. To defeat Lee, what was wanted was genius,
                     or obstinacy— Napoleon or Grant. In the long run, perseverance was going to
                     achieve the results of genius. The tortoise was going to reach the same goal
                     with the hare. It was a question of time—that was all.
                  So, throughout October, as throughout September, and August, and July, General
                     Grant thundered everywhere along his forty miles of earth-works, but his object
                     was to raise a smoke dense enough to hide the blue columns moving westward.
                     "Hurrah! we have got Fort Harrison!" exclaimed his enthusiastic subordinates.
                     Grant would much rather have heard, "We have got the White Oak road!" Fort
                     Harrison was a strong out-post simply; the White Oak road was the postern door
                     into the citadel.
                  Gradually moving thus, from the Jerusalem plank road to the Weldon railroad,
                     from the Weldon railroad to the Squirrel Level road, from the Squirrel Level
                     road toward the Boydton road, beyond which was the White Oak road, Grant came,
                     toward the end of October, to the banks of the Rowanty. As this long blue
                     serpent unfolded its coils and stretched its threatening head into the
                     Dinwiddie woods, Lee had extended his right to confront it. The great opponents
                     moved pari passu, each marching in face of
                     each other. Like two trained and skillful swordsmen, they changed ground
                     without moving their eyes from each others' faces—the lunge was met by the
                     parry; and this seemed destined to go on to infinity.
                  That was the unskilled opinion, however. The civilians thought that—Lee did
                     not. It was plain that this must end somewhere. Lee's line would not bear much
                     further extension. It reached now from a point on the Williamsburg road, east
                     of Richmond, to Burgess's Mill, west of Petersburg. His forty thousand men were
                     strung over forty miles. That made the line so thin that it would bear little
                     more. Stretched a little farther still, and it would snap.
                  Lee called in vain for more men. The Government could not send them. He
                     predicted the result of failure to receive them. They did not come.
                  And Grant continued to move on, and Lee continued to stretch his thin line,
                     until it began to crack.
                  Such was the situation of affairs at the end of October—when Grant aimed a heavy blow to cut the line in
                     pieces. The blue serpent raised its head, and sprung to strike.
               
               
                  XXVI. THE HOUSE NEAR MONK'S NECK, AND ITS OWNER.
                  SUCH was the critical condition of affairs when I again set out to make my
                     regular tour of inspection of the cavalry.
                  Crossing Hatcher's Run at Burgess's Mill, I turned to the left, and soon found
                     myself riding on between the lofty walls of pine, through which the roads of
                     Dinwiddie wind like a serpent.
                  When near Monk's Neck, I determined to stop and feed my horse. I always
                     carried, strapped behind my saddle, a small bag containing about a feed of corn
                     for that purpose; and as I generally selected some wayside house where I could,
                     myself, rest while my horse was feeding, I now looked about me to discover
                     such.
                  My search was speedily rewarded. Three hundred yards from the road, in a clump
                     of stunted trees, I saw a small house, which I soon reached. The surroundings
                     of the establishment were poor and mean beyond expression. Through the open
                     door I could see that the interior was even more poverty-stricken than the
                     outside.
                  As I dismounted, a man came to this door. Are you fond of natural history,
                     reader; and have you ever amused yourself by instituting comparisons between
                     certain human beings and certain animals—beasts, birds, or fishes? I have seen
                     men who resembled horses, owls, hawks, sheep,—and geese. This one resembled the
                     bird called the penguin. Read the description of the penguins: "Their feet are
                     placed more posteriorly than in any other birds, and only afford them support
                     by resting on the tarsus, which is enlarged, like the sole of the foot of a
                     quadruped. The wings are very small, and are furnished with rudiments of
                     feathers only, resembling scales. Their bodies are covered with oblong
                     feathers, harsh to the touch, and closely applied over each other. Their
                     motions are slow and awkward, and from the form of their wings, they can not
                     fly."
                  The individual before me recalled the penguin—except that he was excessively
                     lean instead of fat. The feet accorded with the above description; the arms
                     were short, and hung like wings; the coat of the worthy was a ragged
                     "cut-away," which ended in a point behind, like the tail of a bird; and the
                     movements of the individual were "slow and awkward" to a degree which forbade
                     the supposition that, under any circumstances, he could be induced to fly. Add
                     a long, crane-like neck, two bleared eyes, a mouth stretching from ear to ear,
                     and a nose like the bill of a duck. You will then have before you the gentleman
                     who bore, as I soon discovered, the classic name of Mr. Alibi.
                  When the worthy, who had flapped his arms, by way of greeting, and shown me
                     into his mansion, informed me that such was his name, I knew that the house at
                     which I now found myself was the place of meeting agreed upon between Nighthawk
                     and Swartz, at their interview in Richmond. Here, also, the man and woman,
                     rescued by Swartz on the Nottoway, had been left, on his way to Petersburg, as
                     the spy had informed us in the Wilderness.
                  "Well, general," croaked Mr. Alibi, with a smile, and in a nasal voice,
                     "wha—a—t's the news?"
                  "I am only a lieutenant-colonel, Mr. Alibi."
                  "Well, colonel, any thing stirring?"
                  "Nothing, I think. Any news with you, Mr. Alibi? I have heard of you from a
                     friend of yours."
                  "Eh! And who mout that be, colonel?"
                  "Mr. Nighthawk. Have you seen him lately?"
                  "Na—a—a—w," said Mr. Alibi, with a prolonged drawl through his nose, and
                     flapping his arms in an uncouth fashion, "I ain't seen him for a long spell
                     now."
                  "Nor Swartz, either?"
                  "Mr. Alibi looked keenly at me.
                  "Na—a—a—w, nor him nuther, leftenant-colonel."
                  "Leave out the 'leftenant,' my dear Mr. Alibi; and call me 'colonel'—it is
                     shorter," I said, laughing, as I looked at the queer figure. "And so you have not seen Swartz lately?
                     He made an appointment to meet Nighthawk here."
                  "Made an app'intment, did he, leftenant—least ways, colonel?"
                  "Yes."
                  "With Mr. Nighthawk?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Well, I reckon they are both dead, or they'd 'a' kept their app'intment."
                  "Nighthawk dead!"
                  "He must be, sartain."
                  "You are mistaken, friend Alibi," said a voice behind him. And Nighthawk, in
                     person, entered the house.
               
               
                  XXVII. STARVATION.
                  NIGHTHAWK had appeared, as was his wont, as if he had risen from the earth.
                  But this circumstance disappeared from my mind at once. I was looking at his
                     face. It had completely lost its benignant expression; was pale, and bore marks
                     of great fatigue. Something of the old clerical benignity came to the eyes as
                     he greeted me cordially; but sitting down in the nearest chair, as though
                     completely wearied out, he became as dispirited as before.
                  "And what mout be the matter with you, Mr. Nighthawk?" said Mr. Alibi: "you
                     look 's if the night hags had been a-riding of you with spurs on."
                  And Mr. Alibi flapped his wings, stretched out his neck, and seemed about to
                     cackle.
                  "I am tired, Alibi," said Nighthawk, briefly, "go to the spring and get me some
                     fresh water. You needn't come back in a hurry, as I wish to talk with Colonel
                     Surry."
                  And Mr. Nighthawk rose, and carelessly sat down near the window, through which
                     he could reconnoitre.
                  The object of this movement was soon evident. Mr. Alibi took a bucket, and went
                     out as though to seek the spring. When he had gone a few paces, however, he
                     turned to the right and disappeared behind the house, toward the opposite
                     window, which was open.
                  Nighthawk rose, went to the door, and caught Mr. Alibi caves-dropping—the
                     result of which was that the penguin hastily moved off, muttering. In a minute
                     he had shambled along and disappeared.
                  No sooner had his figure vanished than Nighthawk turned hastily toward me.
                  "Will you go with me to-night, colonel, on an expedition I intend to make?" he
                     said.
                  "An expedition, Nighthawk?"
                  "A work of mercy, colonel; let us talk quickly. That man, Alibi, is a spy—for
                     both sides—and I wish to arrange every thing before he returns."
                  "Explain, Nighthawk."
                  "I will, colonel. Do you remember that night in Richmond, when Swartz made an
                     appointment to meet me at a house near Monk's Neck?"
                  "Perfectly."
                  "Well, this is the house,—and I expected important results from that meeting.
                     Unfortunately, I was prevented, by some pickets who arrested me, from reaching
                     this spot on the appointed day. I was here two days afterward, however—asked
                     for Swartz—he had not been here—and as that was the most unaccountable thing in
                     the world to me, I set out to find him."
                  "In the enemy's lines?"
                  "Yes, colonel. I had no doubt I would come across him somewhere. So I went
                     through the country behind the Federal lines; looked everywhere for my man,
                     have been looking ever since I left you—and at last have found him."
                  "Where?"
                  "In the upper room of a deserted house, not three miles from this place, within
                     the enemy's picket line."
                  "The upper room of a deserted house?"
                  "Confined—put to starve there, colonel! The work of Darke, and that she devil who goes about with him, I am
                     willing to swear, colonel!"
                  "Good heavens! Is it possible?" I said, "Swartz is shut up and left to
                     starve?"
                  "Exactly, colonel—and here is how I know it. I was coming back, worn out by my
                     long search after Swartz, when in passing this house, I came suddenly upon a
                     picket of about fifty men. To avoid being seen, I ran, being on foot, and got
                     behind the house. I had no sooner done so, than I heard groans from the upper
                     part of it—and as the house was entirely uninhabited, these sounds excited my
                     curiosity—not to say astonishment. Well, I determined to find the origin of
                     them. I crawled through a broken window—reached the second floor by a dusty
                     staircase, and went straight toward a door, behind which I heard the groaning.
                     It was heavily locked, and I could not even shake it. Then I ran to the
                     partition between the room and the passage—found it made of boards, between the
                     cracks of which I could see—and looking in, I saw Swartz! He was sitting on an
                     old broken chair, beside a table with three legs, and his hand was buried in
                     his hair, as if he was trying to tear it out.
                  "When I called to him, he started, and his groans stopped. He turned his head.
                     No sooner had he recognized me than he cried out with joy; and for some moments
                     he could say nothing but "Save me! save me! Nighthawk! They are starving me to
                     death?"
                  "I will not lengthen out my story, colonel. I see Alibi coming back. I had
                     scarcely exchanged ten words with Swartz, when I heard the gallop of a horse,
                     and running to the window, saw that woman get off. A second's
                     reflection told me that she was coming into the house; I knew that, if
                     discovered, I would be shot or taken prisoner—and I decided on my course in a
                     minute. I said to Swartz, 'wait a few hours—I will go and bring you help.' I
                     glided through a back window, dropped to the ground, ran into the bushes—and
                     here I am, colonel, waiting for night to come, to return and rescue
                     Swartz."
                  "Can you do so?"
                  "With one companion—to look out while I pick the lock."
                  "Good—I'll go with you; and provide for contingencies, too."
                  I had seen a cavalryman passing along the road in front of the house, and as
                     Mr. Alibi came in at the same moment, I sent him to hail the wayfarer, and
                     bring him to the house. As soon as Mr. Alibi had left us on his errand, I tore
                     a sheet from my note-book, obtained from Nighthawk an exact description of the
                     locality where Swartz was confined, and writing a note to Mohun, informed him
                     of our intention. If he could send a squadron of cavalry to drive in the picket
                     near the house, it would insure the the success of our design, I added.
                  As I finished this note, Mr. Alibi appeared with the cavalryman. He proved to
                     belong to Mohun's command. I entrusted the note to him, cautioning him that it
                     was important, and must reach Mohun promptly—then I looked at my watch.
                  It was four o'clock. Already the sun was declining toward the wooded horizon; I
                     looked toward it, and then at Nighthawk, who nodded.
                  "In an hour, colonel," he said, "and as I am broken down, I will sleep."
                  "With these words, Nighthawk leaned back in his split-bottom chair, covered his
                     face with his handkerchief, and in ten seconds his long, quiet breathing showed
                     plainly that he was asleep.
                  "A cur'ous man, leftenant-colonel! a cur'ous man is Mr. Nighthawk!" said Mr.
                     Alibi.
                  And he flapped his arms, and wriggled about in a manner so extraordinary that
                     he looked more like a penguin than ever.
               
               
                  XXVIII. BIRDS OF PREY.
                  NIGHT came on. I left my horse at Mr. Alibi's; set off on foot with Nighthawk;
                     crossed the Rowanty, separating the opposing pickets, by a moss-covered log, in
                     a shadowy nook, and was approaching the house in which Swartz was shut up.
                  Nighthawk moved with the stealthy and gliding step of a wildcat cat. I could see the man was a born scout;
                     intended by nature for the calling he had adopted—secret service. He scarcely
                     uttered a word; when he did, it was in tones so low that they were lost in the
                     whisper of the wind, amid the great trailing vines depending from the trees,
                     and I was compelled to lean my ear close to catch the words.
                  Fifty paces from the bank, a shadowy object on horseback was visible by the dim
                     light.
                  "The vedette," murmured Nighthawk, "but he need not see us."
                  And plunging, or rather gliding into the shadow of the trees, he led the way
                     without noise, to a point directly in rear of the vedette.
                  A hundred yards farther a fire twinkled; and around this fire were the dusky
                     figures of men and horses. This was evidently the picket.
                  Three hundred paces to the left, rose a darkobject, sombre and lugubrious
                     against the night, which it exceeded in blackness. Only in the upper portion of
                     the house, a dim light, like a star, glittered.
                  "Some one is yonder," came from Nighthawk in a murmur as before, "let us go
                     there, colonel."
                  And crouching down until his body nearly reached the earth, my companion
                     glided, snake-like, toward the house. I imitated him; we passed unobserved, and
                     almost immediately were behind the house.
                  Nighthawk then rose erect, and said in a whisper:—
                  "I am going to reconnoitre. Remain here, colonel. If I think you can come up
                     without danger, I will make you a signal through that window."
                  With these words Nighthawk pointed to an open window about ten feet from the
                     ground; glided past me through the broken sash of one beside which we were
                     standing, and disappeared like a shadow.
                  I waited, holding my breath. From the upper portion of the house came the
                     muffled sound of voices. I was endeavoring to distinguish the words uttered,
                     when I saw Nighthawk appear at the upper window, and make me a sign.
                  That sign indicated that I might ascend with a reasonable amount of safety; and
                     passing without noise through the window, I found myself in a bare and deserted
                     apartment, with a single shutterless window opposite me. On the right was an
                     open door. I passed through it, and found myself at the foot of a rough
                     stairway, occupying half of a narrow passage.
                  Ascending, not without more than one creak, which, I must confess, sent a
                     tingle through my nerves, I reached the upper landing, found myself in front of
                     a closed door, and beside this door encountered the warning hand of
                     Nighthawk.
                  "Look!" he said.
                  And drawing me toward him, he pointed through a crack in the board partition,
                     which separated the passage from the apartment.
               
               
                  XXIX. DARKE'S PAST LIFE.
                  LEANING on Nighthawk's shoulder, I placed my eye at the aperture.
                  On a broken chair beside the three-legged table sat Darke, booted, spurred, and
                     armed with pistol and sabre. In an old rocking-chair, without arms, the
                     singular woman, who seemed to accompany him everywhere, sat rocking to and fro,
                     and carelessly tapping with a small whip, the handsome gray riding-habit which
                     defined her slender and graceful figure.
                  Facing them, on an old bed frame, sat the unfortunate Swartz—but I would
                     scarcely have recognized him, if I had not known that it was he. His frame had
                     fallen away almost to nothing. His clothes hung upon him as upon a wooden pole.
                     His cheeks were pale, sunken; his eyes hollow; his bearing, cowed, abject, and
                     submissive beyond expression.
                  Let me spare the reader one horror, however. Hunger was not torturing the
                     unfortunate man at this moment. Beside him, on the floor, lay a piece of meat,
                     and an unfinished loaf—thus it was
                     evident that food had been brought to him; and as some of that food remained
                     uneaten, he must have satisfied his hunger.
                  From Swartz, my glance passed to Darke. This second survey of the worthy proved
                     to me that he was what is succinctly styled "half-drunk." But drink appeared
                     not to have exhilarated him. It seemed even to have made him more morose. In
                     the eyes and lips of the heavily bearded Hercules could be read a species of
                     gloomy sarcasm—a something resembling bitter melancholy.
                  The woman in the gray dress, had never appeared cooler. She rocked to and fro
                     in her chair with an air of perfect insouciance.
                  
                  The interview had evidently lasted some time before our arrival at the house;
                     but, as the reader will perceive, we came soon enough to overhear a somewhat
                     singular revelation.
                  As I reached my position near the door, Darke was speaking to Swartz:—
                  "You ask why you are shut up here to starve," he said, "and as I have some time
                     on my hands to-night, I am going to tell you. That might be called 'imprudent.'
                     No! I am talking to a dead man! You see I hold out no false hopes—you will not
                     leave this house alive probably—I will go back, and tell you something which
                     will serve to explain the whole."
                  Darke paused a moment, and then gazed with a strange mixture of gloom and
                     tenderness upon the gray woman.
                  "Perhaps you, too, madam," he said, speaking in a low tone, "may be ignorant of
                     a part of my history. You know the worst—but not all. You shall know every
                     thing. Listen; and I beg you will not interrupt me. About ten years ago, I
                     chanced to be at Dinwiddie Court-House, a few miles only from this spot; and
                     one day a certain Mr. George Conway visited the court-house to receive a
                     considerable sum of money which was to be paid to him."
                  At the words "a certain Mr. George Conway," uttered by the speaker, in a hoarse
                     and hesitating voice, I very nearly uttered an exclamation. That name, which
                     General Davenant's recent narrative had surrounded with so many gloomy
                     associations, produced a profound effect on me, as it now escaped from this
                     man's lips; and had it not been for Nighthawk's warning pressure on my arm, I
                     should probably have betrayed our vicinity. Fortunately nately I suppressed the
                     rising exclamation; it had attracted no attention; and Darke went on in the
                     same low tone:—
                  "I was in the clerk's office of Dinwiddie when the money I refer to was paid to
                     Mr. Conway. It amounted to about ten thousand dollars, and as I had at that
                     time no business in the region more important than hanging around the tavern,
                     and drinking and playing cards—as, besides this, I was at the end of my
                     resources, having lost my last penny on the night before, at the cardtable—the
                     idea occurred to me that it would not be a bad plan to ride after Mr. Conway;
                     accost him on the road; represent my necessities to him, and request a small
                     loan out of his abundant means, to prevent myself from being deprived of my
                     luxuries—liquor and cards. Is that a roundabout way of saying I intended to act
                     the highwayman, perhaps the—murderer—on this occasion? By no means, madam! What
                     is highway robbery? Is it not the brutal and wanton robbery of the poor as well
                     as the rich? Well, I was not going to rob anybody. I was going to request a
                     small loan—and so far from intending violence, or—murder—"he uttered that word
                     always in a hesitating voice—"I swear, I had no such intention. I was entirely
                     unarmed; upon my whole person there was not one deadly weapon—it was only by
                     accident that I found, when riding out of the court-house, that I had a small
                     pen-knife in my pocket. This I had picked up, by pure accident from the table
                     of the clerk's office, where some one had laid it down. I had carelessly
                     commenced paring my nails with it—my attention was attracted by something else.
                     I finished paring my nails, and without being aware of what I was doing, put
                     the knife in my pocket.
                  "Well, you may think, perhaps, all this is irrelevant. You are mistaken. Many
                     things turned on that knife. The devil himself placed it in my grasp that
                     day!"
               
               
                  
                  XXX. STABBED "NOT MURDERED."
                  "WELL," Darke continued, "I have told you my design, and now I will inform you
                     how I carried it out.
                  "I saw Mr. George Conway receive the money—in notes, bank notes, and gold. That
                     was enough; I knew the road he would take; and going to the stable of the
                     tavern I saddled my horse, and rode out of the place in a western direction.
                     When I was out of sight, however, I turned eastward toward Five Forks, pushed
                     into the woods, and about sunset took my stand in a piece of timber, on the
                     side of the road which—he—was coming by."
                  There was always a marked hesitation when he came to the name of his victim. He
                     went on more rapidly now.
                  "Well, he came along about dusk. Some one followed him, but I could not make
                     out who. Another man came on from the direction of Petersburg; passed me and
                        him; and the other who had followed him out of the
                     court-house turned into a by-road and disappeared. Then I saw that the game was
                     in my own hands. I waited, looking at him as he approached me. I swear I did
                     not intend to harm him. I was half-drunk, but I remember what I intended. He
                     came on. I rode toward him, demanded the money, he refused. I threw myself on
                     him, as he struck at me with the butt of his heavy riding-whip, then we both
                     rolled to the ground, I under! His clutch was on my throat, I was choking.
                     'Help,' he cried, and I came near crying it, too! All at once my hand fell upon
                     my pocket, I felt the knife, I drew it out, opened it, and stabbed him as he
                     was strangling me!
                  "That was the whole! Do you call it a murder? I rose up, as
                        he fell back. His breast was all bloody; his eyes turned round;
                     he gasped something, and fell back dead."
                  The speaker paused and wiped his brow with his huge, muscular hand. His face
                     was a strange spectacle. The most bitter and terrible emotions of the human
                     heart were written there as with a pen of fire.
                  "Then I looked at him;" he went on, "I said to myself, 'this is a murder,'
                     foolishly, for he was stabbed, not murdered; and my first thought was to
                     conceal the body. I dragged it to the roadside, hid it in some bushes, and
                     thinking I heard some one coming, leaped on my horse, who had stood by
                        quietly—his had galloped away—and left the cursed spot as fast
                     as I could go. The money was left on him. I swear I did not touch a penny of
                     it, and would not have touched it, even if I had not been interrupted. I had
                     not intended to kill him. It was the result of the struggle. I took nothing of
                        his away from that place, but I left something of my own; the
                     knife with which I had struck him!"
                  "The devil had put the cursed thing into my hand; and now the devil made me
                     drop it there, within ten feet of the dead body."
               
               
                  XXXI. THE TWO PAPERS.
                  DARKE had spoken in a low, dull, gloomy voice; and something like a shudder had
                     passed through his frame as he painted, in brief words, the sombre scene. This
                     emotion now seemed even to grow deeper. Was there good left in this wild
                     animal?
                  "That knife," he continued, "was very nearly the means of hanging an innocent
                     man. It belonged to a gentleman of the neighborhood who had accidentally laid
                     it on the table of the clerk's office, a few moments before I, as accidentally,
                     picked it up—and this gentleman had just had angry words
                     with—him—about a trifle. What made things worse was that they had
                     long been enemies—and when he was found there, dead in the bushes,
                     next day, the owner of the knife found near the body was arrested as the
                     murderer.
                  "Well, he went to jail, and the trial was coming on soon. The evidence against
                     him was strong. He was the known enemy of—Mr. Conway. He had quarrelled with
                     him on that day, and his knife was found by—the body—on which the money had not
                     been touched. A robber, you see, would have taken the money; as it was
                     untouched the crime must have been committed by a personal enemy. Who was that enemy? The
                     prisoner—whose name was Davenant!
                  "Well, the trial was near. I had gone back to the court-house on that
                        day, and was still hanging around the place. What was I to do? I had
                     to determine whether I would let an innocent man be hanged for my crime, or go
                     to the sheriff and say, 'release the prisoner—I am the murderer.' That was
                     rather more than I was ready for, and I hit on a means which might serve. The
                     knife was important evidence—the most important—and I was in the
                     clerk's office one day, hanging round and listening, when I saw the sheriff put
                     the knife in a drawer, to have it ready near court on the day of trial. Well,
                     that night I broke into the court-house—stole the knife—and waited to see what
                     would occur on the trial.
                  "As the day drew near I felt like a real murderer, and had the prisoner all the
                     time before my eyes, hanging on a gallows. I drank harder than ever, but I
                     could not get that picture out of my mind. I saw worse pictures than before. So
                     I determined what to do. I sat down, wrote a full confession of the murder,
                     which I signed; and a friend of mine carried this to the prisoner's wife. I had
                     put on it 'In haste, this will save Mr. Davenant's life'—and his wife carried
                     it, at full speed, with her own hands to the court-house, where she arrived
                     just as the jury had retired.
                  "The prisoner opened and read it. When he had finished it, he folded it up and
                     put it in his pocket. As he did so, the jury came in with a verdict of 'Not
                     guilty'—and he went out of the court-room accompanied by a crowd of
                     friends.
                  "So he was cleared, you see—without using the document which I had written.
                     That was in his pocket; was of no further use; and as it might become dangerous
                     I entered his house that night, broke open the desk in which he kept his
                     private papers, and took this one out, reading and making sure that it was the
                     genuine document, by the light of the moon which streamed in at the window.
                  "I was still looking at the paper, when a noise behind me attracted my
                     attention, and turning round I saw—Mr. Davenant. He had heard the noise I made
                     in breaking open the secretary tary; put on his dressing-gown; and coming down,
                     pistol in hand, was on me before I knew it. The few minutes that followed were
                     rather angry, and noisy. Unexpectedly, Mr. Davenant did not fire on me. After
                     an interchange of compliments, I put the paper in my pocket, passed out through
                     the window, and mounting my horse, rode away.
                  "After that I went far, and saw many persons. Among the rest you, madam; and
                     our matrimonial life has been chequered!
                  "A word to you, now," he added, turning toward Swartz. "I shut you up here to
                     starve you to death because you were trusted and have betrayed me. Listen, and
                     I will tell you how. You are greedy for gold, and this greed has tempted you to
                     an act which will be your destruction. In Pennsylvania, one night, just before
                     the battle of Gettysburg, you were at my house, and stole a paper from madam,
                     who was collecting every thing to hide it from the enemy. No matter how I know
                     that; I have made the discovery, and you deny it—refusing to deliver up that
                     paper, which you state you never had, and consequently have not in your
                     possession. In saying that, you lied! You stole that paper, and promise
                     yourself that you will sell it for a large sum of money—you have already been
                     bargaining, and have tried to finish the business.
                  "Well, that paper is interesting—to madam at least; and she has kept it with
                     care from the eyes of the very person you would sell it to! Folded with it was
                     another paper which is no less valuable to me. Thus, you see, that we are
                     interested; and we will probably be informed in a day from this time where to
                     find both the documents—as you will then be starving, and will reveal every
                     thing!
                  "You think me jesting, perhaps—you imagine I will spare you. Undeceive
                     yourself—your life is a small matter compared with these two papers.
                  "One is the certificate of madam's marriage with your very humble servant; the
                     other the letter which I took from Mr. Davenant's desk that night, in which I
                     confess myself the—well! the murderer—of George Conway!"
               
               
                  
                  XXXII. A PISTOL-SHOT.
                  DARKE'S deep and gloomy voice ceased to resound, and for a moment the silence
                     of the apartment was only disturbed by the slight creaking made by the chair of
                     the woman, as she quietly rocked backward and forward.
                  Swartz had risen to his feet while Darke was uttering his final words. With
                     clasped hands, and trembling lips, he was about to throw himself upon his
                     knees;—when suddenly a shot resounded without, a cry was heard, and then this
                     was succeeded by rapid firing, mingled with hoof-strokes, in the immediate
                     vicinity of the house.
                  Darke rose to his feet, and in two strides was at the window.
                  "An attack!" he exclaimed. "Can the friends of this carrion be trying to catch
                     me!"
                  And springing toward the door, he tore it open.
                  Suddenly, another thought seemed to come to him. Returning at a bound to the
                     side of Swartz, he seized him by the throat, dragged him through the door, and
                     rushed down the steps, still dragging the unfortunate man.
                  As he passed me, I drew my revolver and fired on him, but the ball did not
                     strike him. Then I saw the woman dart past like a shadow. When Nighthawk and
                     myself reached the foot of the stairs, she and Darke were already in the
                     saddle.
                  The collar of Swartz was still in his clutch. He seemed determined to bear him
                     off at the risk of being himself captured; for a second glance showed me that a
                     party of Confederate cavalry was rushing headlong toward the house, led by an
                     officer whom I made out to be Mohun.
                  Darke saw that the small force on picket could not contend with the attacking
                     party.
                  By the starlight, I could see his face, as he glared over his shoulder at
                     Mohun, whom he had evidently recognized. An expression of profound hate was in
                     that glance; a hoarse growl issued from his lips; and I distinguished the low
                     words addressed to Swartz, whom he was dragging on beside his horse.
                  "So, you are rescued, you think! You have laid this trap for me, jailbird!"
                  He drew his pistol as he spoke, and placed it close to the unhappy man's
                     temple. I had mine in my hand, and, aiming at Darke, fired.
                  It was too late. The bullet did not strike him; and the report of his own
                     weapon followed that of mine like an echo.
                  Swartz staggered back, threw up his hands, and uttering a wild cry, fell at
                     full length upon the ground.
                  The scene which followed was as brief as this tragedy. Mohun charged, at the
                     head of his men, and drove the picket force before him. In five minutes the
                     whole party were dispersed, or captured.
                  Darke had escaped with the gray woman, in the darkness.
                  The pursuit did not continue far. The Federal lines were near; and Mohun soon
                     recalled his men.
                  Grasping me cordially by the hand, he exclaimed:—
                  "Well, Surry! the prisoner! Where is Swartz?"
                  I pointed to the spot where his body lay, and went thither with Mohun.
                  Swartz lay perfectly dead, in a pool of blood. Darke had blown out his
                     brains.
               
               
                  XXXIII. PRESTON HAMPTON.
                  AN hour afterward the body of the unfortunate man had been buried, and I had
                     returned with Mohun and Nighthawk to the opposite bank of the Rowanty.
                  I had never seen Mohun so gloomy. He scarcely uttered a word during the whole
                     march back; and when I announced my intention to spend the night at the house
                     of Mr. Alibi, as the long tramp had wearied me out, he scarcely invited me to
                        his head-quarters, and when I
                     declined, did not urge me. Something evidently weighed heavily on the mind of
                     Mohun, and a few moment's reflection explained the whole to me.
                  He had conversed rapidly and apart with Nighthawk near the lonely house; and
                     his gloom had dated from that conversation. Nighthawk had evidently explained
                     every thing: the cause of Swartz's imprisonment; his statement in reference to
                     the paper—and now that Swartz was dead, the hiding-place of the document seemed
                     forever undiscoverable.
                  If the reader does not understand the terrible significance of this fact, and
                     Mohun's consequent gloom, I promise that he shall comprehend all before very
                     long.
                  Mohun returned to his camp, and I remained at the house of Mr. Alibi until
                     morning, stretched on a lounge, and wrapped in my cape.
                  I awoke about sunrise. As I opened my eyes, quick firing came from the
                     direction of Burgess's Mill. The fire speedily became more rapid and
                     continuous; I hastened to mount my horse; and as I did so, a courier passed at
                     full gallop.
                  "What news?" I asked.
                  "The enemy are advancing in force! They have crossed!"
                  "Where?"
                  "Near Armstrong's!"
                  And the courier disappeared, at full speed, in the woods. In a moment I had
                     abandoned my design of inspecting, and was riding back.
                  "Armstrong's" was a mill on the Rowanty, near the Boydton road. If the enemy
                     had crossed there, in force, it was to make a heavy advance toward the
                     Southside road.
                  I was not mistaken. Reaching the debouchment of the "Quaker road," I found the
                     cavalry drawn up in order of battle—a dispatch had been sent to hurry up the
                     rest—on the lower waters of the Rowanty, and General Hampton informed me of the
                     situation of affairs.
                  The enemy had advanced in heavy force at sunrise, driven in the pickets, and,
                     crossing the Rowanty, seized on the Boydton road and the bridge at Burgess's
                     Mill. From prisoners taken, it was ascertained that the force consisted of the
                     Second, Fifth, and part of the Ninth Corps; Grant, Meade, and Hancock,
                     accompanying the troops in person.
                  That left nothing in doubt. If any remained, it was dispelled by the fact,
                     stated to me by General Hampton, that the Federal troops "had eight days'
                     rations, and were certainly bound for the Southside road."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  I had scarcely received this intelligence from General Hampton, when a heavy
                     attack was made upon General William H. F. Lee, holding the Quaker road.
                  From that moment the battle began to rage with determined fury, and the entire
                     force of cavalry was engaged in an obstinate fight with the advancing enemy. It
                     was a bitter and savage affair. The men charged; dismounted and fought behind
                     impromptu breastworks of rails; fell back only when they were pushed by the
                     weight of the great column rolling forward; and for hours the whole field was a
                     hurly-burly of dust, smoke, blood, uproar, carbine shots, musket shots, and the
                     long threatening roar of cannon.
                  The Stuart horse artillery fought like tigers. The men stuck to their guns amid
                     a storm of bullets, and vindicated, as they had done before on many fields, the
                     name of "my pets," given them by Stuart! Among the officers, Will Davenant was
                     seen, sitting his horse amid the smoke, as calm as a May morning; and I shall
                     never forget the smile on the face of this young bull-dog, when he said:—
                  "I think we can hold our ground, colonel."
                  And looking over his shoulder, in the direction of Five Forks, he
                     murmured:—
                  "This is a good place to die, too."
                  A thundering cheer rose suddenly above the roar of the guns, and the line of
                     dismounted sharp-shooters behind their rail breastworks opened a more steady
                     and resolute fire as the enemy appeared to pause.
                  At the same moment young Preston Hampton, a son of the general, and one of my
                     favorites, from his courage and courtesy, passed by at a gallop, cheering and
                     encouraging the skirmishers.
                  
                  I spurred after him. Just as I reached him, I saw the arm waving above his head
                     suddenly drop; his sword escaped from his grasp, and he fell from the saddle to
                     the ground.
                  In an instant I had dismounted, and with other officers who hastened up, had
                     raised him from the earth.
                  As we did so, the group, consisting now of no less than seven, attracted the
                     enemy's attention; a hot fire was opened on us, and before we could bear the
                     dying youth in our arms beyond the reach of the fire, four out of the seven
                     officers were shot.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  The boy was placed in an ambulance, and borne to the rear; but the wound was
                     fatal, and he soon afterward expired. A staff officer afterward informed me
                     that General Hampton did not leave his tent for a fortnight—scarcely replying
                     when he was spoken to, and prostrated by grief.
                  I could understand that. The death of the brave youth sent a pang to my own
                     heart—and he was only my friend. The great heart of the father must have been
                     nearly broken.
                  So fell Preston Hampton. Peace to his ashes! No kinder or braver spirit ever
                     died for his country!
               
               
                  XXXIV. I AM CAPTURED.
                  HOUR after hour the battle continued to rage; the enemy making resolute
                     attempts to brush off the cavalry.
                  It was now discovered that Hancock's corps had crossed the Rowanty, supported
                     by Crawford's division, with two corps behind; and as General Hancock held the
                     bridge at Burgess's, there seemed little probability that Lee could cross a
                     force to attack him.
                  But this was done. While the cavalry fought the blue masses with obstinate
                     courage on the Boydton road, Mahone, that daring soldier, crossed a column of
                     three brigades over the Rowanty, below Burgess's; and suddenly the enemy found
                     themselves atacked in flank and rear. Mahone did not pause. He advanced
                     straight to the assault; swept every thing before him, and thrusting his small
                     force in between Hancock and Crawford, tore from the former four hundred
                     prisoners, three battle-flags, and six pieces of artillery.
                  The assault had been sudden and almost overwhelming. While hotly engaged with
                     Hampton in front, the enemy had all at once staggered beneath the heavy blow
                     dealt on their flank and rear. They turned to strike at this new foe; and the
                     shock which followed was rude, the onset bloody.
                  Mahone met it with that dash and stubbornness now proverbial in the army; and,
                     hurling his three brigades against the advancing column, broke through three
                     lines of battle, and drove them back.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *"In the attack subsequently made by the enemy, General Mahone broke three
                        lines of battle."—General Lee's Dispatch of October 28,
                        1864.
                  
                  Night was near, and the fighting still continued. The enemy seemed loth to give
                     up the ground; and were holding their position obstinately, when a determined
                     charge from a brigade of Mahone's drove every thing in its front.
                  I had been to carry a message for General Hampton, upon whose staff I served
                     during the battle, and now found myself swept forward by the brigade
                     charging.
                  In front of them, I recognized General Davenant, on horseback, and sword in
                     hand, leading the charge. His son Charley was beside him.
                  "We are driving them, colonel!" exclaimed the general, with a proud smile "and
                     look! yonder are some of their general officers flying from that house!"
                  As he spoke, he pointed to three horsemen, riding at full speed from a house
                     known as Burgess's; their splendid suit of staff officers indicated that they
                     were of high rank.
                  In fact, the three horsemen who retired thus hastily, would have proved a rich
                     prize to us. They were Generals Grant, Meade and Hancock.†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †Fact.
                  
                  They made a narrow escape, and the question suggests itself, "What would have
                     been the result of their capture?" I know not; I only know that Grant, Meade and Hancock,
                     came near having an interview with General Lee that night—a peaceful and
                     friendly talk at his head-quarters.
                  I did not think of all this then. The hot charge dragged me. I had come to
                     participate in it by the mere chance of battle—but this apparent accident was
                     destined to have very singular results.
                  I had ridden with General Davenant, as his brigade swept forward, and we were
                     breasting a heavy fire on his front, when a sudden cry of "Cavalry! look out!"
                     came from our left.
                  General Davenant wheeled his horse; went at full speed, accompanied by his son
                     and myself, through the bullets, in the direction indicated; and carried onward
                     by his animal, as I was by my own, rode right into a column of blue cavalry,
                     advancing to attack our flank.
                  Such was the "chance of battle!" At one moment General Davenant was in command
                     of a brigade which was driving the enemy, and sweeping every thing before it.
                     At the next moment he had been carried by the powerful animal which he bestrode
                     straight into the ranks of the Federal cavalry, hidden by the woods and
                     approaching darkness—had been surrounded in an instant, fired upon, and half
                     dragged from his saddle, and captured, together with his son Charley.
                  What was still more unfortunate to me, personally, was the fact that having
                     followed the old soldier, I was surrounded, and made a prisoner in the same
                     manner.
               
               
                  XXXV. FACE TO FACE.
                  WE had scarcely time to realize the truly disgusting fact, that we were
                     captured at the very instant that the enemy were being driven, when the charge
                     of the Federal cavalry was met by a hailstorm of bullets which drove them back
                     in disorder.
                  For some moments the woods presented a singular spectacle. Horsemen flying in
                     wild confusion; riderless animals darting madly toward the rear; the groans of
                     wounded men tottering in the saddle as they rushed by—all this made up a wild
                     scene of excitement, and confusion worse confounded.
                  General Davenant, his son, and myself had been ordered to the rear, under
                     escort; and the old cavalier had turned his horse's head in that direction,
                     boiling with rage at his capture, when the repulse ensued, and the Federal
                     cavalry streamed by us toward the rear.
                  All at once a loud voice was heard shouting in the half darkness:—
                  "Halt! halt! you cursed cowards! Halt! and form column!"
                  The speaker rushed toward us as he spoke, mounted upon a huge black horse, and
                     I heard the noise made by his sabre, as with the flat of it, he struck blows
                     upon the brawny shoulders of the fugitives.
                  At his summons, and the blows of his sabre, the men halted, and again fell into
                     column.
                  Under the shadowy boughs of the woods, and in the gathering darkness, the long
                     line of horsemen resembled phantoms rather than men. Near them glimmered some
                     bivouac fires; and the flickering light illumined their persons, gleamed on
                     their scabbards, and lit up the rough bearded faces.
                  "Cowardly scoundrels!" exclaimed their leader, in fierce accents, "where are
                     the prisoners that ran into us?"
                  "Here, colonel. One is a general!" said a man.
                  "Let me see them!"
                  General Davenant struck the spur violently into his horse, and rode close to
                     the Federal officer, in whom I had recognized Colonel Darke.
                  "Here I am, wretch!—look at me!" exclaimed General Davenant, foaming with rage.
                     "Accursed be the day when I begat a murderer and a renegade!"
               
               
                  
                  XXXVI. THE CURSE.
                  DARKE'S hand unconsciously drew the rein, and man and horse both seemed to
                     stagger back before the furious old soldier.
                  "General —— Davenant!" muttered Darke, turning pale.
                  "Yes, General Davenant!—a gentleman, an honest man; not a traitor and a
                     murderer!"
                  "Good God!" muttered Darke, "it is my father, truly—and my little brother! The
                     proud face, the eyes, the mouth—and yet they told me you were killed."
                  "Ah! 'Killed!' Killing is a favorite topic with you!" exclaimed General
                     Davenant, furiously; "well, kill me, now!—Strike your dastardly
                     sword, or your knife if you have one, straight into my breast!
                     Murder me, I say, as you murdered George Conway!—I have a purse in my pocket,
                     and you can rob me when I am dead. Strike! strike!—but not with the sword! That
                     is the weapon of a gentleman. Draw your knife, and stab me in the back—the
                     knife is the weapon of the assassin!"
                  And crossing his arms upon his breast, the fiery old cavalier confronted his
                     son, with eyes full of bitter wrath and disdain—eyes which I shall never
                     forget; for their fire burnt them into my memory.
                  Darke did not dare to meet them. I had listened with amazement to those words,
                     which indicated that the Federal officer was General Davenant's son; then this
                     sentiment of astonishment, profound as it was, had yielded to one of
                     expectation, if I may so express myself. What I expected was a furious outbreak
                     from the man of fierce and violent passions, thus taunted and driven to bay by
                     the repeated insults of the general. No outburst came, however. On the
                     contrary, the Federal officer bowed his head, and listened in silence, while a
                     mortal pallor diffused itself over his swarthy face.
                  His gaze was bent upon the ground, and his brows so closely knit that they
                     extended in an unbroken ridge of black and shaggy hair above his bloodshot
                     eyes. He sat his horse, in the light of the camp-fire,—a huge cavalier upon an
                     animal as powerful and forbidding in appearance as himself,—and for more than a
                     minute after the scornful outburst from General Davenant, Darke remained silent
                     and motionless, with his eyes still fixed upon the ground.
                  Then he raised his head, made a sign with his hand to an officer, and said,
                     briefly:—
                  "Move back with the column—leave these prisoners here."
                  At the word, the column moved back slowly; the shadowy figures were lost sight
                     of in the darkness; General Davenant, his son Charles, Darke, and myself, were
                     left alone beside the campfire.
                  Then the Federal officer, with a face over which seemed to pass "the shadow of
                     unutterable things," looked first with a long, wistful, absorbed glance toward
                     the boy Charles, his brother—lastly, toward his father.
                  "Why do you taunt me?" he said, in a low tone. "Will that result in any good
                     now? Yes. I committed murder. I intended, if I did not commit, robbery. I
                     killed—yes, I killed!—with a knife—as a murderer kills. But I do not wish to
                     kill you—or Charley—or this officer—or rob you. Keep your life and your money.
                     There is the road before you, open. Go; you are free!"
                  General Davenant had sat his horse—the boy Charley beside him—listening in
                     sullen wrath. As Darke ended, the general's hand went to the hilt of his sword,
                     and he half drew it, by an instinctive movement, from the scabbard.
                  "Well!" added the Federal officer, in the same low tone, with a deeper flush in
                     his cheeks, "draw your sword, sir—strike me if you think proper. For myself, I
                     am done with murder, and shrink from it, so that, if my father wishes to kill
                     me, I will open my breast, to give him a fair opportunity. You see I am not
                     altogether the murderous wretch you take me for. I am a murderer, it is true,
                     and soiled with every vice—you see I am frank—but I will not resist, if you
                     plunge your sword into my heart. Strike! strike! While I am dying I will have
                     time to say the few words I have to say to you!"
                  General Davenant shuddered with wrath still, but a strange emotion was mingled
                     with the sentiment now—an emotion which I could not fathom. Before he could open his
                     lips, however, Darke resumed, in the same tone:—
                  "You hesitate—you are not ready to become my executioner. Well, listen, and I
                     will utter that which may deprive you of all self-control. Yes, once more, I
                     killed a man, and killed him for money; but you made me what I
                     was! You petted, and spoiled, and made me selfish. In addition, you hated—that
                     man. You had hated him for twenty years. When I grew up, I found out that. If
                     you did not strike him, you had the desire to do so—and, like a good son, I
                     shared my 'father's loves and hatreds.' I heard you speak of—him—harshly; knew
                     that an old grudge was between you; what matter if I met this enemy of the
                     family on the highroad, and, with the dagger at his throat, said: 'Yield me a
                     portion of your ill-gotten gains!' for that money was the proceeds of a forced
                     sale for cash, by which the father of a family was turned out of house and
                     home! Well, I did that—and did it under the effect of drink. I learned the
                     habit at your table; wine was placed in my hands, in my very
                     childhood, by you; you indulged all my vile selfishness; made me a miserable,
                     arrogant wretch; I came to hang about the village tavern, and gamble, and
                     fuddle myself, until I was made worthless! Then, when one day the devil tempted
                     me, I committed a crime—and that crime was committed by you! for
                        you cultivated in me the vile habits which led me on to
                     murder!"
                  Darke's eyes were gloomy, and full of a strange fire. As he uttered the last
                     words, he spurred close to his father, tore open his uniform until his bare
                     breast was visible, and added in accents full of vehement and sullen
                     passion:—
                  "Strike me! Bury your sword's point in my heart! I am your son. You are as
                     noble a gentleman as Brutus was! Kill me, then! I am a murderer: but I am a
                     Davenant, and no coward!"
                  From the fierce and swollen face, in which the dark eyes burned like
                     firebrands, my glance passed to the countenance of General Davenant. A
                     startling change had taken place in the expression of the old cavalier. He was
                     no longer erect, fiery, defiant. His glance no longer darted scorn and anger.
                     His chin had fallen upon his breast; his frame drooped; his cheeks, but now so
                     flushed, were covered with a deep pallor.
                  For a moment he remained silent. The hand which had clutched at the sword hilt
                     hung listless at his side. All at once his breast heaved, and with a sound
                     which resembled a groan, he said, in low tones:—
                  "I am punished! Yes, my hatred has brought forth fruit, and the fruit is
                     bitter! It was I who warped this life, and the tree has grown as I inclined
                     it."
                  "Yes," said Darke, in his deep voice, "first warped—then, when cut down, cast
                     off and forgotten!"
                  General Davenant looked at the speaker with bitter melancholy.
                  "Ah! you charge me with that, do you, sir?" he said, "You do not remember,
                     then, that I have suffered for you—you do not know, perhaps, that for ten years
                     I have labored under the imputation of that crime, and have preserved silence
                     that I might shield your memory—for I thought you dead! You do not know that I
                     never breathed a syllable of that letter which you sent to me on the day of my
                     trial—that I have allowed the world to believe I was saved by a legal
                     technicality! You have not heard, perhaps, that a daughter of Judge Conway is
                     beloved by your brother, and that her father rejects with scorn the very idea
                     of forming an alliance with my son—the son of one whom he regards
                     as the murderer of his brother! Oh! yes, sir! truly I have cast off and
                     forgotten you and your memory! I have not wept tears of blood over the crime
                     you committed—over the dishonor that rested on the name of Davenant! I have not
                     writhed beneath the cold and scornful eye of Judge Conway and his friends! I
                     have not seen your brother's heart breaking for love of that girl; and
                     suppressed all, concealed every thing, borne the brand on my proud forehead,
                     and his young life, that your tombstone might at
                     least not have 'murderer' cut on it! And now you taunt me with my faults!—with
                     my injudicious course toward you when your character was forming. You sneer and
                     say that I first hated George Conway, and that the son only
                     inherited the family feud, and struck the enemy of the family! Yes, I
                     acknowledge those sins; I pray daily to be forgiven for them. I have borne for
                     ten years this bitter load of dishonor. But there is something more maddening
                     even than my faults, and the stain on my name—it is to be taunted to my face,
                     here, with the charge that I struck that blow! that
                        I made you the criminal, and then threw you off, and drove you
                     to become a renegade in the ranks of our enemies!"
                  The last words of the speaker were nearly drowned in a heavy fusillade which
                     issued from the woods close by.
                  "Listen!" exclaimed General Davenant, "that is the fire of your hirelings, sir,
                     directed at the hearts of your brethren! You are leading that scum
                     against the gentlemen of Virginia! Well join them! Point me, and
                     my son, and companion out to them! Tear us to pieces with your bullets! Trample
                     us beneath your hireling heels! That will not prevent me from branding you
                     again in your dishonored forehead!—from cursing you as renegade, debauchee, and
                     murderer!"
                  The whistle of bullets mingled with these furious and resounding words; and
                     then the crackle of footsteps was heard, the undergrowth suddenly swarmed with
                     figures—a party of Confederates rushed shouting into the little glade.
                  Darke wheeled not from, but toward them, as though to charge them. The stern
                     courage of the Davenant blood burned in his cheeks and eyes. Then, with a harsh
                     and bitter laugh, he turned and pushed his horse close up beside that of his
                     father.
                  "I would call this meeting and parting strange, if any thing were strange in
                     this world!" he said, "but nothing astonishes me, or moves me, as of old! The
                     devil has brought it about! he put a knife in my hands once! to-night he brings
                     me face to face with you and my boy-brother—and makes you curse and renounce
                     me! Well, so be it! have your will! Henceforth I am really lost—my father!"
                  And drawing his pistol, he coolly discharged barrel after barrel in the faces
                     of the men rushing upon him; wheeled his horse, and dug the spurs into him; an
                     instant afterward, with his sneering face turned over his shoulder, he had
                     disappeared in the woods.
                  Two hours afterward I was on my way to Petersburg.
                  The enemy were already falling back from their adventurous attempt to seize the
                     Southside road.
                  In the morning they had retired across the Rowanty, and disappeared.
                  So ended that heavy blow at Lee's great war-artery.
                  
                     
                        THE FLIGHT.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               BOOK IV.
               THE PHANTOMS.
               
                  I. RICHMOND BY THE THROAT.
                  I WAS again back at the "Cedars," after the rapid and shifting scenes which I
                     have endeavored to place before the reader.
                  The tragic incidents befalling the actors in this drama, had most absorbed my
                     attention; but sitting now in my tent, with the newspapers before me, I looked
                     at the fight in which I had participated, from the general and historic point
                     of view.
                  That heavy advance on the Boydton road, beyond Lee's right, had been
                     simultaneous with a determined assault on the Confederate left, north of James
                     River, and on Lee's centre opposite Petersburg; and now the extracts from
                     Northern journals clearly indicated that the movement was meant to be
                     decisive.
                  "I have Richmond by the throat!" General Grant had telegraphed; but there was
                     good ground to believe that the heavy attack, and the eloquent dispatch, were
                     both meant to "make capital" for the approaching Presidential election.
                  These memoirs, my dear reader, are written chiefly to record some incidents
                     which I witnessed during the war. I have neither time nor space for political
                     comments. But I laid my hand yesterday, by accident, on an old number of the
                        Examiner newspaper; and it chanced to contain an editorial on
                     the fight just described, with some penetrating views on the "situation" at
                     that time.
                  
                  Shall I quote a paragraph from the yellow old paper? It will be bitter—we were
                     all bitter in those days! though to-day we are so fraternal and harmonious.
                     With his trenchant pen, Daniel pierced to the core of the matter; and the paper
                     may give some idea of the spirit of the times.
                  I could fancy the great satirist sitting in his lonely study, and penning the
                     lines I shall quote, not without grim smiles at his own mordant humor.
                  Here is the slip I cut out. The old familiar heading may recall those times to
                     some readers, as clearly as the biting sentences, once read, perhaps, by the
                     camp-fire.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              DAILY EXAMINER.
                              MONDAY MORNING OCT. 31, 1864.
                              "Every day must now bring its brilliant bulletin to the Yankee
                                 nation. That nation does not regard the punctual rising of the sun
                                 as more lawfully due to it than a victory every morning. And those
                                 glorious achievements of SHERIDAN in the Valley were grown cold and
                                 stale, and even plainly hollow and rotten—insomuch that after
                                 totally annihilating the army of EARLY at least three times, and so
                                 clearing the way to Lynchburg, instead of marching up to Lynchburg
                                 the heroick victor goes whirling down to Winchester. Then the
                                 superb victory obtained on Sunday of last week over PRICE in
                                 Missouri, has taken a certain bogus tint, which causes many to
                                 believe that there was, in fact, no victory and no battle. This
                                 would not do. Something fresh must be had; something electrifying;
                                 above all, something that would set the people to cheering and
                                 firing off salutes about the very day of the election;—something,
                                 too, that could not be plainly contradicted by the events till
                                 after that critical day—then let the contradiction come and
                                 welcome: your true Yankee will only laugh.
                              "From this necessity came the great 'reconnoissance in force' of
                                 last Thursday on our lines before Richmond and Petersburg; a
                                 'reconnoissance' in very heavy force indeed upon three points of
                                 our front at once both north and south of the James river; so that
                                 it may be very properly considered as three reconnoissances in
                                 force; made with a view of feeling, as it were, LEE'S position; and
                                 the object of the three reconnoissances having been fully
                                 attained—that is, LEE having been felt—they retired. That is the
                                 way in which the transactions of Thursday last are to appear in
                                 STANTON'S bulletin, we may be all quite sure; and this
                                 representation, together with the occupation of a part of the
                                 Boydton plank-road (which road the newspapers can call for a few
                                 days the Southside Road) will cause every city from Boston to
                                 Milwaukee to fire off its inevitable hundred guns. Thus, the
                                 Presidential election will be served, just in the nick of time; for
                                 that emergency it is not the real victory which is wanted, so much
                                 as the jubilation, glorification and cannon salutes.
                              "Even when the truth comes to be fully known that this was the
                                 grand pre-election assault itself: the resistless advance on
                                 Richmond which was to lift the Abolitionists into power again upon
                                 a swelling high-tide of glory unutterable—easily repulsed and sent
                                 rolling back with a loss of about six or seven thousand men in
                                 killed, wounded and prisoners; even when this is known, does the
                                 reader imagine that the Yankee nation will be discouraged? Very far
                                 from it. On the contrary it will be easily made to appear that from
                                 these 'reconnoissances in force,' an advantage has been gained,
                                 which is to make the next advance a sure and overwhelming success.
                                 For the fact is, that a day was chosen for this mighty movement,
                                 when the wind was southerly, a soft and gentle breeze, which wafted
                                 the odour of the Yankee whiskey-rations to the nostrils of
                                 Confederate soldiers. The Confederates ought to have been taken by
                                 surprise that morning; but the moment they snuffed the tainted
                                 gale, they knew what was to be the morning's work. Not more
                                 unerring is the instinct which calls the vulture to the
                                 battle-field before a drop of blood is shed; or that which makes
                                 the kites 'know well the long 'stern swell, that bids the Romans
                                 close;' than the sure induction of our army that the Yankees are
                                 coming on, when morn or noon or dewy eve breathes along the whole
                                 line a perfumed savour of the ancient rye. The way in which this
                                 discovery may be improved is plain. It will be felt and
                                    understood throughout
                                 the intelligent North, that it gives them at last the key to
                                 Richmond. They will say—Those rebels, to leeward of us, smell the
                                 rising valour of our loyal soldiers: the filling and emptying of a
                                 hundred thousand canteens perfumes the sweet South as if it had
                                 passed over a bed of violets, stealing and giving odours:—when the
                                 wind is southerly it will be said, rebels know a hawk from a
                                 handsaw. Therefore it is but making our next grand assault on some
                                 morning when they are to windward of us—creeping up, in the lee of
                                 LEE, as if he were a stag—and Richmond is ours."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  That is savage, and sounds unfraternal to-day, when peace and good feeling
                     reign—when the walls of the Virginia capitol reecho the stately voices of the
                     conscript fathers of the great commonwealth and mother of States: conscript
                     fathers bringing their wisdom, mature study, and experience to the work of
                     still further improving the work of Jefferson, Mason, and Washington.
                  "I have Richmond by the throat!" General Grant wrote in October, 1864.
                  In February, 1868, when these lines are written, black hands have got Virginia
                     by the throat, and she is suffocating; Cuffee grins, Cuffee gabbles—the groans
                     of the "Old Mother" make him laugh.
                  Messieurs of the great Northwest, she gave you being, and suckled you! Are you
                     going to see her strangled before your very eyes?
               
               
                  II. NIGHTMARE.
                  IN truth, if not held by the throat, as General Grant announced, Richmond and
                     all the South in that autumn of 1864, was staggering, suffocating, reeling to
                     and fro under the immense incubus of all-destroying war.
                  At that time black was the "only wear," and widows and orphans phans were
                     crying in every house throughout the land. Bread and meat had become no longer
                     necessaries, but luxuries. Whole families of the old aristocracy lived on
                     crusts, and even by charity. Respectable people in Richmond went to the
                     "soup-houses." Men once rich, were penniless, and borrowed to live. Provisions
                     were incredibly dear. Flour was hundreds of dollars a barrel; bacon ten dollars
                     a pound; coffee and tea had become unknown almost. Boots were seven hundred
                     dollars a pair. The poor skinned the dead horses on battle-fields to make
                     shoes. Horses cost five thousand dollars. Cloth was two hundred dollars a yard.
                     Sorghum had taken the place of sugar. Salt was sold by the ounce. Quinine was
                     one dollar a grain. Paper to write upon was torn from old blank books. The ten
                     or twenty dollars which the soldiers received for their monthly pay, was about
                     sufficient to buy a sheet, a pen, and a little ink to write home to their
                     starving families that they too were starving.
                  In town and country the atmosphere seemed charged with coming ruin. All things
                     were in confusion. Everywhere something jarred. The executive was unpopular.
                     The heads of departments were inefficient. The army was unfed. The finances
                     were mismanaged. In Congress the opposition bitterly criticised President
                     Davis. The press resounded with fierce diatribes, pro and con, on all subjects.
                     The Examiner attacked the government, and denounced the whole
                     administration of affairs. The Sentinel replied to the attacks,
                     and defended the assailed officials. One could see nothing that was good. The
                     other could see nothing that was bad. Their readers adopted their opinions;
                     looking through glasses that were deep green, or else couleur de rose. But the green glasses outnumbered the
                     rose-colored more and more every day.
                  Thus, in the streets of the city, and in the shades of the country, all was
                     turmoil, confusion—a hopeless brooding on the hours that were coming. War was
                     no longer an affair of the border and outpost. Federal cavalry scoured the
                     woods, tearing the last mouthful from the poor people. Federal cannon were
                     thundering in front of the ramparts of the cities. In the country, the
                     faint-hearted gathered at the court-houses and cross-roads to comment on the
                     times, and groan. In the cities, cowards croaked in the market-places. In the country, men were
                     hiding their meat in garrets and cellars—concealing their corn in pens, lost in
                     the depths of the woods. In the towns, the forestallers hoarded flour, and
                     sugar, and salt in their warehouses, to await famine prices. The vultures of
                     troubled times flapped their wings and croaked joyfully. Extortioners rolled in
                     their chariots. Hucksters laughed as they counted their gains. Blockade-runners
                     drank their champagne, jingled their coin, and dodged the conscript
                     officers.
                  The rich were very rich and insolent. The poor were want-stricken and
                     despairing. Fathers gazed at their childrens' pale faces, and knew not where to
                     find food for them. Mothers hugged their frail infants to bosoms drained by
                     famine. Want gnawed at the vitals. Despair had come, like a black and poisonous
                     mist, to strangle the heart.
                  The soldiers were agonized by maddening letters from their families. Their
                     fainting loved ones called for help. "Father! come home!" moaned the children,
                     with gaunt faces, crying for bread. "Husband, come home!" murmured the pale
                     wife, with her half-dead infant in her arms. And the mothers—the mothers—ah!
                     the mothers! They did not say, "Come home!" to their brave boys in the army;
                     they were too proud for that—too faithful to the end. They did not summon them
                     to come home; they only knelt down and prayed: "God, end this cruel war! Only
                     give me back my boy! Do not bereave me of my child! The cause is lost—his blood
                     not needed! God, pity me and give me back my boy!"
                  So that strange autumn of that strange year, 1864, wore on. The country was
                     oppressed as by some hideous nightmare; and Government was silent.
                  The army alone, kept heart of hope—Lee's old soldiers defied the enemy to the
                     last.
               
               
                  III. LEE'S MISERABLES.
                  THEY called themselves "Lee's Miserables."
                  That was a grim piece of humor, was it not, reader? And the name had had a
                     somewhat curious origin. Victor Hugo's work, Les
                        Misérables, had been translated and published by a house in
                     Richmond; the soldiers, in the great dearth of reading matter, had seized upon
                     it; and thus, by a strange chance the tragic story of the great French writer,
                     had become known to the soldiers in the trenches. Everywhere, you might see the
                     gaunt figures in their tattered jackets bending over the dingy
                     pamphlets—"Fantine," "Cosette," or "Marius," or "St. Denis,"—and the woes of
                     "Jean Valjean," the old galley-slave, found an echo in the hearts of these
                     brave soldiers, immured in the trenches and fettered by duty to their muskets
                     or their cannon.
                  Singular fortune of a writer! Happy M. Hugo! Your fancies crossed the ocean,
                     and, transmitted into a new tongue, whiled away the dreary hours of the old
                     soldiers of Lee, at Petersburg!
                  Thus, that history of "The Wretched," was the pabulum of the South in 1864; and
                     as the French title had been retained on the backs of the pamphlets, the
                     soldiers, little familiar with the Gallic pronunciation, called the book "Lees
                     Miserables!" Then another step was taken. It was no longer the book, but
                     themselves whom they referred to by that name. The old veterans of the army
                     thenceforth laughed at their miseries, and dubbed themselves grimly
                        "Lee's Miserables!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *It is unnecessary to say that this is not a jest or fancy on the part of
                        Colonel Surry. It is a statement of fact.—En.
                  
                  The sobriquet was gloomy, and there was something tragic in the employment of
                     it; but it was applicable. Like most popular terms, it expressed the exact
                     thought in the mind of every one—coined the situation into a phrase.
                  Truly, they were "The Wretched,"—the soldiers of the army of Northern Virginia,
                     in the fall and winter of 1864. They had a quarter of a pound of rancid "Nassau bacon"—from
                     New England—for daily rations of meat. The handful of flour, or corn-meal,
                     which they received, was musty. Coffee and sugar were doled out as a luxury,
                     now and then only; and the microscopic ration became a jest to those who looked
                     at it. A little "grease" and cornbread—the grease rancid, and the bread
                     musty—these were the food of the army.
                  Their clothes, blankets, and shoes were no better—even worse. Only at long
                     intervals could the Government issue new ones to them. Thus the army was in
                     tatters. The old clothes hung on the men like scarecrows. Their gray jackets
                     were in rags, and did not keep out the chilly wind sweeping over the frozen
                     fields. Their old blankets were in shreds, and gave them little warmth when
                     they wrapped themselves up in them, shivering in the long cold nights. The old
                     shoes, patched and yawning, had served in many a march and battle—and now
                     allowed the naked sole to touch the hard and frosty ground.
                  Happy the man with a new blanket! Proud the possessor of a whole roundabout!
                     What millionaire or favorite child of fortune passes yonder—the owner of an
                     unpatched pair of shoes?
                  Such were the rations and clothing of the army at that epoch;—rancid grease,
                     musty meal, tattered jackets, and worn-out shoes. And these were the fortunate
                     ones! Whole divisions often went without bread even, for two whole days.
                     Thousands had no jackets, no blankets, and no shoes. Gaunt forms, in ragged old
                     shirts and torn pantaloons only, clutched the musket. At night they huddled
                     together for warmth by the fire in the trenches. When they charged, their naked
                     feet left blood-marks on the abatis through which they went at the enemy.
                  That is not an exaggeration, reader. These facts are of record.
                  And that was a part only. It was not only famine and hardship which they
                     underwent, but the incessant combats—and mortal tedium—of the trenches. Ah! the
                     trenches! Those words summed up a whole volume of suffering. No longer fighting
                     in open field; no longer winter-quarters, with power to range; no longer
                     freedom, fresh air, healthful movement—the trenches!
                  Here, cooped up and hampered at every turn, they fought through all those long
                     months of the dark autumn and winter of
                        THE TRENCHES.
                     
                      1864. They were no longer men, but
                     machines loading and firing the musket and the cannon. Burrowing in their
                     holes, and subterranean covered-ways, they crouched in the darkness, rose at
                     the sound of coming battle, manned the breastworks, or trained the cannon—day
                     after day, week after week, month after month, they were there in the trenches
                     at their grim work; and some fiat of Destiny seemed to have chained them there
                     to battle forever! At midnight, as at noon, they were at their posts. In the
                     darkness, dusky figures could be seen swinging the sponge-staff, swabbing the
                     cannon, driving home the charge. In the starlight, the moonlight, or the gloom
                     lit by the red glare, those figures, resembling phantoms, were seen marshalled
                     behind the breastworks to repel the coming assault. Silence had fled from the
                     trenches—the crash of musketry and the bellow of artillery had replaced it.
                     That seemed never to cease. The men were rocked to sleep by it. They slept on
                     in the dark trenches, though the mortar-shells rose, described their flaming
                     curves, and, bursting, rained jagged fragments of iron upon them. And to many
                     that was their last sleep. The iron tore them in their tattered blankets. They
                     rose gasping, and streaming with blood. Then they staggered and fell; when you
                     passed by, you saw a something lying on the ground, covered with the old
                     blanket. It was one of "Lee's Miserables," killed last night by the mortars—and
                     gone to answer, "Here!" before the Master.
                  The trenches!—ah! the trenches! Were you in them, reader? Thousands will tell
                     you more of them than I can. There, an historic army was guarding the capital
                     of an historic nation—the great nation of Virginia—and how they guarded it! In
                     hunger, and cold, and nakedness, they guarded it still. In the bright days and
                     the dark, they stood at their posts unmoved. In the black night-watches as by
                     day—toward morning, as at evening—they stood, clutching the musket, peering out
                     into the pitchy darkness; or lay, dozing around the grim cannon, in the
                     embrasures. Hunger, and cold, and wounds, and the whispering voice of Despair,
                     had no effect on them. The mortal tedium left them patient. When you saw the
                     gaunt faces contract, and tears flow, it was because they had received some
                     letter, saying that their wives and children were starving. Many could not
                     endure that. It made them forget
                     all. Torn with anguish, and unable to obtain furloughs for a day even, they
                     went home without leave—and civilians called them deserters. Could such men be
                     shot—men who had fought like heroes, and only committed this breach of
                     discipline that they might feed their starving children? And, after all, it was
                     not desertion that chiefly reduced Lee's strength. It was battle which cut down
                     the army—wounds and exposure which thinned its ranks. But thin as they were,
                     and ever growing thinner, the old veterans who remained by the flag of such
                     glorious memories, were as defiant in this dark winter of 1864, as they had
                     been in the summer days of 1862 and 1863.
                  Army of Northern Virginia!—old soldiers of Lee, who fought beside your captain
                     until your frames were wasted, and you were truly his "wretched" ones—you are
                     greater to me in your wretchedness, more splendid in your rags, than the Old
                     Guard of Napoleon, or the three hundred of Thermopylæ! Neither famine, nor
                     nakedness, nor suffering, could break your spirit. You were tattered and
                     half-starved; your forms were war-worn; but you still had faith in Lee, and the
                     great cause which you bore aloft on the points of your bayonets. You did not
                     shrink in the last hour—the hour of supreme trial. You meant to follow Lee to
                     the last. If you ever doubted the result, you had resolved, at least, on one
                     thing—to clutch the musket, to the end, and die in harness!
                  Is that extravagance—and is this picture of the great army of Northern Virginia
                     overdrawn? Did they or did they not fight to the end? Answer! Wilderness,
                     Spottsylvania, Cold Harbor, Charles City, every spot around Petersburg where
                     they closed in death-grapple with the swarming enemy! Answer! winter of
                     '64,—bleak spring of '65,—terrible days of the great retreat when hunted down
                     and driven to bay like wild animals, they fought from Five Forks to Appomattox
                     Court-House—fought staggering, and starving, and falling—but defiant to the
                     last!
                  Bearded men were seen crying on the ninth of April, 1865. But it was
                        surrender which wrung their hearts, and brought tears to the
                     grim faces.
                  Grant's cannon had only made "Lee's Miserables" cheer and laugh.
               
               
                  IV. THE BLANDFORD RUINS.
                  THESE memories are not cheerful. Let us pass to scenes more sunny—and there
                     were many in that depressing epoch. The cloud was dark—but in spite of General
                     Grant, the sun would shine sometimes!
                  After reading the Examiner's comments, I mounted my horse and
                     rode into Petersburg, where I spent a pleasant hour in conversation with a
                     friend, Captain Max. Do you laugh still, my dear Max? Health and happiness
                     attend you and yours, my hearty!
                  As I got into the saddle again, the enemy began a brisk shelling. The shell
                     skimmed the roofs of the houses, with an unearthly scream; and one struck a
                     chimney which it hurled down with a tremendous crash. In spite of all, however,
                     the streets were filled with young women, who continued to walk quietly, or to
                     trip along laughing and careless, to buy a riband or some trifle at the
                        stores.*
                      That seemed singular then, and seems more singular to-day. But there is
                     nothing like being accustomed to any thing—and the shelling had now "lost its
                     interest," and troubled nobody.
                  
                     
                     *Real.
                  
                  "Good!" I said, laughing, "our friends yonder are paying us their respects
                     to-day. They have dined probably on the tons of turkey sent from New England,
                     and are amusing themselves shelling us by way of dessert."
                  And wishing to have a better view of the lines, I rode toward Blandford.
                  Do you remember the ivy-draped ruins of the old "Blandford church," my dear
                     reader? This is one of our Virginia antiquities, and is worth seeing. Around
                     the ruins the large graveyard is full of elegant tombstones. Many are shattered
                     to-day, however, by the Federal shell, as the spot was near the breastworks,
                     and in full range of their artillery.
                  
                  In fact it was not a place to visit in the fall of 1864, unless you were fond
                     of shell and a stray bullet. I was somewhat surprised, therefore, as I rode
                     into the enclosure—with a hot skirmish going on a few hundred yards off—to see
                     a young officer and a maiden sitting on a grass bank, beneath a larch tree, and
                     conversing in the most careless manner imaginable.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Real.
                  
                  Who were these calmly indifferent personages? Their backs were turned, and I
                     could only see that the young lady had a profusion of auburn hair. Having
                     dismounted, and approached, I made another discovery. The youth was holding the
                     maiden's hand, and looking with flushed cheeks into her eyes—while she hung her
                     head, the ringlets rippling over her cheeks, and played absently with some wild
                     flowers, which she held between her fingers.
                  The "situation" was plain. "Lovers," I said to myself; "let me not disturb the
                     young ones!"
                  And I turned to walk away without attracting their attention.
                  Unfortunately, however, a shell at that instant screamed over the ruin; the
                     young girl raised her head with simple curiosity—not a particle of fear
                     evidently—to watch the course of the missile; and, as the youth executed the
                     like manœuvre, they both became aware of my presence at the same moment.
                  The result was, that a hearty laugh echoed among the tomb-stones; and that the
                     youth and maiden rose, hastening rapidly toward me.
                  An instant afterward I was pressing the hand of Katy Dare, whom I had left near
                     Buckland, and that of Tom Herbert, whom I had not seen since the fatal day of
                     Yellow Tavern.
               
               
                  V. LES FORTUNÉS.
                  THE auburn ringlets of Katy Dare were as glossy as ever; her blue eyes had
                     still the charming archness which had made me love her from the first. Indeed
                     her demeanor toward me had been full of such winning sweetness that it made me
                     her captive; and I now pressed the little hand, and looked into the pretty
                     blushing face with the sentiment which I should have experienced toward some
                     favorite niece.
                  Katy made you feel thus by her artless and warm-hearted smile. How refrain from
                     loving one whose blue eyes laughed like her lips, and whose glances said, "I am
                     happier since you came!"
                  And Tom was equally friendly; his face radiant, his appearance distinguished.
                     He was clad in a new uniform, half covered with gold braid. His hat was
                     decorated with a magnificent black plume. His cavalry boots, reaching to the
                     knee, were small, delicate, and of the finest leather. At a moderate
                     estimation, Tom's costume must have cost him three thousand dollars!—Happy
                     Tom!
                  He grasped my hand with a warmth which evidently came straight from the heart;
                     for he had a heart—that dandy!
                  "Hurrah! old fellow; here you are!" Tom cried, laughing. "You came upon us as
                     suddenly as if you had descended from heaven!"
                  "Whither you would like to send me back! Am I wrong, Tom?"
                  And I shot a glance of ancient and paternal affection at these two young
                     things, whose tête-a-tête I had
                     interrupted.
                  Katy blushed beautifully, and then ended by laughing. Tom caressed his slender
                     mustache, and said:—
                  "My dear fellow, I certainly should like to go to heaven—consequently to send
                     my friends there—but if it is all the same to everybody, I think I would
                     prefer—hem!—deferring the journey for a brief period, my boy."
                  "Until an angel is ready to go with you!"
                  And I glanced at the angel with the ringlets.
                  "Ah, my dear Surry!" said Tom, smoothing his chin with his hand, "you really
                     have a genius for repartee which is intolerable, and not to be endured!"
                  "Let the angel sit in judgment!"
                  "Oh, you have most 'damnable iteration!'"
                  
                  "I learned it all from you."
                  "From me, my boy?"
                  "Certainly—see the beauty of repetition in poetry."
                  And looking at the damsel, I began to repeat— 
                        
                           "Katy! Katy!
                           Don't marry any other!
                           You'll break my heart, and kill me dead,
                           And then be hanged for murder!"
                        
                     
                  
                  The amount of blushing, laughter, pouting, good humor, and hilarity generally,
                     which this poem occasioned, was charming. In a few minutes we were all seated
                     again on the grassy bank, and Tom had given me a history of his adventures,
                     which had not been either numerous or remarkable. He had been assigned to duty
                     on the staff of General Fitzhugh Lee, and it was delightful to hear his
                     enthusiasm on the subject of that gay and gallant officer.
                  "I tell you he's a trump, old fellow," quoth Tom, with ardor. "He's as brave as
                     steel, a first-rate officer, a thorough gentleman, generous, kind, and as jolly
                     as a lark! Give me Fitz Lee to fight with, or march with, or hear laugh! He was
                     shot in the Valley, and I have been with him in Richmond. In spite of his
                     wound, which is a severe one, he is as gay as the sunshine, and it would put
                     you in good spirits only to go into his chamber!"
                  "I know General Fitz well, Tom," I replied, "and you are right about him; every
                     word you say is true, and more to boot, old fellow. So you are cruising around
                     now, waiting for your chief to recover?"
                  "Exactly, my dear Surry."
                  "And have captured the barque Katy!"
                  "Humph!" quoth Miss Katy, tossing her head, with a blush and a laugh.
                  "Beware of pirates," I said, "who make threats even in their verses,—and now
                     tell me, Miss Katy, if you are on a visit to Petersburg? It will give me true
                     pleasure to come and see you."
                  "Indeed you must!" she said, looking at me with the most fascinating smile,
                     "for you know you are one of my old friends now, and must not neglect me. I am
                     at my aunt's, Mrs. Hall,— uncle brought me a month ago from Buckland; but in
                     the morning I shall go down to a cousin's in Dinwiddie."
                  "In Dinwiddie, Miss Katy?"
                  "Yes, near the Rowanty. My cousin, Mr. Dare, has come for me."
                  "Well, I will visit you there."
                  "Please do. The house is called 'Disaway's.'"
                  I bowed, smiling, and turned to Tom Herbert.
                  "When shall I see you again, Tom, and where? Next week—at Disaway's?"
                  Tom colored and then laughed. This dandy, you see, was a good boy still.
                  "Well, old fellow," he replied, "I think it possible I may visit Dinwiddie. My
                     respected chieftain, General Fitz, is at present reposing on his couch in
                     Richmond, and I am bearer of bouquets as well as of dispatches between him and
                     his surgeon. But I am told he is ordered to Dinwiddie as soon as he is up. The
                     country is a new one; the thought has occurred to me that any information I can
                     acquire by—hem!—a topographical survey, would be valuable. You perceive, do you
                     not, my dear friend? You appreciate my motive?"
                  "Perfectly, Tom. There will probably be a battle near 'Disaway's.'"
                  "And I'd better ride over the ground, eh?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Well, I'll do it!
                  "Only beware of one thing!"
                  "What, my dear Surry?" asked Tom, anxiously.
                  "There is probably a conservatory at Disaway's."
                  "A conservatory?"
                  "Like that near Buckland, and the battle might take place there.
                     If it does—two to one you are routed!"
                  Katy blushed exquisitely, smiled demurely, and burst into laughter. Then
                     catching my eye she raised her finger, and shook her head with sedate reproach,
                     looking at Tom. He was laughing.
                  "All right, I'll look out, Surry!"
                  "Resolve on one thing, Tom."
                  "What is that?"
                  
                  "That you will never surrender, but be taken in arms!"
                  With which mild and inoffensive joke I shook hands with Tom, informing him
                     where to find me; made Miss Katy a bow, which she returned with a charming
                     smile and a little inclination which shook together her ringlets; and then
                     leaving the young people to themselves, I mounted my horse, and returned to the
                     Cedars.
                  All the way I was smiling. A charming influence had descended upon me. The day
                     was brighter, the sunshine gayer, for the sight of the young fellow, and the
                     pretty little maiden, with her blue eyes, like the skies, and her ringlets of
                     silken gold!
               
               
                  VI. ON THE BANKS OF THE ROWANTY.
                  WHEN I again set out for the cavalry, a few days after the scene at Blandford
                     church, the youth and sunshine of those two faces still dwelt in my memory, and
                     I went along smiling and happy.
                  Not even the scenes on the late battle-field beyond the Rowanty, made my mood
                     gloomy; and yet these were not gay. Graves were seen everywhere; the fences
                     were broken down; the houses riddled by balls; and in the trampled roads and
                     fields negroes were skinning the dead horses, to make shoes of their hides. On
                     the animals already stripped sat huge turkey-buzzards feeding. My horse shied
                     as the black vultures rose suddenly on flapping wings. They only circled
                     around, however, sailing back as I disappeared.
                  Such is war, reader,—a charming panorama of dead bodies and vultures!
                  Turning into the Quaker road, I went on until I reached the head-quarters of
                     General William H. F. Lee, opposite Monk's Neck. Here, under the crest of a
                     protecting hill, where the pine thickets afforded him shelter from the wind,
                     that gallant soldier had "set up his rest"—that is to say a canvass fly, one
                     end of which was closed with a thick-woven screen of evergreens. My visit was
                     delightful, and I shall always remember it with pleasure. Where are you to-day,
                     general, and good comrades of the old staff? You used to laugh as hard as you
                     fought—so your merriment was immense! Heaven grant that to-day, when the bugles
                     are silent, the sabres rusting, you are laughing as in the days I remember!
                  Declining the friendly invitation to spend the night, I went on in the
                     afternoon; and on my way was further enlivened by a gay scene which makes me
                     smile even to-day. It was in passing General Butler's head-quarters near the
                     Rowanty. In the woods gleamed his white tents; before them stretched the level
                     sandy road; a crowd of staff officers and others, with the general in their
                     midst, were admiring two glossy ponies, led up by two small urchins, evidently
                     about to run a race on them.
                  Butler—that brave soldier, whom all admired as much as I did—was limping about,
                     in consequence of a wound received at Fleetwood. In the excitement of the
                     approaching race he had forgotten his hurt. And soon the urchins were tossed up
                     on the backs of their little glossy steeds—minus all but bridle. Then they took
                     their positions about three hundred yards off; remained an instant abreast and
                     motionless; then a clapping of hands was heard—it was the signal to start—and
                     the ponies came on like lightning.
                  The sight was comic beyond expression. The boys clung with their knees, bending
                     over the floating manes; the little animals darted by; they disappeared in the
                     woods "amid thunders of applause;" and it was announced that the roan pony had
                     won.
                  "Trifles," you say, perhaps, reader; "why don't our friend, the colonel, go on
                     with his narrative?"
                  True,—the reproach is just. But these trifles cling so to the memory! I like to
                     recall them—to review the old scenes—to paint the "trifles" even, which caught
                     my attention during the great civil war. This is not a history, friend—only a
                     poor little memoir. I show you our daily lives, more than the "great events" of
                     history. That is the way the brave Butler and his South Carolinians amused
                     themselves—and the figure of this soldier is worth placing amid my group of
                     "paladins." He was brave—none was braver; thoroughbred—I never saw a man more so. His sword had flashed at
                     Fleetwood, and in a hundred other fights; and it was going to flash to the
                     end!
                  I pushed on after the pony race, and very soon had penetrated the belt of
                     shadowy pines which clothe the banks of the Rowanty, making of this country a
                     wilderness as singular almost as that of Spottsylvania. Only here and there
                     appeared a small house, similar to that of Mr. Alibi's—all else was woods,
                     woods, woods! Through the thicket wound the "military road" of General Hampton;
                     and I soon found that his head-quarters were at a spot which I had promised
                     myself to visit—"Disaway's."
                  Two hours' ride brought me to the place. Disaway's was an old mansion, standing
                     on a hill above the Rowanty, near the "Halifax bridge," by which the great road
                     from Petersburg to North Carolina crosses the stream. It was a building of
                     considerable size, with wings, numerous gables, and a portico; and was
                     overshadowed by great oaks, beneath which gleamed the tents of Hampton and his
                     staff.
                  As I rode up the hill, the staff came out to welcome me. I had known these
                     brave gentlemen well, when with Stuart, and they were good enough, now, to give
                     me the right hand of fellowship,—to receive me for old times' sake, with
                     "distinguished consideration." The general was as cordial as his military
                     family—and in ten minutes I was seated and conversing with him, beneath the
                     great oak.
                  A charming cordiality inspired the words and countenance of the great soldier.
                     Nearly four years have passed, but I remember still his courteous smile and
                     friendly accents.
                  All at once, the figure of a young woman appeared in the doorway. At a glance I
                     recognized the golden ringlets of Katy Dare. She beckoned to me, smiling; I
                     rose and hastened to greet her; in a moment we were seated upon the portico,
                     conversing like old friends.
                  There was something fascinating in this child. The little maiden of eighteen
                     resembled a blossom of the spring. Were I a poet, I should declare that her
                     azure eyes shone out from her auburn hair like glimpses of blue sky behind
                     sun-tinted clouds!
                  I do not know how it came about, or how I found myself there, but in a few
                     moments I was walking with her in the autumn woods, and smiling as I gazed into
                     the deep blue of her eyes. The pines were sighing above us; beneath our feet a
                     thick carpet of brown tassels lay; and on the summit of the evergreens the
                     golden crown of sunset slowly rose, as though the fingers of some unseen spirit
                     were bearing it away into the night.
                  Katy tripped on, rather than walked—laughing and singing gayly. The mild air
                     just lifted the golden ringlets of her hair, as she threw back her beautiful
                     face; her cheeks were rosy with the joy of youth; and from her smiling lips, as
                     fresh and red as carnations, escaped in sweet and tender notes, like the carol
                     of an oriole, that gay and warbling song, the "Bird of Beauty."
                  Do you remember it, my dear reader? It is old—but so many good things are old! 
                        
                           "Bird of beauty, whose bright plumage
                           Sparkles with a thousand dyes:
                           Bright thine eyes, and gay thy carol,
                           Though stern winter rules the skies!"
                        
                     
                  
                  Do you say that is not very grand poetry? I protest! friend, I think it
                     superior to the chef d'œuvres of the masters?
                     You do not think so? Ah! that is because you did not hear it sung in the autumn
                     forest that evening—see the ringlets of Katy Dare floating back from the rosy
                     cheeks, as the notes escaped from her smiling lips, and rang clearly in the
                     golden sunset. Do you laugh at my enthusiasm? Well, I am going to increase your
                     mirth. To the "Bird of Beauty" succeeded a song which I never heard before, and
                     have never heard since. Thus it is a lost pearl I rescue, in repeating some
                     lines. What Katy sang was this:— 
                        
                           "Come under, some one, and give her a kiss!
                           My honey, my love, my handsome dove!
                           My heart's been a-weeping,
                           This long time for you!
                        
                        
                           "I'll hang you, I'll drown you,
                           My honey, my love, my handsome dove!
                           My heart's been a-weeping,
                           This long time for you!"
                        
                     
                  
                  That was the odd, original, mysterious, incomprehensible poem, which Katy Dare
                     carolled in the sunset that evening. It may seem stupid to some—to me the words and the air
                     are charming, for I heard them from the sweetest lips in the world. Indeed
                     there was something so pure and childlike about the young girl, that I bowed
                     before her. Her presence made me better—banished all discordant emotions. All
                     about her was delicate and tender, and pure. Like her "bird of bright plumage"
                     she seemed to have flitted here to utter her carol, after which she would open
                     her wings and disappear!
                  Katy ran on, in the pauses of her singing, with a hundred little jests,
                     interspersed with her sweet childlike laughter, and I was more and more
                     enchanted—when all at once I saw her turn her head over her shoulder. A bright
                     flush came to her cheeks as she did so; her songs and laughter ceased; then—a
                     step behind us!
                  I looked back, and found the cause of her sudden "dignity," her demure silence.
                     The unfortunate Colonel Surry had quite disappeared from the maiden's mind.
                  Coming on rapidly, with springy tread, I saw—Tom Herbert! Tom Herbert, radiant;
                     Tom Herbert, the picture of happiness; Tom Herbert, singing in his gay and
                     ringing voice:— 
                        
                           "Katy! Katy!
                           Don't marry any other!
                           You'll break my heart and kill me dead,
                           And you ll be hung for murder!"
                        
                     
                  
                  Wretch!—I could cheerfully have strangled him!
               
               
                  VII. THE STUART HORSE ARTILLERY.
                  AN hour afterward I was at the camp of the Stuart horse artillery.
                  Five minutes after greeting Tom, who had sought Katy, at "Disaway's"—been
                     directed to the woods—and there speedily joined us—I left the young ones
                     together, and made my way back to the mansion. There are few things, my dear
                     reader, more disagreeable than—just when you are growing poetical—when blue
                     eyes have excited your romantic feelings—when your heart has begun to glow—when
                     you think "I am the cause of all this happiness, and gayety!"—there are few
                     things I say—but why say it? In thirty seconds the rosy-faced youngster Tom,
                     had driven the antique and battered Surry quite from the mind of the Bird of
                     Beauty. That discomfited individual, therefore, took his way back sadly to
                     Disaway's, leaving the children his blessing; declined the cordial invitations
                     to spend the night, mounted his horse, and rode to find Will Davenant, at the
                     horse artillery.
                  Their camp was in the edge of a wood, near the banks of the Rowanty; and having
                     exchanged greetings with my old comrades of the various batteries, and the
                     gallant Colonel Chew, their chieftain, I repaired to Will Davenant's
                     head-quarters.
                  These consisted of a breadth of canvass, stretched beneath a tree in the
                     field—in front of which burned a fire.
                  I had come to talk with Will, but our conversation was obliged to be deferred.
                     The brave boys of the horse artillery, officers and men, gathered round to hear
                     the news from Petersburg; and it was a rare pleasure to me to see again the old
                     familiar faces. Around me, in light of the camp-fire, were grouped the tigers
                     who had fought with Pelham, in the old battles of Stuart. Here were the heroes
                     of a hundred combats; the men who had held their ground desperately in the most
                     desperate encounters—the bull-dogs who had showed their teeth and sprung to the
                     death-grapple at Cold Harbor, Manassas, Sharpsburg, Fredericksburg,
                     Chancellorsville, Fleetwood, Gettysburg, in the Wilderness, at Trevillian's, at
                     Sappony, in a thousand bitter conflicts with the cavalry. Scarred faces,
                     limping bodies, the one-armed, the one-legged,—these I saw around me; the
                     frames slashed and mutilated, but the eyes flashing and full of fight, as in
                     the days when Pelham thundered, loosing his war-hounds on the enemy. I had seen
                     brave commands, in these long years of combat—had touched the hands of heroic
                     men, whose souls fear never entered—but I never saw braver fighters than the
                     horse artillery—soldiers more reckless than Pelham's bloodhounds. They went to
                     battle laughing. There was something of the tiger in them. They were of every nation nearly—Frenchmen,
                     Irishmen, Italians,—but one sentiment seemed to inspire them—hatred of our
                     friends over the way. From the moment in 1862, when at Barbee's they raised the
                     loud resounding Marseillaise, while fighting the
                     enemy in front and rear, to this fall of 1864, when they had strewed a hundred
                     battle-fields with dead men and horses, these "swarthy old hounds" of the horse
                     artillery had vindicated their claims to the admiration of Stuart;—in the
                     thunder of their guns, the dead chieftain had seemed still to hurl his defiance
                     at the invaders of Virginia.
                  Looking around me, I missed many of the old faces, sleeping now beneath the
                     sod. But Dominic, Antonio, and Rossini were still there—those members of the
                     old "Napoleon Detachment" of Pelham's old battery; there still was Guillemot,
                     the erect, military-looking Frenchman,—Guillemot, with his hand raised to his
                     cap, saluting me with the profoundest respect; these were the faces I had seen
                     a hundred times, and never anything but gay and full of fight.
                  Doubtless they remembered me, and thought of Stuart, as others had done, at
                     seeing me. They gave me a soldier's welcome; soon, from the group around the
                     camp-fire rose a song. Another followed, then another, in the richest tenor;
                     and the forests of Dinwiddie rang with the deep voices, rising clear and
                     sonorous in the moonlight night.
                  They were old songs of Ashby and Stuart; unpublished ditties of the struggle,
                     which the winds have borne away into the night of the past, and which now live
                     only in memory. There was one of Ashby, commencing,— 
                        "See him enter on the valley,"
                      which wound up with the words,— 
                        
                           "And they cried, 'O God they've shot him!"
                           Ashby is no more!'
                           Strike, freemen, for your country,
                           Sheathe your swords no more!
                           While remains in arms a Yankee
                           On Virginin's shore!"
                        
                     
                  
                  The air was sad and plaintive. The song rose, and wailed, and died away like
                     the sigh of the wind in the trees, the murmuring airs of evening in the
                     brambles and thickets of the Rowanty. The singers had fought under Ashby, and
                     in their rude and plaintive song they uttered their regrets.
                  Then the music changed its character, and the stirring replaced the sad. 
                        
                           "If you want to have a good time,
                           J'ine the cavalry!"
                        
                      came in grand, uproarious strains; and this was succeeded by the jubilant— 
                        
                           "Farewell, forever to the star-spangled banner,
                           No longer shall she wave o'er the land of the free;
                           But we'll unfurl to the broad breeze of heaven,
                           The thirteen bright stars round the Palmetto tree!"
                        
                     
                  
                  At that song—and those words, "the thirteen bright stars round the Palmetto
                     tree!"—you might have seen the eyes of the South Carolinians flash. Many other
                     ditties followed, filling the moonlight night with song—"The Bonnie Blue Flag,"
                     "Katy Wells," and "The Louisiana Colors." This last was never printed. Here are
                     a few of the gay verses of the "Irish Lad from Dixie:"— 
                        
                           "My sweetheart's name is Kathleen,
                           For her I'll do or die;
                           She has a striped straw mattress,
                           A shanty, pig, and sty.
                           Her cheeks are bright and beautiful,
                           Her hair is dark and curly,
                           She sent me with the secesh boys
                           To fight with General Early.
                        
                        
                           "She made our flag with her own hands,
                           My Kathleen fair and clever,
                           And twined its staff with shamrock green,
                           Old Ireland's pride forever!
                           She gave it into our trust,
                           Among our weeping mothers;—
                           'Remember, Irish men!' she said,
                           'You bear the Red Cross colors!'
                        
                        
                           "She told me I must never run;
                           The Rebel boys were brothers;—
                           To stand forever by our flag,
                           The Louisiana colors!
                           And then she said, 'If you desert,
                           You'll go to the Old Baily!'
                           Says I, 'My love, when I can't shoot,
                           I'll use my old shillalah!'
                        
                        
                        
                           "And many a bloody charge we made,
                           Nor mind the battle's blaze;
                           God gave to us a hero bold,
                           Our bonny Harry Hays!
                           And on the heights of Gettysburg,
                           At twilight first was seen,
                           The stars of Louisiana bright,
                           And Katy's shamrock green.
                        
                        
                           And oh! if I get home again,
                           I swear I'll never leave her;
                           I hope the straw mattress will keep,
                           The pig won't have the fever!
                           For then, you know, I'll marry Kate,
                           And never think of others.
                           Hurrah, then, for the shamrock green,
                           And the Louisiana colors!"
                        
                     
                  
                  It was nearly midnight before the men separated, repairing to their tents.
                     Their songs had charmed me, and made the long hours flit by like birds. Where
                     are you, brave singers, in this year '68? I know not—you are all scattered.
                     Your guns have ceased their thunder, your voices sound no more. But I think you
                     sometimes remember, as you muse, in these dull years, those gay moonlight
                     nights on the banks of the Rowanty!
               
               
                  VIII. "CHARGE! STUART! PAY OFF ASHBY'S SCORE!"
                  THESE memories are beguiling, and while they possess me, my drama does not
                     march.
                  But you have not been wearied, I hope, my dear reader, by this little pencil
                     sketch of the brave horse artillerymen. I found myself among them; the
                     moonlight shone; the voices sang; and I have paused to look and listen again in
                     memory.
                  These scenes, however, can not possess for you, the attraction they do for me.
                     To proceed with my narrative. I shall pass over my long conversation with Will
                     Davenant, whose bed I shared. I had promised his father to reveal nothing of
                     the events which I had so strangely discovered—and was then only able to give
                     the young man vague assurances of a coming change for the better in his affair
                     with Miss Conway. He thanked me, blushing, and trying to smile—and then we fell
                     asleep beside each other.
                  Just at daylight I was suddenly aroused. The jarring notes of a bugle were
                     ringing through the woods. I extended my arm in the darkness, and found that
                     Will Davenant was not beside me.
                  What had happened? I rose quickly, and throwing my cape over my shoulders, went
                     out of the tent.
                  The horse artillery was already hitched up, and in motion. The setting moon
                     illumined the grim gun-barrels, caissons, and heavy horses, moving with
                     rattling chains. Behind came the men on horseback, laughing and ready for
                     combat.
                  As I was gazing at this warlike scene so suddenly evoked, Will Davenant rode up
                     and pointed to my horse, which was ready saddled, and attached to a bough of
                     the great tree.
                  "I thought I wouldn't wake you, colonel," he said, with a smile, "but let you
                     sleep to the last moment. The enemy are advancing, and we are going to meet
                     them."
                  He had scarcely spoken, when a rapid firing was heard two or three miles in
                     front, and a loud cheer rose from the artillerymen. In a moment the guns were
                     rushing on at a gallop, and, as I rode beside them, I saw a crimson glare shoot
                     up above the woods, in the direction of the Weldon railroad. The firing had
                     meanwhile grown heavier, and the guns were rushed onward. Will Davenant's whole
                     appearance had completely changed. The youth, so retiring in camp, so cool in a
                     hot fight, seemed burnt up with impatience, at the delay caused by the terrible
                     roads. His voice had become hoarse and imperious; he was everywhere urging on
                     the drivers; when the horses stalled in the fathomless mudholes, he would
                     strike the animals, in a sort of rage, with the flat of his sabre, forcing them
                     with a leap which made the traces crack, to drag the piece out of the hole, and
                     onward. A glance told me, then, what was the secret of this mere boy's splendid
                     efficiency. Under the shy, blushing face, was the passion and will of the born
                     soldier—the beardless boy had become the master mind, and drove on everything
                     by his stern will.
                  
                  In spite of every exertion to overcome the obstacles in the roads, it was
                     nearly sunrise before we reached open ground. Then we emerged upon the upland,
                     near "Disaway's," and saw a picturesque spectacle. From the hill, we could make
                     out every thing. A hot cavalry fight was going on beneath us. The enemy had
                     evidently crossed the Rowanty lower down; and driving in the pickets, had
                     passed forward to the railroad.
                  The guns were rushed toward the spot, unlimbered on a rising ground, and their
                     thunder rose suddenly above the forests. Shell after shell burst amid the
                     enemy, breaking their ranks, and driving them back—and by the time I had
                     galloped through a belt of woods to the scene of the fight, they lost heart,
                     retreated rapidly, and disappeared, driven across the Rowanty again, with the
                     Confederates pursuing them so hotly, that many of the gray cavalry punched them
                     in the back with their empty carbines.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  Their object in crossing had been to burn a small mill; and in this they had
                     succeded, after which they retired as soon as possible to their "own side."
                     Some queer scenes had accompanied this "tremendous military movement." In a
                     house near the mill, resided some ladies; and we found them justly indignant at
                     the course of the enemy. The Federal officers—general officers—had ordered the
                     house-furniture to be piled up, the carriage to be drawn into the pile, and
                     then shavings were heaped around, and the whole set on fire, amid shouts,
                     cheers, and firing. The lady of the mansion remonstrated bitterly, but received
                     little satisfaction.
                  "I have no time to listen to women!"†
                        said the Federal general, rudely.
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  "It is not time you want, sir!" returned the lady, with great
                     hauteur, "it is politeness!"‡
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     ‡Her words.
                  
                  This greatly enraged the person whom she addressed, and he became furious, when
                     the lady added that all the horses had been sent away. At that moment an
                     officer near him said:—
                  "General if you are going to burn the premises, you had better commence, as the
                     rebs are pursuing us."
                  "Order it to be done at once!" was the gruff reply.
                  And the mill was fired, in the midst of a great uproar, with which mingled
                     shouts of, "The Rebels are coming! The Rebels are coming!"
                  Soon they came, a hot fight followed, and during this fight a young woman
                     watched it, holding her little brother by the hand near the burning mill. I had
                     afterward the honor of making her acquaintance, and she told me that throughout
                     the firing she found herself repeating over and over, unconsciously, the lines
                     of the song,— 
                        
                           "Charge! Stuart! pay off Ashby's score,
                           In Stonewall Jackson's way."*
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  The enemy had thus effected their object, and retreated hotly pursued. I
                     followed toward the lower Rowanty, and had the pleasure of seeing them hurried
                     over. So ended this immense military movement.
               
               
                  IX. MOHUN,—HIS THIRD PHASE.
                  I WAS about to turn my horse and ride back from the stream, across which the
                     enemy had disappeared, when all at once Mohun, who had led the pursuit, rode up
                     to me, and we exchanged a cordial greeting.
                  "Well, this little affair is over, my dear Surry," he said; "have you any thing
                     to occupy you for two or three hours?"
                  "Nothing; entirely at your service, Mohun."
                  "Well, I wish you to accompany me on a private expedition. Will you follow me
                     blindfold?"
                  "Confidingly."
                  And I rode on beside Mohun, who had struck into a path along the banks of the
                     Rowanty, leading back in the direction of Halifax bridge.
                  As we rode on, I looked attentively at him. I scarcely recognized nized, in the personage beside me,
                     the Mohun of the past. His gloom so profound on that night when I parted with
                     him, after the expedition to the lonely house beyond Monk's Neck, had entirely
                     disappeared; and I saw in him as few traces of the days on the Rappahannock, in
                     Pennsylvania, and the Wilderness. These progressive steps in the development of
                     Mohun's character may be indicated by styling them the first, second, and third
                     phases of the individual. He had entered now upon the third phase, and I
                     compared him, curiously with his former self.
                  On the Rappahannock, when I saw him first, Mohun had been cynical, bitter, full
                     of gloomy misanthropy. Something seemed to have hardened him, and made him hate
                     his species. In the bloom of early manhood, when his life was yet in the
                     flower, and should have prompted him to all kind and sweet emotions, he was a
                     stranger to all—to charity, good-will, friendship, all that makes life
                     endurable. The tree was young and lusty; the spring was not over; freshness and
                     verdure should have clothed it; and yet it appeared to have been blasted. What
                     had dried up its sap, I asked myself—withering and destroying it? What
                     thunderbolt had struck this sturdy young oak? I could not answer—but from the
                     first moment of our acquaintance, Mohun became for me a problem.
                  Then the second phase presented itself. When I met him in the Wilderness, in
                     May, 1864, a great change had come over him. He was no longer bitter and
                     cynical. The cloud had plainly swept away, leaving the skies of his life
                     brighter. Gayety had succeeded gloom. The rollicking enjoyment of the true
                     cavalryman had replaced the recklessness of the man-hater. Again I looked at
                     him with attention—for his courage had made me admire him, and his hidden grief
                     had aroused my sympathy. A great weight had plainly been lifted from his
                     shoulders; he breathed freer; the sap long dried up had begun to flow again;
                     and the buds told that the leaves of youth and hope were about to reappear.
                     What was the meaning of that?
                  Now the third phase of the man had come to excite in me more surprise and
                     interest than the former ones. This time the change was complete. Mohun seemed
                     no longer himself. Was the man riding beside me the old Mohun of 1863? Where
                     was the gloomy misanthropy—where the rollicking humor? They had quite
                     disappeared. Mohun's glance was gentle and his countenance filled with a
                     charming modesty and sweetness. His voice, once so cold, and then so hilarious,
                     had grown calm, low, measured, almost soft. His smile was exquisitely cordial;
                     his glance full of earnestness and sweetness. The heaven-born spirit of
                     kindness—that balm for all the wounds of human existence—shone in his eyes, on
                     his lips, in every accent of his voice.
                  Colonel Mohun had been reckless, defiant, unhappy, or wildly gay. General Mohun
                     was calm, quietly happy it seemed. You would have said of him, formerly, "This
                     is a man who fights from hatred of his enemies, or the exuberant life in him."
                     Now you would have said, "This is a patriot who fights from principle, and is
                     worthy to die in a great cause."
                  What had worked this change? I asked myself once more. Was it love? Or was it
                     the conviction which the Almighty sends to the most hardened, that life is not
                     made to indulge hatred, but to love and perform our duty in?
                  I knew not; but there was the phenomenon before me. Mohun was certainly a new
                     man, and looked on life and the world around him with a gentleness and kindness
                     of which I had believed him incapable.
                  "I am going to take you to see a somewhat singular character," he said.
                  "Who is he?"
                  "It is a woman."
                  "Ah!"
                  "And a very strange one, I promise you, my dear Surry."
                  "Lead on, I'll follow thee!"
                  "Good! and I declare to you, I think Shakespeare would have examined this human
                     being with attention."
                  "She is a phenomenon, then?"
                  "Yes."
                  "A witch?"
                  "No, an epileptic; at least I think so."
                  "Indeed! And where does she live?"
                  "On the Halifax road, some miles from the Rowanty."
                  "In the lines of the enemy, then?"
                  
                  "Something like it."
                  "Humph!"
                  "Don't disturb yourself about that, Surry. I have sent out a scouting party who
                     are clearing the country. Their pickets are back to Reams's by this time, and
                     there is little danger."
                  "At all events, we'll share any, Mohun. Forward!"
                  And we pushed on to the Halifax bridge, where, as Mohun expected, there was no
                     Federal picket.
                  The bridge—a long rough affair—had been half destroyed by General Hampton; but
                     we forded near it, pushed our horses through the swamp, amid the heavy tree
                     trunks, felled to form an abatis, and gaining the opposite bank of the Rowanty,
                     rode on rapidly in the direction of Petersburg, that is to say, toward the rear
                     of the Federal army.
               
               
                  X. AMANDA.
                  HALF an hour's ride through the swampy low grounds rising to gentle uplands,
                     and beneath the festoons of the great vines trailing from tree to tree, brought
                     us in front of a small house, half buried in a clump of bushes, like a hare's
                     nest amid brambles.
                  "We have arrived!" said Mohun, leading the way to the cabin, which we soon
                     reached.
                  Throwing his bridle over a bough near the low fence, Mohun approached the door
                     on foot, I following, and when close to the door, he gave a low knock.
                  "Come in!" said a cheerful and smiling voice.
                  And Mohun opened the door, through which we passed into a small and very neat
                     apartment containing a table, some chairs, a wide fireplace, in which some
                     sticks were burning, a number of cheap engravings of religious scenes, framed
                     and hanging on the wall, and a low bed, upon which lay a woman fully
                     dressed.
                  She was apparently about thirty-five, and her appearance was exceedingly
                     curious. Her figure was slender and of medium height; her complexion that of a
                     Moorish or oriental woman, rather than that of the quadroon, which she appeared
                     to be; her hair black, waving, and abundant; her eyes as dark and sparkling as
                     burnished ebony; and her teeth of dazzling whiteness. Her dress was neat, and
                     of bright colors. Around her neck she wore a very odd necklace, which seemed
                     made of carved bone; and her slender fingers were decorated with a number of
                        rings.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *"I have endeavored to give an exact description of this singular woman."
                        Colonel Surry said to me when he read this passage to me: "She will
                        probably be remembered by numbers of persons in both the Federal and
                        Confederate armies. These will tell you that I describe her accurately,
                        using her real name, and will recall the strange prediction which she
                        made, and which I here repeat. Was she an epileptic? I do not know. I
                        have certainly never encountered a more curious character!"—[EDITOR.
                  
                  Such was the personage who greeted us, in a voice of great calmness and
                     sweetness, as we entered. She did not rise from the bed upon which she was
                     lying; but her cordial smile clearly indicated that this did not arise from
                     discourtesy.
                  "Take seats, gentlemen," she said, "and please excuse me from getting up. I am
                     a little poorly to-day."
                  "Stay where you are, Amanda," said Mohun, "and do not disturb yourself."
                  She looked at him with her dark eyes, and said, in her gentle, friendly
                     voice:—
                  "You know me, I see, General Mohun."
                  "And you me, I see, Amanda."
                  "I never saw you before, sir, but—am I mistaken?"
                  "Not in the least. How did you know me?"
                  The singular Amanda smiled.
                  "I have seen you often, sir."
                  "Ah—in your visions?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Or, perhaps, Nighthawk described me. You know Mr. Nighthawk!"
                  "Oh, yes, sir. I hope he is well. He has often been here; he may have told me
                     what you were like, sir, and then I saw you to know you
                     afterward."
                  I looked at the speaker attentively. Was she an impostor? It was impossible to
                     think so. There was absolutely no evidence whatever that she was acting a part—rather every
                     thing to forbid the supposition, as she thus readily acquiesced in Mohun's
                     simple explanation.
                  For some moments Mohun remained silent. Then he said:—
                  "Those visions which you have are very strange. Is it possible that you really
                        see things before they come to pass—or are you only amusing
                     yourself, and others, by saying so? I see no especial harm in the matter, if
                     you are jesting; but tell me, for my own satisfaction and that of my 'friend,
                     if you really see things."
                  Amanda smiled with untroubled sweetness.
                  "I am in earnest, sir," she said, "and I would not jest with you and Colonel
                     Surry."
                  I listened in astonishment.
                  "Ah! you know me, too, Amanda!"
                  "Yes, sir—or I think I do. I think you are Colonel Surry, sir."
                  "How do you know that?"
                  "I have seen you, too, sir?" was the smiling reply.
                  I sat down, leaned my head upon my hand, and gazed at this incomprehensible
                     being. Was she really a witch? I do not believe in witches, and at once
                     rejected that theory. If not an imposter, then, only one other theory
                     remained—that Nighthawk had described my person to her, in the same manner that
                     he had Mohun's, and the woman might thus believe that she had seen me, as well
                     as my companion, in her "visions."
                  To her last words, however, I made no reply, and Mohun renewed the colloquy, as
                     before.
                  "Then you are really in earnest, Amanda, and actually see, in vision, what is
                     coming to pass?" he said.
                  "I think I do, sir."
                  "Do you have the visions often?"
                  "I did once, sir, but they now seldomer come."
                  "What produces them?"
                  "I think it is any excitement, sir. They tell me that I lay on my bed moaning,
                     and moving my arms about,—and when I wake, after these attacks, I remember
                     seeing the visions."
                  "I hear that you predicted General Hunter's attack on Lexington last June."
                  "Yes, sir, I told a lady what I saw, some months before it came to
                     pass."
                  "What did you see? Will you repeat it for us?"
                  "Oh, yes, sir. I remember all, and will tell you about it, as it seems to
                     interest you. I saw a town, on the other side of the mountain, which they
                     afterward told me was called Lexington—but I did not know its name then—and a
                     great army of men in blue dresses came marching in, shouting and cheering. The
                     next thing I saw was a large building on fire, and through the windows I saw
                     books burning, with some curious-looking things, of which I do not know the
                     names."
                  "The Military Institute, with the books and scientific apparatus," said Mohun,
                     calmly.
                  "Was it, sir? I did not know."
                  "What did you see afterward, Amanda?"
                  "Another house burning, sir; the Federal people gave the ladies ten minutes to
                     leave it, and then set it on fire."
                  Mohun glanced at me.
                  "That is strange," he said; "do you know the name of the family?"
                  "No, sir."
                  "It was Governor Letcher's. Well, what next?"
                  "Then they went in a great crowd, and broke open another building—a large
                     house, sir—and took every thing. Among the things they took was a statue, which
                     they did not break up, but carried away with them."
                  "Washington's statue!" murmured Mohun; and, turning to me, he added:—
                  "This is curious, is it not, Surry?"
                  I nodded.
                  "Very curious."
                  I confess I believed that the strange woman was trifling with us, and had
                     simply made up this story after the event. Mohun saw my incredulity, and said,
                     in a low tone:—
                  "You do not believe in this?"
                  "No," I returned, in the same tone.
                  "And yet one thing is remarkable."
                  "What?"
                  
                  "That a lady of the highest character assured me, the other day, that all this
                     was related to her before Hunter even entered the Valley."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  And turning to Amanda, he said:—
                  "When did you see these things?"
                  "I think it was in March, sir."
                  The words were uttered in the simplest manner possible. The strange woman
                     smiled as sweetly as she spoke, and seemed as far from being guilty of a
                     deliberate imposture as before.
                  "And you saw the fight at Ream's, too?"
                  "Yes, sir; I saw it two months before it took place. There was a man killed
                     running though the yard of a house, and they told me, afterward, he was found
                     dead there."
                  "Have you had any visions, since?"
                  "Only one, sir."
                  "Lately?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "What did you see?"
                  "It was not much, sir. I saw the Federal people on horses, watering their
                     horses in a large river somewhere west of here, and the vision said the war
                     would be over about next March."
                  Mohun smiled.
                  "Which side will be successful, Amanda?"
                  "The vision did not say, sir."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †Colonel Surry assured me that he had scrupulously searched his memory to
                        recall the exact words of this singular woman; and that he had given the
                        precise substance of her statements; often, the exact words.—[ED.
                  
                  Mohun, who had taken his seat on a rude settee, leaned his elbow on his knee,
                     and for some moments gazed into the fire.
                  "I have asked you some questions, Amanda," he said at length, "relating to
                     public events. I now come to some private matters—those which brought me
                     hither—in which your singular visions may probably assist me. Are you willing
                     to help me?"
                  "Yes, indeed, sir, if I can," was the reply.
               
               
                  XI. DEEP UNDER DEEP.
                  MOHUN fixed his mild, and yet penetrating glance upon the singular woman, who
                     sustained it, however, with no change in her calm and smiling expression.
                  "You know Nighthawk?"
                  "Oh, yes, sir. He has been here often."
                  "And Swartz?"
                  "Very well, sir—I have known him many years."
                  "Have you seen him, lately?"
                  "No, sir; not for some weeks."
                  "Ah! You saw him some weeks since?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "At this house?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Do you know what has become of him?"
                  "No, sir; but I suppose he is off somewhere."
                  "He is dead!"
                  Her head rose slightly, but the smile was unchanged.
                  "You don't tell me, sir!"
                  "Yes, murdered; perhaps you know his murderer?"
                  "Who was it, sir?"
                  "Colonel Darke."
                  "Oh, I know him. He has been here, lately. Poor Mr. Swartz! And so
                     they murdered him! I am sorry for him."
                  Mohun's glance became more penetrating.
                  "You say that Colonel Darke has been here lately?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "What was the occasion of his visit?"
                  "I don't know, sir; unless it was to hear me tell my visions."
                  "You never knew him before?"
                  Amanda hesitated.
                  "Yes, sir," she said at length.
                  "When, and how?"
                  
                  "It was many years ago, sir;—I do not like to speak of these things. He is a
                     terrible man, they say."
                  "You can speak to me, Amanda. I will repeat nothing; nor will Colonel
                     Surry."
                  The singular woman looked from Mohun to me, evidently hesitating. Then she
                     seemed suddenly to make up her mind, and said, with her eternal smile:—
                  "I will tell you, then, sir. I can read faces, and I know neither you nor
                     Colonel Surry will get me into trouble."
                  "I will not—on my honor."
                  "Nor I," I said.
                  "That is enough, gentlemen; and now I will tell you what you wish to know,
                     General Mohun."
                  As she spoke she closed her eyes, and seemed for some moments to be reflecting.
                     Then opening them again, she gazed, with her calm smile, at Mohun, and
                     said:—
                  "It was many years ago, sir, when I first saw Colonel Darke, who then went by
                     another name. I was living in this same house, when late one evening a light
                     carriage stopped before the door, and a gentleman got out of it, and came in.
                     He said he was travelling with his wife, who had been taken sick, and would I
                     give them shelter until morning, when she would be able to go on? I was a poor
                     woman, sir, as I am now, and hoped to be paid. I would have given the poor sick
                     lady shelter all the same, though—and I told him he could come in, and sleep in
                     this room, and I would go into that closet-like place behind you, sir. Well, he
                     thanked me, and went back to the carriage, where a lady sat. He took her in his
                     arms and brought her along to the house, when I saw that she was a very
                     beautiful young lady, but quite pale. Well, sir, she came in and sat down in
                     that chair you are now sitting in, and after awhile, said she was better. The
                     gentleman had gone out and put away his horse, and when he came back I had
                     supper ready, and every thing comfortable."
                  "What was the appearance of the lady?" said Mohun, over whose brow a
                     contraction passed.
                  "She was small and dark, sir; but had the finest eyes I ever saw."
                  "The same," said Mohun, in a low tone. "Well?"
                  "They stayed all night, sir. Next morning they paid me,—though it was
                     little—and went on toward the south."
                  "They seemed poor?"
                  "Yes, sir. The lady's dress was cheap and faded—and the gentleman's
                     thread-bare."
                  "What names did they give?"
                  "Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer, sir."
                  Mohun's brow again contracted.
                  "Well, go on," he said, "or rather, go back, Amanda. You say that they remained
                     with you until the morning. Did you not hear some of their conversation—gain
                     some knowledge of whence they came, whither they were going, and what was the
                     object of their journey?"
                  The woman hesitated, glancing at Mohun. Then she smiled, and shook her
                     head.
                  "You will get me into trouble, sir," she said.
                  "I will not, upon my honor. You have told me enough to enable me to do so,
                     however—why not tell me all? You say you slept in that closet there—so you must
                     have heard them converse. I am entitled to know all—tell me what they
                     said."
                  And taking from his purse a piece of gold, Mohun placed it in the hand extended
                     upon the bed. The hand closed upon it—clutched it. The eye of the woman
                     glittered, and I saw that she had determined to speak.
                  "It was not much, sir," she said. "I did listen, and heard many things, but
                     they would not interest you."
                  "On the contrary, they will interest me much."
                  "It was a sort of quarrel I overhead, sir. Mr. Mortimer was blaming his wife
                     for something, and said she had brought him to misery. She replied in the same
                     way, and said that it was a strange thing in him to talk to
                        her so, when she had broken every law of God and man, to marry
                     the——"
                  "The ——?" Mohun repeated, bending forward.
                  "The murderer of her father, she said, sir," returned Amanda.
                  Mohun started, and looked with a strange expression at me.
                  "You understand!" he said, in a low tone, "is the thing credible?"
                  "Let us hear more," I said, gloomy in spite of myself.
                  
                  "Go on," Mohun said, turning more calmly toward the woman; "that was the reply
                     of the lady, then—that she had broken all the laws of God and man by marrying
                     the murderer of her father. Did she utter the name of her father?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "What was it?"
                  "A Mr. George Conway," replied Amanda, who seemed to feel that she had gone too
                     far to conceal any thing.
                  "And the reason for this marriage?" said Mohun, in a low tone; "did she
                     explain, or say any thing which explained to you, how such a union had ever
                     taken place?"
                  "Yes, sir. They said so many things to each other, that I came to know all. The
                     young lady was a daughter of a Mr. George Conway, and when she was a girl, had
                     fallen in love with some worthless young man, who had persuaded her to elope
                     with him and get married. He soon deserted her, when she fell in with this Mr.
                     Mortimer and married him."
                  "Did she know that he was her father's murderer?"
                  "No, sir—not until after their marriage, I gathered."
                  "Then," said Mohun, who had suppressed all indications of emotion, and was
                     listening coolly; "then it seems to me that she was wrong in taking shame to
                     herself—or claiming credit—for the marriage."
                  "Yes, sir," returned Amanda, "and he told her as much."
                  "So they had something like a quarrel?"
                  "Not exactly a quarrel, sir. He seemed to love her with all his heart—more than
                     she loved him. They went on talking, and laying plans to make money in some
                     way. I remember he said to her, 'You are sick, and need every luxury—I would
                     rather die than see you deprived of them—I would cheat or rob to supply you
                     every thing—and we must think of some means, honest or dishonest, to get the
                     money we want. I do not care for myself, but you are all that I have left in
                     the world.' That is what he said, sir."
                  And Amanda was silent.
                  "They then fell asleep?" asked Mohun.
                  "Yes, sir; and on the next morning he took her in his arms again, and carried
                     her to the carriage, and they left me."
                  Mohun leaned his chin upon his hand, knit his brows, and reflected. The
                     singular narrative plunged me too into a reverie. This man, Darke, was a
                     veritable gulf of mystery—his life full of hidden and inexplicable things. The
                     son of General Davenant, he had murdered his father's foe; permitted that
                     father to be tried for the crime, and to remain under suspicion; disappeared,
                     changed his name, encountered the daughter of his victim, married her, had
                     those mysterious dealings with Mohun, disappeared a second time, changed his
                     name a second time, and now had once more made his appearance near the scene of
                     his first crime, to murder Swartz, capture his father and brother, and complete
                     his tragic record by fighting under the enemy's flag against his country and
                     his family!
                  There was something diabolical in that career; in this man's life "deep under
                     deep" met the eye. And yet he was not entirely bad. On that night in
                     Pennsylvania, he had refused to strike Mohun at a disadvantage—and had borne
                     off the gray woman at the peril of death or capture. He had released his
                     captured father and brother, bowing his head before them. He had confessed the
                     murder of George Conway, over his own signature, to save this father. The woman
                     who was his accomplice, he seemed to love more than his own life. Such were the
                     extraordinary contrasts in a character, which, at first sight, seemed entirely
                     devilish; and I reflected with absorbing interest upon the singular
                     phenomenon.
                  I was aroused by the voice of Mohun. He had never appeared more calm: in his
                     deep tones I could discern no emotion whatever.
                  "That is a singular story," he said, "and your friend, Colonel Darke, is a
                     curious personage. But let us come back to events more recent—to the visits of
                     Swartz."
                  "Yes, sir," said Amanda, smiling.
                  "But, first, let me ask—did Colonel Darke recognize you?"
                  "You mean know me? Oh, yes, sir."
                  "And did he speak of his former visit—with his wife?"
                  "No, sir."
                  "And you——?"
                  Amanda smiled.
                  
                  "I made out I didn't remember him, sir; I was afraid he would think I had
                     overheard that talk with his wife."
                  "So he simply called as if to see you as a curiosity?"
                  "Yes, sir—and staid only a few minutes."
                  "But you know or rather knew poor Swartz better?"
                  "I knew him well, sir."
                  "He often stopped here?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  Mohun looked at the woman keenly, and said:—
                  "I wish you, now, to answer plainly the question which I am about to ask. I
                     come hither as a friend—I am sent by your friend Mr. Nighthawk. Listen and
                     answer honestly—Do you know any thing of a paper which Swartz had in his
                     possession—an important paper which he was guarding from Colonel Darke?"
                  "I do not, sir," said Amanda, with her eternal smile.
                  "For that paper I will pay a thousand dollars in gold. Where is it?"
                  The woman's eyes glittered, then she shook her head.
                  "On my salvation I do not know, sir."
                  "Can you discover?"
                  Again the shake of the head.
                  "How can I, sir?"
                  Mohun's head sank. A bitter sigh issued from his lips—almost a groan.
                  "Listen!" he said, almost fiercely, but with a singular smile, "you have
                     visions—you see things! I do not believe in your visions—they seem folly—but
                     only see where that paper is to be dicovered, and I will believe!
                     nay more, I will pay you the sum which I mentioned this moment."
                  I looked at the woman to witness the result of this decisive test of her
                     sincerity. "If she believes in her own visions, she will be elated," I said,
                     "if she is an impostor, she will be cast down."
                  She smiled radiantly!
                  "I will try, sir!" she said.
                  Mohun gazed at her strangely.
                  "When shall I come to hear the result?"
                  "In ten days from this time, sir."
                  "In ten days? So be it."
                  And rising, Mohun bade the singular personage farewell, and went toward his
                     horse.
                  I followed, and we rode back, rapidly, in dead silence, toward the Rowanty.
               
               
                  XII. HOW THE MOMENT AT LAST CAME.
                  MOHUN rode on for more than a mile at full gallop, without uttering a word.
                     Then he turned his head, and said, with a sigh:—
                  "Well, what do you think of your new acquaintance, Surry?"
                  "I think she is an impostor."
                  "As to her visions, you mean?"
                  "Yes. Her story of Darke I believe to be true."
                  "And I know it," returned Mohun. "A strange discovery, is it not? I went there
                     to-day, without dreaming of this. Nighthawk informed me that Swartz had often
                     been at the house of this woman—that the paper which I wish to secure might
                     have been left with her for safe keeping—and thus I determined to go and ferret
                     out the matter, in a personal interview. I have done so, pretty thoroughly, and
                     it seems plain that she knows nothing of its present whereabouts. Will she
                     discover through her visions—her spies—or her strange penetration, exhibited in
                     the recognition of our persons? I know not; and so that matter ends. I have
                     failed, and yet have learned some singular facts. Can you believe that strange
                     story of Darke? Is he not a weird personage? This narrative we have just heard
                     puts the finishing touch to his picture—the murderer marries the daughter of
                     his victim!"
                  "It is truly an extraordinary history altogether," I said, "and the whole life
                     of this man is now known to me, with a single exception."
                  
                  "Ah! you mean——?"
                  "The period when you fought with him, and ran him through the body, and threw
                     him into that grave, from which Swartz afterward rescued him on the morning of
                     the 13th December, 1856.
                  Mohun looked at me with that clear and penetrating glance which characterized
                     him.
                  "Ah! you know that!" he said.
                  "I could not fail to know it, Mohun."
                  "True—and to think that all this time you have, perhaps, regarded me as a
                     criminal, Surry! But I am one—that is I was—in intent if not in reality. Yes,
                     my dear friend," Mohun added, with a deep sigh, his head sinking upon his
                     breast, "there was a day in my life when I was insane, a simple madman,—and on
                     that day I attempted to commit murder, and suicide! You have strangely come to
                     catch many glimpses of those past horrors. On the Rappahannock the words of
                     that woman must have startled you. In the Wilderness my colloquy with the spy
                     revealed more. Lastly, the words of Darke on the night of Swartz's murder must
                     have terribly complicated me in this tissue of horrors. I knew that you must
                     know much, and I did not shrink before you, Surry! Do you know why? Because I
                     have repented, friend! and thank God! my evil passions did not result, as I
                     intended, in murder and self-destruction!"
                  Mohun passed his hand across his forehead, to wipe away the drops of cold
                     perspiration.
                  "All this is gloomy and tragic," he said; "and yet I must inflict it on you,
                     Surry. Even more, I earnestly long to tell you the whole story of which you
                     have caught these glimpses. Will you listen? It will not be long. I wish to
                     show you, my dear friend—you are that to me, Surry!—that I am not unworthy of
                     your regard; that there are no degrading scenes, at least, in my past life;
                     that I have not cheated, tricked, deceived—even if I have attempted to destroy
                     myself and others! Will you listen?"
                  "I have been waiting long to do so, Mohun," I said. "Speak, but first hear me.
                     There is a man in this army who is the soul of honor. Since my father's death I
                     value his good opinion more than that of all others—it is Robert E. Lee. Well,
                     come with me if you choose, and I will go to Lee with you, and place my hand
                     upon your shoulder, and say: 'General, this is my friend! I vouch for him; I am
                     proud of his regard. Think well of him, or badly of me too!' Are you
                     satisfied?"
                  Mohun smiled sadly.
                  "I knew all that," he said. "Do you think I can not read men, Surry? Long since
                     I gave you in my heart the name of friend, and I knew that you had
                     done as much toward me. Come, then! Go to my camp with me; in the evening we
                     will take a ride. I am going to conduct you to a spot where we can talk without
                     interruption, the exact place where the crimes of which I shall speak were
                     committed."
                  And resuming the gallop, Mohun led the way, amid the trailing festoons, through
                     the fallen logs, across the Rowanty.
                  Half an hour afterward we had reached his camp.
                  As the sun began to decline we again mounted our horses.
                  Pushing on rapidly we reached a large house on a hill above the Nottoway, and
                     entered the tall gateway at the moment when the great windows were all ablaze
                     in the sunset.
               
               
                  XIII. FONTHILL.
                  MOHUN spurred up the hill; reined in his horse in front of the great portico,
                     and, dismounting, fastened his bridle to the bough of a magnificent exotic, one
                     of a hundred which were scattered over the extensive grounds.
                  I imitated him, and we entered the house together, through the door, which gave
                     way at the first push. No one had come to take our horses. No one opposed our
                     entrance. The house was evidently deserted.
                  I looked round in astonishment and admiration. In every thing appertaining to
                     the mansion were the indications of almost unlimited wealth, directed by the
                     severest and most elegant taste. The
                     broken furniture was heavy and elaborately carved; the remnants of carpet of
                     sumptuous velvet; the walls, ceiling, doorways, and deep windows were one mass
                     of the richest chiselling and most elaborate fresco-painting.
                  On the walls still hung some faded portraits in the most costly frames. On the
                     mantel-pieces of variegated marble, supported by fluted pillars, with
                     exquisitely carved capitals, rested a full length picture of a gentleman, the
                     heavy gilt frame tarnished and crumbling.
                  The house was desolate, deserted, inexpressibly saddening from the evident
                     contrast between its present and its past. But about the grand mansion hung an
                     august air of departed splendor which to me, was more striking than if I had
                     visited it in the days of its glory.
                  "Let me introduce 'Fonthill' to you, or rather the remains of it, Surry," Mohun
                     said, with a sad smile. "It is not pleasant to bring a friend to so deserted a
                     place; but I have long been absent; the house is gone to decay like other
                     things in old Virginia. Still we can probably find two chairs. I will kindle a
                     blaze, and we can light a cigar and talk without interruption."
                  With these words, Mohun proceeded to the adjoining apartment, from which he
                     returned a moment afterward, dragging two chairs with elaborately carved
                     backs.
                  "See," he said, with a smile, "they were handsome once. That one with the
                     ragged remnants of red velvet was my father's. Take a seat, my dear Surry. I
                     will sit in the other—it was my mother's."
                  Returning to the adjoining room, Mohun again reappeared, this time bearing in
                     his arms the broken remnants of a mahogany table, which he heaped up in the
                     great fireplace.
                  "This is all that remains of our old family dining-table," he said. "Some
                     Yankee or straggling soldier will probably use it for this purpose—so I
                     anticipate them!"
                  And, placing combustibles beneath the pile, Mohun had recourse to the metallic
                     match case which he always carried with him in order to read dispatches, lit
                     the fuel, and a blaze sprung up.
                  Next, he produced his cigar case, offered me an excellent Havana vana, which I
                     accepted, and a minute afterward we were leaning back in the great chairs,
                     smoking.
                  "An odd welcome, this," said Mohun, with his sad smile; "broken chairs, old
                     pictures, and a fire made of ruined furniture! But one thing we have—an
                     uninterrupted opportunity to converse. Let us talk, therefore, or rather, I
                     will at once tell you what I promised."
               
               
                  XIV. "LORD OF HIMSELF, THAT HERITAGE OF WOE."
                  MOHUN leaned back in his chair, reflected for a moment with evident sadness,
                     and then, with a deep sigh, said:—
                  "I am about to relate to you, my dear Surry, a history so singular, that it is
                     probable you will think I am indulging my fancy, in certain portions of it.
                     That would be an injustice. It is a true life I am about to lay before you—and
                     I need not add that actual occurrences are often more surprising than any due
                     to the imagination of the romance writer. I once knew a celebrated novelist,
                     and one day related to him the curious history of a family in Virginia. 'Make a
                     romance of that,' I said, 'it is an actual history.' But my friend shook his
                     head. 'It will not answer my purpose,' he replied, smiling, 'it is too strange,
                     and the critics would call me a "sensation writer"—that is, ruin me!' And he
                     was right, Surry. It is only to a friend, on some occasion like the present,
                     that I could tell my own story. It is too singular to be believed
                     otherwise.
                  "But I am prosing. Let me proceed. My family is an old one, they tell me, in
                     this part of Virginia; and my father, whose portrait you see before you, on the
                     mantel-piece, was what is called an 'aristocrat.' That is to say, he was a
                     gentleman of refined tastes and habits; fond of books; a great admirer of fine
                     paintings; and a gentleman of social habits and feelings. 'Fonthill'—this old
                     house—had been, for many generations, the scene of a profuse hospitality; my father kept up the
                     ancient rites, entertaining all comers; and when I grew to boyhood I
                     unconsciously imbibed the feelings, and clung to the traditions of the family.
                     These traditions may be summed up in the maxims which my father taught me—'Use
                     hospitality; be courteous to high and low alike; assist the poor; succor the
                     unhappy; give bountifully without grudging; and enjoy the goods heaven provides
                     you, with a clear conscience, whether you are called an aristocrat or a
                     democrat!' Such were my father's teachings; and he practised them, for he had
                     the kindest and sweetest heart in the world. He was aided in all by my mother,
                     a perfect saint upon earth; and if I have since that time given way to rude
                     passions, it was not for wanting a good example in the blameless lives of this
                     true gentleman and pure gentlewoman.
                  "Unhappily, I did not have their example long. When I was seventeen my mother
                     died; and my father, as though unable to live without her who had so long been
                     his blessing, followed her a year afterward, leaving me the sole heir of the
                     great possessions of the family. For a time grief crushed me. I was alone—for I
                     had neither brother nor sister—a solitary youth in this great lonely house,
                     standing isolated amid its twenty thousand acres—and even the guardian who had
                     been appointed to look after my affairs, seldom came to see me and relieve my
                     loneliness. The only associate I had was a sort of bailiff or steward,
                     Nighthawk—you know him, and his attachment for me. It was hereditary—this
                     attachment. My father had loved and trusted his; relieved the necessities of
                     the humble family once when they were about to be turned adrift for debt The
                     elder Nighthawk then conceived a profound affection for his benefactor—and
                     dying, left to his son the injunction to watch over and serve faithfully the
                     son of his 'old master.'
                  "Do not laugh at that word, Surry. It is the old English term, and England is
                     best of all, I think. So Nighthawk came to live with me, and take care of my
                     interests. You know that he has continued to be faithful, and to serve me, and
                     love me, to this moment.
                  "But in spite of the presence of this true friend, I was still lonely. I craved
                     life, movement, company—and this I promised myself to secure at the university
                     of Virginia, to which I accordingly went, spending there the greater portion of
                     my time until I had reached the age of twenty. Then I returned to Fonthill—only
                     to find, however, that the spot was more dreary than before. I was the master
                     of a great estate, but alone; 'lord of myself,' I found, like the unhappy
                     Childe Harold, and Randolph of Roanoke after him, that it was a 'heritage of
                     woe.' There was little or no society in the neighborhood—at least suited to my
                     age—I lived a solitary, secluded, dormant existence; and events soon proved
                     that this life had prepared my character for some violent passion. A
                     philosopher could have foretold that. Every thing in excess brings on reaction.
                     The drunkard may abstain long, but the moment he touches spirit, an orgy
                     commences. Men love, because the time and a woman have come—and that hour and
                     person came all at once to arouse me from my lethargy.
                  "One day I was inert, apathetic, sluggish in my movements, careless of all
                     things and all persons around me. On the next I was aroused, excited, with
                     every nerve and faculty strung. I was becoming suddenly intoxicated, and soon
                     the drunkenness of love had absorbed all the powers of my being.
                  "You know who aroused that infatuation, the daughter of George Conway."
               
               
                  XV. THE STORM.
                  "AT that time she was called Miss Mortimer. The commencement of our
                     acquaintance was singular. Fate seemed to have decreed that all connected with
                     our relations should be 'dramatic.'
                  "One night I was returning at full speed from the house of a gentleman in the
                     neighborhood, whither I had been to make a visit. The night was as dark as a
                     wolf's mouth, and a violent storm rushed down upon me, when I was still many
                     miles from home. I have scarcely ever witnessed a more furious tempest; the thunder and lightning were
                     fearful, and I pushed my horse to his utmost speed to reach Fonthill before the
                     torrents of rain drenched me to the skin.
                  "Well, I had entered the Fonthill woods, a mile or two from the house, and was
                     galloping at full speed through the black darkness which the lightning only
                     occasionally illumined now, when all at once my horse struck his chest against
                     something. I heard a cry, and then a dazzling flash showed me a light carriage
                     which had evidently just been overturned. I was nearly unseated by the
                     collision, but leaped to the ground, and at the same moment another flash
                     showed me the form of a lady whom a man was extricating from the broken
                     vehicle. I hastened to render my assistance. The lady was lifted in our arms,
                     and then I aided in raising the fallen horse, who lay on his side, frightened
                     and kicking violently.
                  "Ten minutes afterward I was placed in possession of what the lawyers call 'the
                     facts of the case.' Mr. Mortimer, of Georgia, was travelling home from the
                     North, with his sick sister in his carriage, for the benefit of her health.
                     They had lost their way; the storm had caught them; their carriage had
                     overturned in the darkness,—where could Mr. Mortimer obtain lodgings for the
                     night? The condition of his sister rendered it imperative that they should not
                     continue their journey until morning, even if the storm and broken vehicle
                     permitted.
                  "I listened, and felt a warm sympathy for the poor sick girl—she was only a
                     girl of eighteen, and very beautiful. I would gladly have offered my own house,
                     but it was still some miles distant, and the young woman was so weak, and
                     trembled so violently, that it would plainly be impossible to conduct her so
                     far on foot. True, my carriage might have been sent for her, but the rain was
                     now descending in torrents; before it arrived she would be drenched—something
                     else must be thought of. All at once the idea occurred to me, 'Parson Hope's is
                     only a quarter of a mile distant.' Mr. Hope was the parson of the parish, and a
                     most excellent man. I at once suggested to Mr. Mortimer that his sister should
                     be conducted thither, and as he assented at once, we half conducted, half
                     carried the poor girl through the woods to the humble dwelling of the
                     clergyman.
                  "The good parson received us in a manner which showed his conviction that to
                     succor the stranger or the unfortunate is often to 'entertain angels unawares.'
                     It is true that on this occasion it was something like a brace of devils whom
                     he received into his mansion! The young lady threw herself into a seat; seemed
                     to suffer much; and was soon conducted by the parson's old housekeeper—for he
                     was a childless widower—to her chamber in which a fire had been quickly
                     kindled. She disappeared, sighing faintly, but in those few minutes I had taken
                     a good look at her. You have seen her; and I need not describe her. She is
                     still of great beauty; but at that time she was a wonder of loveliness.
                     Slender, graceful, with a figure exquisitely shaped; with rosy lips as artless
                     as an infant's; grand dark eyes which seemed to burn with an inner light as she
                     looked at you; such was Miss Mortimer at eighteen, when I first
                     saw her on that night in the Fonthill woods."
               
               
                  XVI. ACT I.
                  "AN hour after the scene which I have tried to describe, I was at home; and,
                     seated in this apartment, then very different in appearance, reflected deeply
                     upon this romantic encounter with the beautiful girl.
                  "It was midnight before I retired. I fell asleep thinking of her, and the
                     exquisite face still followed me in my dreams.
                  "These few words tell you much, do they not, Surry? You no doubt begin to
                     understand, now, when I have scarcely begun the real narrative, what is going
                     to be the character of the drama. Were I a romance writer, I should call your
                     attention to the fact that I have introduced my characters, described their
                     appearance, and given you an inkling of the series of events which are about to
                     be unrolled before you. A young man of twenty is commended to your attention; a
                     youth living in a great mansion
                     sion; lord of himself, but tired of exercising that authority; of violent
                     passions, but without an object; and at that very moment, presto! appeared a
                     lovely girl, with dark eyes, rosy lips; whom the youth encounters and rescues
                     under most romantic circumstances!
                  "Well, the 'lord of himself' acted in real life as he would have done in a
                     novel. In other words, my dear Surry, I proceeded straightway to fall violently
                     in love with Miss Mortimer; and it is needless to say that on the
                     next day my horse might have been seen standing at the rack of the parsonage. I
                     had gone, you see, as politeness required, to ask how the young lady felt after
                     her accident.
                  "She was leaning back in an arm-chair, reading a 'good book,' and looked
                     charming. The accident seemed to have greatly shocked the delicate frame of the
                     young creature, but when I entered, she held out her hand, greeting me with a
                     fascinating smile. Mademoiselle was imitated by Monsieur. I mean Mr. Mortimer.
                     I did not fancy the countenance of that gentleman much. It was dark and
                     forbidden, but his manners were those of a person acquainted with good society;
                     he thanked me 'with effusion,' as the French say, for my timely assistance on
                     the night before; and then he strolled forth with the good parson to look at
                     the garden, leaving me tête-à-tête with his sister.
                  "Why lengthen out my story by comment, reflections, a description of every
                     scene, and the progressive steps through which the 'affair' passed? I was in
                     love with Miss Mortimer. She saw it. Her eyes said, 'Love me as much as you
                     choose, and don't be afraid I will not love you soon, in return.' At the end of
                     this interview, which the worthy Mr. Mortimer did not interrupt for at least
                     two hours, I rode home thinking with a throb of the heart 'If she will only
                     love me?' Then the throb was succeeded by a sudden sinking of the same organ.
                     'But there will be no opportunity!' I groaned, 'doubtless in two or three days
                     she will leave this part of the country!' A week afterward that apprehension
                     had been completely removed. Miss Mortimer was still faint and weak, 'from her
                     accident.' All her movements were slow and languid. She had not left the good
                     parson's house, Surry—and what is more she was not going to leave it! She had
                     learned what she desired to know about me; heard that I was a young man of
                     great wealth; and had devised a scheme so singular that—but let me not
                     anticipate! She proceeded rapidly. In our second interview she 'made eyes at
                     me.' In the third, she blushed and murmured, avoiding my glances, when I looked
                     at her. In the fourth, she blushed more deeply when I took her hand—but did not
                     withdraw it. In the fifth, the fair head in some manner had come to rest on my
                     shoulder—no doubt from weakness. And in a few days afterward the shy,
                     embarrassed, loving, palpitating creature, blushing deeply, 'sunk upon my
                     bosom,' as the poets say, and murmured, 'How can I resist you?'
                  "In other words, my dear friend, Miss Mortimer had promised to
                     become my wife, and I need not say, I was the happiest of men. I
                     thought with rapture of the bliss I was about to enjoy in having by my side,
                     throughout life, this charming creature. I trembled at the very thought that
                     the accident in the wood might not have happened, and I might never have known
                     her! I was at the parsonage morning, noon, and night. When not beside
                        her I was riding through the forest at full speed, with bared
                     brow, laughing lips, and shouts of joy—in a word, my dear friend, I was as much
                     intoxicated as ever youth was yet, and fed on froth and moonshine to an extent
                     that was really astonishing!
                  "There was absolutely nothing to oppose our marriage. My old guardian, it is
                     true, shook his head, and suggested inquiries into the family, position,
                     character, etc., of the Mortimers; I was young, wealthy, heir of one of the
                     oldest families, he said, and sharpers might deceive me. But all I heard was
                     the word 'sharpers'—and I left my guardian, whose functions had ceased now, in
                     high displeasure at his unworthy imputations. That angel a sharper! That pure,
                     devoted creature, guilty of deception! I fell into a rage; swore never to visit
                     my guardian again; and returning to the parsonage urged a speedy consummation
                     of our marriage.
                  "The fair one was not loth. She indicated that fact by violently opposing me at
                     first, but soon yielded. When I rode home that night I had made every
                     arrangement for our union in one month from that time.
                  "So much for Act I., Surry!"
               
               
                  
                  XVII. THE WILL.
                  MOHUN had commenced his narrative in a mild voice, and with an expression of
                     great sadness upon his features. As he proceeded, however, this all
                     disappeared; gradually the voice became harsh and metallic, so to describe it,
                     and his face resumed that expression of cynical bitterness which I had observed
                     in him on our first meeting. As he returned thus, to the past, all its
                     bitterness seemed to revive; memory lashed him with its stinging whip; and
                     Mohun had gone back to his "first phase,"—that of the man, stern, implacable,
                     and misanthropic.
                  After uttering the words, "So much for Act I., Surry!" he paused. A moment
                     afterward, however, he resumed his narrative.
                  "What I am now going to tell you is not agreeable to remember, my dear Surry,
                     and I shall accordingly relate every thing as briefly as possible. I aim only
                     to give you a clear conception of the tragedy. You will form your own
                     opinion.
                  "I was impolite enough in introducing Miss Mortimer to you, at the
                     parsonage, to describe that young lady as a 'devil.' No doubt the term shocked
                     you, and yet it conveyed something very like the exact truth. I declare to you
                     that this woman was, and is still, a marvel to me, a most curious study. How
                     could she be such as she was? She had the lips of an infant, and the eyes of an
                     angel. Was it not strange that, under all that, she should hide the heart of a
                     born devil? But to continue my narrative.
                  "The month or two which elapsed between my engagement and my marriage was not
                     an uninterrupted dream of bliss. The atmosphere was strangely disturbed on more
                     that one occasion. Mademoiselle was frequently absent from the parsonage when I
                     arrived, taking long walks with Monsieur, her brother; and when she returned
                     from these excursions, I could see a very strange expression on her countenance
                     as she looked at me. Occasionally her glance was like those lurid flashes of
                     lighting which you may have seen issue from the depths of a black cloud. Her
                     black eyes were the cloud—admire the simile!—and I assure you their expression
                     at such moments was far from agreeable. What to make of it, I knew not. I am
                     not constitutionally irritable, but on more than one occasion I felt a strange
                     angry throb of the heart when I encountered those glances.
                  "Mademoiselle saw my displeasure, and hastened at once to soothe and dissipate
                     it. The dark flash was always succeeded by the most brilliant sunshine; but,
                     even in moments of her greatest apparent abandon, I would still meet suddenly,
                     when she did not think I was looking at her, the sombre glance which appalled
                     me.
                  "In spite of this strange phenomenon, however, the young girl possessed
                     unbounded influence over me. I could not resist her fascinations, and was as
                     wax in her hands. She took a charming interest in all that concerned me;
                     painted the blissful future before us, in all the colors of the rainbow; and
                     declared that the devotion of her whole life would not be sufficient to display
                     'her gratitude for my magnanimity in wedding a poor girl who had nothing but
                     her warm love to offer me.'
                  "'That is more than enough,' I said, charmed by her caressing voice. 'I have
                     few relations, and friends—you are all to me.'
                  "'And you to me!' she said. Then she added, with a sort of shudder, 'but
                     suppose you were to die!'
                  "I laughed, and replied:—
                  "'You would be well provided for, and find yourself a gay young widow with
                     hundreds of beaux?'
                  "She looked at me reproachfully.
                  "'Do you think I would ever marry again?' she said. 'No! I would take our
                     marriage ring, and some little souvenir connected with you, leave your fine
                     house, and go with my brother to some poor home in a foreign country, where the
                     memory of our past happiness would be my solace!'
                  "I shook my head.
                  "'You will not do that,' I said, 'you will be the mistress of all my fortune,
                     after my death!'
                  "'Oh, no!' she exclaimed.
                  "'Oh, yes!' I responded, laughing; 'and to make every thing certain, I am going
                     to draw up my will this very day, leaving you every thing which I possess in
                     the world.'
                  
                  "Her face suddenly flushed.
                  "'How can you think of such a thing!' she said. 'I did not know how much you
                     loved me!'
                  "You will understand, my dear Surry, that those words did not change my
                     resolution. When I left her I went home, and wrote the will in due form, and on
                     my next visit she asked, laughing, if I had carried out my absurd
                     resolution.
                  "'Yes,'I said, 'and now let us talk of a more interesting affair—our
                     marriage!'
                  "She blushed, then turned pale, and again I saw the strange lurid glance. It
                     disappeared, however, in an instant, and she was all smiles and fascinations
                     throughout the remainder of the day. Never had I been so happy."
               
               
                  XVIII. THE MARRIAGE.
                  "AS THE day of our marriage approached," continued Mohun, "I saw more than once
                     the same singular expression in the lady's eyes, and I confess it chilled
                     me.
                  "She seemed to be the prey to singular moods, and fits of silence. She took
                     more frequent and longer walks with Mortimer than before. When they returned
                     from these walks and found me awaiting them at the parsonage, both would look
                     at me in the strangest way, only to quickly withdraw their eyes when they
                     caught my own fixed upon them.
                  "I longed to speak of this curious phenomenon to some one, but had no friend.
                     My best friend, Nighthawk, was alienated from me, and Mademoiselle had been the
                     cause. From the first moment of our acquaintance, Nighthawk had seemed to
                     suspect something. He did not attempt to conceal his dislike of Mortimer and
                     the young lady. Why was that? I could not tell. Your dog growls when the secret
                     foe approaches you, smiling, and, perhaps, Nighthawk, my faithful retainer, had
                     something of the watch dog in him.
                  "Certain it is that he had witnessed my growing intimacy with Miss Mortimer,
                     with ill-concealed distaste. As I became more and more attentive, he became
                     almost sour toward me. When I asked him the meaning of his singular deportment,
                     he shook his head—and then, with flushed cheeks and eyes, exclaimed: 'do not
                     marry this young person, sir! something bad will come of it! When he said that,
                     I looked at him with haughty surprise—and this sentiment changed in a few
                     moments to cold anger. 'Leave this house,' I said, 'and do not return until you
                     have learned how to treat me with decent respect!' He looked at me for a
                     moment, clasped his hands, opened his lips—seemed about to burst forth into
                     passionate entreaty—but all at once, shaking his head, went out in silence. I
                     looked after him with a strange shrinking of the heart. What could he mean? He
                     was senseless!—and I mounted my horse, galloped to the parsonage, was received
                     with radiant smiles, and forgot the whole scene. On the next day Nighthawk did
                     not return—nor on the next. I did not see him again until the evening of the
                     day on which I was married.
                  "To that 'auspicious moment' I have now conducted you, my dear Surry. The
                     morning for my marriage came. I say 'the morning'—for my 'enchantress,' as the
                     amatory poets say, had declared that she detested the idea of being married at
                     night; she also objected to company;—would I not consent to have the ceremony
                     performed quietly at the parsonage, with no one present but her brother and the
                     excellent parson, Hope, and his old house-keeper? Then she would belong to me—I
                     could do as I pleased with her—take her to Fonthill, or where I chose—she only
                     begged that I would allow her to embark on the ocean of matrimony, with no one
                     to witness her blushes but myself, her brother, the old housekeeper, and the
                     good minister!
                  "I consented at once. The speech charmed me, I need not say—and I was not
                     myself unwilling to dispense with inquisitive eyes and laughing witnesses.
                     Infatuated as I was, I could not conceal from myself that my marriage was a
                     hasty and extremely 'romantic' affair. I doubted whether the old friends of my
                     father in the neighborhood would approve of it; and now, when Mademoiselle gave me a good excuse to dispense
                     with their presence, I gladly assented, invited no one, and went to my wedding
                     alone, in the great family chariot, unaccompanied by a single friend or
                     relative.
                  "Mademoiselle met me with a radiant smile, and her wedding dress of white silk,
                     made her look perfectly charming. Her lips were caressing, her eyes melting,
                     but all at once, as she looked at me, I saw the color all fade out of the rosy
                     lips of the lady; and from the great dark eyes darted the lurid flash. A chill,
                     like that of death smote me, I knew not why, but I suppressed my emotion. In
                     ten minutes, I was standing before the excellent clergyman, the young lady's
                     cold hand in mine—and we were duly declared man and wife.
                  "All my forebodings and strange shrinkings were completely dissipated at this
                     instant. I was overwhelmed with happiness, and would not have envied a king
                     upon his throne. With the hand of the lovely creature in my own, and her eyes
                     fixed upon me with an expression of the deepest love, I experienced but one
                     emotion—that of full, complete, unalloyed happiness.
                  "Let me hasten on. The storm is coming, my dear Surry. I linger on the
                     threshold of the tragedy, and recoil even now, with a sort of shudder from the
                     terrible scenes which succeeded my marriage. Tragedy is a mild
                     word, as you will perceive, for the drama. It was going to surpass Æschylus—and
                     preserve the Greek 'unities' with frightful precision!
                  "Half an hour after the ceremony, I led madam to my chariot; followed her into
                     the vehicle, and making a last sign of greeting to the good parson, directed
                     the driver to proceed to Fonthill. Madam's excellent brother did not accompany
                     us. He declared his intention to remain on that night at the parsonage. He
                     would call at Fonthill on the next day—on the day after, he proposed to
                     continue his way to Georgia. His eyes were not a pleasant spectacle as he
                     uttered these words, and I observed a singular pallor came to madam's
                     countenance. But I was in no mood to nourish suspicion. At the height of
                     happiness, I looked serenely down upon all the world, and with the hand of
                        my wife in my own, was driven rapidly to Fonthill.
                  "We arrived in the afternoon, and dined in state, all alone. Madam did the
                     honors of her table with exquisite grace, but more than once I saw
                     her hand shake in a very singular way, as she carried food or a glass to her
                     lips.
                  "After dinner she bade me a smiling courtesy, leaving me to find company in my
                     cigar, she said; and tripped off to her chamber.
                  "Well, I lit my cigar, retired to the library, and seating myself in an
                     arm-chair before the fire, began to reflect. It was nearly the middle of
                     December, and through the opening in the curtains I could see the moonlight on
                     the chill expanse of the lawn.
                  "I had just taken my seat, when I heard a step in the passage, the door of the
                     library opened, and Nighthawk, as pale as a ghost, and with a strange
                     expression in his eyes, entered the apartment.
               
               
                  XIX. WEDDING ARRANGEMENTS.
                  "I HAD recognized his step," continued Mohun, "but I did not move or turn my
                     head, for I had not recovered from my feeling of ill humor toward the faithful
                     retainer. I allowed him to approach me, and then said coldly, without looking
                     at him—
                  "'Who is that?'
                  "'I, sir,' said Nighthawk, in a trembling voice.'
                  "'What do you want?'
                  "'I wish to speak to you, sir.'
                  "'I am not at leisure.'
                  "'I must speak to you, sir.'
                  "I wheeled round in my chair, and looked at him. His pallor was frightful.
                  "'What does all this mean?' I said, coldly, 'this is a singular intrusion.'
                  
                  "'I would not intrude upon you, if it was not necessary sir,' he said, in an
                     agitated voice, 'but I must speak to you to-night!'
                  "There was something in his accent which frightened me, I knew not why.
                  "'Well speak!' I said, austerely, 'but be brief!'
                  "'As brief as I can, sir; but I must tell you all. If you strike me dead at
                     your feet, I must tell you all, sir!'
                  "In spite of myself I shuddered.
                  "'Speak!' I said, 'what does this mean, Nighthawk?' Why do you look like a
                     ghost at me?'
                  "He came up close to me.
                  "'What I have to tell you concerns your honor and your life, sir!' he said, in
                     a low tone.
                  "I gazed at him in speechless astonishment. Was I the prey of some nightmare? I
                     protest to you, Surry, I thought for a moment that I was dreaming all this. A
                     tremor ran through my frame; I placed my hand upon my heart, which felt icy
                     cold—then suddenly my self-possession and coolness seemed to return to me as by
                     magic.
                  "'Explain your words,' I said, coldly, 'there is some mystery in them which I
                     do not understand. Speak, and speak plainly.'
                  "'I will do so, sir,' he replied, in the same trembling voice.
                  "And going to the door of the apartment, he bent down and placed his ear at the
                     key-hole. He remained in this attitude for a moment without moving. Then
                     rising, he went to the window, and drawing aside the curtains, looked out on
                     the chill moonlit expanse. This second examination seemed to satisfy him. At
                     the same instant a light step—the step of madam—was heard crossing the floor of
                     the apartment, above our heads; and this evidently banished Nighthawk's last
                     fears.
                  "He returned quickly to the seat where I was sitting; looked at me for some
                     minutes with eyes full of fear, affection, sympathy, fright, and said in a
                     voice so low, that it scarce rose above a whisper:—
                  "'We are alone, sir, and I can speak without being overheard by these devils
                     who have betrayed and are about to murder you! Do not interrupt me sir!—the
                     time is short!—you must know every thing at once, in an hour it would be too
                     late! The man calling himself Mortimer is probably within a hundred yards of us
                     at this moment. The woman you have married is——his wife. Stop, sir!—do not
                     strike me!—listen! I know the truth of every thing now. She talked with him for
                     an hour under the big cedar, near the parsonage last night. He will see her
                     again to-night, and in this house—hear me to the end, sir! You will not harm
                     him; you will care nothing for all this; you will not know it, for you will be
                     dead, sir!'
                  "At these words I must have turned deadly pale, for Nighthawk hastened to my
                     side, and placed his arm around me to support me. But I did not need his
                     assistance. In an instant I was as calm as I am at this moment. I quietly
                     removed the arm of Nighthawk, and said in a low tone:—
                  "'How do you know this?'
                  "'I overheard their talk,' he replied, in a husky voice, and looked at me with
                     infinite tenderness as he spoke. 'I was coming to see you at the parsonage,
                     where I thought you had gone, sir. I could not bear to keep away from my old
                     master's son any longer; and let him get married without making up, and having
                     him feel kindly again to me. Well, sir, I had just reached the big cedar, when
                     I saw the lady come out of the house, hasten toward the cedar, and
                     hide herself in the shadow, within a few feet of me. No sooner had she done so,
                     than I saw a man come from the rear of the house, straight to the cedar, and as
                     he drew nearer I recognized Mortimer. Madam coughed slightly, as though to give
                     him the signal; he soon reached her; and then they began to talk. I was hidden
                     by the trunk of the tree, and the shadow of the heavy boughs, reaching nearly
                     to the ground; so I heard every word they said, without being discovered.'
                  "'What was it they said?'
                  "'I can not repeat their words, sir, but I can tell you what I learned from
                     their talk.'
                  "'Tell me,' I said.
                  "'First, I discovered that madam had been married to that man more than a year
                     before you saw her.'
                  "'Yes.'
                  
                  "'Before which she had been tried, convicted, and confined for six months in a
                     prison in New York, as a thief. You turn pale, sir; shall I stop?'
                  "'No, go on,' I said.
                  "'These facts,' continued Nighthawk, 'came out in a sort of quarrel which madam
                     had with the man. He reproached her with intending to desert him—with loving
                     you—and said he had not rescued her from misery to be thus treated. She
                     laughed, and replied that she was only following a suggestion of his own. They
                     were poor, they must live; he had himself said that they must procure money
                     either honestly or dishonestly; and he had fully approved of the plan she had
                     now undertaken. You, sir—she added—were an "empty-headed
                     fool,"—the idea of her "loving" you was absurd!—but you were wealthy; immensely
                     wealthy; had made a will leaving her your entire property;—if you died
                        suddenly on your wedding night, she and himself would possess
                     Fonthill, and live in affluence.'
                  "'Go on,' I said.
                  "'At these words,' continued Nighthawk, 'I could see the man turn pale. He had
                     not intended that, he said. His scheme had been, that madam should
                     induce you to bestow upon her a splendid trousseau in the shape of jewels and
                     money, with which they would elope. The marriage was only a farce, he added—he
                     did not wish to turn it into a tragedy. But she interrupted him impatiently,
                     and said she hated and would have no mercy on you. She would have all or
                     nothing. Your will made her the mistress. What was a crime, more or less, to
                     people like themselves! At these words he uttered a growl. In a word, she
                     added, you were an obstacle, and she was going to suppress
                        you—with or without his consent. She then proceeded to tell him her
                     resolution; and it is a frightful, a horrible one, sir! All is arranged—you are
                     about to be murdered!'
                  "'How, and when?' I said.
                  "'This very night, by poison!'
                  "'Ah!' I said, 'explain that.'
                  "'Madam has provided herself with strychnine, which she will place in the tea
                     you drink to-night. Tea will be served in half an hour. He will be
                     waiting—for she forced him to agree— and your cries will announce all to him.
                     You will be poisoned between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, sir,—at ten
                     you will already be dying,—and at midnight you will be dead. Then madam will
                     banish every one from her chamber, in inconsolable grief—lock the door—tap on
                     the window-pane—he will hear the signal, and come up the back
                     staircase—when madam will open the private door for him to come in and take a
                     look at your body! Do you understand now, sir?'
                  "'Yes,' I said. 'Remain here, Nighthawk. There is the step of the servant
                     coming to tell me tea is ready!'"
               
               
                  XX. THE CUP OF TEA.
                  "THE door opened as I uttered the words, and my old major-domo—gray haired, and
                     an heir-loom, so to say, of the family—bowed low, and announced that tea was
                     served and madam waiting.
                  "I rose and looked into the mirror above the fireplace. I was pale, but not
                     sufficiently so to excite suspicion; and with a smile which frightened
                     Nighthawk, took my way toward the supper-room.
                  "Madam was awaiting me, as I suspected, and I had never seen her look more
                     radiant. A single glance told me that she had made an elaborate toilet in honor
                     of—my funeral! Her dark hair was in shining braids; her eyes sparkled with joy;
                     her parted lips showed her white teeth;—the only evidence I saw of concealed
                     emotion was in the bloodless cheeks. They were as white as the lace falling
                     over her superb silk dress.
                  "'You see you keep me waiting!' she said, with playful naïveté, 'and your tea is growing cold, sir—which is worse for me
                     than for you, as you do not care, but I care for you!'
                  "And as I passed her, she drew me playfully toward her, dragged me down, and
                     held up her lips. I touched them with my own; they were as cold as ice, or the cheek my own face just touched in
                     passing. I went to the table; took my seat; and madam poured out the tea, with
                     a covert glance toward me. I was not looking at her, but I saw it.
                  "A moment afterward, the old waiter presented me the small gilt cup, smoking,
                     fragrant, and inviting.
                  "I took it, looking, as before, out of the corner of my eye at madam. She was
                     leaning forward, watching me with a face as pale as death. I could hear her
                     teeth chatter.
                  "I placed the cup to my lips;—her hand, holding a spoon, trembled so that the
                     spoon beat a tattoo on her saucer. She was watching me in breathless suspense;
                     and all at once I turned full toward her.
                  "'The taste of this tea is singular,' I said, 'I should call it very bad.'
                  "'Oh, it is—excellent!' she muttered, between her chattering teeth.
                  "'The cup you send me is certainly wretched. Do me the pleasure to taste
                        it, madam.'
                  "And depositing it upon the waiter of the old servant, I said:—
                  "'Take this to your mistress.'
                  "He did so; she just touched it with her lips, her hand trembling, then
                     replaced it upon the waiter.
                  "'I perceive nothing disagreeable,' she murmured.
                  "'Swallow a mouthful,' I said, with a bitter smile.
                  "She looked at me with sudden intentness. Her eyes, full of wild inquiry,
                     seemed attempting to read into my very soul.
                  "'Perhaps you object to drinking after me, as the children say,' I added—this
                     time with a species of sneer, and a flash of the eye, I think.
                  "'Oh, no!' she exclaimed, with an attempt to laugh; 'and to show you——'
                  "With a quick movement she attempted—as though by accident—to strike the waiter
                     with her elbow, in order to overturn the cup.
                  "But the old servant was too well trained. The lady's elbow struck the waiter,
                     but the skilful attendant withdrew it quickly. Not a drop of the tea was
                     spilled.
                  "A moment afterward I was beside madam.
                  "'I pray you to drink,' I said.
                  "'I can not—I feel unwell,' she murmured, cowering beneath the fire in my
                     eye.
                  "'I beg you to drink from this cup.'
                  "'I have told you—I will not.'
                  "'I beseech you to humor me, madam. Else I shall regard you as a murderess!
                  "She rose suddenly.
                  "'Your meaning, sir!' she exclaimed, as pale as death.
                  "I took the cup and poured the tea into a saucer. At the bottom was a modicum
                     of white powder, undissolved. I poured the tea into the cup again—then a second
                     time into the saucer. This time nothing remained—and I proceeded to pour cream
                     into the saucer, until it was filled. Madam watched me with distended eyes, and
                     trembling from head to foot. Then suddenly she uttered a cry—a movement of mine
                     had caused the cry.
                  "I had gone to the fire where a cat was reposing upon the rug, and placed the
                     saucer before her. In two minutes its contents had disappeared down the throat
                     of the cat. Five minutes afterward the animal was seized with violent
                     convulsions—uttered unearthly cries—tore the carpet with its claws—glared
                     around in a sort of despair—rolled on its back, beat the air with its paws—and
                     expired.
                  "I turned to madam, who was gazing at me with distended eyes, and pointing to
                     the cat, said:—
                  "'See this unfortunate animal, madam! Her death is curious. She has died in
                     convulsions, in consequence of drinking a cup of tea!'"
               
               
                  
                  XXI. THE FOILS.
                  "UP to this moment," continued Mohun, "madam had exhibited every indication of
                     nervous excitement, and a sort of terror. Had that arisen from a feeling of
                     suspense, and the unexpected discovery of her intent by the proposed victim? I
                     know not; but now, when all was discovered, her manner suddenly changed.
                  "She glared at me like a wild animal driven to bay. Her pearly teeth closed
                     upon her under lip until the blood started. Pallid, but defiant, she uttered a
                     low hoarse sound which resembled the growl of a tigress from whom her prey has
                     been snatched, and with a firm and haughty step left the apartment, glaring
                     over her shoulder at me to the last.
                  "Then her step was heard upon the great staircase; she slowly ascended to her
                     chamber; the door opened, then closed—and I sat down, overcome for an instant
                     by the terrible scene, within three paces of the dead animal, destroyed by the
                     poison intended for myself.
                  "This paralysis of mind lasted only for a moment, however. I rose coolly;
                     directed the old servant, who alone had witnessed the scene, to retire, and
                     carefully abstain from uttering a word of what had passed before him—then I
                     leaned upon the mantel-piece, reflected for five minutes—and in that time I had
                     formed my resolution.
                  "Mortimer was first to be thought of. I intended to put him to death first and
                     foremost. It would have been easy to have imitated the old seigneurs of the
                     feudal age, and ordered my retainers to assassinate him; but that was repugnant
                     to my whole character. It should never be said that a Mohun had shrunk before
                     his foe; that one of my family had delegated to another the punishment of his
                     enemy. I would fight Mortimer—meet him in fair and open combat—if he killed me
                     well and good. If not, I would kill him. And it should not be with the pistol.
                     I thirsted to meet him breast to breast; to feel my weapon traverse his heart.
                     To accomplish this was not difficult. I had often heard Mortimer, when at the
                     parsonage, boast of his skill with the foils. I had a pair at hand. By breaking
                     off the buttons, and sharpening the points, I would secure two rude but
                     excellent rapiers, with which Mortimer and myself could settle our little
                     differences, after the fashion of gentlemen in former ages! As to the place of
                     combat,—anywhere—in the house, or a part of the grounds around the mansion—it
                     was unimportant I said, so that one of us was killed. But a moment's reflection
                     induced me to change my views. Under any circumstances I was going
                     to die—that was true. My character, however, must be thought of. It would not
                     do to have a stain rest on the last of the house of Mohun! Were I to kill
                     Mortimer in the house, or grounds, it would be said that I had murdered him,
                     with the aid of my servants—that I had drawn him thither to strike him—had
                     acted the traitor and the coward. 'No,' I said, 'even in death I must guard the
                     family honor. This man must fall elsewhere—in some spot far distant from this
                     house—fall without witnesses—in silence—in fair fight with me, no one even
                     seeing us.'
                  "I had formed this resolution in five minutes after the departure of madam from
                     the supper-room. I went straight to the library; calmly stated my resolution to
                     Nighthawk; and in spite of his most obstinate remonstrances, and repeated
                     refusals, broke down his opposition by sheer force of will. It took me half an
                     hour, but at the end of that time I had succeeded. Nighthawk listened, with
                     bent head, and pale face covered with drops of cold perspiration, to my orders.
                     These orders were to have the horses put to the carriage, which was to be ready
                     at my call; then to proceed with a trusty servant, or more if necessary, to a
                     private spot on the river, which I described to him; dig a grave of full length
                     and depth; and when his work was finished, return and report the fact to me,
                     cautioning the servant or servants to say nothing.
                  "This work, I calculated, would be completed about midnight—and at midnight I
                     promised myself an interview with my friend Mortimer.
                  "Nighthawk groaned as he listened to my cold and resolute voice, giving minute
                     instructions for the work of darkness—looked at my face, to discover if there were any signs
                     of yielding there—doubtless saw none whatever—and disappeared, uttering a
                     groan, to carry out the orders which he had received from me.
                  "Then I took the two foils from the top of the bookcase where they were kept;
                     broke off the buttons by placing my heel upon them; procured a file, and
                     sharpened the points until they would have penetrated through an ordinary
                     plank. That was sufficient. I said to myself—they would pierce a man's
                     breast—and placing them on the buffet, I went to a drawer and took out a loaded
                     revolver, which I thrust into my breast.
                  "Two minutes afterward I had ascended to madam's chamber, opened the door, and
                     entered."
               
               
                  XXII. WHILE WAITING FOR MIDNIGHT.
                  "I DID not arrive a moment too soon—in fact I came in the nick of time.
                  "Madam had hastily collected watches, chains, breastpins, necklaces, and all
                     the money she could find; had thrust the whole into a jewel casket; thrown her
                     rich furs around her shoulders; and was hurrying toward the door, in rear of
                     the apartment which opened on the private staircase.
                  "She had not locked the main door of the apartment, doubtless fearing to excite
                     suspicion, or knowing I could easily break the hasp with a single blow of my
                     foot. She had plainly counted on my stupor of astonishment and horror at her
                     crime, and was now trying to escape.
                  "That did not suit my view, however. In two steps, I reached the private door,
                     turned the key, drew it from the lock, and placed it in my pocket.
                  "'Sit down, madam, I said, 'and do not be in such a hurry to desert your dear
                     husband. Let us talk for a few moments, at least, before you depart.'
                  "She glared at me and sat down. She looked regal in her costly furs, holding
                     the casket, heaped with rich jewels.
                  "'What is your programme, madam, if I may ask?' I said, taking a chair which
                     stood opposite to her.
                  "'To leave this house!' she said, hoarsely.
                  "'Ah! you are tired of me, then?'
                  "'I am sick of you!—have long been sick of you!'
                  "'Indeed!' I said. 'That is curious! I thought our marriage was a love affair,
                     madam; at least you induced me to suppose so. What, then, has suddenly changed
                     your sentiments in my direction? Am I a monster? Have I been cruel to you? Am I
                     unworthy of you?'
                  "'I hate and despise you!'
                  "It was the hoarse growl of a wild animal rather that the voice of a woman. She
                     was imperial at that moment—and I acknowledge, Surry, that she was 'game to the
                     last!'
                  "'Ah! you hate me, you despise me!' I said. 'I have had the misfortune to incur
                     madam's displeasure! No more connubial happiness—no more endearments and sweet
                     confidences—no more loving words, and glances—no more bliss!'
                  "She continued to glare at me.
                  "'I am unworthy of madam; I see that clearly,' I went on. 'I am only a poor
                     little, plain little, insignificant little country clodhopper! I am nothing—a
                     mere nobody,—while madam is—shall I tell you, madam? While you are a convict—a
                     bigamist,—and a poisoner! Are you not?'
                  "Her face became livid, but her defiant eyes never sank before my glance. I
                     really admired her, Surry. No woman was ever braver than that one. I had
                     supposed that these words would overwhelm her; that the discovery of my
                     acquaintance with her past life, and full knowledge of her attempted crime,
                     would crush her to the earth. Perhaps I had some remnant of pity for this
                     woman. If she had been submissive, repentant! but, instead of submission and
                     confusion, she exhibited greater defiance than before. In the pale face her
                     eyes burned like coals of fire—and it was rage which inflamed them.
                  "'So you have set your spies on me!' she exclaimed, in accents of inexpressible
                     fury. 'You are a chivalric gentleman, truly! You are worthy of your boasted family! You pretend to love and
                     confide in me—you look at me with smiles and eyes of affection—and all the time
                     you are laying a trap for me—endeavoring to catch me and betray me! Well, yes,
                     sir! yes! What you have discovered through your spies is true. I
                        was tried and sentenced as a thief—I was married
                     when I first saw you—and it is this miserable creature, this offscouring of the
                     kennels, this thief, that has become the wife of the proud Mr.
                     Mohun—in the eyes of the world at least! I am so still—my character is
                     untainted—dare to expose, me and have me punished, and it is your
                     proud name that will be tarnished! your grand escutcheon that will
                     be blotted! Come! arrest me, expose me, drag me to justice! I will stand up in
                     open court, and point my finger at you where you stand cowering, in the midst
                     of jeers and laughter, and say: "There is Mr. Mohun, of the ancient family of
                     the Mohuns,'—he is the husband and the dupe of a thief!"
                  "She was splendid as she uttered these words, Surry. They thrilled me, and made
                     my blood flame. I half rose, nearly beside myself—then I resumed my seat and my
                     coolness. A moment afterward I was as calm as I am at this moment, and said,
                     laughing:—
                  "'So you have prepared that pretty little tableau, have you, madam? I
                     compliment you on your skill;—and even more on your nerve. But have you not
                     omitted one thing—a very trifling portion, it is true, of the indictment to be
                     framed against you? I refer to the little scene of this evening, madam.'
                  "Her teeth closed with a snap. Otherwise she exhibited no emotion. Her flashing
                     eyes continued to survey me with the former defiance.
                  "'Is there not an additional clause in the said indictment, madam?' I calmly
                     continued, 'which the commonwealth's attorney will perhaps rely on more fully
                     than upon all else in the document, to secure your conviction and punishment?
                     You are not only a bigamist and an ex-convict,—you are also a poisoner, my dear
                     madam, and may be hanged for that. Or, if not hanged—there is that handsome
                     white house at Richmond, the state penitentiary. The least term which a jury
                     can affix to your crime, will be eighteen years, if you are not sent there for
                     life! For life!—think of that, madam. How very disagreeable it will be! Nothing
                     around you but blank walls; no associates but thieves and murderers—hard labor
                     with these pretty hands—a hard bed for this handsome body—coarse and wretched
                     food for these dainty red lips—the dress, the food, the work, and the treatment
                     of a convict! Disagreeable, is it not, madam? But that is the least that a
                     felon, convicted of an attempt to poison, can expect! There is only one point
                     which I have omitted, and which may count for you. This life in prison will not
                     be so hard to you—since your ladyship has already served your apprenticeship
                     among felons.'
                  "The point at last was reached. Madam had listened with changing color, and my
                     words seemed to paint the frightful scene in all its horror. Suddenly fury
                     mastered her. She rose and seemed clutching at some weapon to strike me.
                  "'You are a gentleman! you insult a woman.'
                  "'You are a poisoner, madam—you make tea for the gentleman!'
                  "'You are a coward! do you hear? a coward!'
                  "'I can not return, madam, the same reproach!' I replied, rising and bowing;
                     'it required some courage to attempt to poison me upon the very night of my
                     wedding!'
                  "My words drove her to frenzy.
                  "'Beware!' she exclaimed, taking a step toward me, and putting her hand into
                     her bosom.
                  "'Beware!' I said, with a laugh, "beware of what, my dear Madam Laffarge?'
                  "'Of this!'
                  "And with a movement as rapid as lightning she drew from her breast a small
                     silver-mounted pistol, which she aimed straight at my breast.
                  "I was not in a mood to care much for pistols, Surry. When a man is engaged in
                     a little affair like that, bullets lose their influence on the nerves.
                  "'That is a pretty toy!' I said. 'Where did you procure it madam, the
                     poisoner?'
                  "With a face resembling rather a hideous mask than a human countenance, she
                     rushed upon me; placed the muzzle of the pistol on my very breast; and drew the
                     trigger.
                  
                  "The weapon snapped.
                  "A moment afterward I had taken it from her hand and thrown it into a
                     corner.
                  "'Very well done!' I said. 'What a pity that you use such indifferent caps!
                     Your pistol is as harmless as your tea!'
                  "She uttered a hoarse cry, but did not recoil in the least, Surry! This woman
                     was a curiosity. Instead of retreating from me, she clenched her small white
                     hand, raised it above her head, and exclaimed:—
                  "'If he only were here!'
                  "'He, madam?' I said. 'You refer to your respected
                        brother—to Mr. Mortimer?'
                  "'Yes! he would make you repent your cowardly outrages and
                     insults.'
                  "I looked at my watch, it was just eleven.
                  "'The hour is earlier than I thought, madam,' I said, 'but perhaps he has
                     already arrived.'
                  "And advancing to the side of the lady, I took her arm, drew her toward the
                     window, and said:—
                  "'Why not give your friend the signal you have agreed on, madam?'
                  "At a bound she reached the window, and struck a rapid series of blows with her
                     fingers upon the pane.
                  "Five minutes afterward a heavy step was heard ascending the private staircase.
                     I went to the door and unlocked it; the step approached—stopped at the door—the
                     door opened, and Mortimer appeared.
                  "'Come in, my dear brother-in-law,' I said, 'we are waiting for you.'"
               
               
                  XXIII. THE RESULT OF THE SIGNAL.
                  "MORTIMER recoiled as if a blow had been suddenly struck at him. His
                     astonishment was so comic that I began to laugh.
                  "'Good! you start!' I said. "You thought I was dead by this time?'
                  "'Yes,' he coolly replied.
                  "As he spoke, his hand stole under the cloak in which he was wrapped, and I
                     heard the click of a pistol as he cocked it. I drew my own weapon, cocked it in
                     turn, and placing the muzzle upon Mortimer's breast, said:—
                  "'Draw your pistol and you are dead!'
                  "He looked at me with perfect coolness, mingled with a sort of curiosity. I saw
                     that he was a man of unfaltering courage, and that the instincts of a gentleman
                     had not entirely left him, soiled as he was with every crime. His eye was calm
                     and unshrinking. He did not move an inch when I placed my pistol muzzle upon
                     his breast. At the words which I uttered he withdrew his hand from his cloak—he
                     had returned the weapon to its place—and with a penetrating glance, said:—
                  "'What do you wish, sir; as you declare you await me?'
                  "'Ask madam,' I said, 'or rather exert your own ingenuity.'
                  "'My ingenuity?'
                  "'In guessing.'
                  "'Why not tell me?'
                  "'So be it. The matter is perfectly simple, sir. I wish to kill you, or give
                     you an opportunity to kill me—is that plain?'
                  "'Quite so,' replied Mortimer, without moving a muscle.'
                  "'I can understand, without further words, that all explanations and
                     discussions are wholly useless.'
                  "'Wholly.'
                  "'You wish to fight me,' he said.
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'To put an end to me, if possible?'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'Well, I will give you that opportunity, sir, and, even return you my thanks
                     for not killing me on the spot.'
                  "He paused a moment, and looked keenly at me.
                  "'This whole affair is infamous,' he said. 'I knew that when I undertook it. I
                     was once a gentleman, and have not forgotten every thing I then learned,
                     whatever my practice may be. You have been tricked and deceived. You have been
                     made the victim of a disgraceful
                     plot, and I was the author of the whole affair; though this lady would,
                     herself, have been equal to that, or even more. You see I talk to you plainly,
                     sir; I know a gentleman when I see him, and you are one. I was formerly
                     something of the same sort, but having outlawed myself, went on in the career
                     that brought me to this. I was poor—am poor now. I originated the idea of this
                     pseudo-marriage, with a view to profit by it, but with no further—'
                  "He suddenly paused and looked at the woman. Their glances in that moment
                     crossed like lightning.
                  "'Speak out!' she cried, 'say plainly—'
                  "'Hush! I did not mean to—I am no coward, madam!'
                  "'Say plainly that it was I who formed the design to get rid of
                     this person!'
                  "And she pointed furiously at me.
                  "'Let no scruples restrain you—take nothing upon yourself—it was I, I!—I who
                     planned his death!'
                  "Mortimer remained for an instant silent. Then he resumed, in the same measured
                     voice as before:—
                  "'You hear,' he said. 'I tried to shield her, to take the blame—meant to give
                     you no inkling of this—but she spoils all. To end this. I have offered you a
                     mortal insult—soiled an ancient and honorable name—the last representative of
                     the Mohuns has formed through me a degrading connection. I acknowledge all
                     that. I am going to try to kill you, to bury every thing in the grave. I would
                     have shrunk from assassinating you, though I wish your death. You offer me
                     honorable combat, and you do me an honor, which I appreciate. Let us finish.
                     The place, time, and weapons?'
                  "There was, then, something not altogether base in this man. I listened with
                     joy. I had expected to encounter a wretch without a single attribute of the
                     gentleman.
                  "'You accept this honorable combat, then?' I said.
                  "'With thanks,' he replied.
                  "'You wish to fight as gentlemen fight?'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'You fence well?'
                  "'Yes—but you?'
                  "'Sufficiently well.'
                  "'Are you certain? I warn you I am excellent at the foils.'
                  "'They suit me—that is agreed on, then?'
                  "He bowed, and said:—
                  "'Yes. And now, as to the place, the time, and every detail. All that I leave
                     to you."
                  "I bowed in turn.
                  "'Then nothing will delay our affair. I have ordered a grave to be dug, in a
                     private spot, on the river. The foils are ready, with the buttons broken, the
                     points sharpened. The carriage has been ordered. A ride of fifteen minutes will
                     bring us to the grave, which is done by this time, and we can settle our
                     differences there, by moonlight, without witnesses or interruption.'
                  "Mortimer looked at me with a sinister smile.
                  "'You are provident!' he said, briefly. 'I understand. The one who falls will
                     give no trouble. The grave will await him, and he can enter at once upon his
                     property!'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'And this lady?'
                  "'That will come afterward,' I said.
                  "'If I kill you—?'
                  "'She is your property.'
                  "'And if you kill me—?'
                  "'She is mine,' I said.
                  "The sinister smile again came to the dark features of Mortimer.
                  "'So be it,' he said, 'and I am ready to accompany you, sir.'
                  "I drew my pistol and threw it upon the bed, looking at Mortimer as I did so.
                     He imitated me, and opening his coat, showed me that he was wholly unarmed. I
                     did the same, and having locked the private door leading to the back staircase,
                     led the way out, followed by Mortimer. He turned and looked at madam as he
                     passed through the door. She was erect, furious, defiant, full of anticipated
                     triumph. Was it a glance of gloomy compassion and deep tenderness which
                     Mortimer threw toward her? I thought I heard him sigh.
                  "I locked the door, and we descended to the library."
               
               
                  
                  XXIV. WHAT TOOK PLACE IN FIFTY MINUTES.
                  "AS WE entered the apartment, the clock on the mantel-piece struck
                     midnight.
                  "My body servant was within call, and I ordered my carriage, which Nighthawk
                     had been directed to have ready at a moment's warning.
                  "In five minutes it was at the door, and I had just taken the two foils under
                     my arm, when I heard a step in the passage. A moment afterward, Nighthawk
                     entered.
                  "He was so pale that I scarcely recognized him. When his eyes encountered
                     Mortimer, they flashed lightnings of menace.
                  "'Well?' I said, in brief tones.
                  "'It is ready, sir,' Nighthawk replied, in a voice scarcely audible. I looked
                     at him imperiously.
                  "'And the servants are warned to keep silent?'
                  "'Yes, sir.'
                  "'Very well. Remain here until I return,' I said.
                  "And I pointed to a seat, with a glance at Nighthawk, which said plainly to
                     him, 'Do not presume to attempt to turn me from my present purpose—it will be
                     useless, and offensive to me.'
                  "He groaned, and sat down in the seat I indicated. His frame was bent and
                     shrunken like that of an old man, in one evening. Since that moment, I have
                     loved Nighthawk, my dear Surry; and he deserves it.
                  "Without delay I led the way to the carriage, which was driven by my father's
                     old gray-haired coachman, and entered it with Mortimer, directing the driver to
                     follow the high-road down the river. He did so; we rolled on in the moonlight,
                     or the shadow, as it came forth or disappeared behind the drifting clouds. The
                     air was intensely cold. From beyond the woods came the hollow roar of the
                     Nottoway, which was swollen by a freshet.
                  "Mortimer drew his cloak around him, but said nothing. In ten minutes I called
                     to the old coachman to stop. He checked his spirited horses—I had some good
                     ones then—and I descended from the carriage, with the foils under my arm,
                     followed by Mortimer.
                  "The old coachman looked on in astonishment. The spot at which I had stopped
                     the carriage was wild and dreary beyond expression.
                  "'Shall I wait, sir?' he said, respectfully.
                  "'No; return home at once, and put away the carriage.'
                  "He looked at me with a sort of stupor.
                  "'Go home, sir?' he said.
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'And leave you?'
                  "'Obey me!'
                  "My voice must have shown that remonstrance would be useless. My old servitor
                     uttered a sigh like the groan which had escaped from the lips of Nighthawk,
                     and, mounting the box, turned the heads of his horses toward home.
                  "I watched the carriage until it turned a bend in the road, and then, making a
                     sign to Mortimer to follow me, led the way into the woods. Pursuing a path
                     which the moonlight just enabled me to perceive, I penetrated the forest; went
                     on for about ten minutes; and finally emerged upon a plateau, in the swampy
                     undergrowth near which stood the ruins of an old chimney.
                  "This chimney had served to indicate the spot to Nighthawk; and, before us, in
                     the moonlight, was the evidence that he had found it. In the centre of the
                     plateau was a newly dug grave—and in front of it I paused.
                  "'We have arrived,' I said.
                  "Mortimer gazed at the grave with a grim smile.
                  "'That is a dreary and desolate object,' he said.
                  "'It will soon be inhabited,' I returned; 'and the issue of this combat is
                     indifferent to me, since in either event I shall be dead.'
                  "'Ah!' he exclaimed, 'explain that.'
                  "'Then you do not understand! You think this duel will end every thing? You
                     deceive yourself! A family history like mine does not terminate with a duel.
                     Have you read those tragedies where everybody is killed?—where not a single one
                     of the dramatis personæ escapes? Well, this
                     is going to be a drama of that exact description. Do you wish to save that
                     woman, yonder? To do so, you must
                     kill me. I tell you that to warn you to do your best, sir!'
                  "Mortimer glared at me. It is hard to imagine a glance more sinister.
                  "'So you have arranged the whole affair?' he said; 'there is to be a wholesale
                     killing.'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'You are going to kill—her?'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'Yourself, too?'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "Mortimer's smile became more sinister, as he raised his foil.
                  "'Take your position, sir,' he said; 'I am going to save you the latter
                     trouble.'
                  "I grasped my weapon, and placed myself on guard.
                  "In an instant he had thrown himself upon me with a fury which indicated the
                     profound passion under his assumed coolness. His eyes blazed; his lips writhed
                     into something like a deadly grin; I felt that I had to contend rather with a
                     wild animal than a man. The grave yawned in the moonlight at our very feet, and
                     Mortimer closed in, with fury, endeavoring to force me to its brink, and hurl
                     me into it.
                  "Ten minutes afterward the combat was over; and it was Mortimer who occupied
                     the grave.
                  "He had given ground an instant, to breathe; had returned to the attack more
                     furiously than before; a tremendous blow of his weapon snapped my own, eighteen
                     inches from the hilt; but this had probably saved my life instead of destroying
                     it, as Mortimer, from his fierce exclamation as the blade broke, evidently
                     expected.
                  "Before he could take advantage of his success, I sprang at his throat, grasped
                     his sword-arm with my left hand, and, shortening my stump of a weapon, drove
                     the point through his breast.
                  "He uttered a cry, staggered, and threw up his hands; I released my clutch on
                     his arm; and he fell heavily backward into the grave.
                  "'Now to end all,' I said, and I set out rapidly for Fonthill."
               
               
                  XXV. GOING TO REJOIN MORTIMER.
                  "I HAD not gone a hundred yards, when I heard the sound of wheels
                     approaching.
                  "I had said to myself, 'I am going back to madam; she will hear my footsteps
                     upon the staircase; will open the door; will rush forward to embrace me, under
                     the impression that I am her dear Mortimer, returning triumphant from the field
                     of battle; and then a grand tableau!' Things were destined to turn out
                     differently, as you will see in an instant.
                  "The sound of wheels grew louder; a carriage appeared; and I recognized my own
                     chariot.
                  "'Why have you disobeyed my orders?' I said to the old gray-haired driver,
                     arresting the horses as I spoke, by violently grasping the bridles.
                  "The old coachman looked frightened. Then he said, in an agitated voice:—
                  "'Madam ordered me to obey her, sir.'
                  "'Madam?'
                  "'Yes, sir.'
                  "'Where is she?'
                  "'In the carriage, sir. As soon as I got back, she came down to the
                     door—ordered me to drive her to you—and I was obliged to do so,
                     sir.'
                  "'Good,' I said, 'you have done well.'
                  "And opening the door of the carriage, through the glass of which I saw the
                     pale face of the woman, I entered it, directing the coachman to drive to the
                     'Hicksford Crossing.'
                  "A hoarse, but defiant voice at my side said:—
                  "'Where is Mr. Mortimer?'
                  "'Gone over the river,' I said, laughing, 'and we are going, too.'
                  "'To rejoin him?'
                  "'Yes, madam.'
                  "The carriage had rolled on, and as it passed the grave. I heard a groan.
                  
                  "'What is that?' said she.
                  "'The river is groaning yonder, madam.'
                  "'You will not attempt to pass it to-night?'
                  "'Yes, madam. Are you afraid?'
                  "She looked at me with fiery eyes.
                  "'Afraid? No!' she said, 'I am afraid of nothing!'
                  "I really admired her at that moment. She was truly brave. I said nothing,
                     however. The carriage rolled on, and ten minutes afterward the roar of the
                     river, now near at hand, was heard. That sound mingled with the deep bellowing
                     of the thunder, which succeeded the dazzling flashes at every instant dividing
                     the darkness.
                  "All at once my companion said:—
                  "'I am tired of this—where is Mr. Mortimer?'
                  "'He awaits us,' I replied.
                  "'You are going to him?'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "We had reached the bank of the river, and, stopping the carriage, I sprung
                     out. Madam followed me, without being invited. A small boat rose and fell on
                     the swollen current. I detached the chain, seized a paddle, and pointed to the
                     stern seat.
                  "'The river is dangerous to-night,' said madam, coldly.
                  "'Then you are afraid, after all?'
                  "'No!' she said.
                  "And with a firm step she entered the boat.
                  "'Go back with the carriage,' I said to the driver. He turned the heads of the
                     horses, and obeyed in silence.
                  "Madam had taken her seat in the stern of the boat. I pushed from shore into
                     the current, and paddling rapidly to the middle of the foaming torrent, filled
                     with drift-wood, threw the paddle overboard, and took my seat in the stern.
                  "As I threw away the paddle, my resolution seemed to dawn for the first time
                     upon my companion. She had become deadly pale, but said nothing. With folded
                     arms, I looked and listened; we were nearing a narrow and rock-studded point in
                     the river, where there was no hope.
                  "The frail boat was going to be overturned there, or dashed to pieces without
                     mercy. I knew the spot—knew that there was no hope. The torrent was roaring and
                     driving the boat like a leaf toward the jagged and fatal rocks.
                  "'Then you are going to kill me and yourself at the same time!' she said.
                  The woman was fearless.
                  "'Yes,' I said, 'it is the only way. I could not live dishonored—you dishonored
                     me—I die—and die with you!'
                  "And I rose erect, baring my forehead to the lightning.
                  "The point was reached. The boat swept on with the speed of a race-horse. A
                     dazzling flash showed a dark object amid the foam, right ahead of us. The boat
                     rushed toward it—the jagged teeth seemed grinning at us—the boat struck—and the
                     next moment I felt the torrent sweep over me, roaring furious and sombre, like
                     a wild beast that has caught its prey."
               
               
                  XXVI. AFTERWARD.
                  "WHEN I opened my eyes, the sun was shining in my face.
                  "I was lying on a mass of drift-wood, caught by a ledge of rock, jutting out
                     into the river. I had apparently been hurled there, by the force of the
                     current, stunned and bruised; the sunshine had aroused me, bringing me back to
                     that life which was a burden and a mockery.
                  "And where was she? I shuddered as I asked myself that question.
                     Had she been thrown from the boat? Had it been overturned? Was she drowned? I
                     closed my eyes with a shudder which traversed my body, chilling my blood as
                     with the cold hand of death.
                  "For a moment I thought of throwing myself into the river, and thus ending all
                     my woes. But I was too cowardly.
                  "I turned toward the shore, groaning; dragged my bruised and aching limbs along
                     the ledge of jagged rocks, through the masses of drift-wood; and finally
                     reached the shore, where I sank down exhausted, and ready to die.
                  
                  "I will not lengthen out the gloomy picture. At last I rose, looked around, and
                     with bent head and cowering frame, stole away through the woods toward
                     Fonthill. On my way, I passed within two hundred yards of the
                        grave—but I dared not go thither. He was dead, doubtless—and he had
                     been slain in fair combat! It was another form that haunted me—the form of a
                     woman—one who had dishonored me—attempted to poison me—a terrible being—but
                     still a woman; and I had—murdered her!
                  "I reached home an hour or two afterward. Nighthawk was sitting in the library,
                     pale and haggard, watching for me.
                  "As I entered, he rose with an exclamation, extending his arms toward me, with
                     an indescribable expression of joy.
                  "I shrunk back, refusing his hand.
                  "'Do not touch that,' I groaned, 'there is blood on it!'
                  "He seized it, and kneeling down, kissed it.
                  "'Bloody or not, it is your hand—the hand of my dear young
                     master!'
                  "And the honest fellow burst into tears, as he covered my hand with kisses.
                  "A month afterward, I was in Europe, amid the whirl and noise of Paris. I tried
                     to forget that I was a murderer—but the shadow went with me!"
               
               
                  XXVII. MOHUN TERMINATES HIS NARRATIVE.
                  MOHUN had spoken throughout the earlier portions of his narrative in a tone of
                     cynical bitterness. His last words were mingled, however, with weary sighs, and
                     his face wore an expression of the profoundest melancholy.
                  The burnt-out cigar had fallen from his fingers to the floor; he leaned back
                     languidly in his great arm-chair; with eyes fixed upon the dying fire, he
                     seemed to go back in memory to the terrible rible scenes just described, living
                     over again all those harsh and conflicting emotions.
                  "So it ended, Surry," he said, after a long pause. "Such was the frightful gulf
                     into which the devil and my own passions pushed me, in that month of December,
                     1856. A hand as irresistible and inexorable as the Greek Necessity had led me
                     step by step to murder—in intent if not in fact—and for years the shadow of the
                     crime which I believed I had committed, made my life wretched. I wandered over
                     Europe, plunged into a thousand scenes of turmoil and excitement—it was all
                     useless—still the shadow went with me. Crime is a terrible companion to have
                     ever at your elbow. The Atra cura of the poet
                     is nothing to it, friend! It is a fiend which will not be driven away. It
                     grins, and gibbers, and utters its gibes, day and night. Believe me, Surry,—I
                     speak from experience—it is better for this world, as well as the next, to be a
                     boor, a peasant, a clodhopper with a clear conscience, than to hold in your
                     hand the means of all luxury, and so-called enjoyment, and, with it, the
                     consciousness that you are blood guilty under almost any circumstances.
                  "Some men might have derived comfort from the circumstances of
                        that crime. I could not. They might have said, 'I was goaded,
                     stung, driven, outraged, tempted beyond my strength, caught in a net of fire,
                     from which there was but one method of exit—to burst out, trampling down every
                     thing.' Four words silenced all that sophistry—'She was a woman!' It was the
                     face of that woman, as I saw it last on that stormy night by the lightning
                     flashes, which drove me to despair. I, the son of the pure gentleman whose
                     portrait is yonder—I, the representative of the Mohuns, a family which had
                     acted in all generations according to the dictates of the loftiest honor—I, had
                     put to death a woman, and that thought spurred me to madness!
                  "Of his death I did not think in the same manner. I had slain him
                     in fair combat, body to body—and, however the law of God may stigmatize
                     homicide, there was still that enormous difference. I had played my life
                     against his, as it were—he had lost, and he paid the forfeit. But the
                        other was murdered! That fact stared me in the face. She
                     had dishonored me; tricked me; attempted to poison, and then shoot me.
                        She had designed to
                     murder me, and had set about her design deliberately, coolly,
                     without provocation, impelled by the lust of gold only. She deserved
                     punishment, but—she was a woman! I had not said 'Go!' either, in pointing to
                     the gloomy path to death. I had said 'Come!'—had meant to die too. I had not
                     shrunk from the torrent in which I had resolved she should be borne away. I had
                     gone into the boat with her; accompanied her on her way; devoted myself, too,
                     to death, at the same moment. But all was useless. I said to myself a thousand
                     times—'at least they can not say that I was a coward, as well as a murderer.
                     The last of the Mohuns may have blackened his escutcheon with the crime of
                     murder—but at least he did not spare himself; he faced death with
                     his victim.' Useless, Surry—all useless! The inexorable Voice with which I
                     fenced, had only one reply—one lunge—'She was a woman!' and the words pierced
                     me like a sword-blade!
                  "Let me end this, but not before I say that the dreadful Voice was
                        right. As to the combat with Mortimer, I shall express no
                     opinion. You know the facts, and will judge me. But the other act was a deadly
                     crime. Gloss it over as you may, you can never justify murder. Use all the
                     special pleading possible, and the frightful deed is still as black in the eyes
                     of God and man as before. I saw that soon; saw it always; see it to-day; and
                     pray God in his infinite mercy to blot out that crime from his book—to pardon
                     the poor weak creature who was driven to madness, and attempted to commit that
                     deadly sin.
                  "Well, to end my long history. I remained in Europe until the news from America
                     indicated the approach of war—Nighthawk managing my estate, and remitting me
                     the proceeds at Paris. When I saw that an armed collision was going to take
                     place, I hastened back, reaching Virginia in the winter of 1860. But I did not
                     come to Fonthill. I had a horror of the place. From New York, where I landed, I
                     proceeded to Montgomery, without stopping upon the route; found there a
                     prominent friend of my father who was raising a brigade in the Southwest; was
                     invited by him to aid him; and soon afterward was elected to the command of a
                     company of cavalry by his recommendation. I need only add, that I rose
                     gradually from captain to colonel, which rank I held in 1863, when we first met
                     on the Rappahannock—my regiment having been transferred to a brigade of General
                     Lee's cavalry.
                  "You saw me then, and remember my bitterness and melancholy. But you had no
                     opportunity to descry the depth and intensity of those sentiments in me.
                     Suddenly the load was lifted. That woman made her appearance, as
                     if from the grave, and you must have witnessed my wonder, as my eyes fell upon
                     her. Then, she was not dead after all! I was not a murderer! And to complete
                     the wonder, he was also alive. A man passing along the bank of the
                     river, as I discovered afterward from Nighthawk, who ferreted out the whole
                     affair—a man named Swartz, a sort of poor farmer and huckster, passing along
                     the Nottoway, on the morning after the storm, had found the woman cast ashore,
                     with the boat overturned near her; and a mile farther, had found Mortimer, not
                     yet dead, in the grave. Succored by Swartz, they had both recovered—had then
                     disappeared. I was to meet them again, and know of their existence only when
                     the chance of war threw us face to face on the field.
                  "You know the scenes which followed. Mortimer, or Darke, as he now calls
                     himself, confronted me everywhere, and she seemed to have no
                     object in life but my destruction. You heard her boast in the house near
                     Buckland that she had thrice attempted to assassinate me by means of her tool,
                     the man Swartz. Again, at Warrenton, in the hospital, she came near poniarding
                     me with her own hand. Nighthawk, who had followed me to the field, and become a
                     secret agent of General Stuart, warned me of all this—and one day, gave me
                     information more startling still. And this brings me, my dear Surry, to the
                     last point in my narrative. I now enter upon matter with which you have been
                     personally 'mixed up.'
                  "On that night when I attacked Darke in his house in Pennsylvania, Swartz stole
                     a paper from madam—the certificate of her marriage with Mr. Mortimer-Darke, or
                     Darke-Mortimer. The object of Swartz was, to sell the paper to me for a large
                     sum, as he had gotten an inkling of the state of affairs, and my relation with
                     madam. Well, Nighthawk reported this immediately, made an appointment to meet
                     Swartz in the Wilderness, and many times afterward attempted to gain possession
                     of the paper, which Swartz swore was
                     a bona fide certificate of the marriage of
                     these two persons before the year 1856, when I first met them.
                  "You, doubtless, understand now, my dear Surry, my great anxiety to gain
                     possession of that paper. Or, if you do not, I have only to state one fact—that
                     will explain all. I am engaged to be married to Miss Conway, and am naturally
                     anxious to have the proof in my possession that I have not one
                        wife yet living! I know that woman well. She will stop
                     at nothing. The rumor that I am about to become the happy husband of a young
                     lady whom I love, has driven madam nearly frantic, and she has already shown
                     her willingness to stop at nothing, by imprisoning Swartz, and starving him
                     until he produced the stolen paper. Swartz is dead, however; the paper is lost;
                     I and madam are both in hot pursuit of the document. Which will find it, I know
                     not. She, of course, wishes to suppress it—I wish to possess it. Where is it?
                     If you will tell me, friend, I will make you a deed for half my estate! You
                     have been with me to visit that strange woman, Amanda, as a forlorn hope. What
                     will come I know not; but I trust that an all-merciful Providence will not
                     withdraw its hand from me, and now dash all my hopes, at the very moment when
                     the cup is raised to my lips! If so, I will accept all, submissively, as the
                     just punishment of my great crime—a crime, I pray God to pardon me, as the
                     result of mad desperation, and not as a wanton and wilful defiance of His
                     Almighty authority! I have wept tears of blood for that act. I have turned and
                     tossed on my bed, in the dark hours of night, groaning and pleading for pardon.
                     I have bitterly expiated throughout long years, that brief tragedy. I have
                     humbled myself in the dust before the Lord of all worlds, and, falling at the
                     feet of the all-merciful Saviour, besought His divine compassion. I am proud—no
                     man was ever prouder—but I have bowed my forehead to the dust, and if the
                     Almighty now denies me the supreme consolation of this pure girl's
                     affection,—if loving her as I do, and beloved by her, as I may venture to tell
                     you, friend, I am to see myself thrust back from this future—then, Surry, I
                     will give the last proof of my submission: I will bow down my head, and say
                     'Thy will, not mine, Lord, be done!'"
                  Mohun's head sank as he uttered the words. To the proud face came an expression
                     of deep solemnity and touching sweetness. The firm lips were relaxed—the
                     piercing eyes had become soft. Mohun was greater in his weakness than he had
                     ever been in his strength.
                  When an hour afterward we had mounted our horses, and were riding back slowly
                     through the night, I said, looking at him by the dim starlight:—
                  "This is no longer a gay young cavalryman—a mere thoughtless youth—but a
                     patriot, fit to live or die with Lee!"
               
            
            
               
               BOOK V.
               THE DEAD GO FAST.
               
                  I. THE "DOOMED CITY" IN PROFILE—DECEMBER, 1864.
                  THE scenes just described took place in the month of November. In December I
                     obtained the priceless boon of a few days' leave of absence, and paid a visit
                     to Richmond.
                  There was little there of a cheerful character; all was sombre and lugubrious.
                     In the "doomed city," as throughout the whole country, all things were going to
                     wreck and ruin. During the summer and autumn, suffering had oppressed the whole
                     community; but now misery clutched the very heartstrings. Society had been
                     convulsed—now, all the landmarks of the past seemed about to disappear in the
                     deluge. Richmond presented the appearance, and lived after the manner, of a
                     besieged city, as General Grant called it. It no longer bore the least likeness
                     to its former peaceful and orderly self. The military police had usurped the
                     functions of the civil, and the change was for the worse. Garroters swarmed the
                     streets of the city after dark. House-breakers everywhere carried on their busy
                     occupation. Nothing was safe from these prowlers of the night; all was fish for
                     their nets. The old clothes in rags and bales; the broken china and worn
                     spoons; the very food, obtained through immense exertions by some father to
                     feed his children—all became the spoil of these night-birds, who were ever on
                     the watch. When you went to make a visit in the evening, you took your hat and
                     cloak with you into the drawing-room, to have them under your eye. When you
                     retired at night, you deposited your watch and purse under your pillow. At the
                     hotels, you never thought of placing your boots outside the door; and the
                     landlords, in the morning, carefully looked to see if the towels, or the
                     blankets of the beds had been stolen. All things were thus unhinged. Misery had
                     let loose upon the community all the outlaws of civilization; the scum and
                     dregs of society had come to the top, and floated on the surface in the
                     sunlight.
                  The old respectable population of the old respectable city had disappeared, it
                     seemed. The old respectable habitudes had fallen into contempt. Gambling-houses
                     swarmed everywhere; and the military police ignored them. "The very large
                     number of houses," said a cotemporary journal, "on Main and other streets,
                     which have numbers painted in large gilt figures over the door, and illuminated
                     at night, are faro banks. The fact is not known to the public. The very large
                     numbers of flashily dressed young men, with villainous faces, who hang about
                     the street corners in the daytime, are not gamblers, garroters, and plugs, but
                     young men studying for the ministry, and therefore exempt from military duty.
                     This fact is not known to General Winder." The quiet and orderly city had, in a
                     word, become the haunt of burglars, gamblers, adventurers, blockade-runners.
                     The city, once the resort of the most elegant society in Virginia, had been
                     changed by war and misery into a strange chaotic caravanserai, where you looked
                     with astonishment on the faces going and coming, without knowing in the least
                     "who was who," or whether your acquaintance was an honest man or a scoundrel.
                     The scoundrels dressed in excellent clothes, and smiled and bowed when you met
                     them; it was nearly the sole means of identifying them, at an epoch, when
                     virtue almost always went in rags.
                  The era of "social unrealities," to use the trenchant phrase of Daniel, had
                     come. Even braid on sleeves and collars did not tell you much. Who was the
                     fine-looking Colonel Blank, or the martial General Asterisks? Was he a
                     gentleman or a barber's boy—an F. F. somewhere, or an ex-drayman? The general
                     and colonel dressed richly; lived at the "Spottswood;" scowled on the common
                     people; and talked magnificently. It was only when some young lady linked her
                     destiny to his, that she found herself united to quite a surprising
                     helpmate—discovered that the general
                     or the colonel had issued from the shambles or the gutter.
                  Better society was not wanting; but it remained largely in the background. Vice
                     was strutting in cloth of gold; virtue was at home mending its rags. Every
                     expedient was resorted to, not so much to keep up appearances as to keep the
                     wolf from the door. Servants were sent around by high-born ladies to sell,
                     anonymously, baskets of their clothes. The silk or velvet of old days was now
                     parted with for bread. On the shelves of the bookstores were valuable private
                     libraries, placed there for sale. In the shops of the silversmiths were seen
                     breastpins, watches, bracelets, pearl and diamond necklaces, which their owners
                     were obliged to part with for bread. "Could we have traced," says a late
                     writer, "the history of a set of pearls, we should have been told of a fair
                     bride, who had received them from a proud and happy bridegroom; but whose life
                     had been blighted in her youthful happiness by the cruel blast of war—whose
                     young husband was in the service of his country—to whom stark poverty had
                     continued to come, until at last the wedding present from the dear one, went to
                     purchase food and raiment. A richly bound volume of poems, with here and there
                     a faint pencil-marked quotation, told perchance of a lover perished on some
                     bloody field; and the precious token was disposed of, or pawned, when bread was
                     at last needed for some suffering loved one."
                  You can see these poor women—can you not, reader? The bride looking at her
                     pearl necklace, with flushed cheeks and eyes full of tears,
                        murmuring:—"He gave me this—placed it around my neck on my
                     wedding day—and I must sell it!" You can see too, the fair girl,
                     bending down and dropping tears on the page marked by her dead lover; her bosom
                     heaving, her heart breaking, her lips whispering:—"His hand
                     touched this—we read this page together—I hear his voice—see his smile—this
                     book brings back all to me—and now, I must go and sell it, to buy bread for my
                     little sister and brother, who are starving!"
                  That is dolorous, is it not, reader?—and strikes you to the heart. It is not
                     fancy. December, 1864, saw that, and more, in Virginia.
               
               
                  II. THE MEN WHO RUINED THE CONFEDERACY.
                  IN the streets of Richmond, crowded with uniforms, in spite of the patrols,
                     marching to and fro, and examining "papers," I met a number of old
                     acquaintances, and saw numerous familiar faces.
                  The "Spottswood" was the resort of the militaires, and the moneyed people. Here, captains and colonels
                     were elbowed by messieurs the blockade-runners, and mysterious government
                     employés—employed, as I said on a former occasion, in heaven knows what. The
                     officer stalked by in his braid. The "Trochilus" passed, smiling, in shiny
                     broadcloath. Listen! yonder is the newsboy, shouting, "The
                        Examiner!"—that is to say, the accurate photograph of this
                     shifting chaos, where nothing seems stationary long enough to have its picture
                     taken.
                  Among the first to squeeze my hand, with winning smiles and cordial welcome,
                     was my friend Mr. Blocque. He was clad more richly than before; smiled more
                     sweetly than ever; seemed more prosperous, better satisfied, firmer in his
                     conviction than ever that the President and the administration had never
                     committed a fault—that the world of December, 1864, was the best of all
                     possible worlds.
                  "My dear colonel!" exclaimed Mr. Pangloss-Trochilus, alias Mr. Blocque, "delighted to see you, I assure you! You are
                     well? You will dine with me, to-day? At five precisely? You will find the old
                     company—jolly companions, every one! We meet and talk of the affairs of the
                     country. All is going on well, colonel. Our city is quiet and orderly. The
                     government sees farther than its assailants. It can not explain now, and set
                     itself right in the eyes of the people—that would reveal military secrets to
                     the enemy, you know. I tell my friends in the departments not to mind their
                     assailants. Washington himself was maligned, but he preserved a dignified
                     silence. All is well, colonel! I give you my word, we are all right! I know a
                     thing or two——!" and Mr. Blocque looked mysterious. "I have friends in high quarters, and you can rely on
                     my statement. Lee is going to whip Grant. The people are rallying to the flag.
                     The finances are improving. The resources of the country are untouched. A
                     little patience—only a very little patience! I tell my friends.
                     Let us only endure trials and hardships with brave hearts. Let us not murmur at
                     dry bread, colonel—let us cheerfully dress in rags—let us deny ourselves every
                     thing, sacrifice every thing to the cause, cast away all superfluities,
                     shoulder our muskets, and fight to the death! Then there can be no
                     doubt of the result, colonel—good morning!"
                  And Mr. Blocque shook my hand cordially, gliding away in his shiny broadcloth,
                     at the moment when Mr. Croker, catching my eye in passing, stopped to speak to
                     me.
                  "You visit Richmond at an inauspicious moment, colonel," said Mr. Croker,
                     jingling his watch-seals with dignity. "The country has at last reached a point
                     from which ruin is apparent in no very distant perspective, and when the hearts
                     of the most resolute, in view of the depressing influences of the situation,
                     are well nigh tempted to surrender every anticipation of ultimate success in
                     the great cause which absorbs the energies of the entire country—hem!—at large.
                     The cause of every trouble is so plain, that it would be insulting your good
                     judgment to dwell upon the explanation. The administration has persistently
                     disregarded the wishes of the people, and the best interests of the entire
                     community; and we have at last reached a point where to stand still is as
                     ruinous as to go on—as we are going—to certain destruction and annihilation.
                     Look at the finances, entirely destroyed by the bungling and injudicious course
                     of the honorable Mr. Memminger, who has proceeded upon fallacies which the
                     youngest tyro would disdain to refute. Look at the quartermaster's
                     department,—the commissary department,—the State department, and the war
                     department, and you will everywhere find the proofs of utter incompetence,
                     leading straight, as I have before remarked, to that ruin which is pending at
                     the present moment over the country. Our society is uprooted, and there is no
                     hope for the country. Blockade-runners, forestallers, stragglers from the
                     army—Good morning, Colonel Desperade; I was just speaking to our friend,
                     Colonel Surry."
                  And leaving me in the hands of, the tall, smiling, and imposing Colonel
                     Desperade, who was clad in a magnificent uniform, Mr. Croaker, forestaller and
                     extortioner, continued his way with dignity toward his counting house.
                  "This is a very great pleasure, colonel!" exclaimed Colonel Desperade,
                     squeezing my hand with ardor. "Just from the lines, colonel? Any news? We are
                     still keeping Grant off! He will find himself checkmated by our boys in gray!
                     The country was never in better trim for a good hard fight. The immortal Lee is
                     in fine spirits—the government steadily at work—and do you know, my dear
                     colonel, I am in luck to-day? I am certain to receive my appointment at last,
                     as brigadier-general—"
                  "Look out, or you'll be mistaken!" said a sarcastic voice behind us. And Mr.
                     Torpedo, smoking a short and fiery cigar, stalked up and shook hands with
                     me.
                  "Desperade depends on the war department, and is a ninny for doing so!" said
                     Mr. Torpedo, member of Congress. "The man that depends on Jeff Davis, or his
                     war secretary, is a double-distilled dolt. Jeff thinks he's a soldier, and apes
                     Napoleon. But you can't depend on him, Desperade. Look at Johnston! He fooled
                        him. Look at Beauregard—he envies and fears him,
                     so he keeps him down. Don't depend on the President, Desperade, or you'll be a
                     fool, my friend!"
                  And Mr. Torpedo walked on, puffing away at the fiery stump of his cigar, and
                     muttering curses against President Davis.
                  An hour afterward, I was conversing in the rotunda of the capitol, with the
                     high-bred and smiling old cavalier, Judge Conway, and he was saying to me:—
                  "The times are dark, colonel, I acknowledge that. But all would be well, if we
                     could eradicate abuses and bring out our strength. A fatality, however, seems
                     pursuing us. The blockade-runners drain the country of the little gold which is
                     left in it; the forestallers run up prices, and debase the currency beyond
                     hope; the able-bodied and healthy men who ought to be in the army, swarm in the
                     streets; and the bitter foes of the President poison the public mind, and
                     infuse into it despair. It is this, colonel, not our weakness, which is going
                     to ruin us, if we are ruined!"
               
               
                  
                  III. MY LAST VISIT TO JOHN M. DANIEL.
                  ON the night before my return to the army, I paid my last visit to John M.
                     Daniel.
                  Shall I show you a great career, shipwrecked—paint a mighty ship run upon the
                     breakers? The current of our narrative drags us toward passionate and tragic
                     events, but toward few scenes more sombre than that which I witnessed on this
                     night in December, 1864.
                  I found John M. Daniel in his house on Broad Street, as before; perched still
                     in his high chair of black horse-hair, all alone. His face was thinner; his
                     cheeks more sallow, and now haggard and sunken; his eyes sparkling with gloomy
                     fire, as he half reclined beneath the cluster of globe lamps, depending from
                     the ceiling, and filling the whole apartment with their brilliant light—one of
                     his weaknesses.
                  He received me with grim cordiality, offered me a cigar, and said:—
                  "I am glad to see you, colonel, and to offer you one of the last of my stock of
                     Havanas. Wilmington is going soon—then goodbye to blockade goods."
                  "You believe Wilmington is going to fall, then?"
                  "As surely as Savannah."
                  "Savannah! You think that? We are more hopeful at Petersburg."
                  "Hopeful or not, colonel, I am certain of what I say. Remember my prediction
                     when it is fulfilled. The Yankees are a theatrical people. They take Vicksburg,
                     and win Gettysburg, on their 'great national anniversary;' and now they are
                     going to present themselves with a handsome 'Christmas gift'—that is the city
                     of Savannah."
                  He spoke with evident difficulty, and his laboring voice, like his haggard
                     cheeks, showed that he had been ill since I last saw him.
                  "Savannah captured, or surrendered!" I said, with knit brows. "What will be the
                     result of that?"
                  "Ruin," was the curt response.
                  "Not the loss of a mere town?"
                  "No; the place itself is nothing. For Sherman to take it will not benefit him
                     much; but it will prove to the country, and the President, that he is
                     irresistible. Then they will hack; and you will see the beginning
                     of the end."
                  "That is a gloomy view enough."
                  "Yes—every thing is gloomy now. The devil of high-headed obstinacy and
                     incompetence rules affairs. I do not croak in the Examiner
                     newspaper. But we are going straight to the devil."
                  As he uttered these words, he placed his hand upon his breast, and closed his
                     eyes, as though he were going to faint.
                  "What is the matter?" I exclaimed, rising abruptly, and approaching him.
                  "Nothing!" he replied, in a weak voice; "don't disturb yourself about me. These
                     fits of faintness come on, now and then, in consequence of an attack of
                     pneumonia which I had lately. Sit down, colonel. You must really pardon me for
                     saying it, but you make me nervous."
                  There was nothing in the tone of this singular address to take offence at,—the
                     voice of the speaker was perfectly courteous,—and I resumed my seat.
                  "We were talking about Sherman," he said. "They call him Gog, Magog,
                     anti-Christ, I know not what, in the clerical circles of this city!"
                  His lip curled as he spoke.
                  "One reverend divine publicly declared the other day, that 'God had put a hook
                     in Sherman's nose, and was leading him to his destruction!' I don't think it
                     looks much like it!"
                  The speaker was stopped by a fit of coughing, and when it had subsided, leaned
                     back, faint and exhausted, in his chair.
                  "The fact is—Sherman—"he said, with difficulty, "seems to have—the hook
                        in—our nose!"
                  There was something grim and lugubrious in the smile which accompanied the
                     painfully uttered words. A long silence followed lowed them, which was broken by neither of us.
                     At last I raised my head, and said:—
                  "I find you less hopeful than last summer. At that time you were in good
                     spirits, and the tone of the Examiner was buoyant."
                  "It is hopeful still," he replied, "but by an effort—from a sentiment of duty.
                     I often write far more cheerfully than I feel, colonel."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  "Your views have changed, I perceive—but you change with the whole
                     country."
                  "Yes. A whole century has passed since last August, when you visited me here.
                     One by one, we have lost all that the country could depend on—hope goes last.
                     For myself, I began to doubt when Jackson fell at Chancellorsville, and I have
                     been doubting, more or less, ever since. He was a dominant man,
                     colonel, fit, if any thing happened, to rise to the head of
                        affairs.*
                      Oh! for an hour of Jackson! Oh! for a day of our dead Dundee!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  The face of the speaker glowed, and I shall never forget the flash of his dark
                     eye, as he uttered the words, "if any thing happened." There was a whole volume
                     of menace to President Davis in those words.
                  "But this is useless!" he went on; "Jackson is dead, and there is none to take
                     his place. So, without leaders, with every sort of incompetence, with obstinacy
                     and stupidity directing the public councils, and shaping the acts of the
                     administration, we are gliding straight into the gulf of destruction."
                  I could make no reply. The words of this singular man and profound thinker,
                     affected me dolefully.
                  "Yes, colonel," he went on, "the three or four months which have passed since
                     your last visit, have cleared away all mists from my eyes at
                     least, and put an end to all my dreams—among others, to that project which I
                     spoke of—the purchase and restoration of the family estate of Stafford. It will
                     never be restored by me. Like Randolph, I am the last of my line."
                  And with eyes full of a profound melancholy, the speaker gazed into the
                     fire.
                  "I am passing away with the country," he added. "The cause is going to fail. I
                     give it three months to end in, and have sent for a prominent senator, who may
                     be able to do something. I intend to say to him, 'The time has come to make the
                     best terms possible with the enemy,' and I shall place the columns of the
                        Examiner newspaper at his disposal to advocate that
                        policy."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This, I learned afterward, from the Hon. Mr. —, was duly done by Mr.
                        Daniel. But it was too late.
                  
                  "Is it possible!" I said. "Frankly, I do not think things are so
                     desperate."
                  "You are a soldier, and hopeful, colonel. The smoke blinds you."
                  "And yet General Lee is said to repudiate negotiations with scorn. He is said
                     to have lately replied to a gentleman who advised them, 'For myself, I intend
                     to die sword in hand!'"
                  "General Lee is a soldier—and you know what the song says: 'A soldier's
                     business, boys, is to die!'"
                  I could find no reply to the grim words.
                  "I tell you the cause is lost, colonel!" with feverish energy, "lost
                     irremediably, at this moment while we are speaking! It is lost from causes
                     which are enough to make the devil laugh, but it is lost all the same! When the
                     day of surrender, and Yankee domination comes—when the gentlemen of the South
                     are placed under the heel of negroes and Yankees—I, for one, wish to die. Happy
                     is the man who shall have gotten into the grave before that day!†
                      Blessed will be the woman who has never given suck!†
                      Yes, the best thing for me is to die—†
                      and I am going to do so. I shall not see that Dies Ira! I shall be in my grave!
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  
                     
                     †His words.
                  
                  And breathing heavily, the journalist again leaned back in his chair, as though
                     about to faint.
                  An hour afterward, I terminated my visit, and went out, oppressed and
                     gloomy.
                  This singular man had made a reluctant convert of me to his own dark views. The
                     cloud which wrapped him, now darkened me—from the black future I saw the
                     lightnings dart already.
                  His predictions were destined to have a very remarkable fulfilment.
                  On the 21st of December, a few days after our interview, Sherman telegraphed to
                     Lincoln:—
                  
                  "I beg to present you, as a Christmas gift, the city of Savannah, with one
                     hundred and fifty guns, and plenty of ammunition, and also about twenty-five
                     thousand bales of cotton."
                  In January, Wilmington fell.
                  Toward the end of the same month, John M. Daniel was a second time seized with
                     pneumonia, and took to his bed, from which he was never again to rise. He would
                     see no one but his physician and a few chosen friends. All other persons were
                     persistently denied admittance to his chamber. Lingering throughout the
                     remainder of winter, as spring approached, life seemed gradually leaving him.
                     Day by day his pulse grew weaker. You would have said that this man was slowly
                     dying with the cause for which he had fought; that as the life-blood oozed,
                     drop by drop, from the bleeding bosom of the Southern Confederacy, the last
                     pulses of John M. Daniel kept time to the pattering drops.
                  One morning, at the end of March, his physician came to see him, and found him
                     lying on the outer edge of his bed. Not wishing to disturb him, the physician
                     went to the window to mix a stimulant. All at once a noise attracted his
                     attention, and he turned round. The dying man had, by a great effort, turned
                     completely over, and lay on his back in the middle of the bed, with his eyes
                     closed, and his arms folded on his breast, as though he were praying.
                  When the physician came to his bedside, he was dead.
                  It was four days before the fall of Petersburg and Richmond; and he was buried
                     in Hollywood, just in time to escape the tramp of Federal feet around his
                     coffin.
                  His prophecy and wish were thus fulfilled.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *These details are strictly accurate.
                  
               
               
                  IV. GARROTED.
                  WHEN I left Mr. John M. Daniel it was past ten at night, and designing to set
                     out early in the morning for Petersburg, I bent my steps toward home.
                  The night was not however to pass without adventures of another character.
                  I was going along Governor Street, picking my way by the light of the few
                     gas-lamps set far apart and burning dimly, when all at once I heard a cry in
                     front, succeeded by the noise of a scuffle, and then by a heavy fall.
                  Hastening forward I reached the spot, which was not far from the City Hall; and
                     a glance told me all.
                  A wayfarer had been garroted; that is to say, suddenly attacked while passing
                     along, by one of the night-birds who then infested the streets after dark;
                     seized from behind; throttled, and thrown violently to the ground—the object of
                     the assailant being robbery.
                  When I reached the spot the robber was still struggling with his victim, who,
                     stretched beneath him on the ground, uttered frightful cries. One hand of the
                     garroter was on his throat, the other was busily rifling his pockets.
                  I came up just in time to prevent a murder, but not to disappoint the robber.
                     As I appeared he hastily rose, releasing the throat of the unfortunate citizen.
                     I saw a watch gleam in his hand; he bestowed a violent kick on his prostrate
                     victim;—then he disappeared running, and was in an instant lost in the
                     darkness.
                  I saw that pursuit would be useless; and nobody ever thought, at that period,
                     of attempting to summon the police. I turned to assist the victim, who all at
                     once rose from the ground, uttering groans and cries.
                  The lamp-light shone upon his face. It was the worthy Mr. Blocque—Mr. Blocque,
                     emitting howls of anguish! Mr. Blocque, shaking his clenched hands, and
                     maligning all created things! Mr.
                     Blocque, devoting, with loud curses and imprecations, the assembled wisdom of
                     the "city fathers," and the entire police force of the Confederate capital, to
                     the infernal deities!
                  "I am robbed—murdered!" screamed the little Jewish-looking personage, in a
                     shrill falsetto which resembled the shriek of a furious old woman, "robbed!
                     rifled!—stripped of every thing!—garroted!—my money taken!—I had ten thousand
                     dollars in gold and greenbacks on my person!—not a Confederate note in the
                     whole pack—not one! gold and greenbacks!—two watches!—I am ruined! I will
                     expose the police! I was going to my house like a quiet citizen! I was harming
                     nobody! and I am to be set on and robbed of my honest earnings by a
                     highwayman—choked, strangled, knocked down, my pockets picked, my money
                     taken—and this in the capital of the Confederacy, under the nose of the
                     police!"
                  It was a shrill squeak which I heard—something unutterably ludicrous. I could
                     scarce forbear laughing, as I looked at the little blockade-runner, with
                     disordered hair, dirty face, torn clothes, and bleeding nose, uttering curses,
                     and moaning in agony over the loss of his "honest earnings!"
                  I consoled him in the best manner I could, and asked him if he had lost every
                     thing. That question seemed to arouse him. He felt hastily in his pockets,—and
                     then at the result my eyes opened wide. Thrusting his hand into a secret
                     pocket, he drew forth an enormous roll of greenbacks, and I could see the
                     figures "100" on each of the notes as he ran over them. That bundle alone must
                     have contained several thousands of dollars. But the worthy Mr. Blocque did not
                     seem in the least consoled.
                  "He got the other bundle!" shrieked the victim, still in his wild
                     falsetto; "it was ten thousand dollars—I had just received it this evening—I am
                     robbed!—they are going to murder me!—Where is the police!—murder!"
                  I laid my hand upon his arm.
                  "You have lost a very considerable sum," I said, "but—you may lose more
                     still."
                  And I pointed to the roll of bank notes in his hand, with a significant glance.
                     At these words he started.
                  "You are right, colonel!" he said, hastily; "I may be attacked again! I may be
                     robbed of all—they may finish me! I will get home as quickly as I can! Thank
                     you, colonel! you have saved me from robbery and murder! Come and see me,
                     colonel. Come and dine with me, my dear sir! At five, precisely!"
                  And Mr. Blocque commenced running wildly toward a place of safety.
                  In a moment he had disappeared, and I found myself alone—laughing heartily.
               
               
                  V. THE CLOAKED WOMAN.
                  "WELL," I said, as I walked on, "this is a charming adventure and conveys a
                     tolerably good idea of the city of Richmond, after dark, in the year 1864. Our
                     friend Blocque is garroted, and robbed of his 'honest earnings,' at one fell
                     swoop by a footpad! The worthy citizen is waylaid; his pockets rifled; his life
                     desolated. All the proceeds of a life of virtuous industry have disappeared.
                     Terrible condition of things!—awful times when a good citizen can not go home
                     to his modest supper of canvas-backs and champagne, without being robbed
                     by——his brother robber!"
                  Indulging in these reflections, not unaccompanied with smiles, I continued my
                     way, with little fear, myself, of pickpockets or garroters. Those gentry were
                     intelligent. They were never known to attack people with gray coats—they knew
                     better! They attacked the black coats, in the pockets of which they suspected
                     the presence of greenbacks and valuable papers; never the gray coats, where
                     they would find only a frayed "leave of absence" for their pains!
                  I thus banished the whole affair from my mind; but it had aroused and excited
                     me. I did not feel at all sleepy; and finding, by a glance at my watch beneath
                     a lamp, that it was only half past ten, I resolved to go and ask after the
                     health of my friend, Mr. X——, whose house was only a square or two off.
                  
                  This resolution I proceeded at once to carry out. A short walk brought me to
                     the house, half buried in its shrubbery; but as I approached I saw a carriage
                     was standing before the house.
                  Should I make my visit then, or postpone it? Mr. X—— evidently had company. Or
                     had the carriage brought a visitor to some other member of the household? Mr.
                     X—— was only a boarder, and I might be mistaken in supposing that
                        he was engaged at the moment.
                  As these thoughts passed through my mind, I approached the gate in the iron
                     railing. The carriage was half hidden by the shadow of the elms, which grew in
                     a row along the sidewalk. On the box sat a motionless figure. The vehicle and
                     driver were as still and silent as if carved out of ebony.
                  "Decidedly I will discover," I said, and opening the gate I turned into the
                     winding path through the shrubbery, which led toward the rear of the house;
                     that is to say, toward the private entrance to the room of Mr. X——.
                  Suddenly, as I passed through the shadowy shrubs, I felt a hand on my shoulder.
                     I started back, and unconsciously felt for some weapon.
                  "Don't shoot me, colonel!" said a voice in the darkness, "I am a friend."
                  I recognized the voice of Nighthawk.
                  "Good heavens! my dear Nighthawk," I said, drawing a long breath of relief,
                     "you are enough to make Alonzo the Brave, himself, tremble? You turn up
                     everywhere, and especially in the dark! What are you doing here?"
                  "I am watching, colonel," said Nighthawk, with benignant sweetness.
                  "Watching?"
                  "And waiting."
                  "Waiting for whom?"
                  "For a lady with whom you have the honor of being acquainted."
                  "A lady——?"
                  "That one you last saw in the lonely house near Monk's Neck. Hush! here she
                     comes."
                  His voice had sunk to a whisper, and he drew me into the shrubbery, as a long
                     bar of light, issuing from the door in the rear of the house, ran out into the
                     night.
                  "I am going to follow her," whispered Nighthawk, placing his lips close to my
                     ear, "she is at her devil's work here in Richmond, as Swartz was——."
                  Suddenly he was silent; a light step was heard. A form approached us, passed
                     by. I could see that it was a woman, wrapped from head to foot in a gray
                     cloak.
                  She passed so close to us that the skirt of her cloak nearly brushed our
                     persons, and disappeared toward the gate. The iron latch was heard to click,
                     the door of the carriage to open and close, and then the vehicle began to
                     move.
                  Nighthawk took two quick steps in the direction of the gate.
                  "I am going to follow the carriage, colonel," he whispered. "I have been
                     waiting here to do so. I will tell you more another time. Give my respects to
                     General Mohun, and tell him I am on his business!"
                  With which words Nighthawk glided into the darkness—passed through the gate
                     without sound from the latch—and running noiselessly, disappeared on the track
                     of the carriage.
                  I gazed after him for a moment, said to myself, "well this night is to be full
                     of incident!"—and going straight to the door in the rear of the house, passed
                     through it, went to the door of Mr. X——'s room, and knocked.
                  "Come in," said the voice of that gentleman; and opening the door I
                     entered.
               
               
                  VI. THE HEART OF A STATESMAN.
                  MR. X—— was seated in front of an excellent coal fire, in his great arm-chair,
                     near a table covered with papers, and between his lips was the eternal
                     cigar.
                  At sight of me he rose courteously—for he never omitted any form of
                     politeness—and cordially shook my hand.
                  
                  "I am glad to see you, colonel," he said. "Just from the army? Have a
                     cigar."
                  And he extended toward me an elegant cigar-case full of Havanas, which he took
                     from the table. I declined, informing him that I had been smoking all the
                     evening in the sanctum of the editor of the Examiner.
                  
                  "Ah! you have been to see Daniel," said Mr. X——. "He is a very remarkable man.
                     I do not approve of the course of his paper, and he has attacked me very
                     bitterly on more than one occasion. But I bear no grudge against him. He is
                     honest in his opinions. I admire the pluck of the man, and the splendid pith of
                     his writings.
                  "My views accord with your own," I replied.
                  "Everybody thinks with us," said Mr. X——, puffing at his cigar. "It is only
                     ignoramuses who deny this man's courage and ability. I have never done
                     injustice to Daniel—and I call that 'liberal' in myself, colonel! He has flayed
                     me alive on three or four occasions, and it is not his fault that I am enjoying
                     this excellent Havana."
                  "I read the attacks," I said.
                  "Were they not fearful?" said Mr. X——, smiling tranquilly. "After reading them,
                     I regarded myself as a moral and political monster!"
                  I could not forbear from laughing as the portly statesman uttered the words. He
                     seemed to derive a species of careless enjoyment from the recollection of his
                     "flayings."
                  "I expect to talk over these little affairs with Daniel hereafter," he said.
                     "We shall have a great deal of time on our hands—in Canada."
                  And Mr. X—— smiled, and went on smoking. It was the second time he had uttered
                     that phrase—"in Canada."
                  I laughed now, and said:—
                  "You continue to regard Toronto, or Montreal, or Quebec, as your future
                     residence?"
                  "Yes; I think I prefer Quebec. The view from Cape Diamond is superb; and there
                     is something English and un-American in the whole place, which I like. The
                     Plains of Abraham bring back the history of the past,—which is more agreeable
                     to me at least than the history of the present."
                  "You adhere more than ever, I see, to your opinion that we are going to
                     fail?"
                  "It is not an opinion, my dear colonel, but a certainty."
                  My head sank. In the army I had been hopeful. When I came to Richmond, those
                     high intelligences, John M. Daniel and Mr. X——, did not even attempt to conceal
                     their gloomy views.
                  "I see you think me a croaker," said Mr. X——, tranquilly smoking, "and
                     doubtless say to yourself, colonel, that I am injudicious in thus discouraging
                     a soldier, who is fighting for this cause. A year ago I would not have spoken
                     to you thus, for a year ago there was still some hope. Now, to discourage
                     you—if thinking men, fighting for a principle, like yourself,
                        could be discouraged—would result in no injury: for the cause
                     is lost. On the contrary, as the friend of that most excellent gentleman, your
                     father, I regard it as a sort of duty to speak thus—to say to you 'Don't throw
                     away your life for nothing. Do your duty, but do no more than your duty, for we
                     are doomed.'"
                  I could find no reply to these gloomy words.
                  "The case is past praying for," said Mr. X—— composedly, "the whole fabric of
                     the Confederacy at this moment is a mere shell. It is going to crumble in the
                     spring, and another flag will float over the Virginia capitol yonder—what you
                     soldiers call 'The Gridiron.' The country is tired. The administration is
                     unpopular, and the departments are mismanaged. I am candid, you see. The days
                     of the Confederacy are numbered, and worse than all, nobody knows it. We ought
                     to negotiate for the best terms, but the man who advises that, will be hissed
                     at and called a 'coward.' It is an invidious thing to do. It is much grander to
                     shout 'Death sooner than surrender!' I shouted that lustily as long as there
                     was any hope—now, I think it my duty as a statesman, and public functionary, to
                     say, 'There are worse things than death—let us try and avoid them by making
                     terms.' I say that to you—I do not say so on the streets—the people would tear
                     me to pieces, and with their sources of information they would be right in
                     doing so."
                  
                  "Is it possible that all is lost? That negotiations are our only hope?"
                  "Yes; and confidentially speaking—this is a State secret, my dear colonel—these
                     will soon be made."
                  "Indeed!"
                  "You think that impossible, but it is the impossible which invariably takes
                     place in this world. We are going to send commissioners to meet Mr. Lincoln in
                     Hampton Roads—and it will be useless."
                  "Why?"
                  "We are going to demand such terms as he will not agree to. The commissioners
                     will return. The war will continue to its legitimate military end, which I fix
                     about the last days of March."
                  "Good heaven! so soon!"
                  "Yes."
                  "In three months?"
                  Mr. X—— nodded.
                  "General Lee may lengthen the term a little by his skill and courage, but it is
                     not in his power, even, to resist beyond the month of April."
                  "The army of Northern Virginia, driven by the enemy!"
                  "Forced to surrender, or annihilated; and in Virginia—it will never join
                     Johnston. Its numbers are too small to cut a path through the enemy. Grant will
                     be at the Southside road before the first of April; Lee will evacuate his
                     lines, which he will be compelled to hold to the last moment; he will retreat;
                     be intercepted; be hunted down toward Lynchburg, and either surrender, or be
                     butchered. Cheerful, isn't it?"
                  "It is frightful!"
                  "Yes, Lee's men are starving now. The country is tired of the war, and
                     disgusted with the manner in which we manage things. No recruits are arriving.
                     The troops are not deserting, but they are leaving the army
                     without permission, to succor their starving families. Lee's last hours are
                     approaching, and we are playing the comedy here in Richmond with an immense
                     appearance of reality; dancing, and fiddling, and laughing on, the surface of
                     the volcano. I play my part among the rest. I risk my head more even, perhaps,
                     than the military leaders. I take a philosophic sophic view, however, of the
                     present and future. If I am not hung, I will go to Canada; meanwhile, I smoke
                     my cigar, colonel."
                  And Mr. X—— lazily threw away his stump, and lit a fresh Havana. It is
                     impossible to imagine any thing more careless than his attitude. This man was
                     either very brave or frightfully apathetic.
                  Five minutes afterward, I knew that any thing but apathy possessed him. All at
                     once he rose in his chair, and his eyes were fixed upon me with a glance so
                     piercing and melancholy, that they dwell still in my memory, and will always
                     dwell there.
                  "I said we were playing a comedy here in Richmond, colonel," he said, in tones
                     so deep and solemn that they made me start; "I am playing my part with the
                     rest; I play it in public, and even in private, as before you to-night. I sit
                     here, indolently smoking and uttering my jests and platitudes, and, at the
                     moment that I am speaking, my heart is breaking! I am a Virginian—I love this
                     soil more than all the rest of the world—not a foot but is dear and sacred, and
                     a vulgar horde are about to trample it under foot, and enslave its people.
                     Every pulse of my being throbs with agony at the thought! I can not sleep. I
                     have lost all taste for food. One thought alone haunts me—that the land of
                     Washington, Jefferson, Mason, Henry, and Randolph, is to become the helpless
                     prey of the scum of Europe and the North! My family has lived here for more
                     than two hundred years. I have been, and am to-day, proud beyond words, of my
                     birthright! I am a Virginian! a Virginian of Virginians! I have for forty years
                     had no thought but the honor of Virginia. I have fought for her, and her only,
                     in the senate and cabinet of the old government at Washington. I have dedicated
                     all my powers to her—shrunk from nothing in my path—given my days and nights
                     for years, and was willing to pour out my blood for Virginia; and now she is
                     about to be trampled upon, her great statues hurled down, her escutcheon
                     blotted, her altars overturned! And I, who have had no thought but her honor
                     and glory, am to be driven, at the end of a long career, to a foreign land! I
                     am to crouch yonder in Canada, with my bursting brow in my two hands—and every
                     newspaper is to tell me 'the negro and the bayonet rule Virginia!' Can you
                     wonder, then, that I am gloomy—that despair lies under all this jesting?
                        You are happy. You go yonder, where a bullet may end you. Would to God that I had entered the
                     army, old as I am, and that at least I could hope for a death of honor, in arms
                     for Virginia!"
               
               
                  VII. SECRET SERVICE.
                  THE statesman leaned back in his great chair, and was silent. At the same
                     moment a tap was heard at the door; it opened noiselessly, and Nighthawk glided
                     into the apartment.
                  Under his cloak I saw the gray uniform of a Confederate soldier; in his hand he
                     carried a letter.
                  Nighthawk saluted Mr. X—— and myself with benignant respect. His quick eye,
                     however, had caught the gloomy and agitated expression of the statesman's
                     countenance, and he was silent.
                  "Well," said Mr. X——, raising his head, with a deep sigh. Then passing his hand
                     over his face, he seemed to brush away all emotion. When he again looked up,
                     his face was as calm and unmoved as at the commencement of our interview.
                  "You see I begin a new scene in this comedy," he said to me in a low tone.
                  And turning to Nighthawk, he said:—
                  "Well, you followed that agreeable person?"
                  "Yes, sir," said Nighthawk, with great respect.
                  "She turned out to be the character you supposed? Speak before Colonel
                     Surry."
                  Nighthawk bowed.
                  "I never had any doubt of her character, sir," he said. "You will remember that
                     she called on you a week ago, announcing that she was a spy, who had lately
                     visited the Federal lines and Washington. You described her to me, and informed
                     me that you had given her another appointment for to night; when I assured you
                     that I knew her; she was an enemy, who had come as a spy upon us;
                     and you directed me to be here to-night, and follow her, after your
                     interview."
                  "Well," said Mr. X——, quietly, "you followed her?"
                  "Yes, sir. On leaving you, after making her pretended report of affairs in
                     Washington, she got into her carriage, and the driver started rapidly, going up
                     Capitol and Grace streets. I followed on foot, and had to run—but I am used to
                     that, sir. The carriage stopped at a house in the upper part of the city—a Mr.
                     Blocque's; the lady got out, telling the driver to wait, and went into the
                     house, where she staid for about half an hour. She then came out—I was in the
                     shadow of a tree, not ten yards from the spot, and as she got into the
                     carriage, I could see that she held in her hand a letter. As the driver closed
                     the door, she said, 'Take me to the flag-of-truce bureau, on Ninth Street, next
                     door to the war office.' The driver mounted his box, and set off—and crossing
                     the street, I commenced running to get a-head. In this I succeeded, and reached
                     the bureau five minutes before the carriage.
                  "Well, sir, I hastened up stairs, and went into the bureau, where three or four
                     clerks were examining the letters left to be sent by the flag-of-truce boat
                     to-morrow. They were laughing and jesting as they read aloud the odd letters
                     from the Libby and other prisons—some of which, I assure you, were very
                     amusing, sir—when the lady's footsteps were heard upon the stairs, and she came
                     in, smiling.
                  "I had turned my back, having given some excuse for my presence to one of the
                     clerks, who is an acquaintance. Thus the lady, who knows me, could not see my
                     face; but I could, by looking out of the corners of my eyes, see
                        her. She came in, in her rich gray cloak, smiling on the
                     clerks, and handing an open letter to one of them, said:—
                  "'Will you oblige me by sending that to my sister in New York, by the
                     flag-of-truce boat, to-morrow, sir?'
                  "'If there is nothing contraband in it, madam,' said the clerk.
                  "'Oh!' she replied, with a laugh, 'it is only on family matters. My sister is a
                     Southerner, and so am I, sir. You can read the letter; it is not very
                     dangerous!'
                  
                  "And she smiled so sweetly that the clerk was almost ashamed to read the
                     letter. He, however, glanced his eye over it, and evidently found nothing wrong
                     in it. While he was going so, the lady walked toward the mail-bags in which the
                     clerks had been placing such letters as they found unobjectionable, the others
                     being marked, 'Condemned,' and thrown into a basket. As she passed near one of
                     the bags, I saw the lady, whom I was closely watching, flirt her cloak, as
                     though by accident, across the mouth of one of the mail-bags, and at the same
                     instant her hand stole down and dropped a letter into the bag. As she did so,
                     the clerk, who had finished reading the other letter, bowed, and
                     said:—
                  "'There is nothing objectionable in this, madam, and it will be sent, of
                     course.'
                  "'I was sure of that, sir,' replied the lady, with a smile. 'I am very much
                     obliged. Good evening, sir!'
                  "And she sailed out, all the clerks politely rising as she did so.
                  "No sooner had the door closed than I darted upon the bag in which I had seen
                     her drop the letter. The clerks wished to stop me, but I informed them of what
                     I had seen. If they doubted, they could see for themselves that the letter,
                     which I had easily found, was not sealed with the seal of the bureau. They
                     looked at it, and at once acknowledged their error.
                  "'Arrest her!' exclaimed one of them, suddenly. The rapid rolling of a carriage
                     came like an echo to his words.
                  "It is useless, gentlemen,' I said. 'I know where to find the lady, and will
                     look to the whole affair. You know I am in the secret service, and will be
                     personally responsible for every thing. I will take this letter to the official
                     who directed me to watch the lady who brought it.'
                  "To this, no objection was made, as I am known at the office. I came away;
                     returned as quickly as possible; and here is the letter, sir."
                  With which words Nighthawk drew his hand from under his cloak, and presented
                     the letter to Mr. X——, who had listened in silence to his narrative.
               
               
                  VIII. BY FLAG-OF-TRUCE BOAT.
                  MR. X—— took the letter, broke the seal, and ran his eye over the contents.
                  "Decidedly, that woman is a skilful person," he said; "she fishes in troubled
                     waters with the coolness of an experienced hand."
                  And presenting the letter to me, the statesman said:—
                  "Would you like to see a specimen of the sort of documents which go on file in
                     the departments, colonel?"
                  I took the letter, and read the following words:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "RICHMOND, 18 Dec'r, 1864.
                              
                              "Tell, you know who, that I have just seen the
                                 honorable Mr. ——" (here the writer gave the real name and official
                                 position of Mr. X——), "and have had a long conversation with him.
                                 He is fully convinced that I am a good Confederate, and spoke
                                 without reserve of matters the most private. He is in high spirits,
                                 and looks on the rebel cause as certain to succeed. I never saw one
                                 more blinded to the real state of things. Richmond is full of
                                 misery, and the people seem in despair, but this high official, who
                                 represents the whole government, is evidently certain of Lee's
                                 success. I found him in a garrulous mood, and he did not conceal
                                 his views. The government has just received heavy supplies from the
                                 south, by the Danville railroad—others are coming—the whole country
                                 in rear of Sherman is rising—and Lee, he stated, would soon be
                                 re-enforced by between fifty and seventy-five thousand men. What
                                 was more important still, was a dispatch, which he read me, from
                                 England. This startled me. There seems no doubt that England is
                                 about to recognize the Confederacy. When he had finished reading
                                 this dispatch, on the back of which I could see the English
                                 postmark, he said to me—these are his words:—'You see, things were
                                 never brighter; it is only a question of time; and by holding out a
                                 little longer, we shall
                                 compel the enemy to retire and give up the contest. With the
                                 re-enforcements coming, Lee will have about one hundred thousand
                                 men. With that force, he will be able to repulse all General
                                 Grant's assaults. Things look dark at this moment, but the cause
                                 was never more hopeful.'
                              "He seemed insane, but I give you his words. It is certain that
                                 these are the views of the government, and that our authorities are
                                 much mistaken in supposing the Confederacy at its last gasp. It is
                                 impossible that the honorable Mr. —— was attempting to deceive me;
                                 because I carried him a letter from ——" (here the writer gave the
                                 name of a prominent official of the Confederate Government, which I
                                 suppress) "who" vouched for me, and declared that I was
                                 passionately Southern in my sympathies.
                              "I shall see the honorable Mr. —— in a day or two again. In the
                                 mean while, I am staying, incognita, at the house of our friend, Mr. Blocque,
                                 who has afforded me every facility in return for the
                                    safeguard I brought him, to protect his property
                                 when we occupy Richmond. The city is in a terrible state. Mr.
                                 Blocque has just come in, and informs me that he has been garroted
                                 near the capitol, and robbed of ten thousand dollars in good money.
                                 He is in despair.
                              "As soon as I have finished some important private business, which
                                 keeps me in the Confederate lines, I shall be with —— again. Tell
                                 him to be in good spirits. This city has still a great deal of
                                 money hoarded in garrets—and we shall soon be here. Then we can
                                 retire on a competence—and when Fonthill is
                                 confiscated, we will purchase it, and live in affluence.
                              
                                 "LUCRETIA."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  I looked at the back of the letter. It was directed to a lady in Suffolk. From
                     the letter, my glance passed to the face of Mr. X——. He was smiling grimly.
                  "A valuable document," he said, "which madam will doubtless duplicate before
                     very long, with additional particulars. I make you a present of it, colonel, as
                     a memorial of the war."
                  I thanked him, and placed the letter in my pocket. To-day I copy it, word for
                     word.
                  Mr. X—— reflected a moment; then he said to Nighthawk:—
                  "Arrest this woman; I am tired of her. I have no time to waste upon such
                     persons, however charming."
                  Nighthawk looked greatly delighted.
                  "I was going to beg that order of you, sir," he said, "as the 'private
                     business' alluded to in the letter, concerns a friend of mine, greatly."
                  "Ah! well, here is the order."
                  And taking a pen, Mr. X—— scrawled two lines, which he handed to Nighthawk. A
                     glow of satisfaction came to that worthy's face, and taking the paper, he
                     carefully placed it in his pocket.
                  As he did so, the bell in the capitol square struck midnight, and I rose to
                     take my departure.
                  "Come and see me soon again, colonel," said Mr. X——, going to the door with me.
                     He had made a sign to Nighthawk, who rose to go out with me, that he wished him
                     to remain.
                  "What I have said to you, to-night," continued the statesman, gravely, "may
                     have been injudicious, colonel. I am not certain of that—but I am quite sure
                     that to have it repeated at this time would be inconvenient. Be discreet,
                     therefore, my dear friend—after the war, tell or write what you fancy; and I
                     should rather have my present views known then, than not known. They are those
                     neither of a time-server, a faint heart, or a fool. I stand like the Roman
                     sentinel at the gate of Herculaneum, awaiting the lava flood that will bury me.
                     I see it coming—I hear the roar—I know destruction is rushing on me—but I am a
                     sentinel on post; I stand where I have been posted; it is God and my conscience
                     that have placed me on duty here. I will stay, whatever comes, until I am
                     relieved by the same authority which posted me."
                  And with the bow of a nobleman, the gray-haired statesman bade me farewell.
                  I returned to my lodgings, buried in thought, pondering deeply on the strange
                     scenes of this night of December.
                  On the next morning I set out, and rejoined the army at Petersburg.
                  I, too, was a sentinel on post, like the statesman. And I determined to remain
                     on duty to the last.
               
               
                  
                  IX. TO AND FRO IN THE SPRING OF '65.
                  THE months of January and February, 1865, dragged on, sombre and dreary.
                  Two or three expeditions which I made during that woeful period, gave me a good
                     idea of the condition of the country.
                  In September, 1864, I had traversed Virginia from Petersburg to Winchester, and
                     had found the people—especially those of the lower Shenandoah Valley—still
                     hopeful, brave, resolved to resist to the death.
                  In January and February, 1865, my official duties carried me to the region
                     around Staunton; to the mountains west of Lynchburg; and to the North Carolina
                     border, south of Petersburg. All had changed. Everywhere I found the people
                     looking blank, hopeless, and utterly discouraged. The shadow of the approaching
                     woe seemed to have already fallen upon them.
                  The army was as "game" as ever—even Early's little handful, soon to be struck
                     and dispersed by General Sheridan's ten thousand cavalry. Everywhere, the
                     soldiers laughed in the face of death. Each seemed to feel, as did the old
                     statesman with whom I had conversed on that night at Richmond, that he was a
                     sentinel on post, and must stand there to the last. The lava might engulf him,
                     but he was "posted," and must stand until relieved, by his commanding officer
                     or death. It was the "poor private," in his ragged jacket and old shoes, as
                     well as the officer in his braided coat, who felt thus. For those private
                     soldiers of the army of Northern Virginia were gentlemen. Noblesse oblige was their motto; and they meant to
                     die, musket in hand!
                  Oh, soldiers of the army, who carried those muskets in a hundred battles!—who
                     fought with them from Manassas, in 1861, to Appomattox, in 1865—you are the
                     real heroes of the mighty struggle, and one comrade salutes you now, as he
                     looked at you with admiration in old days!
                  What I saw in those journeys was dreary enough; but however black may be the
                     war-cloud, there is always the gleam of sunlight somewhere! We laughed now and
                     then, reader, even in the winter of 1864-'5!
                  I laugh still, as I think of the brave cannoneers of the horse artillery near
                     Staunton—and of the fearless Breathed, their commander, jesting and playing
                     with his young bull-dog, whom he had called "Stuart" for his courage. I hear
                     the good old songs, all about "Ashby," and the "Palmetto Tree," and the "Bonnie
                     Blue Flag"—songs sung with joyous voices in that dreary winter, as in other
                     days, when the star of hope shone more brightly, and the future was more
                     promising.
                  At Lynchburg, where I encountered a number of old friends, songs still sweeter
                     saluted me—from the lips of my dear companions, Major Gray and Captain Woodie.
                     How we laughed and sang, on that winter night, at Lynchburg! Do you chant your
                     sweet "Nora McShane" still, Gray? And you, Woodie, do you sing in your
                     beautiful and touching tenor to-day,— 
                        
                           "The heart bowed down by deep despair,
                           To weakest hopes will cling?"
                        
                     
                  
                  Across the years comes once more that magical strain; again I hear your voice,
                     filled with the very soul of sadness, tell how 
                        
                           "Memory is the only friend
                           That grief can call its own!"
                        
                     
                  
                  That seemed strangely applicable to the situation at the time. The memory of
                     our great victories was all that was left to us; and I thought that it was the
                     spirit of grief itself that was singing. Again I hear the notes—but "Nora
                     McShane" breaks in—"Nora McShane," the most exquisite of all Gray's songs. Then
                     he winds up with uproarious praise of the "Bully Lager Beer!"—and the long
                     hours of night flit away on the wings of laughter, as birds dart onward, and
                     are buried in the night.
                  Are you there still, Gray? Do you sing still, Woodie? Health and happiness,
                     comrades! All friendly stars smile on you! Across the years and the long
                     leagues that divide us, I salute you!
                  
                  Thus, at Staunton and Lynchburg, reader, gay scenes broke the monotony. In my
                     journey toward North Carolina, I found food also, for laughter.
                  I had gone to Hicksford, fifty miles south of Petersburg, to inspect the
                     cavalry; and in riding on, I looked with curiosity on the desolation which the
                     enemy had wrought along the Weldon railroad, when they had destroyed it in the
                     month of December. Stations, private houses, barns, stables, all were black and
                     charred ruins. The railroad was a spectacle. The enemy had formed line of
                     battle close along the track; then, at the signal, this line of battle had
                     attacked the road. The iron rails were torn from the sleepers; the latter were
                     then piled up and fired; the rails were placed upon the blazing mass, and left
                     there until they became red-hot in the middle, and both ends bent down—then
                     they had been seized, broken, twisted; in a wild spirit of sport the men had
                     borne some of the heated rails to trees near the road; twisted them three or
                     four times around the trunks; and there, as I passed, were the unfortunate
                     trees with their iron boa-constrictors around them—monuments of the playful
                     humor of the blue people, months before.
                  Hill and Hampton had attacked and driven them back; from the dead horses, as
                     elsewhere, rose the black vultures on flapping wings: but it is no part of my
                     purpose, reader, to weary you with these war-pictures, or describe disagreeable
                     scenes. It is an odd interview which I had on my return toward Petersburg that
                     my memory recalls. It has naught to do with my narrative—but then it will not
                     fill more than a page!
                  I had encountered two wagons, and, riding, ahead of them, saw a courier of army
                     head-quarters, whose name was Ashe.
                  I saluted the smiling youth, in return for his own salute, and said:—
                  "Where have you been, Ashe?"
                  "To Sussex, colonel, on a foraging expedition."
                  "For the general?"
                  "And some of the staff, colonel."
                  Ashe smiled; we rode on together.
                  "How did you come to be a forager, Ashe?" I said.
                  "Well this was the way of it, colonel," he said. "I belonged to the old
                     Stonewall brigade, but General Lee detailed me at the start of the war to shoe
                     the head-quarters horses. It was old General Robert that sent me with these
                     wagons. I was shoeing the general's gray, and had just pared the hind-hoof,
                     when he sent for me. A man had started with the wagons, and had mired in the
                     field right by head-quarters. So old General Robert says, says he, 'Ashe, you
                     can get them out.' I says, 'General, I think I can, if you'll give me a canteen
                     full of your French brandy for the boys.' He laughed at that, and I says,
                     'General, I have been with you three years, and if in that time you have ever
                     seen me out of the way, I hope you will tell me so.' 'No Ashe,' says he, 'I
                     have not, and you shall have the brandy.' And his black fellow went into the
                     closet and drew me a canteen full; for you see, colonel, old General Robert
                     always keeps a demijohn full, and carries it about in his old black spring
                     wagon, to give to the wounded soldiers—he don't drink himself. Well, I got the
                     brandy, and set the boys to work, building a road with pine saplings, and got
                     the wagons out! From that time to this, I have been going with them, colonel,
                     and sometimes some very curious things have happened."
                  I assumed that inquiring expression of countenance dear to story-tellers. Ashe
                     saw it, and smiled.
                  "Last fall, colonel," he said, "I was down on the Blackwater, foraging with my
                     wagons, for old General Robert, when a squadron of Yankees crossed in the
                     ferryboat, and caught me. I did not try to get off, and the colonel says, says
                     he, 'Who are you?' I told him I was only foraging with General
                     Lee's head-quarters teams, to get something for the old general to eat, as
                     nothing could be bought in Petersburg; and, says I, 'I have long been looking
                     to be captured, and now the time has come.' As I was talking, I saw an uncle of
                     mine among the Yankees, and says he, 'Ashe, what are you doing here?' 'The same
                     you are doing there,' I says; and I asked the colonel just to let me off this
                     time, and I would try and keep out of their way hereafter. He asked me, Would I
                     come down there any more? And I told him I did'nt know—I would have to go where
                     I was ordered. 'Well,' says he, 'you can't beg off.' But I says, 'step here a
                     minute, colonel,' and I took him to the wagon, and offered him my canteen of brandy. He took three or four good
                     drinks, and then he says, says he, 'That's all I want! You can go on with your
                     wagons.' And I tell you I put out quick, colonel, and never looked behind me
                     till I got back to Petersburg?"*
                     
                  
                     
                     *In the words of the narrator.
                  
                  I have attempted to recall here, reader, the few gleams of sunshine, the rare
                     moments of laughter, which I enjoyed in those months of the winter of
                     1864-'5.
                  I shrink from dwelling on the events of that dreary epoch. Every day I lost
                     some friend. One day it was the brave John Pegram, whom I had known and loved
                     from his childhood; the next day it was some other, whose disappearance left a
                     gap in my life which nothing thenceforth could fill.
                  I pass over all that. Why recall more of the desolate epoch than is
                     necessary?
                  For the rest that is only a momentary laugh that I have indulged in. Events
                     draw near, at the memory of which you sigh—or even groan perhaps—to-day, when
                     three years have passed.
                  For this page is written on the morning of April 8, 1868.
                  This day, three years ago, Lee was staggering on in sight of Appomattox.
               
               
                  X. ÆGRI SOMNIA.—MARCH, 1865.
                  THESE letters and figures arouse terrible memories—do they not, reader? You
                     shudder as you return in thought to that epoch, provided always that you then
                     wore the gray, and not the blue. If you wore the blue, you perhaps laugh.
                  The South had reached, in this month of March, one of those periods when the
                     most hopeful can see, through the black darkness, no single ray of light.
                     Throughout the winter, the government had made unceasing efforts to bring out
                     the resources of the country—efforts honest and untiring, if not always
                     judicious—but as the days, and weeks, and months wore on, it became more and
                     more evident that the hours of the Confederacy were numbered. The project of
                     employing negro troops, which Congress long opposed, had been adopted at last,
                     but only in time to be too late. The peace commissioners had held their
                     interview with Lincoln, but effected nothing. The enemy continually advanced
                     toward the achievement of their end. Sherman had safely made his famous "march
                     to the sea"—Savannah and Charleston had fallen—the western army was about to
                     unite with the army of Grant at Petersburg. There the great game went on, but
                     the end was near. Lee had attempted, late in February, to evacuate his lines,
                     but was overruled. His army was reduced to about forty thousand, while Grant's
                     numbered about one hundred and fifty thousand. The Confederate troops were
                     almost naked, and had scarce food enough to sustain life. They fought still, in
                     the trenches, along the great line of works, but it was plain, as Lee said,
                     that the line was stretched so far, that a very little more would snap it.
                  That line extended from the Williamsburg road, east of Richmond to Five Forks,
                     west of Petersburg—a distance of nearly fifty miles. Gradually Grant had pushed
                     westward, until his grasp was now very nearly upon the Southside road. Lee had
                     extended his own thin line to still confront him. The White Oak road, beyond
                     the Rowanty, had been defended by heavy works. The hill above Burgess's
                     bristled with batteries. The extreme right of the Confederate line rested in
                     the vicinity of Five Forks. Beyond that it could not be extended. Already it
                     began to crack. Along the works stretching from east to west, there was scarce
                     a soldier every ten yards. Grant was only prevented from bursting through by
                     the masterly handling of Lee's troops—the rapid concentration of masses at the
                     points which he threatened. The cavalry was almost paralyzed. The destruction
                     of the Weldon road southward to Hicksford in December, had been a death-blow
                     nearly, to that arm of the service. The Confederate cavalry had depended upon
                     it, hauling their forage from Stony Creek Station. Now they had been compelled
                     to go south to Hicksford, the nearest point, fifty miles from Petersburg. The
                     consequence was that Lee's right was almost undefended fended by cavalry. Grant's horsemen could
                     penetrate, almost unchecked, to the Danville and Southside railroads. The
                     marvel was, not that this was effected at the end of March, but that it was not
                     effected a month sooner. But I anticipate.
                  To glance, for an instant before proceeding, at the condition of the country.
                     It had reached the last point of depression, and was yielding to despair. The
                     government was enormously unpopular—mismanagement had ceased to attract
                     attention. The press roared in vain. The Enquirer menaced the
                     members of Congress from the Gulf States. The Examiner urged
                     that the members of the Virginia Legislature, to be elected in the spring,
                     should be "clothed with the state sovereignty," to act for Virginia! Thus the
                     executive and legislative were both attacked. The people said, "Make General
                     Lee dictator." And General —— wrote and printed that, in such an event, he "had
                     the dagger of Brutus" for Lee. Thus all things were in confusion. The currency
                     was nothing but paper—it was a melancholy farce to call it money. The
                     Confederate note was popularly regarded as worth little more than the paper
                     upon which it was printed. Fathers of families went to market and paid hundreds
                     of dollars for the few pounds of meat which their households required each day.
                     Officers were forced to pay one thousand dollars for their boots. Old
                     saddle-bags were cut up, and the hides of dead horses carried off, to
                     manufacture into shoes. Uniform coats were no longer procurable—the government
                     had to supply them gratis, even to field officers. Lee subsisted, like his
                     soldiers, on a little grease and corn bread. Officers travelling on duty,
                     carried in their saddle-pockets bits of bacon and stale bread, for the country
                     could not supply them. In the homes of the land once overflowing with plenty,
                     it was a question each day where food could be procured. The government had
                     impressed every particle, except just sufficient to keep the inmates alive.
                     What the commissaries had left, the "Yankee cavalry" took. A lady of Goochland
                     said to a Federal officer, "General, I can understand why you destroy railroads
                     and bridges, but why do you burn mills, and the houses over women and
                     children?" The officer bowed, and replied, "Madam, your soldiers are so brave
                     that we can't beat you; and we are trying to starve you!"
                  The interior of these homes of the country was a touching spectacle. The women
                     were making every sacrifice. Delicate hands performed duties which had always
                     fallen to menials. The servants had gone to the enemy, and aristocratic young
                     women cooked, washed, swept, and drudged—a charming spectacle perhaps to the
                     enemy, who hated the "aristocracy," but woeful to fathers, and sons, and
                     brothers, when they came home sick, or wounded. Clothes had long grown shabby,
                     and were turned and mended. Exquisite beauty was decked in rags. A faded calico
                     was a treasure. The gray-haired gentleman, who had always worn broadcloth, was
                     content with patched home-spun. It was not of these things that they were
                     thinking, however. Dress had not made those seigneurs and dames—nor could the
                     want of it hide their dignity. The father, and careworn wife, and daughter, and
                     sister, were thinking of other things. The only son was fighting beside
                     Lee—dying yonder, in the trenches. He was only a "poor private," clad in rags
                     and carrying a musket—but he was the last of a long line, perhaps, of men who
                     had built up Virginia and the Federal government which he was fighting—he was
                     "only a private," but his blood was illustrious; more than all, he was the
                     treasure of the gray-haired father and mother; the head of the house in the
                     future; if he fell, the house would fall with him—and it was nearly certain
                     that he would fall!
                  So they mourned, and looked fearfully to the coming hours, in town and country.
                     In the old homesteads—poverty and despair. In the cities—wasting cares and
                     sinking hearts. More than ever before, all the vile classes of society rioted
                     and held sway. The forestallers and engrossers drove a busy trade. They seemed
                     to feel that their "time was short"—that the night was coming, in which not
                     even rascals could work! Supplies were hoarded, and doled out at famine prices
                     to the famine-stricken community; not supplies of luxuries, but of the
                     commonest necessaries of life. The portly extortioner did not invite custom,
                     either. Once he had bowed and smirked behind his counter when a purchaser
                     entered. Now, he turned his back coldly, went on reading his newspaper, scarce
                     replied to the words addressed to him, and threw his goods on the counter with
                     the air of one reluctantly
                     conferring a favor. Foreboding had entered even the hearts of the forestaller
                     and extortioner. They had sold their souls for gain, and that gain was turning
                     to dross. As at the wave of a magician's wand, their crisp new "Confederate
                     notes" had become rags. The biter was bit. His gains were to count for nothing.
                     Extortioner and victim were soon to be stripped equally naked—the cold blast of
                     ruin was to freeze both alike.
                  Thus, all things hastened toward the inevitable catastrophe. Brave hearts did
                     not shrink, but they saw ruin striding on. Every thing crumbled—the Confederacy
                     was staggering and gasping in the death agony. Day by day the cause was slowly,
                     but certainly, being lost. Children cried aloud for bread—women moaned, and
                     knelt, and prayed. Their last hope was leaving them. Lee's army was starving
                     and dying. Hour by hour, nearer and nearer came the roar of the gulf of
                     destruction. A sort of stupor descended. The country—prostrate and
                     writhing—tried to rise, but could not. The government knew not where to turn,
                     or what course to pursue. Grant was growing in strength hourly. Lee's little
                     force was dwindling. Sherman was streaming through South Carolina. Grant was
                     reaching out toward Five Forks. All destroying war grinned hideously—on all
                     sides stared gaunt Famine. The air jarred with the thunder of cannon. The days
                     and nights blazed, and were full of wild cries—of shouts, groans, and
                     reverberations. The ground shook—the grave yawned—the black cloud slowly drew
                     on; that cloud from which the thunder-bolt was about to fall.
                  How to describe in a volume like this, now near its end, that terrible state of
                     coma—that approaching cataclysm, in which all things, social, civil, and
                     military were about to disappear! The whole fabric of society was going to
                     pieces; every hour flamed with battles; tragic events jostled each other; blood
                     gushed; a people were wailing; a victorious enemy were rushing on; the whole
                     continent trembled; Lee was being swept away, in spite of every effort which he
                     made to steady his feet—and that torrent was going to engulf a whole
                     nation!
                  All this I am to describe in the last few pages of this volume! The task is far
                     beyond my strength. In the future, some writer may delineate that hideous
                     dream—to do so to-day, in this year 1868, would tear the stoutest heart.
                  For myself, I do not attempt it. Were I able to paint the picture, there would
                     be no space. My memoir is nearly ended. The threads of the woof are nearly spun
                     out, and the loom is going to stop. Death stands ready with his shears to cut
                     the ravelled thread, knit up the seam, and put his red label on the fabric!
               
               
                  XI. I VISIT GENERAL FITZHUGH LEE.
                  THE end of March, 1865, was approaching when I set out on what was to prove my
                     last tour of duty amid the pine woods of Dinwiddie.
                  It was a relief to be back in the army; to see brave faces and smiles around
                     me, instead of gloomy eyes and careworn cheeks, as in the city. I passed along
                     the Boydton road almost gayly; crossed the Rowanty at Burgess', and went on by
                     General Lee's powerful works covering the White Oak road, beyond. Soon I was
                     approaching Dinwiddie Court-House, in the vicinity of which was encamped our
                     small force of starved and broken-down cavalry.
                  Hampton had gone to meet Sherman, and the cavalry was commanded now by General
                     Fitzhugh Lee, who had recovered from his severe wound received at Winchester. I
                     was greeted by this brave soldier and accomplished gentleman as warmly as I
                     could have desired—for "General Fitz," as we always called him at Stuart's
                     head-quarters, was the soul of good humor and good fellowship. You have seen
                     him, have you not, reader—whether you wore gray or blue—fighting beside him, or
                     meeting him in battle? You recall the open and manly features, the frank and
                     soldierly glance of the eye, the long beard and heavy mustache, almost always
                     curling with laughter? You remember the mirthful voice, the quick jest, the
                     tone of badinage—that joyful and
                     brave air which said, "as long as life lasts there is hope!" You have not
                     forgotten this gay cavalier, the brother-in-arms of Stuart; this born
                     cavalryman, with his love of adventure, his rollicking mirth, his familiar
                     greeting of high and low, his charming abandon and ever-ready laughter. That
                     was the character of the individual—of "Fitz Lee," the good
                     companion. The commander-in-chief has defined for all, the traits of
                     Major-General Fitzhugh Lee. It was General R. E. Lee who wrote him in 1863,
                     "Your admirable conduct, devotion to the cause of your country, and devotion to
                     duty, fill me with pleasure. I hope you will soon see her efforts for
                     independence crowned with success, and long live to enjoy the affection and
                     gratitude of your country."
                  These few lines were worth fighting hard for—were they not? All things change;
                     many things fail. Chaos or monarchy may come, but the good opinion of Lee will
                     survive all!
                  I talked with General Fitz Lee for an hour nearly, recalling the old days with
                     Stuart, who had loved and confided in him more than in any other living man. It
                     was a beautiful friendship, indeed, and each understood the value of the other
                     as man and soldier. Stuart is dead, and can not give his testimony; but General
                     Fitz Lee is alive, and can give his. Here and there a voice still denies
                     Stuart's genius as a commander. Ask his friend who survives; and if tears do
                     not choke the voice, you will learn the real rank of Stuart!
                  But I can not linger on these scenes. The narrative draws on.
                  I mounted my horse, after shaking hands with General Fitz Lee and his brave
                     staff, and, for the first time, remembered to ask, "Where was Tom Herbert?"
                  At that question, a beaming smile came to every countenance.
                  "Done for!" said one.
                  "Captured!" laughed another.
                  "Demoralized, subjugated, and negotiating with the enemy!" said a third.
                  "Well, where is the place of meeting—where are the terms being arranged?" I
                     said.
                  "At a place called Disaways, on the lower Rowanty!"
                  "Good! I know the road there," I said.
                  And with a laugh, which the general and his gay cavaliers echoed, I touched my
                     gray with the spur, and set out toward the south.
               
               
                  XII. BY A FIRE IN THE WOODS.
                  I PUSHED on, having resolved, after finishing my duties, to visit Disaways.
                  Soon Dinwiddie Court-House came in sight. I entered the small village, and
                     looked attentively—as I had done on more than one occasion before—at the
                     locality which General Davenant's narrative had surrounded with so strange an
                     interest. There was the old tavern, with its long portico, where Darke had held
                     his orgies, and from which he had set forth on his errand of robbery and
                     murder. There was the country jail, in which General Davenant had insisted upon
                     being confined, and where so many friends had visited him. There was the old
                     court-house, in which he had been tried for the murder of George Conway; and I
                     fancied I could distinguish upon one of the shutters, the broken bolt which
                     Darke had forced, more than ten years before, in order to purloin the knife
                     with which the crime had been committed.
                  For some miles, that tragic story absorbed me, banishing all other reflections.
                     That was surely the strangest of histories!—and the drama had by no means
                     reached its denouement. Between the first and last acts "an interval of ten
                     years is supposed to pass." There was the stage direction! Darke was still
                     alive, active, dangerous, bent on mischief. He had an able coadjutress in his
                     female ally. That singular woman, with whom his life was so closely connected,
                     was in prison, it was true, but the Confederate authorities might release her;
                     she might, at any moment, recommence her diablerie. Had she found that paper—or had Mohun found it? In any
                     event, she was dangerous—more so, even, than her male companion—that worthy
                     whom I might meet at every turn in
                     the road—that prince of surprises and tragic "appearances!"
                  "Decidedly, these are curiosities, this man and this woman!" I said; "they are
                     two bottomless pits of daring and depravity. Mohun has escaped them heretofore,
                     but now, when the enemy seem driving us, and sweeping every thing before them,
                     will not Darke and madam attain their vengeance, and come out winners in the
                     struggle?"
                  With that reflection, I dismissed the subject, and pushed on, over the narrow
                     and winding roads, to make my inspections.
                  The day was cold and brilliant; the winds cut the face; and I rode on steadily,
                     thinking of many things. Then the desire to smoke seized upon me. General
                     Fitzhugh Lee had given me some excellent cigars, captured from the enemy, and I
                     looked around to find some house where I could light my cigar. None appeared;
                     but at two hundred yards from the road, in a hidden hollow, I thought I
                     perceived the glimmer of a fire—probably made by some straggler. I rode toward
                     it, descended into the hollow, approached the fire, beside which crouched a
                     figure, wrapped in an overcoat. The figure raised its head—and I recognized
                     Nighthawk.
                  He rose and smiled benignantly, as he shook hands with me.
                  "An unexpected meeting, Nighthawk," I said, laughing. "What on earth makes you
                     come out and camp in the woods?"
                  "A little fancy, colonel; you know I am eccentric. I like this way of living,
                     from having scouted so much—but I came here with an object!"
                  "What?"
                  "To be private. I thought my fire could not be seen from the road."
                  "Why should it not be?"
                  "Well, perhaps I exaggerate danger. But I am on an important scouting
                     expedition—wanted to reflect, and not be seen—I am going, to-night, through the
                     lines on a little affair of which you know something."
                  "Ah, what do you refer to?"
                  "That paper," said Nighthawk, succinctly. "It is in the hands of Alibi—there is
                     a Yankee picket at his house—but I am going to see him, and force him to
                     surrender it."
                  "Is it possible he has it! Do you know that?"
                  "Strangely enough, colonel. Do you remember that woman, Amanda?"
                  "Perfectly. I visited her with Mohun."
                  "He told me of your visit. Well, you no doubt remember also, colonel, that he
                     offered her a large sum to discover the paper—that she offered to try and find
                     it, or give him a clue to its where abouts—he was to return in ten days, and
                     hear her report."
                  "Yes," I said.
                  "Well, he returned, colonel, but Amanda could tell him nothing—which you no
                     doubt have heard."
                  "Yes, from him."
                  "I have been more successful, at last, in dealing with this strange woman. I do
                     not know if she is a witch or an epileptic, or what—but she has convinced me
                     that Alibi has the paper we want."
                  And Nighthawk proceeded to explain. It was an exceedingly curious explanation.
                     Amanda had first demanded of him a statement of all the facts. He had thereupon
                     informed her of the appointment which he had made with Swartz in Richmond, to
                     meet him three days afterward at the house of Alibi—of his detention by the
                     pickets, so that he had been unable to keep the appointment—Alibi's statement
                     when he saw him, that Swartz had not been to his house—and Swartz's confinement
                     in the lonely house, ending in his murder by Darke. That was all he knew, he
                     said—the paper was gone—where was it?
                  "At Mr. Alibi's," Amanda had replied; "I only asked you this, Mr. Nighthawk, to
                     satisfy myself that my visions were true. I saw poor Mr. Swartz go
                     to Mr. Alibi's, and ask for you, on the day you appointed. When he was told
                     that you had not come, he seemed very low-spirited, and told Mr. Alibi that he
                        must see you, to give you a paper. His life was threatened, he
                     said, on account of that paper. An officer and a lady had discovered that he
                     had that paper—it was as much as his life was worth to keep it on his person if
                     Mr. Alibi would take it, and for old times' sake, put it away until
                        he came back, he would pay him as much gold as he could hold in both hands. Then he
                     gave the paper to Mr. Alibi, and went away, telling him to say nothing of
                     it."
                  "I then asked her," continued Nighthawk, "where the paper could be found. She
                     replied that Alibi always carried it on his person. That was a few days ago. I
                     am going to-night to see him, and recover the paper."
                  I had listened to this narrative with strange interest. This singular woman was
                     a curious problem. Were her visions really such as she described
                     them? Or did she only "put this and that together," as the phrase is, and by
                     her marvellous acumen, sharpened possibly by disease, arrive at results which
                     defied the most penetrating glance of the sane? I knew not—but reflecting often
                     upon this subject since, have finally come to the latter conclusion, as the
                     more philosophic of the two. Epilepsy is insanity of mind and body; and one of
                     the most infallible characteristics of insanity is cunning—which is only
                     another word for diseased and abnormal activity of brain. Amanda arrived at
                     strange results, but I think she attained them by disease. Her acumen in this
                     affair could be thus explained, almost wholly. As to the truth of the
                     explanation, I felt a singular presentiment that it was correct.
                  "Well, that is curious enough," I said, "and I wish you success, Nighthawk.
                     What of our other female friend—the fair lady you arrested in Richmond?"
                  "She is safe enough, colonel, and I don't think she will trouble us soon."
                  "I am glad of it. I think her the more dangerous of the two."
                  "And I agree with you."
                  "When did you see Darke, last?"
                  "I have not met him for three months."
                  "He can not be dead?"
                  "He may be wounded."
                  "And Mohun—is he at his head-quarters?" Nighthawk smiled.
                  "He is at Five Forks, to-day, colonel."
                  "And Willie Davenant?"
                  "In Richmond, on business at the war department."
                  "Humph! So I shall see neither—but another time."
                  And mounting my horse, I added:—
                  "Good luck, Nighthawk."
                  "Thank you, colonel—the same to you."
                  And leaving Nighthawk crouching down beside his fire, I rode on.
               
               
                  XIII. DRINKING TEA UNDER DIFFICULTIES.
                  PUSHING on, I reached the cavalry and horse artillery, which I was soon done
                     with—you see I dismiss "official" matters with commendable rapidity,
                     reader—then I went on across Roney's bridge and along the "Flat Foot road"
                     toward Disaways.
                  Following, amid a great wind and falling boughs, this winding road, stretching
                     onward between its lofty walls of pines—a wild and deserted track, outside of
                     the pickets, and completely untravelled. I recrossed Stony Creek, rode on over
                     a bridle-path, and came just at sunset in sight of the hill upon which Disaways
                     raised its ancient gables, near the Rowanty.
                  My horse neighed as he cantered up, and passed under the great oaks. He seemed
                     to feel that this was something like home to him now, and that his day's march
                     was over. In fact, all the months of winter I had regularly stopped at Disaways
                     on my way to the cavalry at Hicksford. My friends had pathetically
                     remonstrated—"there was not a single picket on the Rowanty in front of me,
                     there, and I would certainly be captured some day,"—but I had persisted in
                     stopping there still, on every tour which I made. How to resist the temptation!
                     Disaways was just thirty miles from Petersburg. I always reached its vicinity
                     as night fell, on the dark winter days. I was always cold, hungry, weary,
                     depressed by the dull gray skies; and I knew what awaited me there—a blazing
                     fire, a good supper, and Katy's smiles brighter than sunshine! She always ran
                     to great me, with both hands extended. Her blue eyes danced with joy, her rosy
                        cheeks glowed, her lips laughed,
                     and were like carnations, her golden ringlets fell in a shower over her white
                     and delicate temples, or were blown back in ripples by the wintry wind.
                  Could you have resisted that, my dear reader? Would you have shrunk from Yankee
                     scouting parties? For my part I thought I would risk it. I might be surprised
                     and captured at any moment—the territory was open to the enemy—but I would have
                     had a charming evening, would have been cheered by Katy's sunshine—while I was
                     alive and free, I would have lived, and in a manner the most delightful!
                  Hitherto some angel had watched over me, and Disaways had been unvisited by the
                     enemy's scouting parties, without so much as a vedette at the Halifax bridge,
                     within half a mile, I had sat by the fire, eaten countless suppers, laughed and
                     conversed with my good friends, slept soundly in a real bed, and
                     gone on my way in the morning rejoicing.
                  I had thus always escaped surprise. No enemy ever annoyed me. It was the old
                     adage, however, of the pitcher that went to the well so often!—but let me go on
                     with my narrative.
                  As my horse uttered his shrill neigh now, ringing through the March evening,
                     the door opened and Katy ran out to greet me. She had never looked more
                     beautiful, and I recall still, as though I had seen it yesterday, the charming
                     smile on her red lips. The wind blew back her ringlets till they resembled
                     golden ripples—the rosy cheeks were flushed—there madam! (I say this to some
                     one who is leaning over my shoulder, and laughing) don't begrudge me these
                     smiling memories! Katy was only my little niece as it were—she is married and
                     far away now. Nay, Surry ought to love and be grateful to the little lady who
                     took such good care, in those grim days, of—your husband, madam!
                  Behind Katy appeared the faces of the excellent family, who cordially greeted
                     me. Behind all appeared the blushing but dandified Tom Herbert.
                  "Ah! there is a straggler!" I said. "Why don't you send him back to his
                     command, ladies? Every man should be at his post in this trying moment!"
                  "Oh, bother, my dear Surry! what a tongue you have!" exclaimed Tom.
                  "I see General Fitz was right, or his staff rather, in what they told me,
                     Tom."
                  "What did they tell you, my dear boy?"
                  "That you were demoralized and captured!"
                  Sweet smile on the faces of the family at these words!
                  "That you had acknowledged your weakness, seen that further resistance was
                     hopeless, and were already negotiating a surrender to the enemy. Well, Tom,
                     what are the terms? Are they arranged?"
                  Suddenly I felt my hair pulled by an enemy from behind; and looking round I saw
                     Miss Katy passing by, with an immense appearance of innocence. Her face was
                     blushing; her lips emitted a low laugh; and seeing that no one was looking at
                     her, she raised her finger in silent menace at me.
                  This caused a diversion, and Tom was enabled to rally his forces.
                  "My dear Surry," he said, smiling, with his delightfully foppish air, "it
                     always charms me to meet you, for you are always sparkling, brilliant, full of
                     wit; which reminds me of the good old days with Stuart! You have only one
                     fault, my boy, you think yourself a philosopher. Don't do that, I beg,
                     Surry!—But what's the news from Petersburg?"
                  I acquiesced in the change of topic, and gave Tom the news; but I was looking
                     at Katy.
                  More than ever before I admired that little "bird of beauty," flitting about
                     with charming grace, and an irresistible business air, to get me my supper, for
                     the rest had just finished. This privilege she always claimed when I came to
                     Disaways; fighting furiously, if the excellent lady of the manor attempted to
                     sup-plant her. Looking at her, as she ran about now, engaged in her most
                     admirable occupation, I thought her lovelier than ever before—certainly than
                     when talking in the woods with Tom! You see she was getting my supper,
                     reader!—and it seemed to be a labor of love. The little fairy ran on her
                     tiptoes from sideboard to table; spread a snowy napkin, and placed a gilt china
                     plate upon it; made tea; covered the table with edibles; and placed beside my
                     plate a great goblet of yellow cream, of the consistency of syrup. Then she
                     poured out my tea, set my chair to the table, and came with courtesy and laughing ceremony, to
                     offer me her arm, and lead me to my seat.
                  Men are weak, worthy reader, and the most "romantic and poetical" of us all,
                     have much of the animal in us. That is a mortifying confession. I was terribly
                     hungry, and at that moment I think my attention was more closely riveted on the
                     table, than even upon Miss Katy with her roses and ringlets.
                  I therefore unbuckled my sabre, placed the little hand on my arm, and was about
                     to proceed toward the table, when a shot, accompanied by a shout, was heard
                     from the direction of the Rowanty.
                  I went and buckled on my sword again. Then seeing Tom rise quickly—to get his
                     horse ready, he said—I requested him to have my own resaddled, and returned to
                     the table.
                  I had just raised the cup of tea to my lips, amid warnings from the family, to
                     take care or I would be captured, when a cavalryman galloped up the hill, and
                     stopped in front of the door.
                  "Look out, the Yankees are coming!" he cried.
                  I glanced through the window, and recognized a man of Mohun's command, who also
                     recognized me.
                  "How near are they?" I said, attempting to swallow the burning tea.
                  "Not a quarter of a mile off, colonel!"
                  "That will give me time," I said.
                  And I applied myself again to the tea, which this time I poured out into the
                     saucer, in order to cool it.
                  "Look out, colonel!" cried the man.
                  "Where are they?"
                  "At the gate."
                  I finished the tea, and the goblet of cream just as the man shouted:—
                  "Here they are, right on you, colonel!"
                  And I heard the sound of a galloping horse, accompanied by shots at the
                     retreating cavalryman.
                  I went quickly to the window. A column of Federal cavalry was rapidly ascending
                     the hill. By the last beams of day I recognized Darke at the head of the
                     column; and by his side rode Mr. Alibi. I thought I could see that Darke was
                     thin and very pale, but was not certain. The light was faint, and I had only
                     one glance—discretion suggested a quick retreat.
                  I just grazed capture—passing through the door, in rear of the mansion, at the
                     very moment when a number of the enemy, who had hastily dismounted, rushed in
                     at the front door.
                  Tom was mounted, and holding my horse, which the good boy had saddled with his
                     own hands. I leaped to saddle, and had scarcely done so, when a pistol bullet
                     whizzed by my head. It had crashed through a pane of the window from within—and
                     a loud shout followed. We had been perceived.
                  Under these circumstances, my dear reader, we always ran in the late war. Some
                     persons considered it disgraceful to run or dodge, but they were civilians.
                  "Don't run until you are obliged to, but then run like the ——!" said a
                     hard-fighting general.
                  And one day when a lady was telling General R. E. Lee, how a friend of hers had
                     dodged once, the general turned to the laughing officer, and said in his deep
                     voice, "That's right, captain, dodge all you can!"
                  I have often dodged, and more than once have—withdrawn rapidly. On this
                     occasion. Tom and I thought that retreat was the wisest course. In a moment we
                     had disappeared in the woods, followed by pistol shots and some of the
                     enemy.
                  They did not pursue us far. The Federal cavalry did not like the Virginia
                     woods.
                  In ten minutes their shots were no longer heard; their shouts died away; and
                     returning on our steps, we came once more in sight of Disaways and
                     reconnoitred.
                  The enemy were not visible, and riding up, we dismounted and entered.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *"I have taken up too much space with this trifle," said Colonel Surry
                        when I read this, "but that hot tea was a real cup of tea! I was really
                        burned nearly to death, in attempting to swallow it! The dialogue with my
                        friend, the cavalryman, was real; and it is just these trifles which
                        cling to the memory, obscuring the 'greater events!'"
                  
               
               
                  
                  XIV. MR. ALIBI.
                  THE enemy had eaten up my supper! A glance at the table told the whole tragic
                     history;—but the unnerved family were scarce in a condition to think of my
                     misfortune.
                  The enemy had staid for a few moments only, but in that time the family had
                     gathered important information of their intentions. They were going to surprise
                     and attack General Fitz Lee that night; and had not so much as halted, as they
                     passed the house, to gain a by-road beyond. They were commanded, the men said,
                     by a General Darke, and guided by a man living near Monk's Neck, whose name was
                     Alibi.
                  This information of the enemy's design banished all other thoughts from my mind
                     and Tom's. We ran to our horses—and I think I heard something like a kiss, in
                     the shadow of the porch, as Tom and Katy parted.
                  We galloped into the woods, following a course parallel to that taken by the
                     enemy's cavalry, and keeping as close to it as was safe.
                  "A sudden parting between yourself and Katy, Tom!" I said, as we galloped on.
                     "A touching spectacle! When will you be married?"
                  "In a week or two—to answer seriously, old fellow," responded Tom.
                  "Is it possible?"
                  "Even so, my boy."
                  "Here, at Disaways?"
                  "No, in Richmond. Katy's family are refugees there, now; and I was going to
                     escort her to Petersburg to-morrow, but for these rascals—and I will do it,
                     yet."
                  "Good! I hope the way will be clear then! Let us get on. There is no time to
                     lose in order to warn General Fitz!"
                  We pushed on, following bridle-paths, and making toward Dinwiddie Court-House.
                     Half an hour thus passed, and we were near the Roney's Bridge road, when,
                     suddenly, the whole forest on our right blazed with shots. Loud shouts
                     accompanied the firing. The woods crackled as horsemen rushed through them. An
                     obstinate fight was going on in the darkness, between the Federal and
                     Confederate cavalry.
                  Plainly, the Confederates had not been surprised, and the dash and vim with
                     which they met the Federal onset, seemed to dishearten their enemies. For
                     fifteen minutes the combat continued with great fury, amid the pines; the air
                     was filled with quick spirts of flame, with the clash of sabres, with loud
                     cheers and cries; then the wave of Federal horsemen surged back toward the
                     Rowanty; the Confederates pressed them, with cheer; and the affair terminated
                     in a headlong pursuit.
                  Tom and myself had gotten into the mêlée
                     early in the action, and my feather had been cut out of my hat by a sabre
                     stroke which a big blue worthy aimed at me. This was my only accident, however.
                     In fifteen minutes I had the pleasure of seeing our friends run.
                  I followed with the rest, for about a mile. Then I drew rein, and turned
                     back—my horse was completely exhausted. I slowly returned toward Dinwiddie
                     Court-House; hesitated for a moment whether I would lodge at the tavern; shook
                     my head in a manner not complimentary to the hostelry; and set out to spend the
                     night at "Five Forks."
                  I did not know, until some days afterward, that a serious accident had happened
                     to the worthy Mr. Alibi, guide and friend of General Darke.
                  He had been struck by a bullet in the fight; had flapped his wings; cackled;
                     tumbled from his horse; and expired.
                  Nighthawk's visit thus went for nothing.
                  Mr. Alibi was dead.
               
               
                  
                  XV. FROM FIVE FORKS TO PETERSBURG.
                  I SHALL not dwell upon the evening and night spent at "Five Forks"—upon whose
                     threshold I was met and cordially greeted by the gray-haired Judge Conway.
                  In the great drawing-room I found the young ladies, who hastened to procure me
                     supper; and I still remember that waiter of every species of edibles,—that
                     smiling landscape above which rose the spire-like neck of a decanter! These
                     incessant "bills of fare" will, I fear, revolt some readers! But these are my
                     memoirs; and memoirs mean recollections. I
                     have forgotten a dozen battles, but still remember that decanter-phenomenon in
                     March, 1865.
                  I spent the evening in cordial converse with the excellent Judge Conway and his
                     daughters, and on the next morning set out on my return to Petersburg. Mohun
                     had not been visible. At the first sound of the firing, he had mounted his
                     horse and departed at a gallop.
                  So much for my visit to Five Forks. I pass thus rapidly over it, with real
                     regret—lamenting the want of space which compels me to do so.
                  Do you love the queenly rose, and the modest lily of the valley, reader? I
                     could have shown you those flowers, in Georgia and Virginia Conway. They were
                     exquisitely cordial and high-bred—as was their gray-haired father. They spoke,
                     and moved, and looked, as only the high-bred can. Pardon that obsolete word,
                     "high-bred," so insulting in the present epoch! I am only jesting when I seem
                     to intimate that I considered the stately old judge better than the black
                     servant who waited upon me at supper!
                  Of Mohun and Will Davenant, I had said nothing, in conversing with the smiling
                     young ladies. But I think Miss Georgia, stately and imposing as she was, looked
                     at me with a peculiar smile, which said, "You are his friend, and
                     cannot be a mere ordinary acquaintance to me!"
                  And here I ought to inform the reader, that since that first visit of mine to
                     Five Forks, affairs had marched with the young lady and her friend. Mohun and
                     Miss Georgia were about to be married, and I was to be the first groomsman. The
                     woman-hating Benedict of the banks of the Rappahannock had completely
                     succumbed, and the satirical Beatrice had also lost all her wit. It died away
                     in sighs, and gave place to reveries—those reveries which come to maidens when
                     they are about to embark on the untried seas of matrimony.
                  But I linger at Five Forks when great events are on the march. Bidding my
                     hospitable host and his charming daughters good morning, I mounted my horse and
                     set out over the White Oak road toward Petersburg. As I approached the Rowanty,
                     I saw that the new defenses erected by Lee, were continuous and powerful. Long
                     tiers of breastworks, and redoubts crowning every eminence, showed very plainly
                     the great importance which Lee attached to holding the position.
                  In fact, this was the key to the Southside road. Here was to take place the
                     last great struggle.
                  I rode on, in deep thought, but soon my reverie was banished. Just as I reached
                     the hill above Burgess's, who should I see coming from the direction of the
                     Court-House—but Tom Herbert and Katy Dare!
                  Katy Dare, on a little pony, with a riding skirt reaching nearly to the
                     ground!—with her trim little figure clearly outlined by the fabric—with a
                     jaunty little riding hat balanced lightly upon her ringlets—with her cheeks
                     full of roses, her lips full of smiles, her eyes dancing like two blue waves,
                     which the wind agitates!
                  Don't find fault with her, Mrs. Grundy, for having Tom only as an escort. Those
                     were stern and troubled times; our poor girls were compelled often to banish
                     ceremony. Katy had only this means to get back to her family, and went with Tom
                     as with her brother.
                  She held out both hands to me, her eyes dancing. Three years have passed since
                     then, but if I were a painter, I could make her portrait, reproducing every
                     detail! Nothing has escaped my memory; I still hear her voice; the sun of 1868,
                     not of 1865, seems to shine on the
                     rosy cheeks framed by masses of golden ringlets!
                  I would like to record our talk as we rode on toward Petersburg—describe that
                     ride—a charming episode, flashing like a gleam of sunlight, amid the dark days,
                     when the black clouds had covered the whole landscape. In this volume there is
                     so much gloom! Suffering and death have met us so often! Can you wonder, my
                     dear reader, that the historian of such an epoch longs to escape, when he can,
                     from the gloom of the tragedy, and paint those scenes of comedy which
                     occasionally broke the monotonous drama? To write this book is not agreeable to
                     me. I wear out a part of my life in composing it. To sum up, in cold historic
                     generalities that great epoch would be little—but to enter again into the hot
                     atmosphere; to live once more that life of the past; to feel the gloom, the
                     suspense, the despair of 1865 again—believe me, that is no trifle! It wears
                     away the nerves, and tears the heart. The cheek becomes pale as the MS. grows!
                     The sunshine is yonder, but you do not see it. The past banishes the present.
                     Across the tranquil landscape of March, 1868, jars the cannon, and rushes the
                     storm wind of March, 1865!
                  The cloud was black above, therefore, but Katy Dare made the world bright with
                     her own sunshine, that day. All the way to Petersburg, she ran on in the most
                     charming prattle. The winding Boydtown road, like the banks of the lower
                     Rowanty, was made vocal with her songs—the "Bird of Beauty" and the whole
                     repertoire. Nor was Tom Herbert backward in encouraging his companion's mirth.
                     Tom was the soul of joy. He sang "Katy! Katy! don't marry any other!" with an
                     unction which spoke in his quick color, and "melting glances" as in the tones
                     of his laughing voice. Riding along the famous highway, upon which only a
                     solitary cavalryman or a wagon occasionally appeared, the little maiden and her
                     lover made the pine-woods ring with their songs, their jests, and their
                     laughter!
                  It is good to be young and to love. Is there any thing more charming? For my
                     part I think that the curly head holds the most wisdom! Tell me which was the
                     happier—the gray-haired general yonder, oppressed by care, or the laughing
                     youth and maiden? It is true there is something nobler, however, than youth,
                     and joy, and love. It is to know that you are doing your duty—to bear up, like
                     Atlas, a whole world upon your shoulders—to feel that, if you fall, the whole
                     world will shake—and that history will place your name beside that of
                     Washington!
                  As the sun began to decline, we rode into Petersburg, and bidding Katy and Tom
                     adieu, I returned to my Cedars.
                  I had taken my last ride in the "low grounds" of the county of Dinwiddie; I was
                     never more to see Disaways, unless something carries me thither in the future.
                     To those hours spent in the old mansion, and with my comrades, near it, I look
                     back now with delight. Days and nights on the Rowanty! how you come back to me
                     in dreams! Happy hours at Disaways, with the cavalry, with the horse artillery!
                     you live still in my memory, and you will live there always! Katy Dare runs to
                     greet me again as in the past—again her blue eyes dance, and the happy winds
                     are blowing her bright curls into ripples! She smiles upon me still—as in that
                     "winter of discontent." Her cheerful voice again sounds. Her small hands are
                     held out to me. All things go—nothing lingers—but those days on the Rowanty,
                     amid the sunset gilded pines, come back with all their tints, and are fadeless
                     in my memory.
                  Going back thus in thought, to that winter of 1864, I recall the friendly faces
                     of Katy, and all my old comrades—I hear their laughter again, touch their brave
                     hands once more, and salute them, wishing them long life and happiness.
                  "Farewell!" I murmur, "Rowanty, and Sappony, and Disaways! Bonne fortune! old companions, little maiden, and
                     kind friends all! It has not been time lost to gather together my
                     recollections—to live again in the past,—to catch the aroma of those hours when
                     kindness smoothed the front of war! We no longer wear the gray—my mustache only
                     shows it now! but, thank heaven! many things in memory survive. I
                     think of these—of the old comrades, the old times. Health and happiness attend
                     you on your way through life, comrades! May the silver spare the gold of your
                     clustering ringlets, Katy! Joy and gladness follow your steps! all friendly
                     stars shine on you! Wherever you are, old friends, may a kind heaven send you
                     its blessing!"
               
               
                  
                  XVI. LEE'S LAST GREAT BLOW.
                  I REACHED Petersburg on the evening of March 24, 1865.
                  The ride was a gay comedy—but a tragedy was about to follow it. On the very
                     next morning, in the gray March dawn, Lee was going to strike his last great
                     blow at Grant. A column under Gordon, that brave of braves, was going to be
                     hurled headlong against Hare's Hill, the enemy's centre, just below
                     Petersburg.
                  That design was evidently the result of supreme audacity, or of despair. In
                     either case it indicated the terrible character of the crisis. There could be
                     no two opinions upon that point. Lee aimed at nothing less than to cut General
                     Grant's army in two—to root himself doggedly in the very centre of his enemies,
                     and to force General Grant to draw back the entire left wing of his army, or
                     run the risk, by holding his position, to have it destroyed.
                  Was Lee's motive to open the way for his retreat over the Boydton road toward
                     Danville? I know not. Military crities say so, and it is certain that, a month
                     before, he had endeavored to retreat. The government had checked him, then, but
                     now, that step was plainly the only one left. He might effect his retreat by
                     forcing Grant to draw in his left wing for the support of his centre. Lee could
                     then retire from Hare's Hill; make a rapid march westward; push for North
                     Carolina; and joining his forces with those of Johnston, continue the war in
                     the Gulf States, falling back if necessary to Texas.
                  I have always thought that this was his design, but I was much too obscure a
                     personage to gain any personal knowledge of his plans. It is certain that he
                     designed one of two things—either to open the path for his retreat, or to
                     relieve his right wing toward Five Forks, which was bending under the immense
                     pressure upon it. Either motive was that of a good soldier—and what seemed wild
                     audacity was sound common sense.
                  For the rest, there was little else to do. Some change in the aspect of things
                     was vitally necessary. Grant had been re-enforced forced by a large portion of
                     Sherman's army, and the Federal troops in front of Lee now numbered about one
                     hundred and fifty thousand. As Lee's force, all told, on his entire line, was
                     only about forty thousand, the rupture of the far-stretching defences, at some
                     point, seemed only a question of time. And scarcely that. Rather, a question of
                     the moment selected by Grant for his great blow.
                  At the end of March the hour of decisive struggle was plainly at hand. The wind
                     had dried the roads; artillery could move; the Federal left was nearly in sight
                     of the Southside road; one spring, and General Grant could lay hold on that
                     great war-artery, and then nothing would be left to Lee but retreat or
                     surrender.
                  Such was the condition of things at Petersburg, in these last days of March.
                     Grant was ready with his one hundred and fifty thousand infantry to strike
                     Lee's forty thousand. Sheridan was ready with his twelve thousand superbly
                     mounted cavalry, to hurl himself against the two thousand half-armed horsemen,
                     on starved and broken-down animals, under command of General Fitz Lee. A child
                     could have told the result. The idea of resistance, with any hope, in the
                     defences, any longer, was a chimera. Lee was a great soldier—history contains
                     few greater. The army of Northern Virginia was brave—the annals of the world
                     show none braver. But there was one thing which neither great generalship, or
                     supreme courage could effect. Opposed by one hundred and fifty thousand
                     well-fed troops, with every munition of war, forty thousand starving men,
                     defending a line of forty miles, must in the end meet capture or
                     destruction.
                  The country did not see it, but General Lee did. The civilians—the brave
                     ones—had a superstitious confidence in the great commander and his old army. It
                     had repulsed the enemy so uninterruptedly, that the unskilled people believed
                     it invincible. Lee had foiled Grant so regularly that he was looked upon as the
                     very God of Victory. Defeat could not come to him. Glory would ever follow his
                     steps. On the banners of the old army of Northern Virginia, led by Lee, the
                     eagles of victory would still perch, screaming defiance, and untamed to the
                     end.
                  While the civilians were saying this, Lee was preparing to retreat. Nothing
                     blinded that clear vision—the eyes of the great chief pierced every mist. He
                     saw the blow coming—the shadow of
                     the Grant hammer as the weapon was lifted, ran before—on the 25th of March
                     Lee's rapier made its last lunge. But when his adversary recoiled to avoid it,
                     it was Lee who was going to retreat.
                  That lunge was sudden and terrible—if it did not accomplish its object. In the
                     dark March morning, Gordon, "The Bayard of the army," advanced with three
                     thousand men across the abatis in front of Hare's Hill.
                  What followed was a fierce tragedy, as brief and deadly as the fall of a
                     thunder-bolt.
                  Gordon rushed at the head of his column over the space which separated the
                     lines; stormed the Federal defences at the point of the bayonet; seized on Fort
                     Steadman, a powerful work, and the batteries surrounding it, then as the light
                     broadened in the East, he looked back for re-enforcements. None came—he was
                     holding the centre of Grant's army with three thousand men. What he had won was
                     by sheer audacity—the enemy had been surprised, and seemed laboring under a
                     species of stupor; if not supported, and supported at once, he was gone!
                  An hour afterward, Gordon was returning, shattered and bleeding at every pore.
                     The enemy had suddenly come to their senses after the stunning blow. From the
                     forts and redoubts crowning every surrounding hill issued the thunder. Cannon
                     glared, shell crashed, musketry rolled in long fusillade, on three sides of the
                     devoted Confederates. Huddled in the trenches they were torn to pieces by a
                     tempest of shell and bullets.
                  As the light broadened, the hills swarmed with blue masses hastening toward the
                     scene of the combat, to punish the daring assailants. Grant's army was closing
                     in around the little band of Gordon. No help came to them, they were being
                     butchered; to stay longer there was mere suicide, and the few who could do so,
                     retreated to the Confederate lines.
                  They were few indeed. Of the splendid assaulting column, led by Gordon, more
                     than two thousand were killed or captured. He had split the stubborn trunk, but
                     it was the trunk which now held the wedge in its obdurate jaws.
                  Gordon retreated with his bleeding handful—it was the second or third time that
                     this king of battle had nearly accomplished impossibilities by the magic of his
                     genius.
                  He could do only what was possible. To stay yonder was impossible. And the
                     scarred veteran of thirty-three years, came back pale and in despair.
                  Lee had struck his last great blow, and it had failed.
               
               
                  XVII. THE WRESTLE FOR THE WHITE OAK ROAD.
                  IT is unsafe to wound the wild-boar, unless the wound be mortal. To change the
                     figure, Grant had parried the almost mortal thrust of Lee; and now, with the
                     famous hammer lifted and whirled aloft, aimed the final and decisive blow at
                     the crest of his great adversary.
                  On Wednesday, March 29th, the Federal commander commenced the general movement,
                     which had for its object the destruction of Lee's right wing, and the
                     occupation of the Southside road.
                  Before dawn, the masses of blue infantry began to move westward across the
                     Rowanty, laying down bridges over the watercourses, as the columns passed on;
                     and on the night of the same day, the corps of Humphreys and Warren were near
                     Dinwiddie Court-House with their extreme right guarded, by Sheridan's
                     cavalry.
                  Such was the work of Wednesday. The great moment had evidently arrived. Lee
                     penetrated at a single glance the whole design of his adversary; collected
                     about fifteen thousand men, nearly half his army; and leaving Longstreet north
                     of the James, and only a skirmish line around Petersburg, marched westward,
                     beyond the Rowanty, to meet the enemy on the White Oak road.
                  On the morning of the 30th, all was ready for General Grant's great blow. But
                     the elements were hostile to the Federal side. In the night, a heavy rain had
                     fallen. All day on the 30th, it continued to rain, and military movements were
                     impossible. The two great opponents
                     looked at each other,—lines drawn up for the decisive struggle.
                  On the 31st, Grant was about to open the attack on Lee, when that commander
                     saved him the trouble. The Virginian seemed resolved to die in harness, and
                     advancing.
                  The corps of Humphreys and Warren had advanced from Dinwiddie Court-House
                     toward the Southside road, and Warren was in sight of the White Oak road, when,
                     suddenly, Lee hurled a column against him, and drove him back. The Confederates
                     followed with wild cheers, endeavoring to turn the enemy's left, and finish
                     them. But the attempt was in vain. Federal re-enforcements arrived. Lee found
                     his own flank exposed, and fell back doggedly to the White Oak road again,
                     haying given the enemy a great scare, but effecting nothing.
                  As he retired, intelligence reached him that Sheridan's cavalry were advancing
                     upon Five Forks. That position was the key of the whole surrounding country. If
                     Sheridan seized and occupied this great carrefour, Lee's right was turned.
                  A column was sent without delay, and reached the spot to find Sheridan in
                     possession of the place. Short work was made of him. Falling upon the Federal
                     cavalry, Pickett and Fitzhugh Lee drove them back upon Dinwiddie—pushed rapidly
                     after them—and, but for the terrible swamp, into which the late rains had
                     converted the low grounds, would have followed them to the Court-House, and
                     gotten in rear of the left wing of the Federal army.
                  That was the turning point. If Pickett and Fitz Lee had reached Dinwiddie
                     court-house, and attacked in the enemy's rear, while Lee assailed them in
                     front, it is difficult to believe that the battle would not have resulted in a
                     Confederate victory.
                  Such was the alarm of General Grant at the new aspect of affairs, that late at
                     night he withdrew Warren, and ordered him to hurry toward Dinwiddie
                     Court-House, to succor Sheridan in his hour of need. Then if our flanking
                     column could have pushed on—if Lee had then advanced—but all this is idle,
                     reader. Providence had decreed otherwise. The flanking column could not
                     advance—at ten at night it was withdrawn by Lee—midnight found the two armies
                     resting on their arms, awaiting the morning of the first of April.
               
               
                  XVIII. THE BRIDEGROOM.
                  I HAVE endeavored to present a rapid, but accurate summary of the great events
                     which took place on the lines around Petersburg, from the morning of the 29th
                     of March, when General Grant began his general movement, to the night of the
                     31st, when he confronted Lee on the White Oak road, ready, after a day of
                     incessant combat, which had decided little, to renew the struggle on the next
                     morning for the possession of the Southside road.
                  This summary has been, of necessity, a brief and general one. For this volume
                     has for its object, rather to narrate the fortunes of a set of individuals,
                     than to record the history of an epoch, crowded with tragic scenes. I cannot
                     here paint the great picture. The canvass and the time are both wanting. The
                     rapid sketch which I have given will present a sufficient outline. I return,
                     now, to those personages whose lives I have tried to narrate, and who were
                     destined to reach the catastrophe in their private annals at the moment when
                     the Confederacy reached its own.
                  I shall, therefore, beg the reader to leave the Confederate forces at bay on
                     the White Oak road—the flanking column under Pickett and Johnson falling back
                     on Five Forks—and accompany me to the house of the same name, within a mile of
                     the famous carrefour, where, on this night of
                     the 31st of March, some singular scenes are to be enacted.
                  It was the night fixed for Mohun's marriage. I had been requested to act as his
                     first groomsman; and, chancing to encounter him during the day, he had informed
                     me that he adhered to his design of being married in spite of every thing.
                  When night came at last, on this day of battles, I was wearied out with the
                     incessant riding on staff duty; but I remembered my promise; again mounted my
                     horse; and set out for "Five Forks," where, in any event, I was sure of a warm
                     welcome.
                  
                  Pushing on over the White Oak road, I turned southward at Five Forks, and
                     riding on toward Judge Conway's, had just reached the road coming in from
                     Dinwiddie Court-House, when I heard a cavalier approaching from that quarter,
                     at a rapid gallop.
                  He was darting by, toward Five Forks, when by the starlight I recognized
                     Mohun.
                  "Halt!" I shouted.
                  He knew my voice, and drew rein with an exclamation of pleasure.
                  "Thanks, my dear old friend," he said, grasping my hand. "I knew you would not
                     fail me."
                  "Your wedding will take place, Mohun?"
                  "Yes, battle or no battle."
                  "You are right. Life is uncertain. You will hear cannon instead of
                     marriage-bells probably, at your nuptials—but that will be inspiring. What is
                     the news from the Court-House?"
                  "Our infantry is falling back."
                  "The condition of the roads stopped them?"
                  "Yes, it was impossible to get on; and they have been recalled by order of
                     General Lee. Listen! There is the column coming—they are falling back to Five
                     Forks, a mile north of Judge Conway's."
                  In fact, as we rode on now, I heard the muffled tramp of a column, and the
                     rattle of artillery chains in the woods.
                  "The enemy will follow, I suppose?"
                  "Not before morning, I hope."
                  I smiled.
                  "Meanwhile you are making good use of the time to get married. What will you do
                     with Miss Georgia?"
                  "You mean Mrs. Mohun, Surry!" he said, smiling.
                  "Yes."
                  "Well, she will be sent off—her father will take the whole family to Petersburg
                     in the morning, to avoid the battle which will probably take place in this
                     vicinity to-morrow."
                  "You are right. I predict a thundering fight here, in the morning."
                  "Which I hope I shall not balk in, my dear Surry," said Mohun, smiling.
                  "Is there any danger of that?"
                  "I really don't know. It is not good for a soldier to be too happy. It makes
                     him shrink from bullets, and raises visions of a young widow, in mourning,
                     bending over a tomb."
                  "Pshaw! stop that folly!" I said. "Is it possible that a stouthearted cavalier
                     like General Mohun can indulge in such apprehensions—and at a moment as happy
                     as this?"
                  I saw him smile sadly, in the dim starlight.
                  "I am much changed," he said, gently; "I no longer risk my life
                     recklessly—trying to throw it away. Once, as you know, Surry, I was a poor
                     outcast, and my conscience was burdened with a terrible crime. Life was little
                     to me, then, and I would not have cared if a bullet cut it short. I was
                     reckless, desperate, and had no hope. Now, I have hope—and a great deal more
                     than all—I have happiness. My hands are not stained with the blood of that man
                     and woman—I have the love of a pure girl who is going to give her life to
                     me—and I have prayed to God for pardon, and been pardoned, I feel—else that
                     All-merciful Being would not make my poor life bright again! But let me stop
                     this talk! A strange conversation for a wedding night! Let me say again,
                     however, my dear Surry, that I have no enmities now. I no longer hate
                        that man, and would not harm that woman for aught
                     on earth. Let them go—they are indifferent to me. I appeal to God to witness
                     the purity of my sentiments, and the sincerity with which I have prayed,
                     'Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who have trespassed against
                     us!'"
                  I reached out my hand in the darkness, and pressed that of the speaker.
                  "You are right, Mohun—there is something greater, more noble, than vengeance—it
                     is forgiveness. More than ever, I can say now of you, what I said after hearing
                     your history that night."
                  "What was that, old friend?"
                  "That you were no longer the bitter misanthrope, hating your species, and
                     snarling at all things—no longer the gay cavalier rushing to battle as a
                     pastime—that you were altered, entirely changed, rather—that your character was
                     elevated and purified—and that now, you were a patriotic soldier, fit to live
                     or die with Lee!"
                  
                  "Would that I were!" he murmured, letting his head fall upon his breast.
                  "That is much to say of any man; but I will add more. You are worthy of her—the
                     blossom of Five Forks!"
                  As I uttered these words, we reached the gate.
                  A moment afterward we had entered the grounds, tethered our horses, and were
                     hastening to the house.
               
               
                  XIX. THE CEREMONY.
                  ON the threshold we were met by Judge Conway, with a bow and a smile.
                  He pressed our hands cordially, but with a covert sadness, which I suppose
                     comes to the heart of every father who is about to part with a beloved
                     daughter—to give up his place as it were to another—and then we entered the
                     great drawing-room where a gentleman in a white cravat and black coat awaited
                     us. No other persons were visible.
                  The great apartment was a charming spectacle, with its brilliant lights and
                     blazing fire. The frescoed walls danced in light shadows; the long curtains
                     were drawn down, completely excluding the March air. Coming in out of the
                     night, this smiling interior was inexpressibly home-like and delightful.
                  As we entered, the clerical-looking gentleman rose, modestly, and smiled.
                  "The Reverend Mr. Hope," said Judge Conway, presenting him. And Mr. Hope, with
                     the same gentle smile upon his lips, advanced and shook hands.
                  At that name I had seen Mohun suddenly start, and turn pale. Then his head rose
                     quickly, his pallor disappeared, and he said with entire calmness:
                  "Mr. Hope and myself are old acquaintances, I may even say, old friends."
                  To these words Mr. Hope made a gentle and smiling reply; and it was plain that
                     he was very far from connecting the personage before him with the terrible
                     tragedy which had taken place at Fonthill, in December, 1856. What was the
                     origin of this ignorance? Had the worthy man, in his remote parsonage, simply
                     heard of the sudden disappearance of Mohun, the lady, and her
                        brother? Had his solitary life prevented him from hearing the vague
                     rumors and surmises which must have followed that event? This was the simplest
                     explanation, and I believe the correct one. Certain it is that the worthy Mr.
                     Hope received us with smiling cordiality. Doubtless he recalled the past, but
                     was too kind to spread a gloom over Mohun's feelings by alluding to his
                        loss. In a few moments we were seated, and Judge Conway explained the
                     presence of the parson.
                  The explanation was simple. Mohun, incessantly engaged on duty, had begged
                     Judge Conway to send a message to the parson of his parish; the parson was
                     absent, leaving his church temporarily in charge of his brother-clergyman, Mr.
                     Hope; thus that gentleman by a strange chance, was about to officiate at
                     Mohun's second marriage, as he had at his first.
                  I have explained thus, perhaps tediously, an incident which struck me at the
                     time as most singular. Are there fatalities in this world? The presence of the
                     Reverend Mr. Hope on that night at "Five Forks," resembled one of those strange
                     coincidences which make us believe in the doctrine of destiny.
                  Having exchanged compliments with the clergyman, Mohun and I were shown to a
                     dressing-room.
                  No sooner had the door closed, than I said to Mohun:—
                  "That is strange, is it not?"
                  "Singular, indeed," he replied, calmly, "but I am not averse to this worthy
                     man's presence, Surry. I have no concealments. I have related my whole life to
                     Judge Conway and Georgia. They both know the circumstances which lead to the
                     conviction that that woman was already married, when she married
                        me—that the proof of her marriage with Darke exists. Judge
                     Conway is a lawyer, and knows that, in legal phraseology, the array of
                     circumstances 'excludes every other hypothesis;' thus it is not as an
                     adventurer that my father's son enters this house: all is known, and I do not shrink from the eye of this good
                     man, who is about to officiate at my marriage."
                  "Does he know all?"
                  "I think not. I had half resolved to tell him. But there is no time now. Let us
                     get ready; the hour is near."
                  And Mohun looked at his watch.
                  "Nine o'clock," he said. "The ceremony takes place at ten."
                  And he rapidly made his toilet. The light fell on a superb-looking cavalier. He
                     was clad in full dress uniform, with the braid and stars of a
                     brigadier-general. The erect figure was clearly defined by the coat, buttoned
                     from chin to waist. Above, rose the proudly-poised head, with the lofty brow,
                     the brilliant black eyes, the dark imperial and mustache, beneath which you saw
                     the firm lips.
                  We descended to the drawing-room, where Judge Conway and Mr. Hope awaited
                     us.
                  Fifteen minutes afterward light steps were heard upon the great staircase; the
                     old statesman opened the door, and Miss Georgia Conway entered the apartment,
                     leaning upon the arm of her father.
                  She was clad in simple white muslin, with a string of pearls in her dark hair;
                     and I have never seen a more exquisite beauty. Her cheeks glowed with fresh
                     roses; a charming smile just parted her lips; and her dark eyes, grand and
                     calm, shone out from the snow-white forehead, from which her black hair was
                     carried back in midnight ripples, ending in profuse curls. It was truly a
                        grande dame whom I gazed at on this night,
                     and, with eyes riveted upon the lovely face, I very nearly lost sight of Miss
                     Virginia, who followed her sister.
                  I hastened to offer my arm to the modest little flower, and followed Judge
                     Conway, who approached the parson, standing, prayer-book in hand, in the middle
                     of the apartment.
                  In another instant Mohun was standing beside Miss Georgia, and the ceremony
                     began.
                  It was not destined to proceed far.
                  The clergyman had nearly finished the exhortation with which the "form for the
                     solemnization of matrimony," commences.
                  All at once I was certain that I heard steps on the portico, and in the hall of
                     the mansion.
                  The rest seemed not to hear them, however, and Mr. Hope continued the
                     ceremony.
                  "Into this holy estate," he went on, "these two persons present come now to be
                     joined. If any man can show just cause why they may not lawfully be joined
                     together, let him now speak, or else hereafter forever hold his peace."
                  As he uttered the words the door was suddenly burst open, and Darke entered the
                     apartment with the gray woman.
                  
                  In the midst of the stupor of astonishment, she advanced straight toward
                     Georgia Conway, twined her arm in that of the young lady, and said
                     quietly:—
                  "How do you do, cousin? I am Lucretia Conway. Your father is my uncle. I have
                     come to show just cause why you cannot marry General Mohun—my husband!"
               
               
                  XX. WHAT OCCURRED AT "FIVE FORKS," ON THE NIGHT OF MARCH 31, 1865.
                  MOHUN turned like a tiger, and was evidently about to throw himself upon Darke.
                     I grasped his arm and restrained him.
                  "Listen!" I said.
                  The house was surrounded by trampling hoofs, and clattering sabres.
                  Darke had not drawn his pistol, and now glanced at me. His face was thin and
                     pale—he was scarce the shadow of himself—but his eyes burned with a strange
                     fire under his bushy brows.
                  "You are right, Colonel Surry!" he said, in his deep voice, to me, "restrain
                     your friend. Let no one stir, or they are dead. The house is surrounded by a
                     squadron of my cavalry. You are a mile from all succor. You can make no
                     resistance. I am master of this
                     house. But I design to injure no one. Sit down, madam," he added, to his
                     companion, "I wish to speak first."
                  The sentences followed each other rapidly. The speaker's accent was cold, and
                     had something metallic in it. The capture of the party before him seemed to be
                     no part of his design.
                  All at once the voice of the strange woman was heard in the silence. She
                     quietly released the arm of Georgia Conway, who had drawn back with an
                     expression of supreme disdain; and calmly seating herself in a chair,
                     gracefully cut some particles of dust from her gray riding habit with a small
                     whip which she carried.
                  "Yes, let us converse," she said, with her eyes riveted upon Georgia Conway,
                     "nothing can be more pleasant than these sweet family reunions!"
                  Judge Conway glanced at the speaker with eyes full of sudden rage.
                  "Who are you, madam," he exclaimed, "who makes this impudent claim of belonging
                     to my family?"
                  "I have already told you," was the satirical reply of the woman.
                  "And you, sir!" exclaimed the old judge, suddenly turning and confronting
                     Darke, "perhaps you, too, are a member of the Conway family?"
                  "Not exactly," was the cold reply.
                  "Your name, sir!"
                  "Mortimer Davenant."
                  Judge Conway gazed at the speaker with stupor.
                  "You that person?—you the son of General Arthur Davenant?"
                  "Yes, I am the son of General Arthur Davenant of the Confederate States
                     army—General Davenant, whom you hate and despise as a felon and murderer—and I
                     have come here to-night to relieve him of that imputation; to tell you that it
                     was I and not he, who murdered your brother!
                  "A moment, if you please, sir," continued the speaker, in the same low, cold
                     tone, "do not interrupt me, I beg. I have little time, and intend to be brief.
                     You believe that your brother, George Conway, was put to death by General
                     Davenant. Here is the fact of the matter: I saw him at Dinwiddie Court-House;
                     knew he had a large sum of money on his person; followed him, attacked him,
                     murdered him—and with General Davenant's pen-knife, which I had accidentally
                     come into possession of. Then I stole the knife from the court-house, to
                     prevent his conviction;—wrote and sent to him on the day of his trial a full
                     confession of the murder, signed with my name—and that confession he would not
                     use; he would not inculpate his son; for ten years he has chosen rather to
                     labor under the imputation of murder, than blacken the name of a castaway son,
                     whose character was wretched already, and whom he believed dead.
                  "That is what I came here, to-night, to say to you, sir. I am a wretch—I know
                     that—it is a dishonor to touch my hand, stained with every vice, and much
                     crime. But I am not entirely lost, though I told—my father—so, when I met him,
                     not long since. Even a dog will not turn and bite the hand that has been kind
                     to him. I was a gentleman once, and am a vulgar fellow now—but there is
                     something worse than crime, in my estimation; it is cowardice and ingratitude.
                     You shall not continue to despise my father; he is innocent of that murder. You
                     have no right to continue your opposition to my brother's marriage with your
                     daughter, for he is not the son of the murderer of your brother. I
                     count for nothing in this. I am not my father's son, or my brother's brother. I
                     am an outcast—a lost man—dead, as far as they are concerned. It was to tell you
                     this that I have come here to-night—and for that only."
                  "And—this woman?" said Judge Conway, pale, and glaring at the speaker.
                  "Let her speak for herself," said Darke, coldly.
                  "I will do so, with pleasure," said the woman, coolly, but with an intensely
                     satirical smile. That smile chilled me—it was worse than any excess of rage.
                     The glance she threw upon Georgia Conway was one of such profound, if covert,
                     hatred, that it drove my hand to my hilt as though to grasp some weapon.
                  "I will be brief," continued the woman, rising slowly, and looking at Georgia
                     Conway, with that dagger-like smile. "General Darke-Davenant has related a
                     pleasing little history. I will relate another, and address myself more
                     particularly to Judge Conway—my dear
                     uncle. He does not, or will not, recognize me; and I suppose I may have
                     changed. But that is not important. I am none the less Lucretia Conway. You do
                     not remember that young lady, perhaps, sir; your proud Conway blood has
                     banished from your memory the very fact of her former existence. And yet she
                     existed—she exists still—she is speaking to you—unbosoming herself in the midst
                     of her dear family! But to tell my little story—it will not take many minutes.
                     I was born here, you remember, uncle, and grew up what is called headstrong. At
                     sixteen, I fell in love with a young Adonis with a mustache; and, as you and
                     the rest opposed my marriage, obdurately refusing your consent, I yielded to
                     the eloquence of Mr. Adonis, and eloped with him, going to the North. Here we
                     had a quarrel. I grew angry, and slapped Adonis; and he took his revenge by
                     departing without leaving me a wedding-ring to recall his dear image. Then I
                     met that gentleman—General Darke-Mortimer-Davenant! We took a fancy to each
                     other; we became friends; and soon afterward travelled to the South, stopping
                     in Dinwiddie. Here I made the acquaintance of General Mohun—there he stands; he
                     fell desperately in love with me—married me—Parson Hope will tell you that—and
                     then attempted to murder me, without rhyme or reason. Luckily, I made my escape
                     from the monster! rejoined my friend, General Darke-Davenant; the war came on;
                     I came back here; have been lately arrested, but escaped by bribing the rebel
                     jailers; only, however, to find that my naughty husband is going to marry my
                     cousin Georgia! Can you wonder, then, that I have exerted myself to be present
                     at the interesting ceremony? That I have yielded to my fond affection, and come
                     to say to my dear Georgia, 'Don't marry my husband, cousin!' And yet you frown
                     at me—you evidently hate me—you think I am lying—that I was
                     married before, perhaps. Well, if that be the case, where is the proof of that
                     marriage?"
                  "Here it is!" said a voice, which made the woman turn suddenly.
                  And opening the heavy window-curtains, which had, up to this moment, concealed
                     him, Nighthawk advanced into the apartment, holding in his hand a paper.
                  A wild rage filled the eyes of the woman, but now so smiling. Her hand darted
                     to her bosom, and I saw the gleam of a poniard.
                  "This paper," said Nighthawk, coolly, "was found on the dead body of a man
                     named Alibi, who had stolen it. See, Judge Conway; it is in regular form. 'At
                     Utica, New York, Mortimer Davenant to Lucretia Conway.' Attested by seal and
                     signature. There can be no doubt of its genuineness."
                  Suddenly a hoarse exclamation was heard, and a poniard gleamed in the hand of
                     the woman.
                  With a single bound, she reached Georgia Conway, and struck at her heart. The
                     corsage of the young lady, however, turned the poniard, and at the same instant
                     a thundering volley of musketry resounded without.
                  Furious cries were then heard; the wild trampling of horses; and a loud voice
                     ordering:—
                  "Put them to the bayonet!"
                  Darke drew his sword, and reached the side of the woman at a bound. Throwing
                     his arms around her, he raised her, and rushed, with his burden, through the
                     hall, toward the lawn, where a fierce combat was in progress.
                  Suddenly the woman uttered a wild cry, and relaxed her grasp upon his neck. A
                     bullet had buried itself in her bosom.
                  Darke's hoarse and menacing voice echoed the cry; but he did not release the
                     body; with superhuman strength he raised it aloft, and bounded down the
                     steps.
                  As he reached the bottom, a man rushed upon him, and drove his bayonet through
                     his breast. It was withdrawn, streaming with blood.
                  "Put all to the bayonet!" shouted the voice of General Davenant, as he charged
                     with his young son, Charles, beside him.
                  At that voice Darke stretched out both hands, and dropping his sword, uttered a
                     cry, which attracted the general's attention.
                  For an instant they stood facing each other—unutterable horror in the eyes of
                     General Davenant.
                  "I am—done for," exclaimed Darke, a bloody foam rushing to his lips, "but—I
                     have told him—that I was the murderer—that you were
                     innocent. Give me your hand, father!"
                  
                  General Davenant leaped to the ground, and with a piteous groan received the
                     dying man in his arms.
                  "I am a wretch—I know that—but I was a Davenant once"—came in low murmurs.
                     "Tell Will, he can marry now, for I will be dead—kiss me once, Charley!"
                  The weeping boy threw himself upon his knees, and pressed his lips to those of
                     his brother.
                  As he did so, the wounded man fell back in his father's arms, and expired.
               
               
                  XXI. FIVE FORKS.
                  ON the day after these events, Lee's extreme right at Five-Forks, was furiously
                     attacked, and in spite of heroic resistance, the little force under Pickett and
                     Fitzhugh Lee was completely routed and dispersed.
                  Do you regard that term "heroic," as merely rhetorical, reader?"
                  Hear a Northern writer, a wearer of blue, but too honest not to give brave men
                     their due:—
                  "Having gained the White Oak road, Warren changed front again to the right, and
                     advanced westward, so continually to take in flank and rear whatever hostile
                     force still continued to hold the right of the Confederate line. This had
                     originally been about three miles in extent, but above two-thirds of it were
                     now carried. Yet, vital in all its parts, what of the two divisions remained,
                     still continued the combat with unyielding mettle. Parrying the thrusts of the
                     cavalry from the front, this poor scratch of a force threw back its left in a
                     new and short crotchet, so as to meet the advance of Warren, who continued to
                     press in at right angles to the White Oak road. When the infantry, greatly
                     elated with their success, but somewhat disorganized by marching and fighting
                     so long in the woods, arrived before this new line, they halted and opened an
                     untimely fusillade, though there had been orders not to halt. The officers,
                     indeed, urged their men forward, but they continued to fire without advancing.
                     Seeing this hesitation, Warren dashed forward, calling to those near him to
                     follow. Inspired by his example, the color-bearers and officers all along the
                     front, sprang out, and without more firing, the men charged at the pas de course, capturing all that remained a the
                     enemy. The history of the war presents no equally splendid
                     illustration of personal magnetism. A charge of the cavalry completed the rout,
                     and the remnants of the divisions of Pickett and Johnson fled westward from
                     Five Forks, pursued for many miles, and until long after dark, by the mounted
                     divisions of Merritt and McKenzie."
                  That is picturesque, is it not? It is amusing, too—though so tragic.
                  You can see that "poor scratch of a force" fighting to the death, can you not?
                     You can see the poor little handful attacked by Sheridan's crack cavalry corps
                     in front, and then suddenly by Warren's superb infantry corps in both their
                     flank and rear. You can see them, game to the last, throwing back their left in
                     the crochet to meet Warren; see that good soldier cheering on his men "greatly
                     elated," but "somewhat disorganized," too—so much so that they suddenly halt,
                     and require the "personal magnetism" of the general to inspire them, and bring
                     them up to the work. Then the little scratch gives way—they are a handful, and
                     two corps are pressing them. They have "continued the combat with unyielding
                     mettle," as long as they could—now they are driven; and on rushes the
                     thundering cavaliers to destroy them! Sound the bugles! Out with sabres!
                     charge! ride over them! "Hurra!" So the little scratch disappears.
                  General Warren, who won that fight, was a brave man, and did not boast of it.
                     Tell me, general—you are honest—is any laurel in your hard-won wreath, labelled
                     "Five Forks?" It would be insulting that other laurel labelled "Gettysburg,"
                     where you saved Meade!
                  In that bitter and desperate fight, Corse's infantry brigade and Lee's cavalry
                     won a renown which can never be taken from them. The infantry remained unbroken
                     to the last moment; and a charge of
                     Lee's cavalry upon Sheridan's drove them back, well nigh routed.
                  But nothing could avail against such numbers. The Confederate infantry,
                     cavalry, and artillery at last gave way. Overwhelmed by the great force, they
                     were shattered and driven. Night descended upon a battle-field covered with
                     heaps of dead and wounded, the blue mingled with the gray.
                  Among those wounded, mortally to all appearances, was Willie Davenant. He had
                     fought with the courage of the bull-dog which lay perdu under the shy bearing of the boy. All the army had come to
                     recognize it, by this time; and such was the high estimate which General R. E.
                     Lee placed upon him, that it is said he was about to be offered the command of
                     a brigade of infantry. Before this promotion reached him, however, the great
                     crash came; and the brave youth was to fall upon the field of Five Forks, where
                     he fought his guns obstinately to the very last.
                  It was just at nightfall that he fell, with a bullet through his breast.
                  The enemy were pressing on hotly, and there was no time to bring off the
                     wounded officer. It seemed useless, too. He lay at full length, in a pool of
                     blood, and was breathing heavily. To attempt to move him, even if it were
                     possible, threatened him with instant death.
                  A touching incident followed. The enemy carried Five Forks as night descended.
                     They had advanced so early, that Judge Conway and his daughters had had no time
                     to leave their home. Compelled to remain thus, they did not forget their duty
                     to the brave defenders of the Confederacy, and when the firing ceased, the old
                     statesman and his daughters went to succor the wounded.
                  Among the first bodies which they saw was that of Will Davenant. One gleam of
                     the lantern carried by the Federal surgeon told all; and Virginia Conway with a
                     low moan knelt down and raised the head of the wounded boy, placing it upon her
                     bosom.
                  As she did so, he sighed faintly, and opening his eyes, looked up into her
                     face. The blood rushed to his cheeks; he attempted to stretch out his arms;
                     then falling back upon her bosom the young officer fainted.
                  A cry from the girl attracted the attention of the Federal surgeon who was
                     attending to the wounded Federalists. He was a kind-hearted man, and came to
                     the spot whence he had heard the cry.
                  "He is dying!" moaned the poor girl, with bloodless cheeks. "Can you do nothing
                     for him? Oh, save him, sir!—only save him!—have pity upon me!"
                  She could say no more.
                  The surgeon bent over and examined the wound. When he had done so, he shook his
                     head.
                  "His wound is mortal, I am afraid," he said, "but I will do all I can for
                     him."
                  And with a rapid hand he stanched the blood, and bandaged the wound.
                  The boy had not stirred. He remained still, with his head leaning upon the
                     girl's breast.
                  "Can he live?" she murmured, in a tone almost inaudible.
                  "If he is not moved, he may possibly live; but if he is moved his death is
                     certain. The least change in the position of his body, for some hours from this
                     time, will be fatal."
                  "Then he shall not have to change his position!" exclaimed the girl.
                  And, with the pale face still lying upon her bosom, she remained immovable.
                  Throughout all the long night she did not move or disturb the youth. He had
                     fallen into a deep sleep, and his head still lay upon her bosom.
                  Who can tell what thoughts came to that brave child as she thus watched over
                     his sleep? The long hours on the lonely battlefield, full of the dead and
                     dying, slowly dragged on. The great dipper wheeled in circle; the moon rose;
                     the dawn came; still the girl, with the groans of the dying around her, held
                     the wounded boy in her arms.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Fact.
                  
                  Is there a painter in Virginia who desires a great subject? There it is; and it
                     is historical.
                  When the sun rose, Willie Davenant opened his eyes, and gazed up into her face.
                     Their glances met; their blushing cheeks were near each other; the presence of her, whom he
                     loved so much, seemed to have brought back life to the shattered frame.
                  An hour afterward he was moved to "Five Forks," where he was tenderly cared
                     for. The old statesman had forgotten his lifelong prejudice, and was the first
                     to do all in his power to save the boy.
                  A month afterward he was convalescent. A week more and he was well. In the
                     summer of 1865 he was married to Virginia Conway.
                  As for Mohun, his marriage ceremony, so singularly interrupted, had been
                     resumed and completed an hour after the death of the unfortunate Darke and his
                     companion.
               
               
                  XXII. "THE LINE HAS BEEN STRETCHED UNTIL IT HAS BROKEN, COLONEL."
                  AT nightfall, on the first of April, the immense struggle had really ended.
                  Lee's whole right was swept away; he was hemmed in, in Petersburg; what
                     remained for General Grant was only to give the coup de
                        grace to the great adversary, who still confronted him, torn and
                     shattered, but with a will and courage wholly unbroken.
                  It is not an exaggeration, reader. Judge for yourself. I am to show you Lee as
                     I saw him in this moment of terrible trial: still undaunted, raising his head
                     proudly amid the crash of all around him; great in the hour of victory; in the
                     hour of ruin, sublime.
                  Grant attacked again at dawn, on the morning of the second of April. It was
                     Sunday, but no peaceful church-bells disturbed the spring air. The roar of
                     cannon was heard, instead, hoarse and menacing, in the very suburbs of the
                     devoted city.
                  There was no hope now—all was ended—but the Confederate arms were to snatch a
                     last, and supreme laurel, which time can not wither. Attacked in Fort Gregg, by
                     General Gibbon, Harriss' Mississippi brigade, of two hundred and fifty men,
                     made one of those struggles which throw their splendor along the paths of
                     history.
                  "This handful of skilled marksmen," says a Northern writer, "conducted the
                     defence with such intrepidity, that Gibbon's forces, surging repeatedly against
                     it, were each time thrown back."
                  That is the generous but cold statement of an opponent; but it is
                     sufficient.
                  It was not until seven o'clock that Gibbon stormed the fort. Thirty men only
                     out of the two hundred and fifty were left, but they were still fighting.
                  In the attack the Federal loss was "about five hundred men," says the writer
                     above quoted.
                  So fell Lee's last stronghold on this vital part of his lines. Another
                     misfortune soon followed. The gallant A. P. Hill, riding ahead of his men, was
                     fired on and killed, by a small detachment of the enemy whom he had halted and
                     ordered to surrender.
                  He fell from his horse, and was borne back, already dying. That night, amid the
                     thunder of the exploding magazines, the commander, first, of the "light
                     division," and then of a great corps—the hero of Cold Harbor, Sharpsburg, and a
                     hundred other battles—was buried in the city cemetery, just in time to avoid
                     seeing the flag he had fought under, lowered.
                  Peace to the ashes of that brave! Old Virginia had no son more faithful!
                  Fort Gregg was the last obstacle. At ten o'clock that had fallen, heavy masses
                     of the enemy were pushing forward. Their bristling battalions, and long lines
                     of artillery had advanced nearly to General Lee's head-quarters, a mile west of
                     Petersburg.
                  As the great blue wave surged forward, General Lee, in full-dress uniform, and
                     wearing his gold-hilted sword, looked at them through his field-glasses from
                     the lawn, in front of his head-quarters, on foot, and surrounded by his staff.
                     I have never seen him more composed. Chancing to address him, he saluted me
                     with the calmest and most scrupulous courtesy; and his voice was as measured
                     and unmoved as though he were
                     attending a parade. Do you laugh at us, friends of the North, for our devotion
                     to Lee? You should have seen him that day, when ruin stared him in the face;
                     you would have known then, the texture of that stout Virginia heart.
                  The enemy's column literally rushed on. Our artillery, on a hill near by, had
                     opened a rapid fire on the head of the column; the enemy's object was to gain
                     shelter under a crest, in their front.
                  They soon gained it; formed line of battle, and charged the guns.
                  Then all was over. The bullets rained, in a hurtling tempest on the cannoneers;
                     the blue line came on with loud shouts; and the pieces were brought off at a
                     gallop, followed by a hailstorm of musket-balls.
                  Suddenly the Federal artillery opened from a hill behind their line. General
                     Lee had mounted his iron-gray, and was slowly retiring toward Petersburg,
                     surrounded by his officers. His appearance was superb at this moment—and I
                     still see the erect form of the proud old cavalier; his hand curbing his
                     restive horse; his head turned over his shoulder; his face calm, collected, and
                     full of that courage which nothing could break.
                  All at once a shell screamed from the Federal battery, and bursting close to
                     the general, tore up the ground in a dozen places. The horse of an officer at
                     his side was mortally wounded by a fragment, and fell beneath his rider—other
                     animals darted onward, with hanging bridle-reins, cut by the shell—but I was
                     looking at General Lee, feeling certain that he must have been wounded.
                  He had escaped, however. Not a muscle of his calm face had moved. Only, as he
                     turned his face over his shoulder in the direction of the battery, I could see
                     a sudden color rush to his cheeks, and his eye flashed.
                  "I should now like to go into a charge!" he said to Stuart, once, after a
                     disaster. And I thought I read the same thought in his face at this moment.
                  But it was impossible. He had no troops. The entire line on the right of
                     Petersburg had been broken to pieces, and General Lee retired slowly to his
                     inner works, near the city where a little skirmish line, full of fight yet, and
                     shaking their fists at the huge enemy approaching, received him with cheers and
                     cries which made the pulse throb.
                  There was no hack in that remnant—pardon the word, reader; it
                     expresses the idea.
                  "Let 'em come on! We'll give 'em ——!" shouted the ragged handful. I dare not
                     change that rough sentence. It belongs to history. And it was glorious, if
                     rude. In front of that squad was a whole army-corps. The corps was advancing,
                     supported by a tremendous artillery fire, to crush them—and the tatterdemalions
                     defied and laughed at them.
                  This all took place before noon. Longstreet had come in from the north of the
                     James with his skeleton regiments; and these opposed a bold front to the enemy
                     on the right, while Gordon commanding the left, below the city, was thundering.
                     A cordon hemmed in the little army now, in the suburbs of Petersburg. The
                     right, on the Boydton road, was carried away; and the left beyond James River.
                     One hope alone remained—to hold Petersburg until night, and then retreat.
                  I will not describe that day. This volume approaches its end; and it is
                     fortunate. To describe at length those last days would be a terrible task to
                     the writer.
                  Lee telegraphed to the President that he was going to retreat that night; and
                     at the moment when the officers of the government hastily left Richmond by the
                     Danville railroad, the army at Petersburg began to retire.
                  Did you witness what I describe, reader? What a spectacle!—the army of Northern
                     Virginia, or what was left of it, rather, stealing away amid darkness.
                  I sat my horse on the Hickory road, north of the Appomattox, near the city, and
                     looked at the ragged column, which defiled by from the bridge over the river.
                     In the starlight I could see their faces. There was not a particle of
                     depression in them. You would have said, indeed, that they rejoiced at being
                     out of the trenches—to be once more on the march, with Lee, riding his old
                     iron-gray, in front of his old soldiers—with the battle-flags of a hundred
                     battles still floating defiantly.
                  General Lee stood at the forks of the road, directing his column. He had said little during the day, and
                     said little now, But his voice was as calm and measured, his eye as serene as
                     before.
                  "This is a bad business, colonel!"*
                      I had heard him say, at the moment when the shell burst near him in the
                      morning.
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  I heard but one other allusion which he made to the situation.
                  "Well, colonel," he said to an officer, in his deep and sonorous voice, "it has
                     happened as I told them it would, at Richmond. The line has been stretched
                     until it has broken."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  So, over the Hickory road, leading up the northern bank of the Appomattox, in
                     the direction of Lynchburg—amid the explosion of magazines, surging upward like
                     volcanoes, the old army of Northern Virginia, reduced to fifteen thousand men,
                     went forth, still defiant, into the night.
               
               
                  XXIII. WHAT I SAW FROM THE GRAVE OF STUART.
                  THREE hours afterward I was in Richmond.
                  Sent with a message for General Ewell, I had taken the last train which left
                     for the capital, and reached the city toward midnight.
                  The first person whom I saw was Tom Herbert, who ran to meet me. His face was
                     pale, but his resolute smile still lit up the brave face.
                  "Come and wait on me, my dear old friend," he said; "I am to be married to
                     night!"
                  And in a few words he informed me that Katy had consented to have the ceremony
                     performed before Tom followed General Lee southward.
                  Half an hour afterward I witnessed a singular spectacle: that of a wedding,
                     past midnight, in the midst of hurry, confusion, uproar, universal despair—the
                     scene, a city about to fall into the hands of the enemy—from which the
                     government and all its defenders had fled.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Real.
                  
                  Katy acted her part bravely. The rosy cheeks were unblanched still—the sweet
                     smile was as endearing. When I took an old friend's privilege to kiss the
                     smiling lips, there was no tremor in them, and her blue eyes were as brave as
                     ever.
                  So Tom and Katy were married—and I bestowed upon them my paternal blessing! It
                     was a singular incident—was it not. reader? But war is full of such.
                  I did not see Tom again until I met him on the retreat. And Katy—I have never
                     seen her sweet face since—but heaven bless her!
                  An hour afterward I had delivered my message to General Ewell, who was already
                     moving out with his small force to join Lee. They defiled across the bridges,
                     and disappeared. For myself, tired out, I wrapped my cape around me, and
                     stretching myself upon a sofa, at the house of a friend, snatched a little
                     rest.
                  I was aroused toward daybreak by a tremendous explosion, and going to the
                     window, saw that the city was in flames. The explosion had been caused,
                     doubtless, by blowing up the magazines, or the rams in James River. The
                     warehouses and bridges had been fired in anticipation of the approach of the
                     enemy.
                  It behooved me to depart now, unless I wished to be captured. I had taken the
                     precaution to provide myself with a horse from one of the government stables;
                     the animal stood ready saddled behind the house; I bade my alarmed friends
                     farewell, and mounting, rode through the streets of the devoted city toward the
                     Capitol, amid bursting shell from the arsenal, exploding magazines, and roaring
                     flames.
                  I can not describe the scenes which followed. They were terrible and would
                     present a fit subject for the brush of Rembrandt. Fancy crowds of desperate
                     characters breaking into the shops and magazines of stores—negroes, outcasts,
                     malefactors, swarming in the streets, and shouting amid the carnival. The state
                     prison had disgorged its convicts—the slums and subterranean recesses of the
                     city its birds of the night—and now, felons and malefactors, robbers, cut-purses and
                     murderers held their riotous and drunken carnival in the streets, flowing with
                     whiskey. Over all surged the flames, roaring, crackling, tumultuous—the black
                     clouds of smoke drifting far away, under the blue skies of spring.
                  Then from the Capitol hill, where I had taken my stand, I saw by the early
                     light, a spectacle even more terrible—that of the enemy entering the city. They
                     came on from Charles City in a long blue column resembling a serpent. Infantry
                     and troopers, artillery and stragglers—all rushed toward the doomed city where
                     they were met by a huge crowd of dirty and jabbering negroes and outcasts.
                  Suddenly a shout near at hand, thundered up to the hill. In front of the
                     Exchange a column of negro cavalry, with drawn sabres rushed on. As they came,
                     they yelled and jabbered—that was the darkest spectacle of all.
                  I remained looking at the frightful pageant with rage in my heart, until the
                     advance force of the enemy had reached the railing of the Capitol. Then I
                     turned my horse, and, pursued by carbine shots, rode out of the western gate,
                     up Grace Street.
                  Fifty paces from St. Paul's I saw Colonel Desperade pass along—smiling, serene,
                     in black coat, snow-white shirt, tall black hat, and with two ladies leaning
                     upon his arms.
                  "Ah! gallant to the last, I see!" I growled to him as I rode by. "'None but the
                     brave deserve the fair!'"
                  The colonel smiled, but made no reply.
                  A hundred yards farther I met little Mr. Blocque joyously approaching.
                  In his hand he carried his safeguard, brought him by the gray woman. At his
                     breast fluttered a miniature United States flag. The little gentleman was
                     radiant, and exclaimed as he saw me:—
                  "What! my dear colonel! you are going to leave us? Come and dine with me—at
                     five o'clock, precisely!"
                  My reply was not polite. I drew my pistol—at which movement Mr. Blocque
                     disappeared, running, at the corner of St. Paul's.
                  On his heels followed a portly and despairing gentleman—Mr. Croaker.
                  "Save my warehouse! it is on fire! I shall be a beggar!" yelled Mr.
                     Croaker.
                  I laughed aloud as the wretched creature rushed by, puffing and panting. Ten
                     minutes afterward I was out of the city.
                  My last view of Richmond was from Hollywood Hill, near the grave of Stuart. The
                     spectacle before me was at once terrible and splendid. The city was wrapped in
                     a sea of flame. A vast black cloud swept away to the far horizon. A menacing
                     roar came up from beneath those flames surging around the white Capitol;—the
                     enemy's guns, troopers, musketeers and the rabble, were rushing with shouts,
                     yells, and curses into the devoted city, which had at last fallen a prey to the
                     Federal arms.
                  A last pang was to tear my heart. The sight before me was not enough, I had
                     turned my horse to ride westward, throwing a parting glance upon the city, when
                     suddenly the Virginia flag descended from the summit of the Capitol and the
                     United States flag was run up.
                  I turned and shook my clenched hand at it.
                  "That is not my flag, and shall never be!" I exclaimed, aloud.
                  And taking off my hat as I passed the grave of Stuart, I rode on, thinking of
                     the past and the present.
               
               
                  XXIV. THE RETREAT.
                  CROSSING James River, above the city, I pushed after the army, which I rejoined
                     on the evening of the 4th, as it was crossing the Appomattox opposite Amelia
                     Court-House.
                  It reached that village on Wednesday April 5th, and you could see at a glance
                     that its spirit was unbroken. As to General Lee, his resolution up to that time
                     had astonished all who saw him. Never had he seemed in more buoyant
                     spirits."
                  "I have got my army safe out of its breastworks," he said, "and in order to follow me, my enemy must
                     abandon his lines, and can derive no further benefit from his railroads, or
                     James River.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  It was only the faint-hearts who lost hope. Lee was not of those. Mounted upon
                     his old iron gray—at the head of his old army, if his little handful of about
                     fifteen thousand men could be called such—Lee was still the great cavalier. The
                     enemy had not yet checkmated him: his heart of hope was untouched. He would cut
                     his way through, and the red flag should again float on victorious fields!
                  The army responded to the feeling of its chief. The confidence of the men in
                     Lee was as great as on his days of victory. You would have said that the events
                     of the last few days were, in the estimation of the troops, only momentary
                     reverses. The veterans of Hill and Longstreet advanced steadily, tramping firm,
                     shoulder to shoulder, with glittering gun barrels, and faces as resolute and
                     hopeful as at Manassas and Chancellorsville.
                  "Those men are not whipped," said a keen observer to me, as he looked at the
                     closed-up column moving. And he was right. The morale of this remnant of the
                     great army of Northern Virginia was untouched. Those who saw them then will
                     testify to the truth of my statement.
                  At Amelia Court-House a terrible blow, however, awaited them. General Lee had
                     ordered rations to be sent thither from North Carolina. They had been sent, but
                     the trains had gone on and disgorged them in Richmond. When Lee arrived with
                     his starved army, already staggering and faint, not a pound of bread or meat
                     was found; there was nothing.
                  Those who saw General Lee at this moment, will remember his expression. For the
                     first time the shadow of despair passed over that brave forehead. Some one had,
                     indeed, struck a death-blow at him. His army was without food. All his plans
                     were reversed. He had intended to reprovision his force at Amelia, and then
                     push straight on. His plan, I think I can state, was to attack the detached
                     forces of Grant in his front; cut his way through there; cross the Nottoway and
                     other streams by means of pontoons, which had been provided; and, forming a
                     junction with General Johnston, crush Sherman or retreat into the Gulf States.
                     All this was, however, reversed by one wretched, microscopic incident. The
                     great machine was to be arrested by an atom in its path. The rations were not
                     found at Amelia Court-House; the army must have food, or die; half the force
                     was dispersed in foraging parties throughout the surrounding country; and the
                     delay gave Grant time to mass heavily in Lee's front, at Burksville.
                  Then all was decided. Lee had not doubted his ability to crush a corps, or even
                     more, before the main force of the enemy came up. He saw as clearly now, that
                     there was no hope of his cutting his way through Grant's army. It was there in
                     his front—the failure of rations had caused all. With what must have been a
                     terrible weight upon his heart, Lee directed his march toward Lynchburg,
                     determined to fight to the end; and, as he had said during the winter, "die
                     sword in hand."
                  Then commenced the woeful tragedy. What words can paint that retreat? There is
                     only one other that equals it—Napoleon's retreat from Moscow. The army
                     staggered on, fighting, and starving, and dying. Stalwart men fell by the
                     roadside, or dropped their muskets as they tottered on. The wagons were drawn
                     by skeleton mules, without food like the soldiers. If an ear of corn was found,
                     the men seized and munched it fiercely, like animals. Covered with mud,
                     blackened with powder, with gaunt frames, and glaring eyes, the old guard of
                     the army of Northern Virginia still stood to their colors—fighting at every
                     step, despairing, but not shrinking; and obeying the orders of Lee to the
                     last.
                  You would not doubt that confidence in, and love for, their commander, reader,
                     if you had witnessed the scene which I did, near Highbridge. The enemy had
                     suddenly assailed Ewell and Custis Lee, and broken them to pieces. The blue
                     horsemen and infantry pressing fiercely on all sides, and hunting their
                     opponents to the death, seemed, at this moment, to have delivered a blow from
                     which the Confederates could not rise. The attack had fallen like a
                     thunderbolt. Ewell, Anderson, and Custis Lee were swept away by mere weight of
                     numbers; the whole army seemed threatened with instant destruction.
                  
                  Lee suddenly appeared, however, and the scene which followed was indescribable.
                     He had rushed a brigade across, riding in front on his iron-gray; and at that
                     instant he resembled some nobleman of the old age on the track of the
                     wild-boar. With head erect, face unmoved, eyes clear and penetrating, he had
                     reached the scene of danger; and as the disordered remnants of Ewell's force
                     crowded the hill, hot and panting, they had suddenly seen, rising between them
                     and the enemy, a wall of bayonets, flanked by cannon.
                  A great painter should have been present then. Night had fallen, and the
                     horizon was lit up by the glare of burning wagons. Every instant rose, sudden
                     and menacing, the enemy's signal rockets. On the summit of the hill, where the
                     infantry waited, Lee rode among the disordered men of Ewell, and his presence
                     raised a storm.
                  "It's General Lee!"
                  "Uncle Robert!"
                  "Where's the man who won't follow old Uncle Robert!"
                  Such were the shouts, cries, and fierce exclamations. The haggard faces
                     flushed; the gaunt hands were clenched. On all sides explosions of rage and
                     defiance were heard. The men called on the gray old cavalier, sitting his horse
                     as calm as a statue, to take command of them, and lead them against the
                     enemy.
                  No attack was made on them. An hour afterward the army moved again—the rear
                     covered by General Fitzhugh Lee with his cavalry, which, at every step, met the
                     blue huntsmen pressing on to hunt down their prey.
                  Such were some of the scenes of the retreat, up to the 7th. Who has the heart
                     to narrate what followed in the next two days? A great army dying
                     slowly—starving, fighting, falling—is a frightful spectacle. I think the memory
                     of it must affect even the enemies who witnessed it.
                  It is only a small portion of the tragic picture that the present writer has
                     the heart to paint.
               
               
                  XXV. HUNTED DOWN.
                  ON the morning of the 7th of April, and throughout the 8th, the horrors of the
                     retreat culminated.
                  The army was fighting at every step. Hope had deserted them, but they were
                     still fighting.
                  On every side pressed the enemy like bands of wolves hunting down the wounded
                     steed.
                  Gordon and Longstreet, commanding the two skeleton corps of infantry, and
                     Fitzhugh Lee the two or three thousand cavalry remaining, met the incessant
                     attacks, with a nerve which had in it something of the heroic.
                  Fitz Lee had commanded the rear guard on the whole retreat. All along the route
                     he had confronted the columns of Sheridan, and checked them with heavy
                     loss.
                  At Paynesville he had driven Sheridan back, killing, wounding, and capturing
                     two hundred of his men. At Highbridge he captured seven hundred and eighty
                     more, killing many, among the rest the Federal General Read. On the morning of
                     the 7th, beyond the river, he drove back a large column, capturing General
                     Irwin Gregg.
                  That was a brave resistance made by the old army of Northern Virginia, reader,
                     as it was slowly advancing into the gulf of perdition.
                  Beyond Farmville there was no longer any hope. All was plainly over. I shrink
                     from the picture, but here is that of one of my friends. "It became necessary
                     to burn hundreds of wagons. At intervals the enemy's cavalry dashed in and
                     struck the interminable train, here or there, capturing and burning dozens on
                     dozens of wagons. Hundreds of men dropped from exhaustion, and thousands let
                     fall their muskets from inability to carry them any farther. The scenes were of
                     a nature which can be apprehended in its vivid reality only by men who are
                     thoroughly familiar with the harrowing details of war. Behind, and on either flank, a ubiquitous and
                     increasingly adventurous enemy; every mud-hole and every rise in the road
                     choked with blazing wagons; the air filled with the deafening reports of
                     ammunition exploding, and shell bursting when touched by the flames; dense
                     columns of smoke ascending to heaven from the burning and exploding vehicles;
                     exhausted men, worn-out mules and horses, lying down side by side; gaunt famine
                     glaring hopelessly from sunken lack-lustre eyes; dead mules, dead horses, dead
                     men, everywhere; death many times welcomed as God's blessing in disguise—who
                     can wonder if many hearts tried in the fiery furnace of four unparalleled
                     years, and never hitherto found wanting, should have quailed in presence of
                     starvation, fatigue, sleeplessness, misery, unintermitted for five or six days,
                     and culminating in hoplessness?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *The Hon. Charles Francis Lawley, in the London Times.
                     
                  
                  They did not "quail," they fell. It was not fear that made them drop the
                     musket, their only hope of safety; it was weakness. It was an army of phantoms
                     that staggered on toward Lynchburg—and what had made them phantoms was
                     hunger.
                  Let others describe those last two days in full. For myself I can not. To sum
                     up all in one sentence. The army of Northern Virginia, which had for four years
                     snatched victory upon some of the bloodiest battle-fields of history, fought,
                     reeled, fired its last rounds, and fell dead from starvation, defying fiercely
                     with its last breath, gurgling through blood in its throat, the enemy who was
                     hunting it down to its death.
                  Call it what you will, reader—there was something in those men that made them
                     fight to the last.
               
               
                  XXVI. THE LAST COUNCIL OF WAR OF THE ARMY OF NORTHERN VIRGINIA.
                  ON the night of the 8th of April, within a few miles of Appomattox Court-House,
                     took place the last council of war of the army of Northern Virginia.
                  It was in the open air, beside a camp-fire, near which were spread General
                     Lee's blankets; for throughout the retreat he had used no tent, sleeping,
                     shelterless like his men, by the bivouac fire.
                  To this last council of war, none but the corps commanders were invited. Thus
                     the only persons present were Gordon and Longstreet, commanding the skeleton
                     corps of infantry, and Fitzhugh Lee, the cavalry of the army.
                  Gordon was stretched near Fitzhugh Lee, upon the blankets of the
                     commander-in-chief; Gordon, with his clear complexion, his penetrating eyes,
                     his firm lip, his dark hair, and uniform coat buttoned to his chin—the man to
                     fight and die rather than surrender. Near him lay Fitz Lee, the ardent and
                     laughing cavalier, with the flowing beard, the sparkling eyes, the top-boots,
                     and cavalry sabre—the man to stand by Gordon. On a log, a few feet distant, sat
                     the burly Longstreet, smoking with perfect nonchalance—his heavily bearded face
                     exhibiting no emotion whatever. Erect, within a few paces of these three men,
                     stood General Lee—grave, commanding, unmoved; the fire-light revealing every
                     outline of his vigorous person, clad in its plain gray uniform, the gray beard
                     and mustache, the serene eyes, and that stately poise of the head upon the
                     shoulders, which seemed to mark this human being for command.
                  All these persons were composed. Their faces were haggard from want of rest,
                     but there was nothing in their expressions indicating anxiety, though some
                     gloom.
                  "It was a picture for an artist," said that one of them who described the scene to me afterward. The ruddy
                     light brought out every detail of these martial figures. By that fire on the
                     roadside had assembled for the last time General Robert E. Lee and his corps
                     commanders.
                  The council was brief.
                  General Lee succinctly laid before his listeners the whole situation.
                  His army was on a strip of land between the James River and the enemy. He could
                     not cross the river—if he could not break through the enemy in his front the
                     army was lost. General Grant had understood his situation, and a correspondence
                     had taken place. He would read General Grant's notes and copies of his own
                     replies.
                  By the light of the fire, General Lee then proceeded to read the papers alluded
                     to.
                  Grant had opened the correspondence. "The result of the last week must convince
                     General Lee," he wrote, "of the hopelessness of further resistance on the part
                     of the army of Northern Virginia." He therefore "asked the surrender" of that
                     army to prevent bloodshed.
                  Lee had written in reply, requesting Grant to state the terms.
                  Grant had stated them on this 8th of April, and Lee had replied at once that he
                     "did not intend to propose the surrender of the army of Northern Virginia, but
                     to ask the terms of General Grant's proposition. To be frank," he had added, "I
                     do not think the emergency has arisen to call for the surrender." But he would
                     meet General Grant on the next morning to discuss the whole affair.
                  There the correspondence had terminated. What was the opinion of his corps
                     commanders?
                  Their replies were brief and informal. The scene was august but simple. What
                     was determined upon was this—
                  That the army should continue its march on the next day toward Lynchburg,
                     breaking through Sheridan's cavalry which was known to be in front; but in case
                     the Federal infantry, a very different thing from the cavalry, was found to be
                     "up," then Gordon, who was to lead the advance, should inform the
                     commander-in-chief of that fact, when a flag of truce would be sent to General
                     Grant acceding to the terms of capitulation proposed in his last note to
                     General Lee.
                  Fitzhugh Lee only stipulated that if he saw that the Federal infantry in his
                     front, rendered surrender inevitable, he should be allowed to go off with his
                     cavalry to save the horses of his men.
                  This was agreed to, and it will be seen that Fitz Lee availed himself of the
                     commander-in-chief's permission.
                  So ended that last council of war, by the camp fire.
                  With grave salutes and a cordial pressure of the brave hands, the famous
                     soldiers took leave of Lee.
                  As they disappeared he drew his blanket around him and fell asleep by the
                     blazing fire.
                  It was the night of April 8th, 1865—three years, day for day, from the moment
                     when these lines are written.
               
               
                  XXVII. THE NIGHT BEFORE THE SURRENDER.
                  THROUGHOUT that strange night of the eighth of April, 1865, I was in the
                     saddle, carrying orders.
                  Those who saw it will remember how singularly brilliant it was. The moon and
                     stars shone. The light clouds sweeping across the sky scarcely obscured the
                     mournful radiance. All was still. The two armies—one surrounded and at bay, the
                     other ready to finish the work before it—rested silently on their arms, waiting
                     for that day which would bring the thunder.
                  Every arrangement had been made by Lee to break through the force in his front,
                     and gain Lynchburg, from which he could retreat to the southwest.
                  The column of infantry to open the way was about one thousand six hundred men,
                     under Gordon. The cavalry, numbering two or three thousand, was commanded by
                     Fitzhugh Lee. The artillery, consisting of three or four battalions, was placed
                     under that brave spirit, Colonel Thomas H. Carter.
                  
                  For the tough work, Lee had selected three braves.
                  I saw them all that night, and read in their eyes the fire of an unalterable
                     resolution.
                  You know those men, reader. If you do not, history knows them. It
                     was their immense good fortune to bear the red cross banner in the last charge
                     on the enemy, and with their handful of followers to drive the Federal forces
                     back nearly a mile, half an hour before Lee's surrender.
                  I had just left General Fitzhugh Lee, near Appomattox Court-House, and was
                     riding through the pines, when a sonorous voice halted me.
                  "Who goes there?" said the voice.
                  "Surry, Mordaunt!"
                  For I had recognized the voice of the general of cavalry. We have seen little
                     of him, reader, in this rapid narrative; but in all the long hard battles from
                     the Rapidan to this night, I had everywhere found myself thrown in collision
                     with the great soldier—that tried and trusty friend of my heart. The army had
                     saluted him on a hundred fields. His name had become the synonym of unfaltering
                     courage. He was here, on the verge of surrender now, looking as calm and
                     resolute as on his days of victory.
                  "Well, old friend," said Mordaunt, grasping my hand and then leaning upon my
                     shoulder; "as the scriptures say, what of the night?"
                  "Bad, Mordaunt."
                  "I understand. You think the enemy's infantry is up."
                  "Yes."
                  "Then we'll have hard work; but we are used to that, Surry."
                  "The work is nothing. It is death only. But something worse than death is
                     coming Mordaunt."
                  "What?"
                  "Surrender."
                  Mordaunt shook his head.
                  "I am not going to surrender," he said. "I have sworn to one I love more than
                     my life—you know whom I mean, Surry—that I would come back, or die, sword in
                     hand; and I will keep my oath."
                  The proud face glowed. In the serene but fiery eyes I could read the expression
                     of an unchangeable resolution.
                  "Another friend of ours has sworn that, too," he said.
                  "Who?"
                  "Mohun."
                  "And just married! His poor, young wife, like yours, is far from him."
                  "You are mistaken; she is near him. She went ahead of the army, and is now at
                     the village here."
                  "Is it possible? And where is Mohun?"
                  "He is holding the advance skirmish line, on the right of Gordon. Look! Do you
                     see that fire, yonder, glimmering through the woods? I left him there half an
                     hour since."
                  "I will go and see him. Do nothing rash, to-morrow, Mordaunt. Remember that
                     poor Old Virginia, if no one else, needs you yet!"
                  "Be tranquil, Surry," he replied, with a cool smile. "Farewell; we shall meet
                     at Philippi!"
                  And we parted with a pressure of the hand.
                  I rode toward the fire. Stretched on his cape, beside it, I saw the figure of
                     Mohun. He was reading in a small volume, and did not raise his head until I was
                     within three paces of him.
                  "What are you reading, Mohun?"
                  He rose and grasped my hand.
                  "The only book for a soldier," he said, with his frank glance and brave
                     smile—"the book of books, my dear Surry—that which tells us to do our duty, and
                     trust to Providence."
                  I glanced at the volume, and recognized it. I had seen it in the hands of
                     Georgia Conway, at Five Forks. On the fly leaf, which was open, her name was
                     written.
                  "That is her Bible," I said, "and doubtless you have just parted
                     with her."
                  "Yes, I see you know that she is here, not far from me."
                  "Mordaunt told me. It must be a great delight to you, Mohun."
                  He smiled, and sighed.
                  "Yes," he replied, "but a sort of sorrow, too."
                  "Why a sorrow?"
                  
                  Mohun was silent. Then he said:—
                  "I think I shall fall to-morrow."
                  "Absurd!" I said, trying to laugh, "Why should you fancy such a thing?"
                  "I am not going to surrender, Surry. I swore to Chambliss, my old comrade, that
                     I would never surrender, and he swore that to me. He was killed in Charles
                     City—he kept his word; I will not break mine, friend."
                  My head sank. I had taken my seat on Mohun's cape, and gazed in silence at the
                     fire.
                  "That is a terrible resolution, Mohun," I said at length.
                  "Yes," he replied, with entire calmness, "especially in me. It is hard to die,
                     even when we are old and sorrowful—when life is a burden. Men cling to this
                     miserable existence even when old age and grief have taken away, one by one,
                     all the pleasures of life. Think, then, what it must be to die in the flush of
                     youth, and health, and happiness! I am young, strong, happy beyond words. The
                     person I love best in all the world, has just given me her hand. I have before
                     me a long life of joy, if I only live! But I have sworn that oath, Surry!
                     Chambliss kept his; shall I break mine? Let us not talk further of this,
                     friend."
                  And Mohun changed the conversation, refusing to listen to my remonstrances.
                  Half an hour afterward I left him, with a strange sinking of the heart.
                  Taking my way back to the Court-House, I passed through the little village,
                     rode on for a mile, and then, overwhelmed by fatigue, lay down by a camp fire
                     in the woods, and fell asleep.
                  I was waked by a single gun, sending its dull roar through the gray dawn.
                  Rising, I buttoned my cape around me, mounted my horse, and rode toward the
                     front.
                  As I ascended the hill, upon which stands Appomattox Court-House, a crimson
                     blush suddenly spread itself over the fields and woods.
                  I looked over my shoulder In the east, on the summit of the forest, the newly
                     risen sun was poised, like a great shield bathed in blood.
                  
                     
                        THE LAST CHARGE.
                     
                  
                  
                  Such was the spectacle which ushered in the ninth of April, 1865, at Appomattox
                     Court-House.
               
               
                  XXVIII. THE LAST CHARGE OF THE OLD GUARD.
                  I RODE on rapidly to the front.
                  It was the morning of the ninth of April, 1865. Since that time three years,
                     day for day, nearly hour for hour have passed; for these lines are written on
                     the morning of the ninth of April, 1868.
                  Gordon had formed his line of battle across the road just beyond the
                     court-house—and supported by Fitzhugh Lee's cavalry, and Carter's artillery on
                     his right, was advancing with measured steps to break through the enemy.
                  It was a spectacle to make the pulse throb. The little handful was going to
                     death unmoved. The red light of morning darted from the burnished gun-barrels
                     of the infantry, the sabres of the cavalry, and the grim cannon following, in
                     sombre lightnings.
                  Gordon, the "Bayard of the army," was riding in front of his line. The hour and
                     the men had both come. Steadily the old guard of the army of Northern Virginia
                     advanced to its last field of battle.
                  Suddenly, in front of them, the woods swarmed with the enemy's infantry,
                     cavalry, and artillery. The great multitude had evidently employed the hours of
                     night well. Grant's entire army seemed to have massed itself in Gordon's
                     front.
                  But the force was not the question. Gordon's one thousand six hundred men were
                     in motion. And when Gordon moved forward he always fought, if he found an
                     enemy.
                  In five minutes the opponents had closed in, in stubborn fight, and the woods
                     roared with musketry, cannon, and carbines.
                  
                  Then a resounding cheer rose. The enemy had recoiled before Gordon, and he
                     pressed forward, sweeping every thing in his path for nearly a mile beyond the
                     court-house.
                  On his right Fitzhugh Lee's horsemen thundered forward on the retiring enemy;
                     and Carter's guns advanced at a gallop, taking positions—Starke to the left and
                     Poague to the right of the road—from which they opened a rapid fire upon the
                     Federal line of battle.
                  I had accompanied the advance, and looked on with positive wonder. A miracle
                     seemed about to be enacted before my very eyes. Gordon's poor little
                     skirmish-line of less than two thousand men, with the half-equipped horsemen of
                     Fitzhugh Lee, on their broken-down animals, seemed about to drive back the
                     whole Federal army, and cut their way through in safety.
                  Alas! the hope was vain. In front of the handful were eighty thousand men! It
                     was not Sheridan's cavalry only—that would have speedily been disposed of.
                     During the night, General Grant's best infantry had pressed forward, and
                     arrived in time to place itself across Lee's path. What Gordon and Fitzhugh Lee
                     encountered was the Federal army.
                  Right and left, as in front, were seen dense blue columns of infantry, heavy
                     masses of cavalry, crowding batteries, from which issued at every instant that
                     quick glare which precedes the shell.
                  From this multitude a great shout arose; and was taken up by the Federal troops
                     for miles. From the extreme rear, where Longstreet stood stubbornly confronting
                     the pursuers, as from the front, where Gordon was trying to break through the
                     immense obstacles in his path, came that thunder of cheers, indicating clearly
                     that the enemy at last felt that their prey was in their clutch.
                  The recoil was brief. The great Federal wave which had rolled backward before
                     Gordon, now rolled forward to engulf him. The moment seemed to have come for
                     the old guard of the army of Northern Virginia to crown its victories with a
                     glorious death.
                  The Federal line rushed on. From end to end of the great field, broken by
                     woods, the blue infantry delivered their fire, as they advanced with wild
                     cheers upon the line of Gordon and Lee.
                  The guns of Carter thundered in vain. Never were cannon fought more superbly;
                     the enemy were now nearly at the muzzles of the pieces.
                  Gordon was everywhere encouraging his men, and attempting to hold them steady.
                     With flaming eyes, his drawn sword waving amid the smoke, his strident voice
                     rising above the din of battle, Gordon was superb.
                  But all was of no avail. The Federal line came on like a wave of steel and
                     fire. A long deafening crash, mingled with the thunder of cannon, stunned the
                     ear; above the combatants rose a huge smoke-cloud, from which issued cheers and
                     groans.
                  Suddenly an officer of General Lee's staff passed by like lightning; was lost
                     in the smoke; then I saw him speaking to Gordon. At the few words uttered by
                     the officer, the latter turned pale.
                  A moment afterward a white flag fluttered—the order to surrender had come.
                  What I felt at that instant I can not describe. Something seemed to choke me. I
                     groaned aloud, and turned toward the cavalry.
                  At fifty paces from me I saw Mordaunt, surrounded by his officers and men.
                  His swarthy face glowed—his eyes blazed. Near him, General Fitzhugh Lee—with
                     Tom Herbert, and some other members of his staff—was sitting his horse, pale
                     and silent.
                  "What will you do, general?" said Mordaunt, saluting with drawn sabre.
                  Fitzhugh Lee uttered a groan.
                  "I don't wish to be included in the surrender," he said. "Come, let's go.
                     General Lee no longer requires my poor services!"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *His words.
                  
                  Mordaunt saluted again, as General Lee and his staff officers turned away.
                  "We'll go out sword in hand!" Mordaunt said. "Let who will, follow me!"
                  A wild cheer greeted the words. The men formed column and charged.
                  As they moved, a second cheer was heard at fifty paces from us. I turned my head, and saw Mohun, in front of
                     about fifty cavalrymen, among whom I recognized Nighthawk.
                  In an instant I was at Mohun's side.
                  "You are going to charge!" I said.
                  "And die, Surry! A gentleman gives his word but once!"
                  And, following Mordaunt with long leaps, Mohun and his horsemen burst upon the
                     enemy.
                  Then was presented a spectacle which made the two armies hold their breath.
                  The column of cavalry under Mordaunt and Mohun, had struck the Federal line of
                     battle.
                  For an instant, you could see little, hear little, in the smoke and uproar. A
                     furious volley unhorsed at least half of the charging column, and the rest were
                     seen striking with their sabres at the blue infantry, who stabbed with their
                     bayonets at the rearing horses.
                  Then a thundering shout rose. The smoke was swept away by the wind, and made
                     all clear.
                  Mordaunt had cut his way through, and was seen to disappear with a dozen
                     followers.
                  Mohun, shot through the breast, and streaming with blood, had fallen from the
                     saddle, his foot had caught in the stirrup, and he was dragged by his
                     frightened animal toward the Confederate lines.
                  The horse came on at a headlong gallop, but suddenly a cavalier came up with
                     him, seized the bridle, and threw him violently on his haunches.
                  The new-comer was Nighthawk.
                  Leaping to the ground, he seized the body of Mohun in his arms, extricated his
                     foot from the stirrup, and remounted his own horse, with the form of his master
                     still clasped to his breast
                  Then, plunging the spurs into his animal, he turned to fly. But his last hour
                     had come.
                  A bullet, fired at fifty paces, penetrated his back, and the blood spouted. He
                     fell from the flying animal to the earth, but his arms still clasped the body
                     of Mohun, whose head lay upon his breast.
                  A loud cheer rose, and the blue line rushed straight upon him. Nighthawk's head
                     rose, and he gazed at them with flashing eyes—then he looked at Mohun and
                     groaned.
                  Summoning his last remains of strength, he drew from his breast a pencil and a
                     piece of paper, wrote some words upon the paper, and affixed it to Mohun's
                     breast.
                  This seemed to exhaust him. He had scarcely finished, when his head sank, his
                     shoulders drooped, and falling forward on the breast of Mohun, he expired.
                  An hour afterward, all was still. On the summit of the Court-House hill a blue
                     column was stationary, waving a large white flag.
                  General Lee had surrendered.
               
               
                  XXIX. THE SURRENDER.
                  LEE had surrendered the army of Northern Virginia.
                  Ask old soldiers of that army to describe their feelings at the announcement,
                     reader. They will tell you that they can not; and I will not attempt to record
                     my own.
                  It was, truly, the bitterness of death that we tasted at ten o'clock on the
                     morning of that ninth of April, 1865, at Appomattox Court-House. Gray-haired
                     soldiers cried like children. It was hard to say whether they would have
                     preferred, at that moment, to return to their families or to throw themselves
                     upon the bayonets of the enemy, and die.
                  In that hour of their agony they were not insulted, however. The deportment of
                     the enemy was chivalric and courteous. No bands played; no cheers were heard;
                     and General Grant was the first to salute profoundly his gray-haired adversary,
                     who came, with a single officer, to arrange, in a house near the field, the
                     terms of surrender.
                  
                  They are known. On the tenth they were carried out.
                  The men stacked the old muskets, which they had carried in a hundred fights,
                     surrendered the bullet-torn colors, which had waved over victorious fields, and
                     silently returned, like mourners, to their desolate homes.
                  Two days after the surrender, Mohun was still alive.
                  Three months afterward, the welcome intelligence reached me that he was rapidly
                     recovering.
                  He had made a narrow escape. Ten minutes after the death of the faithful
                     Nighthawk, the Federal line had swept over him; and such was the agony of his
                     wound, that he exclaimed to one of the enemy:—
                  "Take your pistol, and shoot me!"
                  The man cocked his weapon, and aimed at his heart. Then he turned the muzzle
                     aside, and uncocking the pistol, replaced it in its holster.
                  "No," he said, "Johnny Reb, you might get well!"†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †These details are all real.
                  
                  And glancing at the paper on Mohun's breast, he passed on, muttering—
                  "It's a general!"
                  The paper saved Mohun's life. An acquaintance in the Federal army saw it, and
                     speedily had him cared for. An hour afterward his friends were informed of his
                     whereabouts. I hastened to the house to which he had been borne. Bending over
                     him, the beautiful Georgia was sobbing hopelessly, and dropping tears upon the
                     paper, which contained the words—
                  "This is the body of General Mohun, C. S. A."
                  The army had surrendered; the flag was lowered: with a singular feeling of
                     bewilderment, and a "lost" feeling that is indescribable, I set out, followed
                     by my servant, for Eagle's Nest.
                  I was the possessor of a paper, which I still keep as a strange memorial.
                  "The bearer," ran this paper, "a paroled prisoner of the army of Northern
                     Virginia, has permission to go to his home, and there remain undisturbed—with
                     two horses!"
                  At the top of this document was, "Appomattox Court-House, Va., April, 10,
                     1865." On the left-hand side was, "Paroled Prisoner's Pass."
                  So, with his pass, the paroled prisoner passed slowly across Virginia to his
                     home.
                  Oh! that Virginia of 1865—that desolate, dreary land! Oh! those poor, sad
                     soldiers returning to their homes! Everywhere burned houses, unfenced fields,
                     ruined homesteads! On all sides, the desolation of the torch and the sword! The
                     "poor paroled prisoners," going home wearily in that dark April, felt a pang
                     which only a very bitter foe will laugh at.
                  But all was not taken. Honor was left us—and the angels of home! As the
                     sorrowful survivors of the great army came back, as they reached their old
                     homes, dragging their weary feet after them, or urging on their jaded horses,
                     suddenly the sunshine burst forth for them, and lit up their rags with a sort
                     of glory. The wife, the mother, and the little child rushed to them. Hearts
                     beat fast, as the gray uniforms were clasped in a long embrace Those angels of
                     home loved the poor prisoners better in their dark days than in their bright.
                     The fond eyes melted to tears, the white arms held them close; and the old
                     soldiers, who had only laughed at the roar of the enemy's guns, dropped tears
                     on the faces of their wives and little children!
               
            
            
               
               EPILOGUE.
               IN the autumn of last year, 1867, I set out on horseback from "Eagle's Nest," and
                  following the route west by Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Germanna Ford,
                  Culpeper, and Orleans, reached "The Oaks" in Fauquier.
               I needed the sunshine and bright faces of the old homestead, after that journey;
                  for at every step had sprung up some gloomy or exciting recollection.
               It was a veritable journey through the world of memory.
               Fredericksburg! Chancellorsville! the Wilderness! the plains of Culpeper!—as I
                  rode on amid these historic scenes, a thousand memories came to knock at the door
                  of my heart. Some were gay, if many were sorrowful—laughter mingled with the
                  sighs. But to return to the past is nearly always sad. As I rode through the waste
                  land now, it was with drooping head. All the old days came back again, the cannon
                  sent their long dull thunder through the forests; again the gray and blue lines
                  closed in, and hurled together; again Jackson in his old dingy coat, Stuart with
                  his floating plume, Pelham, Farley, all whom I had known, loved, and still
                  mourned, rose before me—a line of august phantoms fading away into the night of
                  the past.
               Once more I looked upon Pelham, holding in his arms the bleeding form of
                  Jean—passing "Camp-no-camp," only a desolate and dreary field now, all the
                  laughing faces and brave forms of Stuart and his men returned—in the Wilderness I
                  saw Jackson fight and fall; saw him borne through the moonlight; heard his sighs
                  and his last greeting with Stuart. A step farther, I passed the lonely old house
                  in the Wilderness, and all the strange and sombre scenes there surged up from the
                  shadows of the past. Mordaunt, Achmed, Fenwick, Violet Grafton!—all reappeared,
                  playing over again their fierce tragedy; and to this was added that fiercer drama
                  of May, 1864, when General Grant invented the "Unseen Death."
               Thus the journey which I made through the bare and deserted fields, or the
                  mournful thickets, was not gay; and these were only a part of the panorama which
                  passed before me. Looking toward the south, I saw as clearly with the eyes of the
                  memory, the banks of the Po, the swamps of the Chickahominy, the trenches at
                  Petersburg, the woods of Dinwiddie, Five Forks, Highbridge—Appomatox Court-House!
                  Nearer was Yellow Tavern, where Stuart had fallen. Not a foot of this soil of Old
                  Virginia but seemed to have been the scene of some fierce battle, some sombre
                  tragedy!
               "Well, well," I sighed, as I rode on toward the Oaks, "all that is buried in the
                  past, and it is useless to think of it. I am only a poor paroled prisoner, wearing
                  arms no more—let me forget the red cross flag which used to float so proudly here,
                  and bow my head to the will of the Supreme Ruler of all worlds."
               So I went on, and in due time reached the Oaks, in Fauquier.
               You recall the good old homestead, do you not, my dear reader? I should be sorry
                  to have you forget the spot where I have been so happy. It was to this honest old
                  mansion that I was conducted in April, 1861, when struck from my horse by a
                  falling limb in the storm-lashed wood, I saw come to my succor the dearest person
                  in the world. She awaited me now—having a month before left Eagle's Nest, to pay a
                  visit to her family—and again, as in the spring of '63, she came to meet me as I
                  ascended the hill—only we met now as bridegroom and bride!
               This May of my life had brought back the sunshine, even after that black day of
                  1865. Two white arms had met the poor paroled prisoner, on his return to Eagle's
                  Nest—a pair of violet eyes had filled with happy tears—and the red lips, smiling
                  with exquisite emotion, murmured "All is well, since you have come back to
                  me!"
               It was this beautiful head which the sunshine of that autumn of 1867 revealed to
                  me, on the lawn of the good old chateau of the mountains! And behind, came all my
                  good friends of the Oaks —the kind lady
                  of the manor, the old colonel, and Charley and Annie, who were there too! With his
                  long gray hair, and eyes that still flashed, Colonel Beverly came to meet me—brave
                  and smiling in 1867 as he had been in 1861. Then, with Annie's arm around me—that
                  little sister had grown astonishingly!—I went in and was at home.
               At home! You must be a soldier to know what that simple word means, reader! You
                  must sleep under a tree, carry your effects behind your saddle, lie down in
                  bivouac in strange countries, and feel the longing of the heart for the dear
                  faces, the old scenes.
               "Tell my mother that I die in a foreign land!" murmured my poor dear Tazewell
                  Patton, at Gettysburg. I have often thought of those words; and they express much
                  I think. Oh! for home! for a glimpse, if no more, of the fond faces, as life goes!
                  You may be the bravest of the brave, as my dear Tazewell was; but 'tis home where
                  the heart is, and you sigh for the dear old land!
               The Oaks was like home to me, for the somebody with violet eyes, and chestnut
                  hair, was here to greet me.
               The sun is setting, and we wander in the fields touched by the dreamy autumn.
               "Look," says the somebody who holds my hand, and smiles, "there is the rock where
                  we stopped in the autumn of 1862, and where you behaved with so little propriety,
                  you remember, sir!"
               "I remember the rock but not the absence of propriety. What were a man's arms made
                  for but to clasp the woman he loves!"
               "Stop, sir! People would think we were two foolish young lovers."
               "Young lovers are not foolish, madam. They are extremely intelligent."
               Madam laughs.
               "Yonder is the primrose from which I plucked the bud," she says.
               "That sent me through Stuart's head-quarters in April, 1863?" I say.
               "Yes; you have not forgotten it I hope."
               "Almost; Stay! I think it meant "Come,"—did it not?—And you sent it to me!"
               Madam pouts beautifully.
               "You have 'almost forgotten' it! Have you, indeed, sir?"
               "These trifles will escape us."
               May loses all her smiles, and her head sinks.
               I begin to laugh, taking an old porte-monnaie from my pocket. There is very little
                  money in it, but a number of worn papers, my parole and others. I take one and
                  open it. It contains a faded primrose.
               "Look!" I say, with a smile, "it said 'Come,' once, and it brings me back again to
                  the dearest girl in the world!"
               A tear falls from the violet eyes upon the faded flower, but through the tears
                  burst a smile!
               They are curious, these earthly angels—are they not, my dear reader? They are
                  romantic and sentimental to the last, and this old soldier admires them!
               So, conversing of a thousand things, we return to the Oaks, wandering like boy and
                  girl through the "happy autumn fields." May Surry flits through the old doorway
                  and disappears.
               As she goes the sun sinks behind the forest. But it will rise, as she will,
                  to-morrow!
               The smiling Colonel Beverley meets me on the threshold, with a note in his
                  hand.
               "A servant has just brought this," he says, "it is from your friend,
                  Mordaunt."
               I opened the note and read the following words:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "My dear Surry:—
                           
                           "I send this note to await your appearance at the Oaks. Come and see
                              me. Some old friends will give you a cordial greeting, in addition
                              to
                           
                              "Your comrade,
                              "MORDAUNT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I had intended visiting Mordaunt in a day or two after my arrival. On the very
                  next morning I mounted my horse, and set out for the house in the mountain,
                  anxious to ascertain who the "old friends" were, to whom he alluded.
               In an hour I had come within sight of Mordaunt's mansion. Passing through the great gate, I rode on between
                  the two rows of magnificent trees; approached the low mansion with its extensive
                  wings, overshadowed by the huge black oaks; dismounted; raised the heavy bronze
                  knocker, carved like the frowning mask of the old tragedians; and letting it fall
                  sent a peal of low thunder through the mansion.
               Mordaunt appeared in a few moments; and behind him came dear Violet Grafton, as I
                  will still call her, smiling. Mordaunt's face glowed with pleasure, and the grasp
                  of his strong hand was like a vice. He was unchanged, except that he wore a suit
                  of plain gray cloth. His statuesque head, with the long black beard and mustache,
                  the sparkling eyes, and cheeks tanned by exposure to the sun and wind, rose as
                  proudly as on that morning in 1865, when he had charged and cut through the enemy
                  at Appomattox.
               Violet was Violet still! The beautiful tranquil face still smiled with its calm
                  sweetness; the lips had still that expression of infantile innocence. The blue
                  eyes still looked forth from the shower of golden ringlets which had struck me
                  when I first met her in the lonely house in the Wilderness, in the gay month of
                  April, 1861.
               I had shaken hands with Mordaunt, but I advanced and "saluted" madam, and the
                  cheek was suddenly filled with exquisite roses.
               "For old times' sake, madam!"
               "Which are the best of all possible times, Surry!" said Mordaunt, laughing.
               And he led the way into the great apartment, hung round with portraits, where we
                  had supped on the night of Pelham's hard fight at Barbee's, after Sharpsburg.
               "You remember this room, do you not, my dear Surry?" said Mordaunt. "It escaped
                  during the war; though you see that my poor little grandmother, the child of
                  sixteen there, with the curls and laces, received a sabre thrust in the neck. But
                  you are looking round for the friends I promised. They were here a moment since,
                  and only retired to give you a surprise.
               See! here they are!"
               The door opened, and I saw enter—Mohun and Landon!
               In an instant I had grasped the hands of these dear friends; and they had
                  explained their presence. Mohun had come to make a visit to Mordaunt, and had
                  prolonged his stay in order to meet me. Then Mordaunt had written to Landon, at
                  "Bizarre," just over the mountain, to come and complete the party—he had promptly
                  arrived—and I found myself in presence of three old comrades, any one of whom it
                  would have been a rare pleasure to have met.
               Mohun and Landon were as unchanged as Mordaunt. I saw the same proud and loyal
                  faces, listened to the same frank brave voices, touched the same firm hands. They
                  no longer wore uniforms—that was the whole difference. Under the black coats beat
                  the same hearts which had throbbed beneath the gray.
               I spent the whole day with Mordaunt. After dinner he led the way into the room on
                  the right of the entrance—that singular apartment into which I had been shown by
                  accident on my first visit to him, and where afterward I witnessed the test of
                  poor Achmed's love. The apartment was unchanged. The floor was still covred with
                  the rich furs of lions, tigers, and leopards—the agate eyes still glared at me,
                  and the grinning teeth seemed to utter growls or snarls. On the walls I saw still
                  the large collection of books in every language—the hunting and battle pictures
                  which I had before so greatly admired—the strange array of outlandish arms—and
                  over the mantel-piece still hung the portrait of Violet Grafton.
               Seated in front of a cheerful blaze, we smoked and talked—Mordaunt, Mohun, Landon,
                  and myself—until the shades of evening drew on.
               Landon told me of his life at "Bizarre," near the little village of Millwood,
                  through which we had marched that night to bury his dead at the old chapel, and
                  where he had surrendered in April, 1865. Arden and Annie lived near him, and were
                  happy: and if I would come to "Bizarre," he would show me the young lady whom I
                  had carried off, that night, from the chapel graveyard, on the croup of my
                  saddle!
               Landon laughed. His face was charming; it was easy to see that he was happy. To
                  understand how that expression contrasted with his former appearance, the worthy
                  reader must peruse my episodical memoir, Hilt to Hilt.
               
               
               Mohun's face was no less smiling. He had lost every trace of gloom.
               He gave me intelligence of all my old friends. General Davenant and Judge Conway
                  had become close friends again. Will and Virginia were married. Charley was
                  cultivating a mustache and speculating upon a new revolution. Tom Herbert and Katy
                  were on a visit to "Disaways."
               "Poor Nighthawk is the only one whom I miss, my dear Surry," said Mohun. "He died
                  trying to save me, and I have had his body taken to Fonthill, where it is buried
                  in the family graveyard."
               "He was a faithful friend; and to be killed on that very last morning was hard.
                  But many were. You had a narrow escape, Mohun."
               "Yes, and was only preserved by a Bible."
               "A Bible?"
               "Do you remember that I was reading by the camp fire, when you came to visit me on
                  the night preceding the surrender?"
               "Yes—in your wife's Bible."
               "Well, my dear Surry, when I had finished reading, I placed the volume in my
                  breast, as usual. When I was shot, on the next morning, the bullet struck the book
                  and glanced. Had the Bible not been there, that bullet would have pierced my
                  heart. As it was, it only wounded me in the breast. Here is my old Bible—I carry
                  it about me still."
               As he spoke, Mohun drew from his breast the small leather-bound volume, in the
                  cover of which was visible a deep gash.
               He looked at it with a smile, and said:—
               "This book has been the salvation of my body and soul, Surry. I was haughty and a
                  man-hater once—now I try to be humble. I had no hope once, now I am happy. I have
                  one other souvenir of that memorable day at Appomattox—this scrap of paper between
                  the leaves of my old Bible."
               He drew out the scrap, which was dirty and discolored with blood.
               Upon it was written in pencil, the words:—
               "This is the body of General Mohun, C. S. A."
               As Mohun pointed to it, a ray of sunset shot athwart the forest, and fell on his
                  serene features, lighting them up with a sort of glory. The clear eyes gave back
                  the ray, and there was something exquisitely soft in them. Mordaunt and Landon
                  too, were bathed in that crimson light of evening, disappearing beyond the shaggy
                  crest of the Blue Ridge—and I thought I saw on their proud faces the same
                  expression.
               "These three men are happy," I thought. "Their lot has been strange; they have
                  been nearly lost; but heaven has sent to each an angel, to bring back hope to
                  them. Ellen Adair, Georgia Conway, Violet Grafton—these fond hearts have changed
                  your lives, Landon, Mohun, and Mordaunt!"
               In an hour I was at the "Oaks."
               A month afterward, I had returned to "Eagle's Nest."
               And in this April, 1868, when the flowers are blooming, and the sun is
                  shining—when a pair of violet eyes make the sunshine still brighter—I end the last
                  volume of my memoirs.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
