
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Hilliare Henderson, or, The Secret Revealed .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6965
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Hilliare Henderson, or, The secret revealed 
            
               IIILLIARE HENDERSON:

0I,
tie $tutcet ee4eL

BY NED BUNTLINE.
k, wul
WBDU L$EDY ULtB
P                  'NWBNT
rA YyP 4  ,, F"   ty.'  -~ 4: _ %$T"'  - J

_' .  ,
; :.
rF
: s
.,
s . 'k ~ -s- ..... .     «r

}
f


R                r
"R rsb isaoreag tl4  Vo ,i" T$&amp; 1o
B7 CAVLDW*LL, BoywonWel?1 k Wurraxt,
In the Cerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Intthe Clerk e Of''eeAofk

_ __          c    cA       9-                            eZ                           A' ,
1JLUARE HENDERSON;
OR
CWAPTER I.                 bersollqqu, and to turn, with a still angae-
ed look, to face the intruder. .
Whein broad fields of rice waved like a sea  Re was a stot-built man, evidently ome
of green in front of a prove of magialia; eaa er senior; red.faced-as if to indicate
where, bek, and to the right and left, a mass  foudnes for liquids of a ruby color--with
eifdlofty p.ues shook their plumes in pride, *4 testuies which indicated a coarse and sensual
the east't breeze swept in from  the sea  nuater  Al l9oigh be was dressed in the
where, empowered amld sudowl oaks, stood garb usully worn by gentlemen, there was
the chateau af .wealthy (eorgian plgter ; no . gn in his face or his bearing whieh woul4
where flowergrew all about, and the air wa  etitle him to recognition as such, had he
sweet with their perfume : there my story ben eud4ealy thrown into the society of men
find its birthplace.                   o tliabeet. True, a solitairediemond of the
Within aa upper chamber of that same I      e  ,ta   uttered on his little 'ingen a
chateau, the windows of which fronted sea- ~ er= wi h a family crest.on the next; a
ward. e  umnanding an oedin-view beyond the heavy gold chain, to which a pound, or lesej
rice fiella, a young girl paced to and fro; of seals and eharms were hung, indicated that
and many a bitter word of anger whie came he wore a wateh ; yet coarse was the jeweled
from her lips, as well as her dark, dasling hl-'eoare, the man in every way.
e °-iind uished ceeks, told her to be a  The ynuig girl looked sit him inquiringly,
Child of pasthoa. Young, yet in form and an lathc same time angrily, as if she would
stature womanly--full of that wild, enchant. ask, ih her Aashing eyes of jet: "Why do
luig, fervid beauty, wieh belongs to those youa dare to intrude upon we .
who are born and nurtpre'd beneath a south-  "What's the matter, my little lady-bird "
en sun, where no chilling blasts are know- ' s said, with a coarse, familiar air, as he ad-
she was oneit, indeed, o be tire heroinasof yagee4 toward her. " Has my brother been
surm a tale tathat I haveto tell.        sinsa ibreze with you ?"
Lier looks and words betokened anger. 0 - " What he has done or has not done is
I said above.. Fron the latter, perhapsiwe nothing to you, Gustave Benderson I" said
may leirn, in part, at least, the caow. ..  the young girl, bitterly. "You are not my
"Hilliare Headerson is the guardian of my guardlen, thank the saints!"
property 1" she cried ;  but not of my heart ." iNot now, lady-bird-not now! But the
or my soul! lie can, for a time, control mny 4  may .come wn I will bet"
foFtu'ne ; but my fate, that-that will I keep i  "When you--.you ! Qh, if yqu knew, sir,
my own hands. lfe has forbidden Raroldthe how I despised you, you would be meaner
liouse-told me-Jut, that T mast'see him no than tli lowest eatr that howls bout the no-
more: But if-he thinks that I will obey him. gr-quarters, if you ever entered .into my
looks beyondhis pow!r?  I love  rohIJ gresinee, not to speak of any .fture whicb
1$l'ves met That is enough! Oh tbe     c 'T4 link your fate with mne. Go, leave
Wee with hits itn his pitty yaeht on ynder me. You liaveno business here. Thi Is
blue sea! 1'hlen,  flliare Henderpoa, we ny apartment, and I will not be intruded
WoulJ hiagh both orders and threats to sieon, upon 1".-
W they ade from your lips !"               " Ah, now, lady-bird, you're too hard upon
An abrupt utranee caused her to cese a fellow that levee you to distraction."


'rHE SEOIET REVEALED.             I

IHILLIARE HENDERSON ; OR,
"Mr. Hcnderson, I have borne your insults 1 the anger-trace vanished-as shadows do when
long enough -yes, all too long! I have sun-valing clouds have swept by, and ae
means to protect myseltffrom 4tljeraj'4 poked ndly, but, ldl ,  gn tlie servant
the young girl, t. i ush in lerf   d      ho stoodse s weekly nbote et.  dt
away inte an -nimost ashy parlOr, ads      *e'  "Mader Hilliaro told io to conld and tell
voice  coming low and firm. "One min- you to go to him in the library."
ate, a r," she added, "one minute I give you  A in those dark eyes washed.
in which to le eve this room. If at ti e end o  " 0Goto him. Zella, and say, if he wishes to
it you still remain, you will tarry here until see me, that he can come here to my own
yu are carried out! You understand me, room. I do not choose to go awl come athis
air 4"                                   bidding. I am not--but nevcrh  m  . ".e
And with one hand sln draw s tiny  eh       od Zella, and tell him what 1 say."
from her bosom, and w ith there     tl,       eajstress !i'
from hcr pocket, which last she cooc, and   What, tears in your eyes, Zella   What
raise tai level with his breat.      is the matter?"
"By inviter! I believe the girl means it!"" Mistress, if I deliver your message, he
muttered the man. "What a tigress she Is ! will be angry, nad on me nis anger will fall.
But 1'!!Llatne her yet !"               lHe will beat me and curse mess Iho dil whewx
lie was in full retreat toward the door as lie saw kind Master Harold say good-bye to
he uttered these words, and he way optsinle o  me when ie went away."
tie door before one-haf of the mktebl    red e*  "You shall not suffer;Zelh," said hermia.
pired.                                   tress. "I will go and see what the tyrant
"Are all men such enwards !" said fthe grl, want.'ou remain here tho wlile,'nnd'watoh
bitterly. "If so, how Ieoul despishem--- .- r watch eloeelyyonder sea for Harold's
aet hate them, for' of that they would not be y et I If it is seen in the offing. I know that
worthy, 14t, no-sot all are like bier. Uf be will redeem his promise; apd sth, my
HaroM is larave as he is beautiful!  0 Bar- good girl, we will ho beyond the touah of those
old! Harold! why are you not here now, to who are cruel to us boah"
protect me from Insult and sustain tne in my  "I will watch, kin4 mistress;" said the girt.
twoibe '                                And she knelt down by the window-ledge with
The young girl paused before the window, the spyglnes in her-hand, while her mistress
and again looked toward the sea, Taking  p went from the room'
a spy-glasa which lay upon the window4dge,
as if it wa often used, she earcfulig scanned        -CTAPTER I.
the oanig.                                 In a spacious room, with a scantily-filled
' "I see one-two--three vessels ; but all so book-ease here and' there, a side-board well
esr away that 1 cannot tell what they are," covered with decantersof various liquors, and
she said. "If one of them is his, he wil jet  arnished around its high walls with some
see me crc the dawn of another dy. He bigh-eblored but very ordinary paintings, sat
bade me be firm and true, and be wonkdelfim a man whose ago might be frrty - tot more.
and take me as his bride. I will, Harold-! if so much. Tsie rom might be called libra-
will, so help me heaven!"            .    y, sitting-room, orrefreshment-room-for its
"Mistress."              f             garniture partook of the eharaoteristiesof the
Low and sweet was the voice which spoke three. ,
that iword-a voice coming from the lips of a  The occupant of the room wMy tall, rather
young quadroon, whose steps had been so thin ; dressed as Southern planters'generally
bghit, as she came in, that they were not heard dress at bome, with a carelessness suited to
by the heroine of this story.            the'elimate, and the independedee of one who
The quadroon gil1 wa' better dressed than owns all that is around him. H's bronzed
most of er eclass-evidently shne was the wait: somplexion, dark eyes, and short, crispy,
-mal of the other. her figure was taller  febk bair, also told of his Southera origin.
anntd more fully developed that that of hae His features told his personal" character at a
mistress: and though the red blood eonrsed glaen. His thin lips  closely compressed,
beneath a darker skin, she was almsti sh betokened a firmness of purpose whieh It
beautiful as the queenly girl who stood before woyld be hard to soften; his eyea of jet were
her. Yet there was not the same loft digni- small and snake-like in exp'cessiot, showing
ty in her carriage. Though  roudlyormed, raftitisas in every glanee ; his low fo'elead*
she seemed t- feel that tie ae akleasuf aervi-. had it not been so broad from top to baesa
9nde were fastened on her soul.,          would have shown a lek of pesou; but sense
"Mistress," se sid, a second time, in the and cunning there was           pavileltll enough of in
same low tone.                           that square, massive bead. His fades was pale
"Well, 7 ell., what is wanted ?"   '   as far as it could be in its bronzedinsue. Ie
And now, from the face of 11he young gill evidently was no devotee at the shrine oi

,f
:
=a

3acohus, though the ruby wine and darker
cas d svie shone upon his side-board.
His dark, ser ent-like eyes were turned to-
ward tIe only door.of the room, as if in et-
pet tanceof a visitet'. And one eAme. It was
te young girl with iaom we opened thefirst-
ch.Apter.
A 'She came into the room with an aif that
vonld have become an empress. Cold, cain,
haughty; perfe tly self-possessed, her great
black eyes bent upon him with a glance which
seemed to say : "i neither fear nor love you."
She advanced to tlye centre of the room, and
-said :
"You sent forms, sir-I am here t"
"Sit down, Adele-sit down," saidthe gee-
tleman. And he pointed to a chair-
" My visit will be brief, Mr. Henderson-; I
prefer standing," she replied..
His pec  face flushed a little  but he still
se  alothduangerainuisvrea betoken.
- As you wilt, Adele ; °ough Ihave nnah
to say to you, and you mar weary of stahd-'
img. My brother has jiist~eft this room."a
"; That is a matter of no importance to  ,
sir."
"He has informed me that you drew a deaad.
ly weaponi upon him, and thireatened his life."
"For once, sir, he spoke the truth !"'
* Adele Dumesie, do you wish to drive mre
-into n passing '
And now that pale face grew almost put-
ple, though le seemed still to try to chain
down the demon of 'wrath which raged in his
bosoi.
"I ain not artieular, sir. It is a matter
of indifferanoe tome whether you are angry
or not. lam not one of your slaves, addyou
dare hot strike me."
" Girl - girl, beware !"  And the planter
started to his feet, and looked for an nst et
as if Ihe would crush her from existence. But
her calm eyea met his fiery glance-her proud
form did not tremble i she seemed as if she
wa niade of marble, so firmly did she stand.
*Why did you draw a weapon upon him?"
asked the piante", more caltly, aftkr'a few'
moments'trnggle for the sna terry Offh1s'augri
"Because he int'uded upon the fpriaey of
my chamber, and dared'to insult me with his
elated words of love ! I drew a weapoaand
he fled before it like a sneaking eowadase
"Adele Dumeshe; Gustave' is no eonerd
among me; but he ould not raise his hah,
against a womaf. 'Lt that unkown aedyvan
thretr whom I onde; fool-like, admitted to the
boapitalitcof My house, but show his leiA
ti Ilis vicinity let' your belovedltare!d
Morley agia 9 seensand Gustavef ender
sen will teach bli suo b  l a sa will proye
to you 1e is noeow rd

'}a ! ha! ha!"
The young girl laughed merrily.
"What?" she cried. And her eyes flashed
more with pride than anger. "Would ye
nate your mis rable, sottish, soulless, heart.
leee-brother with Harold Morley? Aa welt
might you mate a jaekat against a lion!"
"You will see, girl-you will see 1" mutter-
ed the planter, as he paced to and fro like an
enra   beast within its cage, striving to keep
his passion within bounds.
"[ave you any further business with me,
my gentle guardian ?"
And the tone was more sarcastic than the
words.
"Yes. You know, Adele Dumeslo, that
you are completely in ay power ?"
"I know that you think so."
"tYou cannot tonch one cent of your for-
tone until you are eighteen years of age."
"Two years, oven though spent-in misery,
is "not a'life-time, when one sees emancipa-
tion's light in the dins distance. Two years
of time will free my fortune from your hands
=M.esstime may be required to free my per
sac:s,
"'Whtt do yott mean, girl?"-
Adele saw that she had forgotten herself,
and gone too far; had aroused a soaspeiis
whieh might endanger the plans that she aad-
formed for the future. -But though for an-
meat embarrassed, she regained her coupos-
are nan instant, and replied      s
"If' you do not treat me fdndly, I'll hide
myself. in a conventuntil I am of age, and am
legallypermitted to control my own nations
and wi ".
"Hide in a convent. ch !. And while you
were there, what would hinder mefrom squan-
dtring,4f I s# willed, every dollar that was
left ys s?"
" Ieeatse you dare not. The will of my
father is rgeorded i o is the Inventory of
every dollar of real and personal property
that was left me. And more still, the bone
ad severityy given by you when you sought
the self-sacrificing position of guardian to a
young and helpless orphangirl, whose for-
tune dtbled that of your own ."
"Bell and futy! Who told you all this?"
And the plqater strode- to and fro, fairly
4u'4ring with ager.
"No matter who, sir I It is enough that I,
nutvelltsa othersr, know anyrights " and I sur-
Sill olaim and have tmieni "
SHenderonwalked to aaa4 fro for a few me-
msnt  qaad-with a great effortnealmed himself
io 'liet hedol1 agfin speaktto her.
"Adete.," said he, "I Would not wrong yes
ot hf   dollar, "were I this day bankruap; I
hi vs'o peed of money. IWam already rnob
ed ny'plsntation doubles' fin vale nearly
every year. But now sit down sad )Isten t4


HILLIARB HENDERSON; OR,

'.

me f r a little while. I will not speak harsh-
ly, or get in a passion ugsin."
To witness such a phenomenon, sir, I will
sit down."
Aud-conscious now of her power over4hb
bad man who stood before her-she sat down,
and he took a seat near her.
"Adelo "--and he tried to soften his harslp
voiee down into something like the tone of-
kindness--" Adele, I am truly your friend,
and it was for your good that I forbade Har-
old-"
"Stop, sir! You must not bring his name
Into this conversation. You have wronged
and insulted him--that is enough. I wish to
further allusion made to him in my presence,"
And again her dark eyes flashed anger, as
thus sh interrupted the planter.      .
He reserved his composure, for a weeder.
"ell, I will not speak of him. There is
one, however, whom I will not yet name, who
has an ample fortune, almost equal to- my
own. One who, to my certain knowledge,
loves you devotedly.  My proposition Is,
that you marry him, and receive your fortune
and your freedom from my guardianship, so
distasteful to you, at once. The dismal two
years can be swept away by a single word of
your'
" How generous you are, my kind guardian!1
How generous and delieste, too, to perform
my courting and pave my road to matrim.ny.
But you have not named the ltappyab to
whomt youwish to give a ward awler for-
tone  Yet I can imagine. Charity, it issaid,
always begins at home. So,I fear, does your
new-found generosity of purpose. You would,
if you could, free me from your tyranny to
place me under that of one whom Ids4pue
more and hate almost as muc ls.I do yu.
Gustave Henderson--sot, profligate, and liber.
thme-thus keeping my fortune in the family I
How noble-ow disinterested!t Bpt, Mr.
Hilliare Henderson, I cannot take advantage
of ya'r kindness, i most respectfully decline
that and all other metrimoniaLplanas you has
formed or may form. My heart blond    to
Saold Marley-mybdpas promised to am;
and, if I live, it surely shall .be hisl Good-
morning. sw--with or without youS leave--I
must retire,"
Arid while, speephleas, itttrallfrom s sne
-eo n  suppressed, Rillisre         as
j( ehs ed to -lsa htraba rose a  .,  dl
walked from tie room.,-
And sLidA b .sat twre, )u h, b     e.
.}lroi.)4   tk er every ,     9  tid I
bloomou .e up.to his throbks    f 's s
Kisavery bresttgrew hot a, &amp;s
teraeea ,he sprang to .is *
- *d-t   e der, from  io she      _
fhe         ogfolow   er. BuhlW her
I':s .,

"Not yet--not let," ho inuttered. "Z will
conquer her yet !'
Then going to the centre-table, le rung a
small bell which was upon it.
A servant eame in answer.
"Go and tell Master Gustave to come to
me," said the planter.
Then he sat down by the table and bowed
his face between his hands, as -if to try and
calm himself; or, perhgr, to plan out some
path for the future.
CHAPTER III.       r
A pretty picture! What could be prettier?
The master-pieee of Deity-peerless woman
--lone accepted.
It was a schooner yacht, with bows as sharp
as a woodsman's wedge, with hull long and low
upon the water, bioa in the beam, tut taper.
ing.away in the counter until her stern, at the
waters edge and below it, was as sharp as her
bow. Herlong spars,raking until they looked
as if they must fall over the stern, were ev-
ered with an immense spread of snowy can-
vas, which, light s the breeze was--scarce
enough to ripple the green waters of the
coast - still drove her steadily over them,
From the gaff of her main-sail fluttered the
starry flag of a then undissevered Union-from
th3 lofty truck of her foretop mast, a flag:of
crimson silk was waving, upon which, in gold-
en letters, the name of ADsEL could be seen.
The same name, in golden letters, wreathed
with carved flowers, appeared upon the stern
of this beautiful vessel. She was sihsh a craft
as a true sailor's eye could gaze upon un-
wearied for hours. No fault could be traced
in hull or spar, in canvas or in rig. She was,
-fore and aft" in rig, with no square saIls
aloft, but a very long square-sail yard lay
athwart her rails4ust forward of the foremast,
and furled to i was a squaresail which, when
the wind wne abaft thne beam, would be of
vast service in adding to her speed.
We have glanced at her es he" walked the
waters like a thing of life,"and now we will
look inboard, and sechow thingsappear there,.
Upon a deek -as white as were the sails
above it, some ten or twelve neatly-dressed
seamen lounged lazily ; for the sails were
trimmed and there was no work to do. The
eraft evidently was a peaceful one, from the
number of her crew ; although amidships, on
a railway pivot, a long brass twelve-pounder
shone as brightly qs if it had been made of
gold,
Aft, near the helmsman, stood a man who,
by 'his dress, was evidently an gffleer ; by his
looks and bearing, ever inch a man and
sailor  flis age was probay fifty or more,
Or is eurli  looks were  Ippewith gray,
ad the bea   which oovechelower art
.4 JMs ace waS ii  tedia wth Whitea

,;  {;
_,
'  w
_ f
"-
r,:
: r K
;
,
~
r

ri l

black. - A leadsman was in the f
casting his lead at intervals ; and by
eat with which the officer noticed I
"By the mark, seven -byt te d
etc., It-would seem that hie wg.s eiat
as pilot, or else very cautious in app
the coast, toward which they were
mnd which was now plainly in view
them.
"how do we go, Mr. Perkins-d
the land fst?" asked a young man-
as'd:irkly blue as the seapff sound
hair like the gold of an autumn sun
just raised his head above the cc
way which led from the cabin below~
The officer, who stood near tI
touched his cap as he replied :
"We're sliding in at the rate of
an hour, sir-the land is looming u
"Very well, Mr. Perkins. Whe
so near that you can plainly d
houses on shore, call me.'
"Ay, sy, sir :" And once more
cr touched his cap to his superior
turned again into the cabin.
We will follow him. Follow him
apartment far more spacious than o
think the dimensions of the vessel w
mait ; furnished and decorated gorge
with taste. The main-mast passed
it-but a gilded frame of glittering
so surrounded the spar, that no o
suppose it there, unacquainted wit
State-rooms were in the 'rear ,yf I
cabin, and on the doors of these wer
ly paintings.  A chandelier of p
hung in the centre of the cabin
flames,.burning even in the day ti
a soft light upon the curtains of cri
vet, on the paintings hanging here t
and upon the costly furniture.
The young man who had spoken t
oer on deck, was in figure full as
as in the face we only alluded 1
8lightly but elegantly formed, his f
that kind which wins upon those w
speaking as it does of a heart bold
less, of a soul free and fearless,
nature generous and unselfish. i
fit to be-thre hero of mytale, as in
be its heroine.
"With lihtsome brow and beamng eyes,
Longs orlcus locks which drooped
Like gold-hued cloud-fakts on the rosy
Upgon enter~bg the cabin, he ma
and almost instantly It was anawe
man loosely dressed in a a-alor's
tall forms thin as a rail-4ebrious it
featured i thes-yellowish-white
keen gray eyes, spoke of " awaydo
before he uttered a word.
"What bought be Wanttigieap

I

I'

C
.

orechains, saked,'with that independent air so peeulish
the inter- to the men who wouldn't give a card of gin-
his cry Of, gerbread to shake hands with a king,'unless
ip, mae,. he wanted to buy a clock, or trade jae-
her acting knives.
preaching   "Nathan, t wish you to put the two ye-
standing, board after state-rooms in perfect orderl(f
ahead of fortune favors me,.a lady and her maid *111
be on board, before morning, to occupythean."
o we near   Nathan looked a'tonished, and expse
-witheyes -astonishment by a prolonged whistle. Then
lings, and be asked:
nset,-who   "Be you again' into the packet busin,
)mpanion- eaptin?- E  you be, I don't want obe
t, stew          no longer-for of I can please'.ot,
he wheel I.ersn't everybody, 'apecially wimmen f1a,
for they never took no likin' to me, nor I to
six knrots theu i "
p fait." The young captain smiled at the oddity of
an we are his steward's thought. The latter was evi-
istinguisb dently a favorite, or his familiarity wool not
 Ievoeen tolerated on board a oraftwhare
e the off- discipline, as shown on deck, seemed to be
r, who re- strio                 e         d
"Im not goig into the passenger trade,
ainto 0  Nathan," said theyoung captain, good-hum-
ne would oredly, "The lady whom I hope to welcome
rould per- on board this crapt, inside of twenty-flur
ously, yet hours, is the one whomI hope to call Mrs.
I through Morleyyet. My own sweet Adele."
g mirrors  "'Why,she's thegal you named the shuner
ne, would artr ?
hthe fact.  " Yes!"
the main-   "'Well, beating, r'm s'prisin' glad. i'll go
re master- tight to fxin' up, though things are about as
ure silver nice as apple-pie now.'
, and its "Would you like to go on shore and help
rae, threw  me get her off, Nathan? I may have tofght
mson vel- for her; and from the past, I know how to
and there, depend on your courage and coolness!"
"Ef there's to be a skrimmage, dOpting
o the ,offi- Harold, I reckon Irve the best right, of apy
handsome creetur around here to being alongsdeof you.
to above. Me, and Perkins have knowed you sine you
ace one of weren't kneehigh to a suekin' duck, and sarv-
ho see it,, ed your Father afore he ever knew your
and guile-  i othcr."
and of a     Yes; you have ben faithful to myfather
[e was cs and to me. On his death-bed, he bade ine
s Adele to keep you ever by me, and I will. There's my
hand upon it!"
,sn ,e      " Thank'ee, citing, thank'ee I When Nath-
upon rs an Bia snkland beans you, may his Maker
desatt him, and ivo fi  over to old olodn-
aior n ' foot. I iiow" Im at a awkward as # frisn-
a be    fotedhen;*ad as ugl* asa signed ea  but
ered b.for 'l t     'at;I kinder think myheart's Inabs
rb, wobe irip    e;-and 1 ,1sdie f9r them.t1 kI '°d
ge,sairi.- 'avedled for your' good old fatle,   d
hrit, and die 'o? y  HaroldrMorley a   ti ,!mas
)wn issj" =I'da   fo'rl  y quioe at Wna4  '; t*ia d
tingy" 'ahe yh  osd  onl Yankth 1". . ' -
tm'g4" be, And the honest old Yake i       ''3tie
y -  N  y -  ; ' r-       tf .     k   !33

S

THE SECT T REVEALED.

7


from his eyes with the cuff of the snow whIte away. Oh! if that whidn approaches be but
dunk shirt he wore.                       the yacht of my Harold, how happy will I be.
"I know it, Nathan. Now call your boys, I will flee away from the tyranny and perse-
and put everything to rights lqlow here, and mention which now oppresses me, and remain
It go on deck to see how we draw for the until two years have passed, where kindness
apd.I t shoals a long way off at this point and love will soften the wild passions of a
f the coast, and I meet keep my eyes open; heart made stern and rebellious by cruelty.
even though our good Perkins is on watch." Then I will come and claim and take my own.
And the young captain went on deck.     and go where wealth and love combined will
"Ef there ever was a man--eonsiderlin' bs make me happy /!Happy ? Happiness is a
years-that Harold 'Morley is one!' "said thing I have heard of, read of, but never
Nathan, in soliloquy, as he watched the re- known i"
treating form of his captain. '" Hhndsom ,  "Was not my sweet mistress hap  when
and not a mite proud ; rich, and flot a bit kind Master Harold was here I" asked ella.
stingy,; afeared of nothin' that walks on two. "I felt pleasure, Zella; such as I had kiev-
legs ; as good a sailor as his father aforeliim; er known before. I loved, and was beloved ;
and as kind to me as of I wasn't poor, nor but fear was mingled with my joy-a dread of
ugly-jist as kind, and kinder too, tnan he'd evil to come to him or me, whie i would sep-
be to the biggest bug that rides in his coach arato us forever. Therefore, I was not ha
ashore. The Lord bless him! - that's the py. Happiness must be without alloy, like
prayer of Nathan Shankland every day and pure gold."
night. But talk in' isn't workin'. I must fix  "My mistress is Wise, and can distinguish
up for the wimmon. I wonder of I ctan cook where Zella cannot. I felt happy when be
to snit 'em. Wonder what sort o' fixin's they stopped to say good-bye to me, and gave me
like. Esf they can go gingrbread nd dough- a piece of gold, after he had had high words
nats and wafuls, and broiled chicken, and cod- with Master Hilliare. So happy that I scarce-
fish-balle, and b'iled mack'rel and sich like I ly felt the blows and curses which Master Hil-
can suit,'em to a dot. I reckon we can get lairs gave me afterward. No one ever was
some fresh, ashore while we're there, ef the kind to Zolla but you and fie, dear mistress.
skriimmago is,'t ton hot. I must ask the And yet, I am almost as white as Master lil-
rapting cf he wants mue to take my eutlash laireI Oh, if old Dinah tells the truth, I
ii:d hose-pistols along. But I'll fix up first." ought to drink that man's blood!"
Nathan drew a boatswain's whistle from his  And with a wilder fire than it would seem
pocket, and blew a shrill call.           possible for the human eye to omit, did that
Instantly two small, neatly-dressed ea'in- girl's eyes flash for a moment, while her beau-
boys entered.                             tiful form, swelling to its full height, quiver-
'Y oung erectors, come into these after ed with excitement.
staL.r ue. I've work for ye. There's sheets  "What did Dinah tell you, Zella, which so
and pllcr-cases to be changed, and all that. agitates you ?"
Be lively as crickets, or I may get in a bad  "Something about my mother, whom I
huwor, and you know I'm troubhsome to never saw, dear lady. But do not ask me
small cattle then P'                      noW. It makes me wild to think of it; and
Leaving Nathan to his work;- and the if I grow more wild, I shall do something tee-
schooner to plow her liquid Tfurrow, we will rible. Do not ask me now ; some time:t will
once more speed away on Feney't s'wiftaerial tell you all I know now, and I hlole to know
wings to the shore, and see how Adele, and more before long. Can you imagine why
our other characters rosper.            Master Hilliare permitted ine to be with you
from your childhood-to be educated as no
other slaves arc ?"
S     -  CIAPTEIR .V.                   "I once thought he did it out of kindness,
$What do you see Zcllt ' asked}Adele.as that you might, in a measure, afford me com-
lse returned to her chamber after her intet- pinionship as well as service. Do you know
view with Hilliare Ilendersoit,,."ay other reason V'
"Three vessels, kind mistress.  ,"J cannot say now, dear lady-I cannot
"I saw them before I Left the rpem ; bet ss' now. But I na upon the track of a se-
so either of them seem to be coxii award     which may cost some one his life, even if
th,cntra'ace of ie inlet ?"               e same blood flows in my veibs, . Oh, if I
, " annot'4ell, mtstr's*s,,last ns bopsot were but a pure ohild o Africa,,even a slave,
one keeps lookinglmrge-and largm freay -nd blessed with Ignorance, how much lighter
minute,- and the others seem to. begrops  would my heart beat!'!
sgoer.:                   ', - A sound like a quick elap of distant thunder
Your logie is good Zella. One vessel is was beard this moment from toward the seg.
approaching, while the others are sailing And looking far away to the vessel neareu
s

M,;(
wr

* -iii-- -

I LLL&amp;RE HEND1Rgnx : OR.

.


':

TILE SECRET REVEALED.                               11
the land, a white cloud was seen rolling up arations must be so made as to excite no
from its side toward the blue sky.       distrust, else the path we take will be red with
"A -innon I Oh, it ;s Harry's signal !The blood, and I may, in the very dawn of the day
spy.glaas, quick; Zela, the spy-glass !"  of hope, lose my Harold. Then all would be
And Adele, trembling with excitement, night for me."
knelt by the window, and placing the glass to
her eye, looked long 'and steadily toward the          CHAPTER V.
now approaching vessel.                    When Harold Morley left the cabin of his
aIt is-it must be Harold's yacht !"she said, fairy yacht, and went upon deck, he found Mr.
at last  "lHe told me he would build a swift Perkins, his chief offier, scanning the shore
and beautiful one, would call it 'Adele,' and ahead with his spy-glass. He was standing
would conic in it to bear me away from this forward by the nght-head, where the cool
place of torment. lie would fire three can- ripple of the water, as it wat cloven by the
non when off our inlet, to let me know   vessel's'prow, fell like music on his sea-born
he was there ; and that, when night came, if I ear.
made the signal he named, he would bear me  "Well, Mr. Perkins, What do you make
away."                                   out?" asked Harold.
"'There is a second shot, lady," said Zella.  "The mouth of the inlet, quite plain, sir,"
" Yes; I saw the smoke before you heard replied the officer. "Beyond, among the
the thunder of the gun. I can see the vessel trees, it seems to me that I can see the outline
plainly ; but she is very far away. There are of a house or houses."
two flags upon her. One is red, and the oth. "Then we must be near enough for my
er is the flag of America. And-there is the signal. Let me take your glass a moment."
third gun! It is Harold ! O Heaven, I thank  The officer handed the telescope to the cap.
thee !"                          .       tain, who sprung into the fore-rigging, .as,
And those eyes, lately so dry with tl.e fire ended three or four ratlines high, and took a
of a- ger, were now humid with the holy dew long and careful look toward the shore.
of joy.                                    "It is the place, and we are near enough,"
"Mistress, if he takes you, must Zella be he said, as he came down.  "Heave the
left behind to die?" asked the quadroon, schooner to, Mr. Perkins, and have the gun's
mournfully.                              crew at their station. I wish three guns fired
"No, no, my good Zella. Where I go, at brief intervals."
there you will go. Harold knows that al-   "Ay, ay, sir I"
ready. But we must be cautious not to awake  "After that is done, come down into the
suspicion. It will be easy for us to leave this cabin ; I wish to hold a council with you."
chamber. The strong trellises which bear   "Ay, ay, sir I"
these honeysuckle vines up about the win- - And Mr. Perkins went aft to obey the orz
dows, will easily bear our weights, one at a ders.
time, and will serve as ladders for us to de- "All awake, boys I" he said, as he wen)
seend. He will be hero this night. Noble along the deek.
Her'Id, quickly have you redeemed your     And in an instant every man of the crew
pledge !"                                was ready for duty.
"Will he be so bold as to come into the  "Bral up the foresail, and haul down the
harbor while it is light, do you think, sweet flying-jib I" he cried. "Haul the jib-sheet
mistress ?" asked Zella.                 well over to windward, and flatten in your
"I do not know, my good girl. I only main-sheet. Ease down your helm, and bring
know that he named a signal, and that! shall her up into the wind's eye I"
make it as soon sa it is dark. It I. one which  This was done.almost as rapidly as the, or-
can create no suspicion here; for,allunknown ders were given; and soon the vessel lay as
to you, I have made it iight after night, in still upon -the gently-heaving waters s she
hope that he was near."                  would    e-done lad she been atanhor.
"I now know what it is, sweet mistens,"   The signal-guns were fired, and then Mr.
said Zella, with ,a smile. " I know why my Perkins descended into the cabin, where he
mistress prefers to sit and read or embroider, found mely lit captain and Nathan Shsnk-
in the long night-time;' with hekrlights en this +land-for the cabin-boys had performed their
window-ledge, instead of sitting by her ta- wotkanad been sent forward.
ble."                                      "Mr. Perkins, .until now I have never fully
"You ate right; 27e1. You ban my -.. informed you of the object of my visit to itbls
eret-keep itP" replied Adele. "And sh*, southern lattitle, though, as an old and tried
my good' girl, we biust get ready for flight, friend and efieer of my father's, I knew yo
Sner clothi 'sg as iean easily eartyc all the to be worthy of every trust," said yung
money and jewelry that I have imy owa M e'     as he pointed his officer a seat near
possession, must- go with us. But our prep. thetable by which he sat.

Ag

I

.

I

*0

Si
_
t+


"Boy and man, sir, on the sea for over for-
ty Years, I have learned my duty too welt to
ever ask  myf captain what port ie i going
to, or what he is going for," said Perkins,
quietly . " I knew your aIther's son too well
to think is cruise would lead in a dishonora,
tle port, therefore cared not where we were
thound, or what for."
"Thank   ou,f"r your confidence,Mr. Per-
kins ; but it is fitting that. you should know
the object of my running into this place, for
I shall need both your advice and aid. Up-
-on -youn and Nathan I know I can depend, as
old a m1 ti ue friends."
" Sartaiu," said Nathan, gravely.  "
"Soit time Rine ," continued Morley, "af-.
ter  had the kel of mny yacht laid, but be-
f'ore she sv i to tl-d aid launched, I took a
pleasure- trip oth, more to observe the man-
het~rs anl euuts if theipeople, and to avoid
the chill of a Northern winter, than anything
else. Chiance threw rue into the company of
the very plaiter ihosechlateau we can dimly
4liscern among the trees on shore. An acei-
dent enbel 'me to do him a favor ; he re-
ciprocatel by inviting me to spend a few
week. at his plantation, to enjoy hunting,
is  ,eopt d his invitation ; for I wished to
see rdantation life through my own eyes, and
not through the medi'mi of some book Writy ai
in the flieke- in light of real or fanaticism.
But little did I note of plantation life after I
got there, though I was forced to join the
muter in the bhumti'ng and fishing-trips which
helanned for my amusement. I found with'
in that chateau a youin  orphan ward of the
planter, nu heiress to an imnonse fortune......
neu who wus more 'beautiful than any Leing
1'ever saw or dreamed of. To see her was to
love her. Site loved mes in return. Wha
wonder? The planter had, until ray visit
kept her utterl 'excluded from the society o
gentlemen, and evea of ladies-gu-rded he
with a jealous care which I mistook for kind
ness, until I was undeceived by his conduct
when he perceived the state of feeline which
existed between his ward and myself. H
first hinted to me that she was eng~aed to b'
married to his brother-a sottish villain, twice
other a-ea soon as she arrived at her tnajot
it'ilut she soon undoeieved me sup  tha
int. Then lie eadeavored to keep awa
mme at all timte , except whens he wa
fresent- That; tol' lhe found a difficult mat
tee. At last, he became almost inaultin, an
'I removed to the house of another pltan
neat' by whose friedsip I had fordaad, san
still continued my visits, avowing myself as
suitor for Miss Dumesle's hand.
"Thenc ame an open ruptere'rith hitm
For ier sake, determined tk resue ' her fr
his lcsceution, after a final initetview wit

her, I left for the North, launched the yacht.
fitted her out, manned her, and here we are."
"I swow I ef it h-n't as good us a novel !
said Nathan, who iad listened breathlessly to
the story of his captain. "I mind, when I
was t boy, of readiu the 'Three S1"aniards,"
he continued," and this is just like'ei, made
and provided we carry off the gal."
"What do you propose to do, captain? I
am ready to obey any order yon can gI e
and the crew, to a man, a-e witi~ you. Nver
was a captain more popular than you, sir. 1
do not say it in flattery."
"I know you would not stoop to flattery,
Perkins. It was to consider our Lest course
of action that I called you to counsel with me.
Whether to run in and boldly demand and
carry off the lady, in spite of any resistance
that might be offered, or, by lying off until
night, run in, effect, as I cn, a meeting with
her, and get her on board without the knowl-
edge of her guardian. Then away t a hap-
pier region than that in which she dwells,"
"Could you pilot the yacLt into the har
bor at night, sir ?"
"Yes, 1 think se, easily. For often I have
been in and out in a fishing-sloop which be-
longs to the planter ; and if a beacon is lit.
which I lioje to see to-night, and have seen
before-it is in Adele's window-I know I
could go in."'
"Then, sir, since you ask my advice, .
would say, lie off until to-night. Blood is
precious, and should not ho aed needlessly ;
there will be less risk of bloodshed at night
- than in the d ty-timie."
" True, Perkins. Blood is the wine of life,
given us by Him whose law is, that it shall
not be wasted. We will lie off until to-
night."
"I beg your pardon, captain," said a young
man, the second oeffier of the sehooer, ap-
f earing at the cabin-door, " if I intrude, but
r I thought it my duty to report that a small
- slop is coming out of the inlet which open
t on our lee-bow."
t " You were very right to report, Mr. Mer-
e ton," said Harold, a little startled".s aHave
e the flag at the fore-topmast-head hauled down
e instantly, and the black tarpaulin drawn overs
'- the name on our stern. I will be on deck in
t. a moment. Run a uionjeeck up at the fore-
y topmamtt-head, in place of the other, to signi-
s fy that w ,want# pilot."
k   "Ay, ay, sir !" Asd the young officer re-
d turne.dto is duty on deck.
-' This will mateially change our plans, I
d fer ' but we must act, as eircunstances may
a forea us to dos" said harold,-"' will go on
deek to reonotee, and be bak is a mo-
.' asent."   .
as                  ---
i

t

IIILLIARE HENDERSON ; OR,

12.{

OH APTERI VI'
Gustave Hendes'son very p nptly attoe-
ed his brother,.upon ?eeiving the fuessage-
from him, mentioned :t, the'ehose of tme rtee-
and chapter. He fojuridh Hillistl-e itn thre same
ositin ins rhsicht ie lf him, withI his bend
quve-e tpoithi ai elaitemnent whii hie in
vain tried to suppress.
" Weil, Hlilliari, ol boy, did you give the
rixen fits ? Is she likely to come fosundi
House up ! What's the ratte'r? She hasn't
bhtffed yatn off, hua sale ?"'
e his brts the  'sahtttinr  w h   thre  9snger
brother tendered to the elder, as he entered
tire rioum.
pilliar  Ienderson slowly ret ised Iris head
and looking Ihis b-other in th face, said:
"iust ie, you are a fool!"
"Well, that's cool! I believe I'll take a
a drink on tIe strength of itu"n
And Gustave tet to thre side-board, snd
pouring out n brimmg glass ofJiquor, drink
"If you drank less, tot more pains to play
the pirt of a enstleumn, and looked to your
own interest, I should have less troub e  to
work out a better fortune foryou!" said i-
are, angily.o
"Come, conec, oiihare I I iIeaIt no harm.
That devilish girl made mte a ittlo nervous,
and I nseded a drop to steady my ireres, and
make mse myself again I don't mind stand-
ing up at ten paces with a man, for ,m dead
sure to pick hl eye out at that distance-o-ebt
"u     when a girl, with 'shoot' blazing out of her
eyes, holds a pistol dead on one's heart, he'
got more grit than me, if le qan stand and
take it!"..
"I am not blaming- you for retreating I"
said Cimiae, mTor eahni. "I blame you
most fuor not so conduetinsg ourself as to win,
at least, the girl's respect.a ere have I, with
but one aim, for years, kept her isolaed from
all society but yours!"
"in ts, but yoiu admitted that infernal Yan-
kee to tie house, and thha knocked all your
plans ithto less thad a cooked hat e"  .
"gHe had done me a favor, and I did not
*   foresee the-evil effect of my imprudenc, lfnt
you  sh oud  have  made an ipressiomi  uipo
her before that Had you fore t, eager,
aoy-danidy that Ire is, couldhiave touh d e
heart.  Hd -on proved yorpelfamn, ad
atnghlt hter love by manly a  vtes you would
have had it hong ago, ead her fortunes wold
no  be i our family !"
"It shall be yet-'--4t -upttart fool will
never come baok, anal I al----" .     -u
" Thunder I What was t     !a" cried te p1-
der brother, as a heav  oomiag sand aine
upon their eara from dhe eastward. n

T REVEALED,.

!8

" Just what you said-thunder, Ireokon 1*
said Gustave.
"No-it was the soun dit an nnons Ihaver
heated Itnmore than once  But why one should
be fired off oiur harbor is more than I oan im
agine ! Hark-there goes another'  I shalt
go up to the cupola on top of the house, and
se *tat I dan niake out throtugih my spy-
" I'llufist take one drilk to iprve sy
efaiht, and follow you !" said Gustave.
But hi brother Was already on his way to
the posit,,, front which the best view of tbe
era could be obtained. Just as Gustave, who
had imbibed, reached the sile of heis lirother,
the soundof a third shot came booming in,
from seaward.
"What do you see, Hilliare ?" asked Qua
tave.
" A schooner, which seems to be lare toi
off ouitinlet, with some kind of signals flying I
For my life, I cannot understand her mar
-navres!iNo trading vessels ever come hero,
it is not likely a revenue-cutter can hive
chased a smuggler in here, fir we should have
seen'her in our little harbor I I cannot un-
derstand thia!"
"I'll find out for you, if you wish, il-
laire " said Gustave, whose imbibations had
indeed steadied his nerves. "I'll. take your
sloop, and run out to her, and ask her what
she wants--se, at any rate, what she is I"
"Do, Gustave, and you will confer a flvor
on me. Take half a dozen hands with you.
The sloop is moored to the rice-wharf. When
you come back, I will explain what I Intend-
ed before we heard the cannon.' x have s
plan which will mnake Adele your wife in spite
of herself-but htrry down to the sloop now,
and wo will speak of it when you come
back I"
"I'm off like a pony in a quarter-race t" said
Gustave, and away ho went.
,CIIA'TIIR VH.
"Lost-lost! Ile will discover All t" nilan-
ed Adele, as from her chamber-window she'
saw Gustava Henderson unmoor the sloo
atuistand out toward the vessel which she felt
satisfied belonged to Uarold Monle:.
" No, mistress-do not des )airI said Z1
ha, ,' Master' Gustave is a trunkeir fool at
le4, , Maste, liar4ld tsill outwit hin ;and i
he does not, and Masker Gustave shoutled ohs
'ret intohis power, I wcoud not give muke fo'
his chance o life. Master Harold bears tlim
no good  in, yu know !"
" Btt if h should discover who the vessel
bloungs to-wlro is on board, atad thenierturn,
I sinowgilliare Hendersontoo well ;to thia
he would, lea'o inc here, where there would
be a chance of my rescue from his base tyr-
anmy i"

f


14                      IILt.LIARE   HENDERSON; O1R,
"Let us hope, swe#t thieti'esst I I kin  t      CHAPTErI VIfi
why, but I feel so strong-hearted now, I f'el  lIarold Motley was ab ent from the cabin
as if I were aIr. ady bounding over those waves but a feW moments, *hen he went on deck'to
which we have so often looked upon. Be reconnoitre the approaching sloop. 'Aided
brave my mistress-be brave !''           by a good telescpe, he recognized Giutivo
"I wit try to be, Zella I You are a good Ilenderson, and instantly formed his plan of
girl. M$ Iarold does free us, you, shall never action. Returning to the cabin, he said :
regret 3our change of home. You shall not  "Mr. Perkins, I must not be seen 1, the
be n servant, but my sister 1"          man who will come alongside in the s1oop.
"I ask no greater happiness than to be your He is the sottish brother of the planter I
servant, kind mistress. To be ever near you named to you. 'XKnowing him and his rother
d-well, and what their feelings are in favor of
ZeIla paused, for footsteps were heard ap- the slave-trade, I believe we can easily lass
proaching.                               the schooner off as a slaver ; and you, acting
Ililliare Henderson entered a moment af- as captain, while I remain concealed, can,
ter, but when he did, Adele was sitting with probably, make a bargain with them to bring
her back to window, and a book in her hand, them a cargo from Africa. You may say that
while Zella was unloosingher magnificent hair, you need more water, and so get access to the
sit if to dress it.  .                   harbor before night; and the rest of our work
Ab, hw quiek-witted these women are 1  will b. an easy matter."
"Busy, Adele? Engaged, ek ?" asked Mr.  '"Yes, sir; I obey orders, and understand
Henderson, as smoothly a if his temper never your plans perfectly, I will go on deck and
had been ruffled.                        caution the crew."
'4'Not particularly. I am reading poetry, "Do so, Mr. Perkins ; and when this (eow
while Zella is dressing my hair. May I read comes aboard, use my liquors freely. The
you a passage ?"                         drunker you get him, th better it. will be for
"I do not like poetry, you know. Such us. If possible, get an invitation to the
namby-pamby stuff I despise I" replied the house. A visit there may cover my opera-
planter.                                 tions.' At least, you can keep the planter-and
"But my dear sir, just let me read you this his brother in conversation, while 'I spirit my
e-it is so applicable I            lady-love from, beneath that hated roof."
in a tone nure bitter than the words  "Yes, sir ; I  understand and will do It if
she qoted, she read the following:     ,possible."
" Torture thou mayst, but thou shalt ne'er despite  "Hain't there nuthin' for me to do, cap-
me                                ting?" asked Nathan, dubiously.
the blood will follow where the knilt is drive;  "Oh, yes, Nathan. Help Mr. Perkins to
The esh will quiver where theplacers tsar;  -the best of your ability. nud you will be
ais ggs sand cries by Nature groee pals--                 'sltya   o
Butt these are foreign to the sopt; not mise - helping me. I shall be in one of the baek
'le groans that Isatts, or the tears that fail ;  state-rooms. Let this 'fellow  have liquor
Thet disobey me; on the raek I  r hele:  ' enough to act him swimming."
"I. cannot see the application I" said Mr.  "Mayn't I put a leetle dose of ipecac in h's
Henderson, who had become perfectly calm, last glass, captin? Sieh a mean creetur is
"but as it is evidently intended as an Insult, I yousiy 'he is, ought to have some o' the wick.
will forego the apology for my angry words, ed Wo ked out o him."
uttered a while ago, whichI wasabont tonmake, ' "He deserves it, liathan ; but play no
cad retire !"                            tricks which might create suspicion. You
d turning upon his heel, he lefttheroom, had better go 'on deck, Mr. Perkins. Play
metering as lie went:         'your game boldly, and all will go well, I feel
' "She has not ierd it-it cannot have any assured."
consection with hr threat of escape *     "I'll do my best, sir," said Pe-kins. And
"Off the scent., base hypocriteI" said Ad- he Went on deck.
ele, as the sound of his rootsteps died away.  "And me, too," said Nathan. "If, betwixt
* Zeaus, lie only came to see if we had heard and between us all, we can't play hoky wit's
tpe snnon !"                     - '   his duck,, we've forgot a part of our larnin',
"Yes, mistress; I am sure that' you are and ought to go ?aek to the spellin' book
tight." again. But I say, capting. don't forget that,
"Well, lie is now of the opinion that we of there's to be'i scrimmage, rm booked for
did not. Now, I will hope in spite of my a seat in the first conl."'
tey fear'. Let us watch the stoop, and, froth  "I intend that you shall be with me, if
her actions, we may judge what out' ehanecs there is the least prospect of danger, Na-
will be. I know my brave Harold will dare than."
every risk for my sake."                  '- Thankee, capting. Now you look out
with both ears, and see of I don't soft-sawder

THE SECRET REVEALBT.
this shore chap nicely, when he comes down hundred dollars a head, of strongablerIodie4
into the cabin."                        Ashantecs."
"I will; but be careful not to overdo the  ".Thai Was what you fired your signal-gtns
thin   ll      .for-to make a bargain with some of us, oh ?"
"et me, alone for that, sir. Oldfathan queried Gustave..
Shankland is no fool, of he was born where  "Yes; to anake a bargain if I eould; foji
they fodder their cattle oncodfish eale;i"  the market in Cuba is overetoeked; and I
When Mr. Perkins reached thedesk, bebitd thought I would' et better pries teldeerei
searcely time to caution the crew and exp!aln Besides,!I wanted to get to sonmc place lvlete I
Sthe dee*ption'ho was-about to practie., when could lt my water- aks quie.tly.. had to
the sloop under charge of Gustave Henderson leave New York in a hurry, for I wouliln't
luffed up close alongside, and the At*named 'eome down' to the marshal, and be would
individual aske4:                       have nabbed me if I'd lain there three hourn
"Is that a signal on your foremast for a long.r.-
pilot?"u                         in       "  es,I isee. Well, there's no snugger
" Yes ; but it 'wilL depend upon oireum- place in theworld than our little harbor to
stances whether we want one or not. Come lay and fillyour water," said Gustave.. "And
on board and take a glass of wine, or some- I reckon my brother and me are just the men
thing stronger. If you are a planter,I've to' nake a bargain with. We need m rore
something to say that may interest you."  hands, and could easily part'with any over.
"I'm a planter, sure enough. But your plusyou brought.?'
craft looks rather hard. Will a fellow be safe  "Well, if you'll pilot me in, I'll ill away
there.-                      .          and run in. There's no danger of any rcv-
'-As safe as where you are now.  Vessels enue cutter looking into your inlet, is there r"
that run to the Coast for' black-birds' are apt  "None at all. You see, this is a deep
to look hard."                          bight li'the coast; the water shoals sodiz6 ay
"Oh, is that your trade? I'm with you as off, and few vessels ever allow themselves to
soon as I can get alongside. Be so. good as get in here."
to let a man throw a rope here, and we can  "Well, take another glass, Mr.-. What
haul alongside in half the time of a quarter- may I call your name t"
race."                                    " Henderson--Gustave Henderson, plant.-
The rope's end was east, andiin a very er," replied the other, with, all the diguity
short time the sloop was fast at the'gangway which brandy undiluted could giver him.
of the schooner, and Mr. Gustave Henderson  "My name is Perkins-old 'Perk,' 'foe
stood upon her deck.                    short, my shipmates used to call ine. But its
"Come down into the cabin, sir, and we is Captain Perisnow ; and I'm devilish short
wilt have ou- talk alone," said Perkins.  on those that lbrgt the '}captain'.part.".
Gustave followed him below.             "Well, here's to your health, Captain Per,
"Steward," cried Perkins, while Gustave kins, and luck attend you 1'
stood gaming in silent wonder upon the nag-  AndGustave drank off another glass, and
aifcenceof thenapartment.              declared Lis readiness to pilot the schooner
"What mought be wantin',captg?" said into the harbor.
Nathan, as he cape: in with'a sage which  "1 say, mister..-'souse me for speakin' to
would have become a deacon on eortaiunion- big folks-4-but don't none oi the folks:up to
day   n                                 your house want any appIe\saree, Newtown
aWine, brandy, rus andt' the table- ar-pippinas, niceranbcrries, or real; Mercers po,
dines, and some  rackers and  ese,"istid tatoes ? I've gota private venture of lick
Perkins.       .                        things aboard,' said Nathan.:  2
"Yes, capting ; in a jiffy-I'll haye 'em on  "Yen can come u  to the house atd bee,
aud,"when we et in," said Gustave.
And soon the table displayed a most liber-  " Thana. ,fEI make a dieIenFil give
al allowance of refreshment.           you a barrel of plypins fer noii','ceptin
"Your trade must be profiable,".said Gus- goed-!ill.''. , j. 5 '     i,
tave, as he, nothing .Jon;f.itl  ad number  "Very well come tip to the house with
full of fourth-proof brandy, cga4d4%%nk it messteward, and I'll speak' a good word for
off without winking.                    you. !
Rather,. What are niggersw orth hem.'?  "Hadn't you better take: another' glass,
replied Perkins.                       misteh  Th-eapting hastgono un deekfyou
'rom t n to fiteen hundred dollars for see."     ;i
oodhands.c lutma                      ''1 b4Iier. I Gill. You'tnegulrtrump,
And I can buy them at Congo foramos- steward. If you rant to bean overis, lI
et a Piece--sayabout four or tive dollars-  giVe you a chance any day, with, a g sod ale
ould run the risk and land a load, at five ary.'


HILLIARE IIENDE RSON ; OR.
"Thankee. I'll think on it. I'm good at titctiv recognize the hated form of Guetiwe
getehin' niggers, but never tried driving' on Hendrson, and she fondly thought that, in
em."                                     di-guise or not, she would know Horohl Mor.
Gesate took another drink, and followed icy. But she looked vin Fain. She o old see
Perkins on deck.                         no one whom, even with Fancy's subtle aid,
Nathan went back to the state-room where she could transform into tho semblatco of her
Harold Morley, himst if unseen, had witnessed lovei
all Lhat had occurred.                     In a few moments after the vessel was an-
"Wasn't that last notion of mine oute, eap- hored, a boat was lowered from the davit,
ting ?" he asked.                        and a crew sprung into it.. 'Then an officer,
" Yes; and the very thing for my purpose. as his dress indicated, entered ; Gustave came
I will prepare a note, which you will take next, and a long, lean man, dressed like a
with yod. If you see the lady, you will sailor, followed.
manage to get it into lar hand, unseen by  " Not one of these could besIlarold I" sigh.
any one. It not, and you see a qifat'roon. ed Adele.
named Zolla, t girl almost na hatdeome as  The boat was rowed up @ the landing, and,
her mistrs, she will do as well. $he is while the crew temairied in it, Qustave Een.
quick-witted and safe, and will take it to her derson, aeeomp.aniedJ by Perkina and Nathan,
mistress." .         ..                   assed up, the broad, anngnolia-shaded avenue
"-Yes; I see. I reckon we'll beat the to therouse. They came p directly facing
three Spaniards' out and out, captinga Now, the chamber of Adelo; and she who, under
I'll go on deck and see how things look, ef anytfhier'eircumstances. would have avoided
you-please."                ,            the lok of a stranger, now stood boldly be.
"Go, my good friend-go."               fore the window, and, with dnrmin eye, scan-
_. ....-.ned tltI faes of the two witm slie did not
CHAPTER IL.              -  know.
Adele watched the movements of'tho sloop  'erkins, who was walking by. the side of
In which Gustave Henderson had embarked, Gustave, appeared.not to notice her'-tbough
with tremulous anxiety. She saw.it stand off she thought she detected a single, quiek, up-
the shore, and at the same tme saw the red ward glance of his eye. But, a moment later,
flag go down from   thme masthead of thme she saw a- pair of cudnng, gray eyes looking
schooner, and a blue one take its place. She full uiia nher, and the at'ange-looking man,     i
could not comprehend the meaning of this; who walked'behind the otheI- two,'drew a hand
and for a time her bosom was filled with fear out from the bosom of his shirt, and in tha  c
and hope alternately. She saw the sloop go great brown. hand, for an instant withdrawn,
alongside of the schooner, and, after a 1'rief and as quickly returned, she saw a letter.
time--.though it seemed very long to her--she Zellia, too, saw the motion.
saw the schooner fill away, and stand directly  "Mistress, hd is a messenger from Master
In toward the inlet.           .         Harold," she said. ".That mail laa a letter
"Joy, joy !" she murmured. "Harold has for you.
deceived hiim in some way, and is comin.- "Yes, Zella. Some plan is working for our
into our harbor. Oh, now, now Zella, I feel deliverance. Go you .and contrive some
no more fear. hope conquers a ll l' I feel as measut of obtaining the letter, and do hasten
if we were free this moment."            to me. I shall fear and hope, and hope sand  ,
And now the young girl watched, eagerly, fear, until-you return."
every motion of the vessel. As it drew near-
er, her eye noted, admiringly, its sharp, long        CHAPTER X.
hull, its lofty spars, its snow-white canvas;  "I'm back, Hilliare," said Gustave, seon-
and though she had no seaman's eye to note siderably flushed with his many potations on
eah perfection, still she thought it a fairy board the schooner. " And here ia'--permit
craft, wondrously beautiful.             me to introduce him as a capital good fellow  y
And when it passed the bar, and ran bold- --Captain Perkins, of-. MayI tell your
ly into the harbor, anehoriqg within less than business, captain?"K
a half a mile of the house, she looked with  "Crtainly, sir. I have no 'ooncealmenita
wonder, not unmixed with fear, upon the toimaka here," replied Perkins.
sailors who ascended to the slender mnset ,'iWell, Billire, Captain Perkins is ena
headsto furl the gaff-topsails-which hadbeen ed in the slavg-trade, to speak plainly. He
set to add to h. r speed as she came n. - - anys.the-Cuba market is overstocked ; and, as
And when all the sails were furled, she he is bound out for a -argo, he wants to see
looked anxiously among the people clustered if one cannot be engaged around hoe some-
on the deck fuo the form of him who held where."
possession of her heart. For the vessel was  "Tate a eat, Captain Perkins, Will yon
so near that, through her glass, she could die- have sne wins or other refreshmente ?" said


r                                                                                   ^
THE SECRETJBEVEALED.
1lanter, who, ever-e-iutiou, was serutini:- Terrified for a moment; but
-td   iiitor closely  " f so, Iwill ringfor note passedinto her bandiwh
it: fae will'adjdura to the library, where Geh te slkerrahe was terri
th Aide-boaird stands."             -      fFr she knew thea tha6 the
s5 Ifhollhave pteinlised that the plants $ ditate.
aens to knoW who -his visited werO, h'ad  4leneodt -of this, you ar
iet the  -on the lattied veerandah  ii  skull, and send a boy (" ori
.ontwd the g'oundffoor-of his louse.  Zelia while liis ejes blaed Wit
L Wa h'ai#  something to take; by nll paygou for this s the inornin
g neits" skid GsfTare. ",'T eteptain treated  "It was all my fault, miste
ne'like. t prin e'while I wdt in ia vessel."  see the gal," said Nathan, Ak
und, ithont waiting for his brother to do and bowing awkwardly. "l'ss
It, t ag a bell, which he picked up from-a kings' steward, and came'ashor
table el e sit hand.                     didue want somneapple-aree, o
A   onJpent after, Zella appeared.     or Ngwtown-pippens; and I'
"Bring us somie wide and brandy, you damage I've doe; but, by m
nolTsses-edilored beauty1" said Gustave.  mean to do it!"
Before Hllia,re conld say a wdrd, an whild  "Thedamage is nothings"sa
be, flushed with mortification at the evident Son, *ith assumed enielesmnes
Lrto'ieat i-me, of his brother, reqraiued alint the girlpay for it. She shou
Zella turted aud disappeared.           where she wasgoing. Boy,"
Your bsitiess must be attended with male serrantenne in, " elcar a
some risk, eapt. in ?" saidllilliare, andeavor- stuff, and bring mn- wino, liqe
lng to conceal hin chagrin, and to be as polite and se if yok en't break son
possible to hisi tempopary guest. long will it take agon to go to
It is ; but with eommensurate profits. I return, captain? ' asked Br. H
!'nu a cargo into Ciba, four months ago, and the anger-fush slowly fading o
lost my es-el-for I was chased in by a an- "From three to four moat
o'-war. But 1 Iaedtda my negroes, cared one with any kind of luek.
tundre. thusand dollars on then,eavebtilt  "Well,sir, I think I ean
a new vessel, and am ready to try my lusk ean find a eash market for a f
again. I h idto leave New York in a huifry, if the are -landed in such a
pud was rather short of'water; so I was forced compc omise tis with the gov
to look inn here somewlhere for water, and the are a gooddeal out of the *a
thought struck me that 3 could land a cargo all that, the ntmoel secrecyt
-here 'asier thats elsewhere, as you haresnb quired."
coast-;uard, and nmen-o'-war would not look " An&amp;.observed by me, for
out along these onasta as they do in the Cuba as well as yours," said Perkins
water=. Therefore, I was glad to anedet the desire to lose this ressol, as
offer of your brother to pilot me in." his a beauty, and can ou
"+Youanro quite welcome. Captain Perkla', that floats.
'b i b to the harbor andl my house. How many The servant now eame wih
t'ar-yt tiicould yon lring over in your vesel' au  Perkins, against -his ore
-"'I could stow about four heudred, or four drank a glass of wine, as did
Ihundred and fifty. WYe stiow clese, and don't Henderson, .who was the an
inid if we lose a dozen or two on the way." britker .o far as drinkiagw
"Wthat e uhl they be landed at here--or hoWever, went in for brand
what would you ask for alle-bodiedemen?"  matter whieh Hlliare did not
- " From four to live hundred dpllars-user was so ashamed of hIs s.,iti
more. It i had A short passage, and nosiek  hapeJ he would qoon drink
near, eve less."                         generally did,into a sleepy lu
Zella, at this moment, appeared, with a thelfeonpany.
ta Mvy salv. r laden with wio and hiquers,  Ater a ouple of glasses o
4                                                 Olathain, who ha-I bea sauntering abelttthe rose as if to return-to his vet
erandah. had his back towsd her estbad  abIety to-prepare for taking
.eted, and did not appead'to ^notioehe. uirornin
$te1ppin back w rd, hiostradu heavilyginsti .Bt Mr. Henderson Insist
the salver, and , knocked it from she girl's  ining to supper; for the
hands, pre'eipittirng its onstens to te'6l0e;i were fast gathering.
Byw nightyll guess l've goneaand.weit d'o this Perkins assetelI, b
aMNathan, as he bout down to help the tjr North'ern vegetables, aes a pe
eitd girl

14
-a she felt $
ile it was be-
fled no longe.
- accident was
rkward numb.
xd Hilliare, -t
h fhry. "I'll
; but Ididn't
ng off his hat,
Capting Per-
e to see if ayo
er eranberries,
1 pay- for all
ighty, I didn't
id Mr. Header-
s. "I'll make
id have looked
he ad4ed, as S
ay that broken
or, and cigafts
sething. How
the coast and
enderson, now
ut of his eheek.
ha-not more,
safely say you
'll cargo hers,
way as not to
-ernment. We
y here, but fot
would be ro.
my own sake,
i. "I have no
I did myltst,
tLsail anything
refreshments
binary eustoint
I, also, HilliarM
tipodes of his
Rent. Gustava,
a usual--
oppose, for be
shness that he-
himself, at ha
maror, and leae
f wine, Perkins
ssel, stating his
in water m the
d  n his re-
sh es of night
ut ordered Na-
some fruit and
ce fr his host.


20

IlILLIARE flENDERSON; OR,

CIAPTER XL.                   "No, lady-I hardly know what I was go.
- -ZeiLb yet trembled when, after Hilliare ing to say. But see-the twilight is already
Iiendermsona harsh rebuke and threat, she upon us. It will soon be dark, and we hid
reacml  the chambIer of nher mistraess; and beat be getting ready."
she Eliosed and bolted the loor behind her  "True, Zella. When onen my foot isup-
iemi slhe enmemed-.                        on yonder deck-when the low-toned muso
"What is .the matter, Zells? have you of ifar'ld's voice falls upon my ear, then I
nt the ,tter?' asked her instress, anxious- shall feel free, fearless, and happy."
"                                          "There cones that strange man up the
I1lina' i ; bnt if we are here te-morrow  avenue again," siaid Zella., "lie his ai bag
mor in, it will have cost me dearly. Uleto upon his shoulders and a large. basket upon
is swvit miistress-.                  his arm. lie must have been back to the
Adet taok tha   note, and her hends so vessel for something"
tren:ihk '1 that she cou l scarcely open it,  it wis. indeed, lNathan, with the fruit or-
But iin she lid, a cry of joy escaped her deed by Perki s. As be-came beneath tho
-     I iriie drankm its contents.       window, with a dexterity which wouhil have
mine  fear nothing, Zelhta-no'-lung made him " itchmer '' for the " first nino " in
t$at ny 'i''mr to-mmorrow tuorming ; fur eru a base-ball club, he tossed n large pippin in
Eiat iim'imrmg damsia, we wivle fa' out upon at the window where'-Adele stod,an passed
ti e timing nat rs of the azure seal That on into the chatan.
501 o  ristime 'Able'; Iiarold is on board ;  'T'he apple came auntder as it fell on the
Is eiha af oieer is cmtermamiing the liender- floor, and Adele saw that it had been hollow-
Sons ins mtii bihlef that the vessel is a  laver, ed. out, and contained a paler. This eh
$ud is n w on shore to hmmehaid Io bargaim  quickly opened and read.
witm tiem to bm'::mg a   cagos hither fiomi Airi-  " Bless him !"-oh, bless my brave IIarold t"
ca. Ias i tatlbful atew a d was deputed to mtn- she cried.  " ie says that his officer and
:1:;' t 'nurtieyancc of th note to mme. allow  steward will so manage as to prevent our be-
co ' 0"  it --imig disturbed at all by Ilillinre Ulcmderson
Z  Ia, halm)f-laughing, half-cryimig, tall how 'and his brother, anid that, as soon as it is
tie 4' .-oiae-btoking sailor-man had taggeredl, dark, we can steal away from the house and
as "it hynidme't, against her, making a. wreck join him  beneath the orange-tree.  That
'f i  ii aidi glasses, amd then, while pre- when w  are once on board of his yacht, ho
ten ii,1 h help lr, bid pajessed time mnote ito will defy the world to rob him of his prize I"
r    i , whit, she as quickly concealed.   "IDoes he speak of ne?' asked Zelia, while
h: .t' mmo' lnbe as org-mcal in ideas as her bosomn rose and fell like the waves of a
he is inm hmoims I  'lo h would la thought ~f disturbed, can.
that manner of delivering a note? An cx.   "Yta; he says,'ly all means, bring Zella
peminme one ti Mr. Reader un, too," said with you.' And, of course, I shall."
Adla' ,hughlimig.  Then she added : " You  "lie is "cry good," said Zella; amid he!
rc I I  in ha ic r of Mr. lle:leson to-nor- cheek flushed, her lip quit ered, and a tear
sow, /a ha, or so soon as it is safe far us to camo stealing from either eye,
ia' w    wall go.  llarold will wait inlpa.  "It is almost darnk. We have not a mo-
tiently, from  the moment that darkness meat to spate in makin our prepairations,
a'mrs on, until we ar there, beneath the or- Ge, Zella, antd see if Ilillmare Henderson and
£--e-te' which leans above' the cnat r in the his guests are inm the dining room. if they
lower gaesien iviere we is. I dommetimmes to sit. are, we can leave by a side-dionr, unobserved,
Sie wmIt be there antlh a ba t and crew, and and not be forced to go downm the trellises.
his Auib and stewards, who nre both at mmed, it is not likely, if lie is engage'l, that any one
will t' hare to help us, if by any incident we else will imotio our going out,
s'care tai et a u(whle gettmn away,"
lha:a' M stir 11-arold !  Kind  Master             CHAPTER XII.
esrla'th it is am wonder tmat you hove jim  -Ihillinro Hendersom, whieni Ie chose to be
Liimcla, sweet mutrias!"                 an  entcrtaminer, was rarely nasueeessful. He
"Al, Zelim. 'maami lttli know of the d"pth o  differied from  his brother in nearly every
rn        Vl sa ka m ,lihonmw wildly i ean  h  point, except in being a cold-blooded tyrant
iaf 4Cjail' I ow fomnmi'm .1h eI cuinlove in"  over those in hmis power-a cool amd ambi-
i. i, can  aata, ammtras'" maid Zeua. tions planner of sleh villanies as would ad..
-""" vnnee is ommuinterests, and a nina ithout
t   a,,as aboet to say moore, but aI1 1ptly conscience.
0 1'.lie drank tempjerately, used the lamInguage
\ ii wei about tim sacvyou cil' care, of a gentlemman, was' eurteous and urbane to
tm. Ze' " t, i  e,   C,'a -l "- a' rT' -  dmathse whma hac sought to please. .lie p o.
U mm 10   . \'m    .i 5,        0'-     s    d some ealmten, wis tolerably well'

TRE SECRET REVEALED.                               3
meal, and folt. all pedantic. Finding Pcr- ciples!" cried Nathan, filling tho glass with
"   kins to be a very sensible man, one who had his own 'iand.
t  voyaged all th, world over, he insisted, after  Each drank their wise, and then Natasn
Isapper, upon his passing the evemgng with said he wanted to tell a ehoit story, if thse
him in his Iibrary  and Ts Nathan had made captain would only wait.
his peace by bringing a brgc quantity of ie  Pekins knew there was a meaning in 1s
frnit, he was invited to remain with his cap- request, and at once aces ted, much to th
tain. As this accorded with the instru'ctions pleasure of Henderson, who really had e.
which he had received from his real captain, joyed the evening.
when he revisited the schooner and told what  " I ain't much given to story-teThn'," seii
lie hial seen, heard, and done, he ciry gladly  Nathan, "so you must take my yarn for what
avaled Himself of the invitation. and soon, it is worth. I never was in love but wuns6
by 1is 11 sayings and quaint, good-humor, and I never want to be agin. Down 'East-
fully established himself on the "right side" where I was born and brought up till I wss
'of Dir. I uenderson. The sottish brother-had big enough to peel my own potat ee-there
Song before been assisted to bed iii a state of lived a gal name Matildy Susy Ann, oneof
drunken helplessness, and Hilliare had no the purtiest leetle red-beaded or etur th4
fear of being disurbed by hinm again that over muddied pantalettes on a rainyday. Her
evening.                                 and me used togo to school together, andw
Wnu asked to take wine, Nathan, who was used to change dinners every day, 'eause she
very abstemious, tried bard to excuse him- thought my mother put up the nicest basket
seclf., of the twa, and I thought hers did the samo."
"Its :gin my principle to tech sperrits,"  ,Here the head of Mr. Hlenderson was seen
said he. "Tihough I hain't no amirthly objece- to droop over the table, and his heavy breath-
tion to seem' other folks enjoy themselves-- ing proclaimed him to be asleep.
rather like it, to tell the truth."      -"   al - -ef them sleepin'-powders didn't
But a glass of wine-a mere glass of wine, work quick, I'm a sinner without hope .d
no stronger than your eider, can do you no grace 1" said Nathan, jocosely. "Mystory hI
harm,' .said Mr. Ienderson.  " One is the told, Mr. P.riins, and 1 reckon we'd better
juice of the apple, the other the juice of the go'off easy, and let Mr. Hendcrson'have lii
grape."                                  nap out."
"Jest so," said Nathan. "But the juice-  " You drugged his wine, then 4"
of the grape made a blessed fool of old Lot.  "Sartain, sir. The capting give me the
That I-ve read in the Bible, and I don't like ,tnff and told me how'to do it ; and told ine
to be moore foolish than Natur' has made me." when this son ofJudas was sound, to put this
"You respect the Bible ?"           . letter before him, and then to leave with
" Ef I don't, I ain't any respect for nuth- you."
S an'."          -And Nathan took a letter from his pocket
"Then do as Saint Paul advised Timothy. and laid it beneath the head of the sleeping
Take a lit Ie wine for your stomach's sake."  planter, which was now bowed upon the table
" Wpoe lyou beat me a quoting scriptur', and Efore him., adPrin       I   e'
'acIs'posemust give in.  It take a leete  ' "Very well," said Perkins. "If on'e
drop with water in it-jest a leetie, ef you obeyed orders, we'll be off. T here will be a
please."                                 pretty gale here in the morning, but we'll be
And Nathan tooks a glass of wine with wa- too far off to enjoy the fun or gel the effeeb
ter in it, and listened attentively to a lgng of it."
story which I'erkins related to Henderson,  "Most likely-Providence perrnittin', sand
about a cruise he once had among the Fejee the wind fair," said Nathan. 4nd in a mnS-
Islands, which was well told, considering tiat ment more, the planter was left alone to Jib
Perkins had never been within five thousand dreams.
mdes of the islands mentioned ; and Nathan
-kuew it.                                           CHAPT1R 3TUl
With such storied, an occasional glass of  Darkness had scarcely mantles the ertb
'wine, and fresh cigars at intervals, the even- when Adele-leaving her'lighitsburnng in he
hug wore rapidly on; and before either of the wid w =aeeom  ied by Zells, leftherobas-
party seed aware of it, a large clock in the ber ojoinherlover at the spet *y him '
tootn chimed'the hour of twelve.         )oimt  , She carried wit ser aly herJi
"'I must be onboardd" said Perkins,'fr ores nad  uch garments sathy eould ossa
any crew must he watering ship early,".   ar   wyfor lhe knew not what Iatot
tai ndersoi. "I'll -sd a gang of hands ,t  about the house' since she bad ttrese!ne&amp;,
help you water your vessel,"    ;7      fle fem bis tyranny.
"Yes, another las of It'is agiu my pripm-  I &amp;t teg wept forth unobserved ad unob'

r

t
.


- 12                       HILLIARE fEl
striuefed. As eoon as' they were fairly ekear
of the louse, they hurried through a garden
hedged in with the broad-leaved Spanieh
e tctas, the bayonet-pointed leave, of whieli
were proof ~aans. beast or' man.  D'nn
t rough wiadiug avenues of orange and em-
on trees, amongst acacias, myrtles, roses, and
many another sweet-scented flower, they hur-
ried, caring little for the blossoms they trod
upon or sped past,
Passing from th first garden, through a
m-rrower gateway to the second--whieh was
devoted more to vegetables and fiuits than
flowers-they quickly reached the watereside
amiust a grove of orange ttees.
Light as were their fear-winged' footsteps,
o. b car was sufficiently on the alert to hear
them, and the slender form of Jarold Mor-
ley was seen emerging from the densershad-
ows of the grove.
One bound, and he had Adele in his arms.
Heart beat against heart, lip met lip-aid if
there is the bliss of Heaven known on earth,
those two congenial souls knew that bliss
twen and there.
Zella stood trembling with excitement ; her
great dark eyes filled with tears, looking as
if she, too, longed to east her arms about that
graceful form, and pour out the passionate
felings of gratitude which she  ared not
utter.
" We must not delay, Adele," said Hagrold,
after the first embrace, and the first words of
love had been spoken. Then seeing Zella, he
said. in a tone of kindness, as he reached out
his hand
"My good Zella, I am glad to see you
hero; you have taken good care of my sweet
Adale."
The quadroon took his extended hand; she
tried to. speak, but could not. Kneeling
down, she kissed his hand over and over
again, and burst into tears.
"Come -- rise, ;ny good girl ; we must
hasten from this 'spot, for ear of some .n-
toward chance. Once on board of my bonny
dele, an we are as free as the eagles of44e
r   Arid doe-woe i the vulture who would
soak a prey where my prow cleaves $he sea,
where roy flag dallies with the breescor flat.
Lers in the gs194"
.. nd noWhe geptly Jed  aele to the spot
i'here his boat w4s in siln'.   irt, Je
seated her 'a the  tern-slae~s, tha lifted'
ella just as ;ently to i psage id1 iij* p
a low tbie'  gavo 4e order top us o ; and
ia'mmodntJater, the boat'"ith' ,u  4-c l,
tapvin rsp  y toward the yaqM, Wbms
t apar: :and. had-like"rig
.  inre   tta     m gpinbo6  ot  ' tat
5t rVt, dins tftwas
Belt a few moments, sad tey  e=1 ip
its deep. Tben down into the speelous and

NDERSON; OIl,
magnificent cabin, where everything blazed
with splendor.r
A table, laden with" enke, and fruit, and
Wine, seemed to have been purposely spread
for them. Harold knew there con d be no
ertor, that his Adele would surely sup there
that night.
"Wiat think you of your ocean-home, my   F
Adele ?" asked Harold, as he wat~lhed the
lovely girl standing mute with surprise and
pleasure.
"I hare read of fairy palaces-this is one,"
she said, at last. ..
" And ycu are the fairy queen of it, 'lhe said, 3
With a smile. "What think you of it, Zella ?"
" It is like heaven; and you ,are its chief
angel," said Zelle-. Then blushing, as if she
f It she had spoken toobodly, she said: "I
would die here." -
"'r hope Heath is a long way from us all,'
said Harold  "But, AdeleI have a sur-
prise for you. Not a soul on board has ever
seen what I am about to show you. I have a=
picture which' I vowed never to unvaii to
other eyes than my own, until' you were here
to look upon it. Come aft am moment."
They proceeded to the after-part of time'
cabin, which was draped with heavy curtains
of purple velvet, flecked with gold. These,
running upon a rod overhead, by simple pul.
lies, concealed on either side, could be drawn
apart.
Harold drew them apart, ant revealed a
painting which brought a cry of wonder andy
gladness from Adele-a sigh of pleasure fro
poor Zelha  It was a Southern scene-the ±
gure, fulliength. A young man was arrang- '
ing a wreath of orange-blossoms, as he sat by
the side of a lovely girl, and another girl of
ueenly form was pluokiig the blossoms from
the trees and casting them down before him.
The portraits were life-like-the painting
true to Nature. Tie young man was Harold
Mobley - he wrought the wreath for Adele
Dimesle --she who plucked the flowers was
Zeif, the quadroon.
"Was that painted by your own hand, my
Darold ?" asked Adele, as eje stood and gazed
upon it.
" No; it was fainted i an artist friend,
from sketches w1 ch I had made of you and
Zells, and~from descriptions-which show you ::3
tht never for an instant were you absent
fom my nd."
n"Oh, bless you, my own true, noble liar- d
ols t An eternity-of love and devotion on
my part, wilf ever reward such faith and
kindues.,"
Zella's sobs now attraete4 their attention.
Wydoyou weep, my good girl?" asbed-
" To think that poou Zell* was not forgot-
ten,'sobbed the quadrooi.

'THE SECRET REVEALED.                               8
" One who has ever been a' kind and faith- Exuse me a little while, Adele. You had
ful to my Adele, ought not to be forgotten," better retire with Zella to your state-room
said Ilarold. " But come, Adele, it is time and sleep, I must see the schooner saf sa
that we taught of something else. A little sea before I come down again."
food and wine will do us good ; for, love as we  "Please let me go on deck with you," said
may, hunger and thirst'will still }ave their Adele. "I am too happy to sleep, and would
cl   s-" ..                             so like to see the way you manage your ocean
And he led the way toward the refreshment- palace."
table.            -..."Well, be it as-you like, dear Adele. You
CHAPTER XIV.                 are mistress of your own will here. But wrap
Harold had been on board at least five or yourself up carefully, for the sea-air is damp
six hours -before Mr. Perkins and Nathan at night,"
made their appearance. The time had been  , "I will. Come, Zella, get shawls for us
pased most pleasantly. Adele had found in both, and we will go up."
ier state-room a complete wardrobe-a harp  The orders to get the yacht underway
and guitar also were there, both favorite were given in a low tone. The crew under-
instruments in her hands. Zella, too, found stood theirduty thoroughlyand almost noise-
that even her comforts had been remembered, lessly performed it. In a short time the
and one of them, at least, was as happy as anchor was up at the bows, sail made, and
ever bird that paroled on a budding branch the' yacht stood smoothly out over the bar,
in the spring-tlme. For she nestled beside with a light but a fair breeze. As she left
her heart-chosen mate.                   the shore it freshened, and before the golden
When Mr. Perins and Nathan made their sun rose from its scarlet couch in the east,
appearance in the cabin, Harold knew thatall the vessel was fairly off soundings, and nearly
waseritit ashore, yet hoasked how they had or quite into the edge of the Gulf Stream.
a.rft the iet adersons.                  And not until she had witnessed that glorious
"I will let Nathan report, sir," said Per- sunrise could Harold Morley persuade Adele
kid3, "only bearing witness myself that he to retire to seek the rest which Nature do-
has obeyed orders and done his'duty."    mended.            -
"Wo'1l, Nathan, what have yonuto say"
asked Harold of his steward, who stood like          CHAPTER XV.
one spell-bound, looking first at Adele sad  The bright sun was shining in through the
then at Zela.                           windows when Hilliare Henderson recovered
"The pootiest reeturs that ever lived," from the stupor into which he had been
he said, involuntarily.'                 thrown by the somnifie powders administered
Harold could hardly keep from laughing bNathan. A throbbing pain ran from tem-
utright.  He saw I',atlhan's bewilderment, me to temple in his head-a nauseaspervaded
and 'knew that ie had not understood his is stomach--he felt as if he was waking
question, and he repeated it.      '     from sickening dream. He looked around
"Oh!" said Nathan, recovering himself. him, as if he hardly knew where be was.,
You want to know, capting, how we left Thea his eye fell upon the note before Im.
them  mia'ble creeturs' ashore ?"   "-   It was addressed to Hilliare Henderson, and
"Yes."-sealed with a seal which lie had seen before..
"Well, the meanest cuss of the two dot It was a coronet above a shield, with two.
stone drunk, beating, and theybunked hun resed swords above it.
airly in the evengn'.,'other one held of4  "rem Harold Morley" ihe muttered,.as
kept as coolas a saint undergoin' martyrdom, with tremuous hand he opened it.. -}
and I had to give him the sleepin'-powdcr. ,ts ontents should be known to the reader.
But ef he didn't go off quick, then  m. a 'hey ran thus:                     ,
black sheepin a whiteflock.  lewent right ,  H    ea a est,'Esq., owner and commander ef
into a mnoose, and then I put your lettermen thsemericas' ysekt Ansi.., prewnte his compluests
the table under his head,'and wo made t ra4  to Hiare Henderson, Esq., later, etc.,  5
ftr the boat. And, in coltelusiOn, g5     his fee the civileas extended to his chief oUQe ha4
frhS ,mip  . stssd. 'vidasecomplished the object otbIlsit,
here we are at'your sarttee,' t ausual."::s:;  Mr. Mrte- sytlres with gmat gratiisutrS- s-
"I am glad to see you, both. New Mi. suresMr. Henderson that he wil-return 1at  rs
Perkins, we are readYf errae ;sri iiebt   e   t scwiie utskingehar e of th.prepe
-  d  'D             -bn,          .by sa   i either. fA ,ore ressse
introduce you to Miss Duinale; and ,tT 'we  aft  s  een s  ihei  sr. ray'eagequsw
will go on deckanal  up anchor as silently a his eMeer may hsemaei tofrirnlsb a earod
possible. Adele, did=you Leave a beais4i .eenst fqr Mr.Ne c~ sn, be'-Mr. orlay--awluga
your window as I requested"                er saliniYfn eV w.
"I did, Harold." .                       " Whanesi all this nean!"-mutteredt Mr.
"Then lIecan 'pilot the yacht out full e  Henderson, not yet fully awake to-the realty
easily asOGustavo Heiderson brought her in. ef the case,

I5


HILLIARE HENDERSON ; OR,

I        (
s

Tie read the note over again.
Then he rushed up to the room which had
b. en occupied by Adele. He attempted to
open the door; hut when she left it, she had
cked it and carried off the key.
"A cle ! Adele !" he shouted, while he
knocked heavily against the panels. "Open
the door, or I will burst it from its hinaee l"
he shouted.
No reply came. With a bitter eurse he
'threw his whole weight against the door. The
look yielded an(d lie entered the room. It
was untenanted. He rushed to the window
and l ocJ out upon the harbor to see if the
vessel still was there. She was gone, and
thmgh through Adele's spy-glass he scanned
the sea far and near, not a speck could he
see which lie could mentally torture into the
semblance of a sail. Curses rolled from his
lips like thunder from  i overcharged cloud.
Lie turned to go and arouse his brother,
when a note upon the dressing-tablo used by
Adele met hit eye. lie took it up-it was
eddrersel to him. Ho readh it, and almost'
eboked with anger while lie did so. He had
some reason-it ran thus:
")loe? AtuManLs Ceut  RDiA-avIng become su-
feited with you lkin ine3, I feithe need of a change
,f diet. My brave an t noble lIarold having come for
ne, I cannot reofe an iuvitatiin to make a voyage in
his ysoht. I now that I shall disappoint you in
your benevolent initentions, perhaps induce you to
end your mortal 'tireer with a illr, and by my dis-
rppearance indutco your -tloved brother to get so
'lrutik that the declrtii tremiens wi carry bm ofrf
$heoid these most desirable ends be attained,Itshah
not shod so many tears as to affect the tide in the.
soean, I ; unre yen. Net deeming. It prudent or
proper to o to sea wills a nice young man unattended
by my maid, I have taken Z'lla witli me. So yoc will
have f +efor yonr intended cruelty to her unW a morS
coitvenient topptutnity others.
" Firevell ifr two ycare, my kind guardian. Take
.gd*i ears of my property ; for I will hold you account-
asW to the1 tst cent whenI return.
"Your very happy ward,
"&amp;onu sDcaiasus."
liilliare leadrssn actually frothed at the
mouth, and raged like a inafman as lie read
this sarcastic note. lie tore it in pieces, and
stamped upon them as ho would have stamped
upon the writer had she been In Iis poser.
Thlien he rushed away to the apartment
where Gustave yet lay sleeping off the fumes
of runkennels.
"  etups you cursed fool I"bshouted lilflarA,
i, (ase aImost black with anger ; and he
selok Gustave fiercely.
"What-what d'ye want?" said the latter.
sing. " Wirat d'yewant to shake aetel-
oebones out of joint for?"   - -   -'
*Get up,I tel you; and see whe tan-
fernal fool you have been" shouted Hillisrq.
"ItaIsd Morley has been lrere and carried
:'.  Adele, rieht frenv  under ouru oaes, and
' 'u have helped to dto t'I'_

"WHAT
Gustave was now thoroughly awake in an
instant,
"Adele is gone,"' said Hilliare. " Shewent
in Harold Morley's yacht, the shver that von,
fool-like, yiloted into.our harbor ! You might
have known the difference between a slaver
and a yacht!"
"how could I, who never before was aboard
either?" saidGuatave, almost humlbly.
He never had seen his brother in such a
passion before,-and he feared him.
"Had you kept sober, and had your senses
about you, they could not live carried out
their plan ! But they fooled you com-
pletely !"
"It seems to me that you was on pretty
good terms with that Captain Perkins when I
came to bed t" said Gustave. "I know I was
pretty drunk, but I renembler that much I"
" Well, if Ilhad not trusted to your intro-
duction, I should not have been !"
"I should like to know," continued Gustave,
who was now up, and dres-ing, "why you,
who arc always. sober, could let them get
ahead of von, aid how Adele could be abduct-
ed from the house without sour knowledge!
You must have slept utietuunonly sound I"
"It is a mystery to me !" said litlliare, "I
drank a few glosses of light wine, listened u;-
till the clock struck twelve to entertaining
stories told ly the is an Perkins. They were
about to go-i pressed them to take another
glass of wine, we each drank-a glass, and I re-
member .othing front that hour until I woke
witir an infeinal headache, some fifteen or
twenty minutes ago, in the library, with a
taunting note frot Ilarold Morley lying be-
fore me!"
"Brother, that last glass of wine was drug-
ged !" said Gustave.
It must have been !" replied Hilliare.
"And that accounts for the ease with which
they have carried out their plans?"
"You say the vessel is gone from the liar-
bor V'"
" Yes, and far out of sight. I cannot sea a
speck of canvas out to seaward I The ken
Yankee has been too much for us 1"
'" For the hour only W for the hour only I'
said Oustave, fiercely. "Ililliare, I have in-
deed been a fool, but I will be so no longer! I
will have Harold Morley's heart'i blood for
this I I will follow him to the world's end, for
thatpirpose, and to recover Adele pumesle.
I love that girl; and if she cannot be mine,he
shall'hot glory in the possession of Mr !"
41 Now, Gustave, you speak like a man l'
ietid Hilliare, pressing his band waenly. "I
am with you heart and hand. My aid in money
and In every other way you shall have, to
carry out any plans yon form td that effect I"
'Asank you, Hilliare! , You will pot see

t

I.
J vit~

-5

fs .ham
I
r  "
rr F
F   ^t t
fj f5z f
.  i
L  a4
Wk
f
e'.R

s  1


- THlE SECRET REYEALEDP
t
me drunk again! Where do you suppose the Itit come, Io    let -
Yankee has gone with his vacht?"    br       afst pvov to yo
S" I have no idea, Gustave                                                                                                                          I will inquire position, and show
if the vessel was sct after daylight by any drmini  My   stew
one on the plantation, ad if so, which way quaintodity. but i- s
she steered. Meet me at thebreakfast-table, man, has-een 'laying
and we will then try to Jay out some plian of in trying' to tempt
immediate action. For I shawl not rest until Zela, you are sow t
- we hsave her' back again, She has taken Zella mistress --so longer
away with-her, too-my own property !"      Henderson. Your m
"'Let mec but eateh limii in a slave State, that you share our ms
and he shall pay the penalty of nigger-steal- "' No-not object, bu
fin, as well as his other debt " said Gustave, said Adele.
itterly.Ze                                        would have re
~~ told her that it must 1
CHAPTER     XVI.              the lower end of the t
When Adele, after a -refreshing sleep of   "Well, Nathan,"
some hours, awoke, she found Zelha sitting by steward, who stood
her side, ready to dress her when she arose. cabin-boys, near the
'                                                                                                                           And now she saw with what generous and bill of fare this morni
deliente foresilt Harold Morley had furnish-  "Chicken broiled,
ed every appurtenance of luxury and comfort, fresh fish, boled an
in anticipation of the cerinuty which he felt sorts o' shapes, cold h
of her rescue.                   -         eggs jest *s you wan
Her state-room contained every article ne- ehoeolate, and claret
cessary for the most r fined foiette. A neat ting ?"
bath-roomi adjoined it. Ther1 was more el-   "-Yes, Nathan, you
ganee and ta-te displayed in that small space ourappetites wiildoy
I         than she fiad ever seen on shore.         willI
" Lc me dressyou, sweet lady ' Master    And Harold, first h
Harold has anaiited breakfast for youl" said to the dishes of their
Zella.                                     the battle of hunger w
' "I will rise,'good girl. How pleasant the that be was not one,
m tion o the vessel over the waves is I It yc- who can live on lova
minds me of ilie childish days whenIswung "Have you any i
beneath the limbs of the great magnoia. I my sweet Adele ?" as
feared that I should he sick, but never befre ate.
- V                                                                                                           -~        did I feel so well. We are free, Zeus-we are  "Not a thought, m
free !"                                    you I care not, so Ion
"Yes, sweet mistress" said Zel, with a   "How utterly unli
sigh.                                      osity is a matter of p
"Why do you sigh, Zella?"               form you. First, I
"Only because 1 ams very happy, my mis- Havana, for which pili
tress !"                                   ports Next, perhaps
Adele rose, and with Zella's skIled1 aid, was havana, by the time
soon dressed as neatly as she would havve been season will be at its
had she expected tot breakfast with Harold at querade and hera y
the chateau of Hilliar' Hendeison in the time metI"
when they first became aequaited.       -    "Not more than I'
When she 'appeared 'in the outer cabin, ciety I" said Adele,w
frarold was there to greet her with affectionate "A  me, I fear you
respcaest. r' ,                            my Adele l"
"How' kfare    d itwithm myweetA e, this  "1Ias'o d  -
morning?" he askeda   h came forth #ith a   8he only-spokce iis
glad smile upon her lovely face.           fulookhieh accom
A'   well, that it seems to me like a-dreatn I" sufficient rebuke.
replied 4ehe. "I can .irdly realize that I  "ite m, Ade
am frge ,rma tyrant's power, and bon ding said. ":I will lust si
yves the luec 4$ijews o' the itesan with hisn  "'Do. sot#Harold
wihom I love .mde   qelelso on earthi    ladbuhdeI~ p lIn-ydi~'..f-
iarotd, will aenk  appiess lasted "  ~ ' n deep oE for you
,"i shall not be w  faul&amp; if j$ does nt     ear Adee I kn

the substantiality'of is
u the reality of your
You that you are not
ard, good' Nathan, a
tauncli, and serviceable
himself out,' as he Says,
your appetite t. Come,
he companion* of your
r the slave of hifhiare
istress will not object
eals !"
it insist that she do so 1
fused ; but when Harold
be so, she took a seat at
able.
aid Harold, to the old
with his neatly-diressed
table. "What is your
ng ?"
capting, with Wafuls;
I fried ; potatoes in all
'led mutton and ham;
t 'em, toast, tea, coffee,
l Will that do, eap.
are a capital provider;
ou justice, at least, mine
helping Adele and Zolla
choice, fell to work in
rith a zeal which proved
of that half-witted elass
alone.
lea where we de going,
ked larold, while they
y Harold , and I assure
g us I am near you1"
ke your sex, whose curb
roverb  i But I will in.
propose looking in at
ace I cleared when I left
s, to New Orleasrs. Ia
we arrive, thae carnival
height, and in the ma.
ou will find rare enjoy.
will find here in your so.
ith a smile.
will tire of that in time,
name, but the reproach.
panied her voice was a
lc, I did but jest!" he
err' gain 1"
foir my  orlteaodi Is
Vw verf   wlte I t lt a
ow it, slia will 'not let e


I

trifling.ord threw a thadow br your path!1
Let tu think of erom thing pleasant. By the
wiy, how do you auppose Ililliaro Bender-
son mtil f el when he r-ls the note whieh I
treied Nathan to leave with hia last night?"
S Witch he has reti that, and on .wvich I
left for him. and fiids that we are all safely
out of his reach, hell lbare an anger-fitlo se-
were, that it may rid the world of a villain
whom few would mourn !" said Adele.
At this moment, the second otlicer came
down: into the eahin, aid said:
"W hen you have done breakfast, sir, Mr.
Perkins would like to sec you on deck I The
barometer is filing !"
"Alh! I will he there in a few moment.
Tell him to shorten sail without orders, when.
ever he deems it neces'nry !"  .
"What does tate falling of the barometer
ldict4'?' asked Adele.
"A change of weather !"said Harold, "We
have now faur weather, a smooth sea, and a
pleasant breeze ony. By-and-by it, is poe-
eible we mav have more wind and a rougher
sea; but a stauncber craft than this never
floated-mv crew: are all men who know their
duty, arid it would be, indeed, a terrific gale
which would caalanger our safety I know that
my Adele wall fear no danger while under my
eare I"
"Now, that I am will yon, I have banished
4he word 'fear' from my vocabulary," she re-
plied, with a smle :antd then, with a dulcet
voice, she sung a verse from the old favorite :
"The lanad is ano ionver in view,
the clouds are beginning to frown,
utwitta stout ve-sc anti crew,
WVe'll say, left the storm cane down!
And the song of our hearts shah be:
thile the wins sad waters rave-
A life on the heaving sea,
And a Houae on the ocean wave !"
"Bravo, moy ocean queen, bravo!" 1osried
Iarokl.
"Bf that don't beat all Jerusalem, thert
isn't nary angel nowhere,".said-Nathan, set0
w ues.
Harold rose to go on deep
" If a storm coieis on, I shall go up to loo
.at. it, for  know it will ie grand " said Adele
as Harold wont above.
CIIAPTER XVII.
"Well Hillinre, what news ?" asked Gustav
IIeadersoa of his brother, when he met it
atithe break fast table. " id s owo see th
schooner r go out?"                r
aol  sma  11 lliave. "Thesy mnut hay
gone soon aftr.idiight, for net ro  oyrse
or Isand .w her in sight at dey hPigIzt-l'
"Then there is hatone way for '*4ey
upon her track," said Gustve. "8he,g
r/" weeasr iort, probably New Yor'k o

l Baltimore. Theni of. cours-, to get proper
papers, she had tQ blear for some other port.
I must go North and find what port she clear
ell for,.and sail for that port. Once upon his
trnek, I nver will leave it until I have her
and Zelia again in my piawer, -ad have such
revenge upon hip as my lienrtbunts t take."
"Your plan is gom,    ustave. You ate
nrore of a man in thought and action, this
morning. than I have kno wn y ou to be far
years "
"Because I have awakened from a dream
of drunken folly. I know what I have lost, I
will regain it or die ! I shall need plenty of
funds, Hlilliare--I lave enough zow, but may
have to draw upon yon while at sent."
"Every draft of yours shall Ie honored,
Gustave.  lint avoid the ganing-table - I
know your infatuation there."
" 'enr not, Hilliare. The staunch bound
which tracks the stag will cross a thousand
trails, but never leave that on which it
started."
"Right! Be you as staunch! It will be
necessary for me to give you waters to re-
claim Adele as my ward, and Zella as.any
slave. These I will have made out immedi-
ately. If the abductor has gone South, I will
help you totrace him. If he has gone INorth,
I will leave you to deal with him alone. I do
not like the North or fin people. They are
too cold and too moral for me-I like neither
them nor their climate."  I
"No more lo I; but were it to the fr ozen
regions of the North, or to the burning line
of the equator, that ai ehad gone, there should
i follow tina ,,
"When will you go. G ustaeve?"
"I will start before tie sign sinks to its bed
in the West. It will not take me long to mpre-
pare, I assure yon, Only a few directions to
I my overseer, the pecking of a few nrticks of
clothing, th0estaffing of a pocket-book which
e I small ncvtd, and I am ready."
"Well, to breakfast then, and afterward I
will aid you in every way that I can."
k             CHAPTER     XVIII.
When Harold Morley reached the deck,
Mlr. Perkins, by a quick  ance and momiop of
his htad to leeward, indicated the direction
of the rising storm, which the barometer had
"  'retold. He hiad not yet take in sail, for a
,fresh and fair breeze was still blowing.
e   Harold looked off upon te Ice-bow. Iia
eye. fell apon. a lite of black, murky clouds
* which Ioelik   a range of rugged noun-
r tins wrapped in night-like shadows.
' ! "* soutlhlwqester, Mr. Perkins," said has
t be glanced toward his officer.
t    "Yes, sirit looks like it. Shal iitq  in
s ailkannd out the Art* . *,as -,      .

Til   ECRET REVEALED.2$
"Of course, aid the sqoe r the better. rope, hoquickl ta-teced it nrouudthse watst
You had letter send doWno the tap-masts. of Adele and ella, who had followed her
Thoste claude rise so rapidly. t ant I knew they zpiestam, then took °a turnteound-himislf
ride on the bratea't of at hugn ietppe.'"  iatidho inain-riggitg, Ibsido which he stood.
" All hands slhort'te suit!" shouted Per  "Lp   out i!"- .he -shouted. " Perkins,
kings.  Down flying-jib, and in gaffetspanisn take the hcim, and let her get a full if you
my lads. Reeve your ias row's, and stand ca :mnd taen head her.to th wind."
! y t ' senl dowin topmast, andto gig in the  The last order waisunheard." Thes storm
flying jib-boom. JBeively.'               was upon tletn with itsadeafening roar. The
The epw sprung to their work with a will, ,sea ollel in upon-the deck in one undivided
aided, tioo, 1y Ntlhan amd lhis cabin-crew. Q  nass. Well wait for the schooner and those:
ta " altr guard as he-ermedbthem -Inan on boardtbat hbe hatethes had beenelosed--
vev u short spae3 of time tho,;ails were loisa'l lee aid she filled on the ?nstant  Grouched
furled, the bght spars housed, and the vessel Iossegun lhr the isw bulwarks, Hiarald and his
stan :&amp;tg long under onzly hermaainsail5 fore- charge voidedihte force of theistra, yet thegr
sail, and jib                            syer  drenched in a moment.
"Take the bonnets off the jib and foresail,  Asthe wind struck the close-reefed foresail,
and o lose-reef the mainsail, Mr Perkine,"\ it fi$led,toits fullest strength in a second, and
said Harol. who still watched that blasek time vessel, still motionless on-the sea, fell over
mos.ntain of clouds whliah, working up against on losr side unttil it scenaed'asif she must go
the breeze, still livid by the, schooner, tmow  bottom up. And well was it for .one man
c vered more than hlnlf the leeward portion  that tsho did not move, for that first sea swept
of te sat'.                         .    Nathaan-Shankhaistnd far' away to lecwpri
This waq doie, aind only43e whoni the  H Ihad secured-the endof a caikof rope ;
waid tay lad hll till then died entirely but bad Mot securely fist ned it, and though
away,-                    ,               he clung to the rope with a death-grasp, iM
Quick, MIr, Perkins, and down and furl paid out, and when at brought him np.hdowas
mainsail and jib!" cried llrttld, .atwi dull, fa  away to Jeeward. -.But while the vessel,
heavy sound, like the rumbling of a distant  half-capsized, lay on h- r besam-ends, breakitig
train of laden ears, wass heard. "The fore- the sea from  thim,whilo Perkins 'and Morldy,
sail will hie all site cane possibly bear tiodor thteselve( hehipless to aid him, looked u po'
that blast."}                              him as lost,' he, hailed himself back hAnd
3a'ely were' thme tavs sails secured, when over hand on the rope, the end of which had
the shadow e' the eloud-nmounainl ay like been fast inboard ; and just as the sehoomer'
night upoi there , the roar of the coniuiag begn tq gather a little hseadwayI ho regained
storn swas like the thunder of Niagara, and. the.leg main rigging, where he took oare to
the vessel yet heaving, tusbalancet by the, make himself more secure.
wind, seEmed to tremble in anticipation of  The vessel, a she moved a little, began'to
the shoek,                                answer to her helin, imnt as she filled, ailot
"have life-lines rove, quick, Perkins'", atill more before the wind,, righting a'little as
said Morlcv, as lie saw thme sea ecaing with; she went. But a mrefurious gust than the-
the wind, in an unbroken sheet of foam.  first towstrunk her, sand in a moment, with
Fortunately the officer had already seen a sound lke $hnnder, the canvas split ands
the necessity of this, and the mes ware at- th strong sail wut shred by shred, off upow
ready passing th  life-lines above oe bul- the trath of the gale.
warkas, froan stein to stern..    .         BiBut the vessel riglhted, -headway e ough
"Oh, how grand !" said a low weet-roiee,, for her to answer her behnihad been given,:
in Uarold's ear. "How magnificent is a storm an4 Perkins put her away umder her buta
4t deal                                   sars before the wind; AIninow, uprirwhtrshe
sa9ok haersehfafree of- the water whiettrawn im
The od tluelt tbzmale se sta sg;                           ,atnr ehtsfhrough luim~soappers, and boub4
Thteclatilpws rolliog'feasrmzuyr  a 'away "VI t lt~thpi  tho opt~ed of thme wld,i
-  conceit with the whirlwind ring :'? " w=i 'o a wed behui4 hse' and  emredind
-        ,               -   r~~aroes tie rigging,. New she hproved'thd
" Adele, love, thit ins ne time torquele I adomrable rnodu of her Isaih.- Bdoyatlty ii
poetry or for youtqi et h ere : o 'qbh. rode, upon. the waves, and while the akilttd
uw, were .'ou wi l he tce e, , oDo lEuapsbmaun  cp t' her so fair before wind and
acarven'a sake! In a nenaei4 wore th stota sea that she veered nut a fathot either way,
will he upon us."  . -,                   she drove on -with an -upright keel, and het
"Wherre you pro, ther imylbliss and safety  people as safe as if they waerost'shore. -
hles. Do not drive um from your side," said  In spite'of the shrill sercamitg of thegale
Adele.'                                  Adele could muahOlarold hmrear her words.
He saw that it was then too late. Catching a  "'T'his is the I)roude.et moment of mizy life i"

IIILLIAIR fENDERSON         OR,

t
{1

1* ,
Si
S-
!'5
1
a'k

SaF

r
.
A7
t
E
d
7
3

1

j
1
1
ypfa
3

.,
F
Ijjl
ST
i
Y
.? ,
a}j
'L
.. «_,--
.:.


~ t
rf.
I
I
I

80                       rILLIARE HENDERSON ; OR
she said. "I feel ns if we were bidding defi-1 But his serious face expressed a doubt while
atd-to the storn-laughing the warriag edo- his lips poke of hope.       ,
asdt5 to scorn1"       jk                "I am 'going below for a little time. If
Nathan, who, like the rest of ,the crew, bad there is anychange, send for mne at once," said
now ualtlhcd himself, came over to the aide Harold ; " althomglh I know the bonny croft
where Harold stood, and, as composedly as f is as safe,'even wore s:ife, under your care
he had not been in danger, said :        than icyOWn."
"Capting, about what time would yostlike  "P11 call 'te, sir, if there is any need,"
d~ire to be got ready"-      -           said Perkins.
"'As soon as you like now, Nathan," replied  "Do so. I will go below and dine, and
Harold. "But what were youloing away off then come on deck and relieve you, that you
t. leeward a while ago?"  - -            may do the same. Meson is a good boy, but
"Just stretelain' the kinks out of a eof O' has hardly expertense 'enough to be trusted in
rape, eapting," re1flied Nathan,'quietly.  charge of the 'deck in 'weather so heavy as
"What did vou think of, Iir. Shankland,' this."
wile in that fearful peril ?" eked Adele.  "Very true, sir ; but he has the making of
"I wos thinking , just then, marm, what I a tip-top sailor in him."
could git to cat to day that would taste good  1I believe you. Have a nan kept aloft to
to you. You ace we've a'nmoet everything look out for land."
aboard. but I'm not need to c.terin' for worn-  "Ay, ay, sir 1"  .
s   folks, mid feel bothered. I suppose I~~
eight to have lots of sweet things-preserves,        CHAPTER XIX.
sakes, pies, and all that. Fm  not muhnol on
any kink of pies, 'eept punkim pie; at that I  Hilliare Henderson stood in the cupola of
beat all natus' I If you tell me, manrm, what his chateau, gaming with a look of demoniae
you like best, I'll be sure to cook It' for pleasure out upon a storm-lashed sea. He
you."                                   ' did not heed the wind which howled around
"I slipld hate to havo you oook what I him; lie paid no attention to the fact that his
like beet 1" said she, with a smile, as she lookr house shook and quivered from foundation to
ed at unrold.                            dome ; that the fierce tempest was beating
Nathan saw the joke, but he was serious- down his broad fields of rice to a level with
minded and didn't like jokes. So he thought the earth-rending branch alter branch from
he'd give her one back nt any rate.  '   many of the finesttrees, and uprooting others
S1 Bain't got any receipt,~marm," said he, -scattering his fruit hither and thither ;
for eookin' veese."                    nothing reeked he of all this ; but through
Both Adeand Harold laughed heartily at his glass he looked out upon that foam-eov-
a reply whioh would have offended an detual ered sea, and watched a vessel which, in ap-
human goose.                             parent belplessaess, was driving in toward the
And Nathan, self-satisfied with his revenge, shore..                 ,
aid.                                      His brother, all equipped for his journey,
'UIll go and git dinner anyhow, and do the having inquired for him else here in vain,at
best I can to please von."              last cane and found him in the cupola.
Harold now advised Adele and Eella to go  "You need not go." he lhouted-for the
below to change their drippinggarments, and storm was almost deafening-" you need not
when they did so, ho went aft to the slde of go, Gustave ;  they arc there 1" And he
Perkins, who still kept the helm, and wso was pointed seaward with his telescope. "Two
now looking at-the compass in the 'binnacle hours more will see their stranded upon our
frequently, and with an depression of aux- 0o0st!"
lety.                                      "The news is too good to be true !" cried
"The wind is veerinc to the eastward, sir," Gustave. "Let me looks"
sai4dks, to Ilarold. " Driving as fast as we  And he seized the telescope.  -
dreaI don't like the idea of a le-ehof whife'  "Tgue, by thunder 1" he said, after a long
IL blows sb heard that we cannot mae sail."  and steady look at the distant vessel. "Not
"True," said Harold. "Wt munt pot b    a sail set-driving right in! Fortune is on
drivela bask on haht east. Sail nmitst eisde our side, this time I"-.
if the wind still hauls eesterly."   ' '."'  "Yes. Miss Adele, if ahe is not drowned,
"With the wind as It blows nrw;'oew- etn. shall hat  a f rther taste of my gusrdian-
sas would be blown from the bolt-ropes ip: nn ship; Aind Zella shall know what a good mem-
linstsnt I"          --                  ory I have! I 'only hope that UHnrold Morley
_t Yes; but it cannot 11st so lang  'his is will fall alive into my hands. le sball then
its first sd heaviest, breath. There will be a learn that nigg -r-atenling, in this State, is
1*n lby and by."                -.,'     punished with feath. A h 'ngmnan'a rope wilU
* "  ow so, sir," said Perkins.'    serve well to cravat his dainty neck."

THE SECRET REVEAL!b..
"I should like to be hangman on the occa- with such fury. No sail could withstand this
sion," said Gustave, bitterly. "I don't wish gale a minute. Most likely their'sails have
the fellow to die until I can have a hand in already been blown away."
the matter."                              "adoubtedly they have, ifthoy hiute been
"What matters it so long as he dies, and set. But Isay, llhliar,  don't like staying
is out of your way?'                   up iu thisconfounded cuiola4 It shakes lik
"So rpuch that I could almost die content :a withered leaf on a lone brthet in winter.
if I could throttle him to death.and whisper It is noteafe I
in his dying ear ; 'This as your reward for "'Pshaw f it Will stand as long as the house
atopping between me- and Adele Dumesle i stands. I cannot leave it until I eethat there
This is the satisfaction require and taken by is no chance for their escape ;an then  m
Gustave Henderson I' "  .         .YWith you for the beach, so that'he         '
"You are bitter, Gustave; but I do not strands, we-can take proper care of'the sur=
blame you. I hope that Adele will be saved, vivores. '
even if all the rest are lost ;. for, let her but  "Well, you ean d o as you like," said Gus.
mnce come into my power, and she shall be tave; "I stay here no longer. The whole
yoursI That is sworn to."              house shakes, from its foundation up."
"Vou said, yesterday, that you bad a plan  And Gustave very prudently descended the
which would force her to marry me."  .  steep and narrow staircase which led to the
"True, I said so ;' and such a plan I have story below.
formed. Let her but once frll into my pow-  lIe had barely reached the floor below,
er, and with your aid it shall be carried into when a terrible gust swept over-the hotise.- A
mfreet-.crash, as of parting timbers, was heard, and
"What Is It? Let me hear, that I may Ilillire' leaped through the aperture from
judge whether it is feasible or not."    above, without pausing to descend by. the
Hiliare Henderson looked around, as if lie staircase, while the cupola, swept entirely
waa fearful that some one would hear his from'the roof, went crashing over among the
words. Then, bending his head, he put his magnolias to leeward of the house.
lips to hisa brother's ear, and whispered a few "'More haste than dignit , that time, broth-
words.                                  er1"said Gustave, with a laugh.
They must have been diabolical indeed to  Ihilliare's faes was pale as he looked up at
have induced an exclamation of horror and the open roof above him.
repugnance from a man so utterly depraved  "'Tisthewildesthurriann'thateverbsww
as was Gustave Henderson.               ;ho muttered. "There is no hope for a yessaI
But such an exclamation' did escape his off this coast now 1"e          -
lips. And he said :        '              "Well, let us go down to the beach and see
"No, no,   ilhiare I I'm  a devil, but not her come in," said Gustave. "'If we are not
bed enough for that!"                   therand any of them escape, they will find
"Fob I there is no mercy in her heart for friends ti protect them. .  know what a
you ; why should you have' mercy onh'er?" likingJohn Simonds took to Harold Morley
said Ililliare, with a sneer.           when he was here first, and how such interest
"She would' proclaim  my crime, and the he'has since exhibited about Adele, eurse
law-would claim a terrible penalty."    himt I have more than once had a mird to
"Proclaim your crime andher own shame ?" invite him to a private meeting, where we
said Hilliare, contemptuously. ."Never would might exchange compliments muzzle to mins"
she be such, a fool as that. ihe would only sle."
btoo thankful to be permitted tp become   "oarecly a safe operation," said Hilliare,
y ur wife."                             more animi . "John is'as good a shot as
"Well, well," said Gustave, "let us first, you are, and never unsteadics his'nervef'ltl
see if she gets on shore alive, beforewe speak drink."
Of other matters. Let us gather a forokand  "Well, never' mind; I am going to the
go down to the beach, as if to helpthtem,sind beachi. Whether you go or not."3
watch them as tey dr.in." "odaleeddhot hgrry. 'wil1'go, slae ay
"There is.no need of uf-being in abur- loot-out $el'eiis gone. ButI nitus ~ 'to
ry," replied lilliare. ' "They a esloing wat sAdele's roo  to ge her telescope. Minthas
eut yetj and the drift is sloer . eymay'be gene' With the wreck of the cupola,ind is
bt   drags or anchors"                probablytruhied  'Tell the overseer td dlleet
" T:e !ast-would not hold a moasna inuch twenty or thirty bands to follow' willil
a gal' t e first, oily less a the'speed wlik h be with you in a moment.'_="
drives ti,,iit to destrucggjn. Canvas only can
carry them out of this scrape."
' And that thy cannot set while it blows  When Iiilhhlaro Henderson and his brothel

f
a,

.


reached the' bcnoti opj-osite tQ the polnt s most valuabe slavei n pn tmy plintation.
*herc they had last seeun the drifting vessi. Provide. you sC, is cr ring the thing blaok
they funnd that others, hppreh tisive df her to pn irshttent. If Ite escapes tfe sea, he
wreck,had alsohe(jidtawh to the samiepoint, shall not escape me. 1Ie shall hang! That
but with far different tmtives. A neighbr- is sworttr t6  And von, John Simonds, with
ink pllatt, nai). I  SimoInds - t he stme f all your influence, Cnnot rt' tim!"
om the toht e   Iat  poken as the fries  "Mr. Hlenderson. when I interfere between
of Jlartkd Mtrl S-was there on hOrscakeel, the law nnd a proven negro-thief. it will be time
with other frien rs.                      enough for youtto dent in innendoes. Until
That Mr. Sitonds was one of Nature's then, I erave, foryour own sake, that onwill
nobfenmen, no one who alauced at his fine forbear."
face nd manly form could detnV. lis air    " But the owner and commander of that
was thnt of a well-Lrel man---he sat on his vessel is' an old friend anl proteg  of yours,
spiite l lhorse gracefully ;nd in conversations Mr. Simonds," said lenlerson, with a sneer.
with tlhos a-n' 1 him, evidenced a  genial ' In truth, it is' none ot .er than Ilnrold Mor-
and courtei sj'irt, uhilt made him descry- icy."
Idly !lottlar.                              "God help lhm, poor hov ! God help him,
~\' ht lbesaw tic Ienlersons approach, if you speak the trtth '' said Sirnonds, look-
-                        though he v :ig nt  untlelbustof terms with itgwita paile cheik nn  i rin lip to-
tsemn-for he had prompt y re eled 1 lk aspers)io n wrd th t ese)0now not t o rcc n/i re frg
whiic' they had es i t upon11atrhl Morley-he shore.
suIpposed i cemtot=,be upou. the sqme errand 1 "Is thatt n.te in hi 1ndw1riting?" asked
Sofmeret wh ichh:o1 lIbrnght him andhis Henderson, with ialigwu:o t triuniph, as he
frientla therc ; nnuI, overlot~.o{ng:ll the dark. handledIaroIld's lettice to the planter..
ness ithet~ir chlaratcters, he saw unt this o c  " It is : and so Adele Du~melt"e hs ceeapedl
b~rightapot, andCI inba tiu  at tortc he,said t from your' tyrnny, andi the lainable slave
Gentlemen..1 am trill) glad to scoyeou whom you say you haye blet ia Zella, her
here. It is a  le hIcting to sec'the distress maid'
of othrs3lbrini; those together upon the'same  Ys; and they nrc there," sad header-
level wohoive hi diffcraets."           son, pointing toward the fated sehooner with
lYouhad letter cep yonr congratulations a sardonic laugh.
for thosethaLnel them,'' muttered Gustave  "fNow I feel that a just God will -yet save
hnderson, between lie gratitg teeth. them!1" sail Si oons, armily. "'As to'arold
Doyou think thit there is any chance of -Morley being arcgo-thiefou know,Ililliare
safety for yonler tcssel ?' ished htilliare Henderson, ;hint it is flise! Oht, sir, you may
'                       Henderson.                            .-frown--i ata n   sponsible fo.r what I say!
"I fear not.. The gain is evidently too Zela has been with Adele from childhood,
high toliermither to u:e canvas, if ste has and would lot now b-c seperat. d from her.
any sails hit. Tie breakr3 extend, as you Adele has taken her mad, as site has.a ight
see, a fu' mile froni sore-no boat can'live to; ntid I gnnrantee in three times the girl's
in them, and it will be a miracle if a liuman prco, that if they pass this peril- and I trust
being can pass through thtit and live."  ia God they will--that in two -car Adele and
"I angla I to hear it," said Ililliaro len- her husband will come to elnim their owa,
person. naliciousls'.                     and that Zella, if tdive, will be with them."
"A ni I, too,"   ,eled Gustave:          Hlendersoti dared not trust himsdif to reply.
"Gestlenen, you as.opish me--I thought lie was now almost choked 'with rage. Biut,
you were t'uau, ant -cane hero upon an he knew that John Siminds was idagierous
errad of mercy,as I and my other neighbors man to quarrel with; he applied the wa'rnink
have come"                                which ie hid given to his btothier t-l himself.
"Yot are mistakca, John Simonjs 1 We Therefore, without replying, h liebeconed 'to
came here to se'i a bigger stealers conipsbhore. his brother to follow hi, atd walked'dwf
IL s a pity that, hi is a friend ofQ-ours."  .  from the bluff where Ihey hind been stan ic
+II woulf=nrumb like to know what you to the bench, some threat tevr four 'huncd
n'es  ir. Ieyderson ?" s{r Synots, pr. yars vets ncarerthe surf; whitib" .lled in like
ering his' ter with tlat q-iet calmess great erift5 'af snow u pon the shore. -
whie  j cien4ttribute 9f a braiv. z aidd oar4 And nuW, dear  er,.w with 'go ba k on
gentleman upon all-oecAsins.           board the yaeht,   slha   he perils of our
" i1only me an, Mr. Simonds, tht tip vessel ileads there.
which we see yonder came into'my Harbor          -
just before dark list nght, using as a pretence
the statmufat that shte was-nut of water. liBe- -                    -
fore meorming s'-e went to s'earf'ying eff the

Q1
Pi
0


W;lIE SECRRIT I(FYE64EID.
OHAPTER    XX.               the long, hawser attach
Tarold Morley was iossessed ofa cooled, placed on the bows that
"         ~jsteit his was an a nntemerament,                       U. of the arew would b~e ab
Y       aina   edtihe naidst of that terrible teapst s board, Perkins hailed his
composedly as ithe had been on shore i per-  "If you ease down yo
fect safety--preseed the various choice dishes rond to," said be, " Il
Up)Oi/Adele with thie air of' a gourmand, an, We'o sAl1 ready forward
ate as leisurely as if they were in the mos  'nrold puthis ielm a1
pleasant part of a smooth and delightfuJvoy- swept swiftly and  race
age. .only for an instant In the
When dinner was over, lie went upon dek then coming head to it.
-'to relieve Perkins, and himself took, the helm                                                           A. abe did so, erkins
which the other left, rent king that be did wheh the sooner began
}        not think the gale would hold it strength a the drag went over her
great while-it had begun too etroeg to hold orttwo more, payig out
out well                                 of a hundred fathoms
An hour passed on, and Perkin was again schooner brought up to
a deck, when the man. at. the mast-head easily as if she ha4 b
9  shoutd :                          smooth harbor though s
"Land ho"owly in toward the la
" Where Away, my lad ?" asked arod.  be seen fro  the deck qu
" Ahead, sir, and all alobg on our ige- As Perkins ecane aft a
bow !" replied the lookout.              old at the I, Im-though
Tiarold went forward with his spy-glass in quired-only a watch
his hand, and ascended the fore-riggng afew  should ehanee to break
feet. From thence he looked long and anx-. -Adele ai4 Zella came
opsl y toward the land, which hie could see Adele noticed the pa
even from that elevation. Idh came down, which rested upon Harol
Went aft,-and, in a lowv tone, aked rerkins if ed toward the fand, and
he thought it would be possible for th  'was in danger, though h
schooner to show any canvas at all in such a Laying her mall w
hurricane.        -               .      am, she said:
'No, sir," replied Perkins. "Were the /ails  "If the storm eontim
lnade of she-t:iron, they wouldn'tatand t."  be wreeked--do you'no
" Then we must get'out a drag to keep hey  He looked ii wonder
from drifting, as much as possible, andround ness with which she vie'
her to."th'easnpaornh
1                                                                                                                       "That can be done, sir; hut still, she'll fearn  groat dark ey
drift fast in this gale."      .         even, 6f h lig, to show
"I know it; but we must do the best we whiek mus ensue, if th
cap. The harbor which we left last night is towreck'upon the surge
dead to leeward of us. This gale cannot "Yes,"he said, at las
bold its strength forever-it must slaelgen up Adent dat it. fdry is n
In a few hours; and if we can keep off the we can drift to the at
'coast until she can bear a little ladl, We are whidh we now have, I am
safe. If not, we are lost!i"             #ble to carry sail enom
, "I'll go forward and rig out a drag, if you sire. These fierce hu
spiease, sir," said Perkins. "Will yon take long duration."
the helm, or shall I call one of the hand" -  "Upon what part oft
'-I will take it," said Ilrold. "Be as ig?*she asked.
quick as you ann with tUe drag."           "Take my   lass and
A', dy, sir !"                       i nIet," was lsanswer.
An the of1cer happened forward  and,  She took the telesco
'aided by the the 4villing crew, soon collected land, now square astern
all the spare sptrt, and fastened therm secere- "Her cheek was a trial
ly together with strong ro pes. To'   lie served:
attached a heavy kedge-aneor, by a haw,  "Yes-  ean see the
but not withsuffi e nit length  for  it tb reach  ca  see,'by  the white su
bottom ultil tliey should get Into very shoal this side-of the land, th
water. It was done to sink the spars 'ms low within the sweep of th
In the water as possible, to 'make theni drag  udy lost!"
weaver.                                    "  on look at the da
When these were all ready, and the end of brave Adele."

d, and themass so
the uiite4,strength
le to pitch it over.
captain:      an.
ir helm uow, sir, and
have the drag over.
1"
ee, and the schooner
fully around, rolling
trough of the sea,
gave the order, and
n to gather sternway,
bows. In a minute
hawser to the length
ot' thereabout, the
the drag, and rode as
een at anchor in $
she still kept drifting
d, which eo'uld now
aite distinctly.
gain to relieve Har-
no steerage was re-
there if the vessel
adrift from the drag
on deck.
le and anxious look
d's face. She glane.
knew that the vessel
e-did not tell her so.
hite hand upon his
dues your vessel will
t thii  so, Harold?"
at the perfect catm-
wed the danger. For
ier cheek--po sign of
yes--not a quivermng,
a terror of the death
© vessel was doomed
e-lashed shore.
t. "But I feel eon-
nearly aent. Before
'ore with the cheek
m sure thst we will be
ugh to beat off the
rricanes are never of
he coast are we drift-
see if youesa recogt
e and looked at the
less rosy, as she an-
chateau! And I also
ru 'that rolls so high
at a vessel which gets
ose breakers will be
anger very calmly, niy

a


US                 BILLARE~ liENDYERSO~a- O,
'"Whywitoeld I not? ,Ani - nodithb ot   ef a  -es asjiaiily from lilalt.ttoaU
I hnt rather perish by yonr side, Harold Mop  tey from theis. Let the worst coni, if w
ley-ratler .j*rish tei, da- an to ive a- but landed in safety, I know that I linvemur6
other wekon c'ti ler shre with thcT'surt frIends thn foes on yonder shore," said H°r'
Tor? Ings fri which I havre escaped I"  old.
e    A       eat is a rg way from ce    How much water there ?"he asked, of the
let. ll.wlto las tilled oar cup  with tiapi- man at the lead.
ness wil not dash it rutadsted frti 'or f? s.  "'Ten fathoms, sir!" replied the man.
I fel n ear ad ahiilmg .trust-in agravi- ':FHow does she drift?"
drcc wuoihath ever treated ue erifally.  "Dead away for the shore, ir-prettyfast
We iar in danger, but I feel coniident that at that."a    hr               y
we shItaf escape it,' replied flarold. - Then  "Mr. Perkins,'don't you think she'll bear
tu'r i  o .one ofl1.is seamen, he told him to the tiainsail and jib, close reefed as they
tavc It tkea-l every fire minute, to test are?"      ^
the +jth of the water and the drift of the  "'Hardly yet, sir. We might risk and lose
Yetsel."                                  thiem. If we can holdl on at little whilethg
'The uith3 sill blew with teri-ibla strength  ' rI feel sure that the wid will fill. 'nh
jet now tlrc Was nt t cnibiaaflttll of a few  lulls -ei longer, and the heavy gusts far lesk
tuucia't., which was sure to be follower] by frequent titan they were."
a fihe n tinul leavy  i'." Very well-hold on, it is ; biut hare all
tehave a sew fregtii inthis'Iir-room  ready fr hmisting sail and entting away the
M,. Ilerki" a "gtidl Har.old. "You hadcjbet- drag when the time comes. 1 witl1 carry tho
'r get it rt d for bending; for, if the gale masts out of her before I'll let hlngo ashore."
slac,'s rei an  ti. .  an determineJ to pit- "All is ready, sir."
the canvas on and heat tft the  '.' 'It will  4lliens silent and steady watchifulners for
e     d o' ir 1to go ashtre hiebont"     somnetini en beard the yacht. The man who
o  e. I'll go Fadd have the sail retdv." hove the lead would eentionaly sing out bie
rTought tine drag checked the drift of tiro soundings, bat so othe~ione spoke. The
yacht very nih, ye tIe tmwid, uai:ed ith  steady diibt of the vesel toward the breakers,
tie heave of the sea, d rove ter an tod 'rapid- which were not now two milks to letward,
Id moe The thore henatme paitifnuly distinct, seemed to ce'dupy the thoughts of all, both
rimorethaoneo. the crew "loselyshnn- officers and crew.
fled the fues of tireen plain and his chief ofil-  At.ast, Adele spokecto Harold. She had
' - rt thuer vhat uight be the extent been intently lookuug at the pc'sois on shore,
if tr{eur lit.  For., as a child d looks to its through lie sp'.eglassr
4'Ttrcrut fur' tuoawlchg oih good or etilso looks  "'The hleiu rsons are there," she said.
ire settiar to ie 6111 r. Upoin his jrtdg.. ' Thtey stud~ doun it CIOb lir le watt(r-side,
reat ic depends, even as h is bedient to  nphr from  the other people. Fart l;er up, I
the orders  hici come froth his ipa ; for Ie see John Simonds on horsl aek, with tony
nO tu it upon the asill of that officer Iis jeole around .im.",
vr  itetei  teii1'etCit.hGose, still -niore and siore near to tlrm
But IirohalantPe'tkhrs-both appeared  brea'kers, uhose  ar couls *u ie (eistinetl
oaslt ad     k      ancfueut; itt] though a foamimg  heard above the shrill trimpetings of the
y~ast of bhreakersla  under  p  drel n tee, to- storgi  drifted  tie' 'alutajtartly  doomed-
ell!t n('. tutit                    ofine oftthin1 et' waeetned Afrnid.  harold's face began to look ruled. For
'[lt uuutu nflecuae  i]teskill of himself, lieofeared not, care nut. 1Hi
t si ' flier re.               -uthoguhts were fixed upon Ade .
sit                t    b    e        ieum you see, Auierrn keep our  "'"i is to y"ung--too beautiful to die,*
l~ i~.  i    ltue ='tta.Y observee,, paid lieinuirmured.
Lit' . jut. utter ie laid stationed tie g.  "°She cnn afand the jib and mainsail now,
maniint:thuatita.-              .i,. I thinkk" aid P'rkinsnt thnt moment.
are many persons gathered upon    "She must ('said lInrold. pt rnly  "Have
tre hre, napparetly watchingg us. Sme' te sheets '( bith sails fittere aft before
Rri mn   fa  their ire on horseback, repiigd ypu man the  ihii:ertls. It matters not on
t      -  -I, ,_ .-             ..   which track sie ensls"
S'her ire there prolbnl4y to try ' It was, indeed, time to make sail. if it ever
T~l Fnil. t  fhing that we surety wif beo wea to be made. The breakers were not "
~In '  T   tridhl-                   hlialf-mile distant. ~.    '
1 tno  hilersou:',tm ereticear wahca Wicn the sheets were trinimed, and Harold
wil -to ntfr"ti '    t   the             hal r!'s 'i Aetole.  saomtaaen
'i'lteII' nsers US te'it. ~tlue ulv hpeopihe  "far tithemain-throat, and peaktand jib
who can see oer Ito iticit. John Siitoundshnlhairrds--stand-by to up mainsail arid jib I"

I

i

THIE SECRtET REVEALED.                             I
every man sprang to his duty with the lghtqaly scrape eo ahiek as  kf
of hope in lis eye aindt lie flush of joy on his beating l And we$ugt tobe thankfnuloes
hopee. Ien ':in and his 4after-guard" tnre for it, too. What shall I get for ,uppe,
appeared on   ek - Perkins and Merton capt      kg;
sprung to the ropes themselves.            " Wluttcer you lice, Nathan ; there wifi
A treay, sir! " shouted eJr s  .   )eslask of appetite to-night ln board o
'' Huet away i th ta well, theicu 1 cried Urc- thi8 craft."
"olsd    aa.wt     wlse      r           " Ma be .not," said Nathan, as he descend-
As the vessel was directly head to wind, ed  liduty i he cabnrHaold,ut her
tbougi the sails flapped heavilythey  e  e  ee wooking   ar H  ord.
raised with comparative ease,' fr  "Tt erqw eyes whre looking toward the shore,
" worked with a' awll," as if they knew    "What is my Adele thinking off" asked
that their lives depended, upon the sue- Harold.      r   ee
"ess of the attempt tA) carry sail In a few " Of wat our fates would bave been, liad
eeeoufs the aewer hoisted, and tenenas the gale not so slackened that you coul. carry
hedpuths lahelps hard to starboard, to act tail,' said Adele. " Qf that in part, and also
with the rapid "stern-bonr," which the yes- how Hilliare nud Gustave lenderseo mutd
ecl woukd be sure to make, Harold gave the feel, now that we, whom they thought doomed,
order to cat away the drag.     oaaxi    d     vng from their sight free from t
A couple of smart blows from an axe, in danger which threatened us."
the hands of Perkins, severed the hawser,  Reader, would not you like to knethew
anid then the head of the schooner quickly thetijief villains of our story beer' their die-
veaered oil' to port and the sails filled. kRcefed appointment? Yes?. Well, I' thought so.
down, as they were, they caused the schooner We'll go ashore and see.
to "heel over," until her lee-rai lay levelA
with the water, and for a nionsentauO)ied           QUAPTElt XXI.
as if tie canvas must burst from :        After Mr. Simonds knew the vessl in die-
opes and sans it surh a teriblda .   tresswas the yacht whiet carried his young
e yacht had drifted with her atern-  friend Harold Morley, and Adele Dumesle,
j nto only five fathoms of water, and the both himself and friends watched her with
breakers were now rearing scarce a cable's painful interest. They felt that her doom
length astern,t                          was almost certain ; for they supposed,.sines
lint slowly the noble craft gathered head. she evidently made no attempt to carry sail,
way --slowly at first, but surely -then, as that tier canvas had all been blown away in
Harold gave her the helm, and ordered the the terrible hurricane which was raging.
heet slackened a triae, her speed increased,  And while these friends of Haro d's were
Ssand cheer after cheer rose from tie lips of thus anfferis ea agony of suspense, Hilihae
her ailad crew as -they saw her dart forward, and Gwtave  endereo ware pacing up and
heading fhil ten points to windward of land down the beach like two hungry beasts, wait-
cu the .lee-bow,                         ing for a prey almost within reaeli of their
Hoist the lag of our country at the main, whetted fane-sure that those Whomthe sr
and the signal of the ' Adele' forward !" cried much hate could not escape the sfn
Harold, joyfully. "Let friends and foes which loomed before them.
ahore see tint we are sefe I"             $0  e~tentd was Hifliar  #O tO uvineed
sWith renewed cheers up went the two flags, that, crc the red un we#ltwo in the west,
while from one of the two groups which stood bis revengeful feelings w o44egratified,
on shores could be seen hats and hiandkerchiefs that hosat one .1IAf  s rst  h  os
waving; and Harold fancied, even; mid the for wine and their refshmuent.e
noise of wind and waters, that he could hear  And when thiswinec lin, e tab
their glad cheers.:                      vital omRplisaente~tloMr. Shuode, telling
The other group stood, motionless and sol- tlle sett to saythat .hs master wIshed Mr.
len, on the beach, like wolves disappointeL f  ionds joy upon the pleasant protpeet be
The Adele   egafe. The wind helidsteady,  Xi Simondesaof csraei  the uwine bae
failing graduall, and she stodaip under her untastd.        dspN       this
canvas staunchy, beaut" ny.:4h N   te  fhe d    ..laughed            t, as a
she increased thed t~ani from  shoirs,du .  nhat:liii owlappetitefo; wine and foe d
the hearts wlsidti had tremble a h~lf-ht5  tt3  ncee so good befre.  ~hwt
before now 'oeat fast with joy.          Gustave, both ate and dranth a      erf
\"'ii, Nathan, what do you think of this?" which showed their utter heartlessness and
5':ted harold, as his steward came aft, after the inhuman ferocity of their hate.
the schooner gathered headway off the shore.  As.the vessel drew nearer and nearer, the
"Think, sir ? Why, that we're out of a fiendish joy of the two brothers inereased .

J


13

IIILLIAPE IIIDERsoL  ;

*'nl wlheii, at las, she seemed 'to be almost I friends alljoined. e -A "  e the schoo.
within the grasp of the breakers, }Idliare er is mor ng o&amp;  et    ihk   bird, while
z'ent 'up the bluff where Simonds and his the gale is growizig lighter C r ry moment."
friends stood, pale aud anxious ; and, in a  Ienderson was too angry to reply, avid
taunting tone, offered to lend the planter his moved on to rejoin his brother, without mak-
spy-glass, that he might see how white his in any answer.
Irt e friend'" Morley looked while he faced  The dark clouds which had overspread the
tdcath.'                                  sky were now breaking away. and the de-
But at that very moment, something whiter sending sun giled their ragged fronts as
r ogt I rl tdMorle's"'facewas seen swiftly they slunk off in disorder in the far Western
rii u from the dark hull of the cndangr-red hlor~izon.
schot tr,                                   When the schooner drew so fnr from the
ti i  a shout of triumph, Simonds and his land that her wlte sails were barely discern-
fri'irnh cried;                           ible in the deepening twilight of approaching
"heo is muingsail !--she is making sail! night, Simonds and his friends left the group l,
She'll work off, yet "                   arid repaired to the lordly home of the gener-
Tiwaning to Ililliare--whno, pale with disap. ouns planter, there to drink many a bumperto
pointment and anger, stood gazing sttpily the "brave who had deserved and won t
ba theschooner-Mr. limonds said, in his fair" Adele.
blandest tonec
"I will ncept the offer of your spy-glass,         CHAPTER XXIT
Mr; Hendnerson  I wish to see how  darold    Ten thousand curses light upon them
Moyleysad his sweet Adele look, side by both I" said Hliar Ienderson as he threw
side  eorethey stand ot to se."        i  himself into a            nl      is 
eAndh     ld   his anotd snsh  ahee    dne;   snenwtati havelibgryon coolyo-
A lra ed his and fr the gilas. po    turn to the house. "Fate almost threw their
"Wait till the wind fills their cursed ails!" back intoour hands, and now she'has thwart'.
said oilhiai , bitterly. "You'll seoete th              t   ad ed usno"
sri turn keel up, or else the sails will go into "Patience, brother, patience " said Gr-
'shreds! She ismsloofid, sir!g.-.do hned i"  tae', who came in with iim eno have ever
"Yes," said Sumond;,bu ietly, a he saw chid-o n for my recklessness and impr-
her sails fill, an   ebow  s   gathered  dee ; and now thnt I have giown cooled
headway. h"Se is doomed to work out of a      Psee  to have exchanged nairs with me,
bad serape as prettily and  s easily as poor and to have become as violent nth need to be.
Adele Dilnesle worked herself out of the v I have made s inay mind to follow Harold
risoniuent in which you kept her."        torley to the death! and not one, nor ten,
John Smionds !" shout   Henderson, ut- nor twenty disappointments shall either put
early theid, himself with rage. "John Si- me cut of humor or casuss me foi'an instant
moide; beware how you ma dden messge- to change my purpose! Though thwart e  a
ware, sir, for I'll make yoe account for your hindered times, ati l will I foflto him as the
insult with your hearts blood I"          bloodhound follows on the scent of gore !"
"l'elebviomy is s profusion which two    "Patience- thence I"f aie wlilliare bit-
eo p rettied, Mr-. Hoendersonn" said Sionds, terhy. "Fooled by tu" accursed adventurdr,
c1iv. '1 annatyour serviceat all time    " for insulted by him and Adele,rnd then to lose
rial of skill in that line', with whatever in. them when almost in miylower.. It is enouvgh
_f atrtsio~ents you vuny ic'k"yf."'          to drive a man mad ! And, moe thtan all, I
"You fihalnheai' from me, sir -you shall  on involved in adifficulty with John Sinonds
bear fromnnms!" cried Henderson, dwmost froth- on their account."
AU t the mniti.                         "No challenge has passed b'etwen you and
"".e rotting that I can hear no good of, or him !"
,f'o~l4 3 xh, I shall await. any message you  " No ; but I must (diallenge hi u. lie has
6 y  'send,"said the  rlovier, as calmly as Insulted me, m and 'atod him  h  snuld hear
whefx &amp;frt-pae to   hendersodc. from m             tie."
1xe Inttt r'w~h K'bittcer curse upon L'is lips,  " You will notcalnehmIih  r,
4u~ arna! Z'steuve t4he lotand rejini his bro.'-erf said Gustave'. quietly.; "If hie were to l&amp;ht
'O" "bn rm-ment, Mr. liR    p-on,"said Si. Iyou, lie would hilt yon."
" mends, as ii' eonsethiasg ins  sts was to be  I"I know that."
sirw'ia- o yu'wi         _j"Then, under present clrcumstanes, yin
har, t mlrnwhat J0le oui#ir  ried Iiil- would be a fuel to challenge: him. Abide
littc tt  ti itt  crir*at; #wiheyus  'our time, and you'll bring biud dowui yet.
-      cxbt  lIaed with fur                B ~  ut now, when I am-shout to start uponrc  bolpatustt~tt~ywihsalnteduii  ad-
-. , a4 y eurf iru'wsuanlie c, viij 0ea 4 SI daed Adele pumeshe and Zelln, and sent
,-  Qu4s withj a' boarty *Ilugh, iz w~gl l4iiia'IrTh'bld MwsJmj to close his account with the
.r'1               ,             t                      !'

TUIE SECRET RIEVEALLED.
devfl, you must take care of y oursel and uri  " I have them now ! I lave them now it"
ilnt  property t. Our revege fy ore  i onds  Soon  after the  steamer came  to ancih ,the
will be a thonsanidtimes more sweet when I' vessel was boarded by i  captain of the port
1ave succeeded, as I surely will, inithe objects The xasatorts and landu permt  ofn he
I have namedl."                           xmntoad        fe    u   amn     r
You reason well, Gustave; but what will roper fees, permission was given for thb
those say who heard the words between him  Havana passengers to land.
and tysel,?"                              Gustave Henderson was too nxiou to leae
"aWy should you care what they ay ? the vessel to wait for the regular boat which
Yon are:indeuendent of them. Do as I ad- was used to transfer passengers to the shore.
vise You: Let John Simonds alone untilyon Leaving directions for the trinsmissiofl of hia
can touch him to the very heart and yet be baggage to a hgtel, with the captain's permis-
safe ! In my angry mood, thismorning,Ision he hailed one of the many boats which
had a thought f a quarrel withr im. Then ply around the vessels of the harbor and
it was you that advised my forbearAnce. along the wharves for fares, and, when itoamno
Now take your own warning home to yourself:" alongside, sprung into it. Like most boasof
"I will, Gustave, and let "my contempt, ilts class, it had a curtained awning over its,
rather than my angel, follow him. And now end to shield its passengers from tesu.
to other business. Will you still pursuyou This, with the slouched aifornia hat which
ori inahntertion, to go North, and there to be had drawn over his eyes, was all the con.
i     t whither Morley was bound when he cealment which Gustave required as he made
sailed thence I"                          a reconnoitering trip.
"I surely will," replied Gustave.         Finding that his mulatto boatman under-
But you will defer starting until to-mor- stood English tolerably e
,,w  ,                                  mon thing among those who from ehildhbdd
"Not so. I will start within the hour. I are -thrown into contact with !English and
was ready, and curme round to take my fare- American seamen, lhe directed him to row tO-.
well of you, when I found you on the oupo- ward the clipper-yacht up the harbor.
Ia. ied not the vessel been seen, I would  "Want to goaboard, Massa Car'n I" asked
have been upon my route long hours ago."  the mulatto.
"Well, I cannot sty no to your mission, "lto ; row me near enough to have a good
for it concerns me almost as much as your- look at her. She is a beauty .
self. All that I can say is, to wish you good "Yes, Massa Cap'n ; everybody say 'so.
fortune. Draw upon inc without reserve w:hen- Me take off heap of peoples to look at her."
ever you need funds ; and let me know by   "HIlave you ever been on board of here"
every mall where you are, and how you are   "Yes, Massa Cap'n ; four, yive times. Me
succeeding. When I call aid you in person, cart-y Yankee steward off last night."
writ- for me to come."                     "Ah ! What is your name?"
°I will," said Gustave.                   " Pedrillo, Massa Csp'n ;' but folks call me
And the next moment he was gone, and Pedro, for short. Mc my own man, too-free l
iilliare Henderson was alone. .-You sabs F"
" Yes-I tindcrstand you. All the ifoney
CHAPTER XXIII.                you m:kc is your own."
Tiree weeks later, a New York and New   "Yes, Massa Cap'n: him all mine."
Orleans steamer entered the harbor of fav-  " And'I suppose you like to make money!"
inn, running up nearly to the nan-o'-war an'.  "Yes, Massa Cap'n ; me like um heap.
ehorag before it rounded to and dropped anu=  Gustave examined the boatman closely.
ohor.                                      His coptr-eolbred face was hedged m by
Upon. the forecastle of this steamer, from  a mass oflong hair in braids--braided, probr
-the moment she made land until -her anchor ably, to keep the kinks out of tangle. HsK
wa fast in the nud, one of our aiquaintaxees eyes were stiall and snake-like; the e te
had taken post an mnaittained 1it. Jt was none sion of hii face hialf-eananing, half-fercieus.
other rthancGustave IIenderdon  Eagerly  e I.lls form was: not stut, but his limb Wel'e
spanhhiei(ry:v. ssel among  a iotetudGmacular ) i chest full'and brawny
tii that onkl tsliellor ae tlx~e~stiamera ipovr'l d 'only. fp #a#ailor"'s troveersernid' .t, h
ed slowly and a'ki4ily up t its:gnehora' e; neck of with 4vaM opn, ito thoes upoti  1iI
And when at last,'anchored   p   o' aiomg, the faet, but 4.  e esn   cap upon his' etiI.
men-of-war, as ibWy spcil per' sign, h lhelooked e o  of r *^bte to have sattsfed
dicnvered a beautiful Ame i     r, yitli the zost'$     t        o
a crimagasabg. forwtrtl bea  tu, ~ 4 dlets flowery '
tr',3the name of1"Adee'4 elef        vg    Thea     innticef Gustave Was
joyd .etttled  oido-rnto-e-n faurc    ritir.  t 1 it seemed to  r
anid lie muttercu :  "    .                "    'y  n:k,  der bee empeyed' t '' ne

I


IILLIARE ENDERSON, OR,

.man steadily, than to run your risk of chance
fatres, Pedro ?" he asked.
"Yes, master cap'n, if urm good pay I"
"You need not fear the pay !" said Gus.
tare. '- I shall be here some time. I do not
know how long ! I want you to keep your
boat for me, and me only, and to be ready at
Nll times. There is a doubloon to commence
with. If y'u are faithful to me, every day
y u shall have another !"
Pedro was so astonished that be stopped
rowi gand looked at the doubloon full thirty
cecoids before Ie reached out his hand to
raise it from the thwart u on which Gustave
laid it,. lie even bit the c a to see if it was
goad.
"Es oro puro !" he muttered in Spanish.
Then looking at G ustavo,with hiscunning eyes,
he asked : "Does Massa Cal i' meai he give
Pedro a doubloon cv'ry day he work for urn"
"Yes; and this day I pay in advance, as
you see!"
"Good! Me work for Massa Cap'n till he
so want me any more
And Pedro again resumed his ears, which
be rowed with a skill and case which betoken-
ed long experience.
The boat was now within a half-cable's
length of the yacht. Gustave motioned to
'Pedro to cease rowing, and with a turn of the
rudder, threw the boat broadside to the ves-
sel, so that lie could peep front behind his
curtains at her, without himself being seen.
"Didl you see the owner of that vessel when
you were on board, Pedro ?" asked Gustave.
"Oh, yes! Me see urn - me see um all.
Me been on board four, five times !"
Did you see any indies ?"
"Yes, Massa Cap'n ! One so han'sum, she
make man a'iuost crazy ! Then she got sar.
viat gal more ltau'aum than herself ! Me like
in heap !"-
"She would make you a good wife, eh,
Pedro ?" asked Gustave, watching closely the
expresion of the mulatto's features, seeking
ri much in them for a reply as he would in
' hse rdsewhich came from his lips.
"A-wife? Por San Antonio. Mass Cap'n,
it I hadl her for wife, I wouldn't change places
viirlthe capitan-gneral ! No, not me !"
And the face of the muhito all aglow, and
his eyes sparkling, told how the how blood
through his veins at the hqught. -
*  * "   qme faithfully, and yon taal! have
biet. Pedro!" said Gustave.- "1 think I can
.Brest von. Pedro ?"
"Me, Massa Cap'n ?   Yes, l1 same as a
priestl You confes. to a priest you steal---
be no go and tell'un' You'sonfbss td'a priest
you kill, lie no go and tell urn! Ie tike you
Pay myss.money, tell yon no  o dv so any
qre; then he b ive pn  it's all d9bhgoun.I
c know, for me tryumI" '

"I believe I can trust you !" said Gustave.
"And I will tell youn  ,cret ahout ZellaI"
" Zella ! Yes, thatsh er nae I" said the
mulatto, and line pointed toward the yacht, to
indicate whom he meant.
"She is my slave, and ran away from me
in Georgia. If you serve ie faithfully when
I get her back, I will give her to you I"
"Me serve you ! Me go to devil for you,
Massa Cap'n, s'pose yti do that !"
"Well, it is a bargain, and there's m hand
upon itI"
And Gustave, artistoerat that lie was,
reached out his hand, and grasped the thin,
bony hand of the boatman. The grip of the
latter was like the pressure of a vice -his
hand, though the climate was so mild, was as
cold as ice.         -
"You are strong !" said Gustave as, with
an involuntary shudder, he drew back to his
seat.
"All same like tiger !" said Pedro, with a
cunning smile.
"Very good-I like you, Pedro, and shall
depend upon you ! -Now    row me slowly
around tIe yacht. 1 want to see nIl that I can
without being seen !"
The boatman obeyed orders, and pulled
gently along the smooth waters of the lhar-
bor, until lie had eomipleted thie circuit, and
again lay upon his oars between the vessel
and the city. During the circuit, Gustave
had looked anxiously to see the faesaof some
of those wlhon I knew; but to persons were
on deck but some of the crew, of whom he had
no remembrance.
But as his boat stopped, when Pedro cans-
ed rowing, lie saw Perkins come on deck and
heard him give some order. In a moment a
boat was lowered from the davits, and a crew
sprang into it.
Gustave drew the awning-curtains close, and
trembled, with eagerness, while lie looked to
see who would come next. He had not long
to wait.
Harold Morley came first, dressed in an dl-
egant undress uniform, and with the most
tender care lie assisted Adele down the steps
of the side-ladder, into the boat. She was fol-
lowed by Zella.
Gustave ground his teeth in rate, while be
looked upon the scene. Never had Adele
looked, in his eyes, so beautiful,- so happy!
Harold Morley seemed to r:fleet lerjoy. Us
too, looked happy. Even 'Zella looked more
like a lady toby born than one whose doom
was servitude.
" Cursu them--curse them I" ho muttered.
"But it alihl not last long !"
"Masus Cap'nn o like um?" said Pedro,
with a mischievous grin.
"Like them 1" hissed Gustave. ,"Pe
you see that man?"

1hiiE SECRET REVEALED.                              43
"Yc, me see u:n no iv, see umn of'n be-         CHAPTER XXIV.
fore!' W! hen tlIiold Monle r landed with Adele
"Well, I hate him as never man was hated and Zella at the quay w cih is generally used
before. I would drink his heart's blood with as a nading-place f or passengers at H:svana,
more pleasure than I would drinkthe choicest a large family volante* was seen waiting for
wine in the worh bl                     I them, just beyond the immense shed which
" Good ! Me he to sec 'folks hate good ! covers the quay.
Me hate sotmetimesthen muse this 1'    After distising his boat's crew, and telling
And the tni a re:wledl within lis shirt, tin  at wit hour to meet him again to take
and drew fr:a i  cncealtment a long and himin on board, Harold escorted Adele to the
inurderous-iooo:Ig knife.              volante, followed icy Zella.
You will suit, my purpose, Pedro !'' sail  Entering the carriage, Iroll, as soon as
Gustave, in a low tone. "Pull out of their Adele and Zella were seated, told his driver,
way, I iie not be seen- by them !"     Benito, to 'take them ott to the "Paseo del
Little dial IIarorl Morley, or those who 'Tacon."
were with him, think t'at the oaatwhich was  The driver mounted the large white mule
rowed just out of reach of their oars, na they which stood covered with gaudy trappings
passed he, cntlainel a hmonui:a blood-hound before the volante, and with a cheering cry
who had now Pot tirly on his scent, ani and a siart application of his heavy spurs, at
Would track one at least of the a lo,vn to the once started the animal off into asgreatspeed
death.                                   as the law would allow in that eity, where
If they hail, Harold would I not have said so neighbors often shake hands across te street
gayly :                         t         from their second-story balconis.
"We will have a happy thunatthe r s-      Up along the busiest street in Hiabana, past
querade to-night, my Adele '"            the palace of the caitain-general of the island,
Gustave heard tihus worls-nt no more ';  a through the unsanctified ealle "Obra de
for the swift boat was hi another minute falr Pia," they sped -- on past the Plaza de Is
past them.                               Artmas where the blood of Crittenden, Kerr,
" W   r  is there a mseiera lc to-ight, n wl their brave comrade a saddened the thirsty
Pedro?" asked Gtmhave.                  earth (blood wich yet remains unavenged,
"At the Teatro I Tacon, Massa Cap'n r' but will not always) on through the narrow
said the, boatman. '-It s carnival now-mas- gateway of the walled city, and past the grand
queras there every iinhht'"              TIheatre- of Taeon, they were hurried until
"Those people aregong there ! Ilow enn they. reached the " Paseo,' or promenade,
I find out the dresses which they will wear'" where all of fashion and bauty that HIavana
"Easy that, Massa Cap'n ! They have a boasts, may be found of a sunny afternoon.
hire volante oi shore. Me know the driver-  What the Central Park, when finished, may
he wait for u:n. every time they go ashore. be to New York, that already is the "Pasco"
ometinme they dres3 biar. the saoper-- to tli gay and careless Habafieros. Thereis
sometime at th  -hotel del Estadi's Unidos. a broad avenue for the passage of volantes,
No matter which, I go to hinm, asw what dress, and those who choose to display their grace
what iisgiera t icy wear, and len-to, he'll in the saddle. Flower-bordered-and laby-
tell me!"                               rithi:e paths .meander among the lofty
"It is well, Peilro. Fin. out for me how  slhade-tre s ; the sound of .gushng fountains
they dress, s th-it I may recognise them, nnd tiand rushing waters fall upon the ear--softae-
I will adda:iott her d.oihlo a to that which is companimeits to the sweet voices of thou-
now in your poch't !"                 -sands of dark-eyed donnas, who dome there
"Illfind out, But where now, Massa to flirt, to ect, to enjoy life as Sotitlhers
ca'n ? beaitiea love to do.
To some obscure dock, Pedro, where you .'Leaving Zella to fit'in the volante, as shy
Can lease ypur boat, and pilot mo to the Pos- preferred to do, where she could liok nt-the
ada del Europa, where I hwve sent my bag- constantly-moving crowd, Harold and Adele
gage. The people in the boat which passed descended, upon reaching the upper part of
us, must not know of my presence in this city the, main avenue,,and strolled off into the
until my plans are culminated, and I am  grove of trees and flowers, alone. Alone, I
roady for ac' ion !"                     said ;and so they were, though before, behind,
"Me sabe well, Massa Cap'ar!"  .  -,   amnd'il around them, noved parties, gay and
And Pedro rowed him to a narrow dock fashionable
ncar4, * Plap de la Marina, ani hero inoor --
-ig -his, boat under the bows Of o Arnerican  't voan e is athuge, cumbersome veh eteoal.
me chsantu.tmb anded his employer, whom lie fig    *   * iotin*like Iaeoidfaklied=Bes ebalse, i
un ertook to gnide fo the h   eewhie   t cuatrac raedrierrIdesrhe horte w sh , a rawsft--
named-                        -      .    eertal oatootsrle,  wswsnpes.

L.

U

)

I


A2                        ILLIARE IENDERSON; OR,
For where two souls are linked in love, two and beauty surround us here-though the air
hearts are joined as one, then they know no is balmy, and nil things are lovely, 1 still look
world-but that enchanted one which their fan- back with Pleasure to the hours when, alone
cy forms. They heel nothing outside of theirIinour gallant yacht, no company but our
own new.lkged jos.                   ,    brave crew, we sped away over the azure we-
As th cy wake  on, they conversed in a ters, on the wings of the chainless wind !"
tone both eanestand low--so low that had a  " Well, dear Adele, I will make our stay
government spy been at their heels, he could here brief. We are in the height of the Car-
not have heard what they said-yet the ears nival, it is true ; but that is nothing. If it is
of love, ever 1een, could hear each syllable your wish, I will sail in a week from to-day,
tiat either uttered.                      or even less time. Perkins wishes to over-
" Adele !" said Harold, " Will nothing that haul the rigging, and Nathan to lay in a freth
I can urge induce on to forego your resolu- supply of stores for use forward, as well as in
tion. Must I ine eed wait until you are of the cabin. In the morning,1 will issueorders
age. hefire I can call you my wedded wife ?" to them, and then, dearest Adele, we will
i"larold," she replied, and her low voice make the most of the time left to us in this
tremubl d with feeling while she spoke, "you gay city! Let me see-to-nightthe masque.
know that it pains me to refuse you anything made ; to-morrow night, the opera ; afterthat*
-know, too, how wholly and devotedly I love just such places as suit you best !"
.you. I have long since banished all maden  " One place, I would visit before we leave,
reserve, and told you of my love. Utterly dear Harold !"
disregarding a thought of the world's censure,  " Which is that, my Adele?"
I have fled away with you from the spot which  "The cathedral where, reverenced almost
had been my home from childhood. Now all as the relics of a saint. are deposited the mor-
I ask-you tay call it eccentricity, but do tal remains of Christopher Columbus I"
not call it cruety--all I ask is, that our union  "I)ear Adele, forgive me that I have not
be delayed until I am mistress of my fortune, thought of it before. The cathedral is near
and can ha it, with my hand im thine, where the governor's palace-not more than five
I have li  toy heart !"                  minutes' walk from the spot where our boat
But wherefore   the  necessity, sweet lands. If it would give you pleasure, we
Adele ?, saidH arold, in a tone of impatience. could easily go there before we go to the ho-
Were I poor, the case would be different. tel to sup and to dress for the masquerade."
But I have ample means-that you well        "'Then let us go, dear Harold, Next tothe
know -"                                  tom) of the greatest and best of men-that
"Yes, Iarold, I kn'w it. But I do not WAsIuINcroN whom heaven left childless that
feel independent now! Let me but feel mde- a nation might call him Father--would I hold
pendent one hour, and then I will resign all in honor his grave who discovered a world of
independence into your hands, and become savages, and planted upon its shores the flag
the most dole, as well as the fondest of of civilization 1"
Wives '                                    , "I honor your feelings, as much as I ad-
I c-n refuse yon noting, sweet Adele. It mire your taste, Adele," replied Harold.
is I aho am the sup liant. But I will not ""We will return to the volante, and drive to
tease you again. It should be enough for me the cathedral I"
to have you ever near me; yet I have a con-
stant fear of losing you. Mere we united by           CHAPTER XXV.
those bonds which no man can sever, I should  Gustave Henderson sat in his chamber In
not feel so uneasy."                     the European hotel in Havana. It was the
"Two years, winged with love, will fly  best chamber in the house ; for,regardless of
swiftly y, my Haro d !"                 price, he had ordered the best, well knowing
S~ " I'iihaps !" said he, with a sigh. "But that a lavish display of money, and a lavish
o you know, Adele, that-nit to speak of use of the sane, would itsure good atten-
year1, or months, or weeks-I am already dance, and all the more certainly endorse his
counting the hours .'                     statement that he had come to Havana on a
Whet will you sail for New-Orleans ?" visitof pleasure.' lie had reg'htered his name
she asked, with woman's. tact changing the as "General Weston, of Kentucky," knowing
%ltme of conversation.                    the great respect which Spaniards entertain
tWlteofave r you like, Adele.  Are you ror men who ham   military rank. d
tied of 1lav ana  "                        lie ordered his meals to be served hn his
No, Harold ; the climate is delicious; the room, and when the head-steward came to
people arc gay ; thy few friends we have made take his order for dinner, he was ner jch ib.
are very kind. BuntI supposeI am like the pressed with'tle taste;.as well as the liberdle
rest f my sex. We, you know, could not ity of the "Gehe'ral," as the latter, glancing
reman contented in P radise. Tltotgnhgayefy over his bill 'of fdre, gave his orders. His
.5 a

I ~
o
54

TIE SECRET REVEALED.                              4
knowledge of wines tmae the steward's eyes "That is true. I think I will take you to
-      i    th   a uead with me' to-nigsht Pedrojl"

I

E

henan iui the general, intconcus1i, sne sq..s n1U5.'?i% , &amp;&amp;  , -
tosed him at don' loin, and told him to make  " Ola ! Massa Gin'ral, you mean that?" -
haste, the steward voted him a prince, men-  " To be sure ! Go to a costumer, and e-
ily, l hurried away, not only to serve lest two dresses ; get for me the dress of a
lint bt i tell tho landlord what a prize they gipsy king, a gray wig and beard, and a good
hantheir new gest.      -                mask. Dress you as a gitano, also-get awi
hai petite of G  -stave had not been good of long, black hair; and then attend me here!
at sa, lie was not proof against that leveler  " Yes, Massa Gin'r.d. Ol ! Pedro at the
whielh equalizes ladsmen--nonmatter what maasquera, eh?  He will dance with Zella!
t.eir shore poanitio mybe--when they first Caramba 1 but it makes me glad almost to
try the sa. But now his a appetite returned, death!"
lie felt a( if his journey had nearly found a  And Pedro hurried off to procure the
terminus; for that ie should fail in his under- dresses.
taking did not enter his mind, He was in a
tind where money was almost omnipotent ;            CHAPTER XXVI.
wh re desperadoes and assassins in abundance;  The Tacon theatre-one of the monuments
stood ready for hire, and his intended victims, of the rule of General Tacon, the sternest,
sutnowing of his vicinity, were within lie but the purest ruler that Spain ever gave to
rneknh ,the Cubans-larger than any theatre on the
lIe ate heartily, and drank freely, for the American Continent, and probably the larg-
wiuno Was gooy. But he was earetul not to est in the world, was filled to overflowmig
drink so uch as to cloud his intellect in the  Its huge parquet and orchestra box had
ldast, or to loosen his tongue or unsteady his, been floored over even with the stage;the
nerves,                                  scenery had been removed, thus forming an
He hnad poured out the last glass of wine, inmense ball-room; while all of the boxes,
when, unamnounmcil, Pedro entered his room. four tiers in height, were filled with specta.
Gustave had told hills to do so, whenever ie tors who cared ot to dance, but eat there en-
hil anynews fir tim  _                  toying the fantastical panorama on the con-
"Well, amy good lad, what news have you ?" stantmove below them.
ie asked, blautaly.                        A band of one hundred performers barely
"Pedro got good news for Massa Gin'ralI" furnished music loud enough to serve the en-
sad the be tmtan, with increased respect, for tirety of the vast saloon ; and the spectators
he had learned below that his patron was a could see more than three thousand people
General instead of a Captain.            movingat onoe to the gay cadence of the waltz,
"Well-drink this glass of wine, and then or the slower and more dignified step of the
out with it,' said Gustave, filling him a brim- Spanish eontra.dance.
using tumbh r of golden sherry.           Through the centre of the space reserved for
"Macleos graci as; Massa G in'ral i Me been dancing,.whirled the many who came to dance ;
to see Benito about the masquera!" said Pe- but in the corners, in the wings of the theatre,
dro, after he tossed off the wine, smacking and moving about in the saloons, and in the
is lps after the pleasing effort.        gardens to the rear of the theatre, were those
"Well-what then ?"                     who came to enjoy the mystery of the mask,
"The man you hate, El Sei'or Morley, will and play their fareial parts in the characters
go as un 31wir ro Aotricano-I mean one which they    assumed.  Representatives of
American sailor-moan---anh will wear a mask. every known nation, and of some unknown
The Seaorita that is with him, will go like tn ones, were there.
gstan--gisy, 'ou call urn; Zella will go  The genuine down-East Yankee, with his
gipsy, too, for her mother;"             bell-oro ned hat, swallow-tailed coat' with
"hiow do you know all this, Pedro? They brass buttons larger than a dollar striped
are not dressed yet, surely ;'it is but just trowsers, cow-hide boots, and shirt-collar up
growing dark."               ws       a  to ltisar whittled his stick of pine ifs he
"Because, M asst Gin'ral, that was the way whistI d s Mkee Doodle; tthe prettiest sof
they dressed last iight, aid Bnito heard the paeantirla q )hibited small-feet, and-limbs
Settor Morley say to Zeila that they would that wAui;d have killed Elieler with envy; here
wear the o une dresses to-night i"       a ri   bright Id scowled as if he never bad
" Ah-so? WThen your information ie prob- 'sold lae. and ilk:stoekings in ted TGldier.e
ably correct. But you uir halpot Zelha was cadores : there ;.crowned Richard Teriiro
goimg. la it. aeustem, here toallow servantsmoved lgi in his hump-beaked dignity,
to go to the masquerades ?"              forgetting, for'the nonce' the bench whereup-
",Socnt ienes they let unm gq,-M1ssa Gim'ral. on. ,.hed, h  olled his twenty thousand .cigars
Who could tell Zella from real lady,? Se  thst;vary'day here a..gipsy offered tOtbell
sot n re blagk than hal) he Spsh ladies !!' your fortune; theea Dootor.Sangradqpwith

f !


HILLIARE HENDERSON; OR,

his sasdtdle-bags on one arm, and a basket of  " Yes, Massa Gin'ral. Pedro all same dumb
cureall pills on the other, offered his services as un burro."
to the fattest, conieiest, and healthiest of all  "When you speak, do not call me General
whoim he imiet, sa ing, with more truth than -call me La'Torrillo; and speak with rever-
most doctors would utter, "if he didn't have enee. If, by a sign, I gIve you leave to speak,
a chance tt phtasie them  well, therenever say that I am King of the Gitanos."
woul be anv slk.                          "Yes, Massa--si, Signor La Torrilo."
Every nation, class and character, had its  slowly, and acting as if he were- merely
represent native the:e. But with only five of making thie circuit of the room, Gustave
these, have we anythiaag to do.            approached the spot where Harold and liis
The ball had ten opened about one hour, party stood ; ie appearing all the time to be
when a person entered who merits a descrip- wateh ing the dancers, though many a covert
tion.  lie Wore a robe of black velvet, upon glance was bestowed by him uplon those whom
which strange Arabic or Egyptian hiero- he sought.
glyjhieas a re profusely worked in embroidery  In a short time Ite stood within a few feet
of go'. '1 is deseended nearly to his nsan- of Adele. Then slowly ta ring toward her,
daletd feet, acing only loosely bound around and confident of the perfection of his disguise,
his wast b a sush, whieb, t bough made of lie looked so steadily upon her face and form
silk, raemtlbled the high-colored and mottled as to attract her attention. She saw a pair of
skin of a serpent ; upon his head ie wore a black, glittering eyes fixed upon her, mnuted the
kind of crown, wbich wasi also covered with  apparett age, and thiestrangeggarb of him who
emblematic Mlertaglyphics. his long hair, stood gazing at her, and pith an involuntary
and immiiense floinvg Ieard, were white as fear clung to llnrold's arm, and moved yet
anow. Aid his faormn was bent as if with age. closer to his side.
Leaning upon a curious staff, around which  He noticed her agitation,and looking up, at
the carved form of a serpent was entwined; once divined its enuse. He looked the old
the old man moved slowly on, followed by Sgipsy full in the eyes, nid noted that those
another, nat nmnel younger person in appear- eyes blazed yet the bIighter as he met their
ance, nhn was a'so dressed as a gipsy; butini glaice.
far htferent et% It, whose swarthy skin seem-  'The feeling of hate is intnitive-mesmerie-
ed also to tell that he was one of that race of al. Though lie had no reason to believe that
wanderers, 30ons of lstmanel.             he hnd an enemy on the Islaad of Cuba, yet
Through the right-apertures of tle mask in ihiat glance lie felt, whoever it was that
worn by the eld'st gipsy, a pair of black, stood before him, that man was, or would be,
fiery eves flashiled continually, as lie looked his foe.
through the throng, evidently seeking some  "Come, Adele," said Iharold, "let us move
person or hairsuns.  And the hands which on ; come, Zella, we'll find a better view, in
grasped his staff shook 'ith the nervousness another place."
of I assion ratht r taiit ith the tremor of age.  Ie spoke in a very low tone, yet Gustave
"I cannot sue them, Pedro-I cannot see heard his words.
them!' le 'whispeaa'-d, huskily, to his attend-  They moved away, and did not pause until
ant, after to land 1ust d almost entirely around they were upon the other side of the theatre.
the great bal-room.                        Ole! 'Ithe- ''raid of you, signor-3etno
"Massa Gin'ral's eves are not quite so sharp can see through mask }" said Pedro.
as Pedro's," replied he other, quietly. "Let  "'Ihey have reason to fear me 1" said Gus-
bin look under the box whieh is draped with tave, bitterlt'. " But I have inot done with
thie granl statndaral of Spain, the box reserv-|them yet IFollow me, Pedro, and observe
4d for El Gapilano lencra!!"            my caution!"
And with a signirennta gesture, the disguis-  " Yes, signor."
ed boatmanindienthc d the point which lie  Gustave now again made the circuit of the
wished Gustave to observe.            -   room,' just as he had done before, and again
There arm in arm. stod  a yotng Amen- pausing in front of Adele, fixed his dark,
en sailor in mask, wills a lady isn gipsy dress, passionate eyes upon her.
whose b.entiful form Gustave at-onee recog-  She was uneasy--more, she Was frightened.
*ired,- u hough her face 'as  masked. And [Harold saw it, and determined to put an end
hlose by her side, somewhat taller, with a to the surveillance which so annoyed her.
form equally perfect, stood another mask.  Advancing to Gustave, he said
whom ho kuea eg ally well.  '            "Bir Gitano, be you what your dress im-
"Iarold Morier, Adetle, and Zella," Ire plies; or not, I wish to know what reason you
muntteretd. "Pedto." he added, "keep near have for following tny party around, and
*ny side; ;but say notlhintedo nothing, with- staring thus impertinently at a lady who is
dut I 'oniand you. I wish to talh.with those under my protection ?"
*opls without being kaow,"                 "She iss daughter of my rase !" said Gns.

TlE SEtCR]   EALEtI,

4&amp;

tave, in a deep, hollow tone, excelleitly tlis- guised as he was in dress and voice, I knew
gulsing his natgrnl voice. "Why is she undar him.'       T
the protection of a h!use-dweller, when the  And as sheo said so, Zella shuddered,
tents of her People are opepi beneath the    " We Vwill go, then," replied    Harold,
palms?                   -                 "Come, my Adele,; 'fear noevil I No harm
" Von assume our part well, old man ; but can reach you, bud through my breast it flrte
let me tell Vola ta bhe is not, a gipsy !" said finds passage."
Harol1, w'ari." She comes of no vagrant  Andl--old, with his party, atonce left th.
lood !"                                   theatre.
The form of the gipsy king seemed to
straihlitla:e aLdtcawithe singer.                   CHAFTER XXVII.
" l taJ t hat ran i,4 noble veins one thou-  Guteve had produced al1 the effect wils
Sand years before the Saioo name was hnown, his malicious heart desired, in startling Marl
is not tle' btlo.+l of vagrants! ' said he, lanughti- old and Adele ns he did-f4or lhe merely Wish-
ly, in tb s euadstcrin a;nd hollow tone. "Young ed to annoy them at that moment but whoa
man, you klniow not the lineage of that orphan he saw that the eyes of Zella were lixed stead,
girl- I do!'                               ily upon him, he'feared reCognitiOn. 'There'
Haroll started as if he ha il Ieen bitten by fore it, was that he whispered to Pedro:  E
a serpent. r taT hear .vords of doom pro-. " If asked, reveal myi psyn nme;then re.
noncedl. Adele, too, trembled from laenl to treat and m eet me in the left saloon of thd
foot. Zella alone remieainiedI unmoved, intent- first story of the- theatre."  And imstaritli
ly looking at the eyes of the now-excited  after, turijed ad disat peered iuuong the peo-
gipsy king.                                ple who erow:el the room.
" Perthaps you know r?" said Harold, at  From amidil a er. wd in this saloon, lie saw
last. "If you do, ygis will be careful how  the hasty egress of IHarold Morhy and his
you t rifle cit er w .ti te or those I care for i' party, and felt from tids that they must have
I tain a king aion iy peopic, w'y should taken the alarm--perias discovered his iden
I car for the worls of a, honse-dwelling boy,. tity even through his disguise.
eveh though he makes his home upol the      f:e halfeursed his haste; for if they knew
se'" sa d'Gustave, st rnly.         -      him to be near, thy most assuredly woud~bq
" Wht anal-what. are you?" cried Ilarohl, upon their guarl,.uid his attempts tocapture
now tmaclh excited ;,f'r he was sure that the Adele and Zella, or to destroy larold Morleyi
my'ste'rious struiger knew himti.          would meet with many obstacles.
ta King'of the Gitaaaos! larold Morley,    Withdrawing Pedro to a Place where thoiV
that is enough fir you to know."   .       conversation euld not. be easily overhoard1
And Gastave, whisp, ring a few words to te asked him whtat ki-nd of a man was Bobitog
Pedro, tiruaeal and moved on amid the crowd IIarold's calaciro, or rolante driver.
before- IIaroll, aistonished as he ,was, could  "Like most of his gang, Massa Gin'ral,-
speak again.                               smart. and a big thief!" was Pedrto's reply.
Bnt catching Petdro by the arm,.he askcd ;  "Does he love money?", asked Gnstave:
"Who was that han?   If you know, a    -" Who that has .to w rk for it does net
doublooa shall ia aird i'ou for indfrming me." Massa (hi'ril? Benito loves winte a good
And Unrold dre'v' a doulyon ri'om  his deal, but money vet more," answered Pedro
pocket.     "Do :yon think I could bribe him to work
"Li Signor Torrilo -- El Rey tIe los qia- for mo while:ie is in lorley's employ ?"
not !" sail Pedro, as he reached out his han4  "He'l nork best for hime that pas bcst"
ail took the coin...                     said Pedro.,
Ilartld wonhl hive aske51 furthr questions,  "Woul.l ho be faithful, thiak yau, tome,il
butt in an isa~uit Pedro hadl ttned and glided I pid him' double as muchas he gets from
through tIhe crowd witis the ease of a serpent. the other ?"
" Master Iarohi, let us have this place  " Yea, Masta Gin'ral, ,Ie woual1 bteaf"oo
quickly ;I have .nade adaseravery," saidt ZelT if lie did not; and Benito~i sin fdal I"
la---who, before soealim, riow exhibited great , " an yon masnageto-bi'inghimtomyrooni
agitaion.                                  at the hotel ?"                 '-       a
4 What discovery, good Zella ?" asked lIar ,, "Nothing is more easy, Massa Giii'ral,'f
ol.                                     . ter he bas' done driving his' olatc for thit
" I dare not tell you here, MasterfHarold," night. I know where he lives."
i'ae re1ied- "Let us co to the hotel, or on  " Welt,Pedr9, seet that you have him atm
laerad the yacht, as quickly as we can, end I rooms as psn as possible. Ilere are a cotup
ill tell ou. We.are not safe here."       of doulbloons.tu- use as per-inders, or as yot
"Did 'you kn4aw the mnask who called him- like. Only use eaution, and be snre thiL h
self a gipsv living"                      Iwill not-tetray me:t before you bring hnis."
"Yes, )Iutstaer Harold-hut too well; dis- - "Yes, Mssa Uin'ral; I bring him all san

r
i
s
1
i
1
r'
r
M
f
f
3
{9
I
a
i
F
C,
.r,
I
4

44

;,
:;
1
i

7

I

'I%
t

I

1

6


dILiLARE l I    flERSON; Ok,
as &amp; chicken under my arm-spurs and all," 1 choice bottle of old vino de Caihla and a
said Pedro, receiving his golden auxiliaries plate' of patos dc Florida, I'll tell you why I
and departing.               -calledyou, and of good fortune in store for
both of us. Do you hear the gold jingle in
CHAPTER XXVIII.                my pocket, Benito ?"
Benito, the calacero, Wa-reathier astonish.  " I truth, I do," responded the calacero.
ed when he was awakened from  pleasant   " Gold shall jingle in thin e, aLo, if you give
dreams in his roan'c by Harold, and told to heed to me. Come, will 3ou go to Gerge-
mount his horse ; for, though he had fallen na's ?"
asleep, a glanc at the lighted shop-windows  "Yes. I have two hours to spare."
in the vieinit , tld him that the hour was far
earlier than that when his employer usually          CHAPTER XXIX.
left the pleasures of the tall.            When Harold, with Adele and Zella, was
" Where shall I drive,?xcellenza ?" was his secure in the privacy of his apartments at the
question, while llarold assisted Adele and hotel, and not until then, did he ask Zella
Zella into the carriage.                 what was the nature of the discovery which
"To the hotel first ; there wait until I at she had made at the mjtsquerade.
ready to go to the boat," said H arold, as he  "You talked with him who pretended to be
sprang into thoecarriage.                a gipsy king, and yet knew him not !" said
lie did not notice when he spoke that the Zelfa.
young gitano, aho had tlh him that the name  "I did not know him ; but he was imper-
of the older gipsy was La Torrillo, was close at tinent, and I reproved him."
his side. If he had, he might have been more  " There was something faseinat'ng, and yet
cautious.                                terrible in his dark eyes," said Adele. "I
Benito sprung into his saddle, and the vo- was terrified ; yet, for my life, could not but
lane in another second was whirling away to. return his glance."
ward the hotel whei e lie made his head-quar-  "I knew not only his eyes, sweet mistress,"
ters when on shore, having there retained a said Zella, "but also a ring, which, when he
suite of rooms from the time he arrived in the disguised himself, he had forgotten to take
port.                                    from his finger."
- And securely perched on the cross-piece  "Who was it?" asked Harold.
back of the eolante rode Pedro, hidden from  "None other than Gustave Henderson, Mas.
the view of the occupants by the falling top, ter Harold," said Zella. "I knew him in an
which is seldom used except in rainy weather. instant."-
In a brief half hour, the volante arrived in  "Why did you not tell me on the spot r
front of the hotel ; and Pedro, the moment it asked Harold.
stopped, dropped fr'm his seat, and hurried  "I thought it would not be wise, sir,4' said
over into the dense shadow of a house oppo- Zella. " He thought himself so weil disguis-
site.                                    e that he could pass unknown; and it was
"In two hours, Benito, I will be ready to well, I think, to let him remain in that belief,
go on board. Be here at that time," said while we, upon our guard, prepare to avert
Iarold, aloud, as he assisted Adele and Zella any danger which lie may le preparing for
to descend.                              us-for 1 know from his eyes that he means
" I will be here, excellensa," said Benito.  evil to us."
A moment after, Harold and his company    "Zella was right," said Adele. "The only
entered the hotel,                        wonder is, that sh' could meet his gaze and
"lust!   list, companero !" said a low voice retain liar composure, when I, who did not
ab the opposite side of the street,       know him, could unot do so."
" Quien viva?  Who's there ?" asked Be-  " Zella is a brave girl," said Harold. "And
nito.                                     now the question is, What course had we Let-
. ".Come over and see," replied thi voice.  ter take in regard to the villain ? lIe has
" Duablo   Who can see in the dark? tracked us hither undoubtedly with a revenge-
Come over here, if you want anything of me. ful purpose. lis hot haste of hatred hns for-
Who are you, at any rate ?"              tunately betrayed his auripuse--or, at least,
"Us amigo - an old friend, Benito mio. his presence.
Come here a moment. Es PedrIllo, the boat  "TLet us at once leave the place for Nitw
man."                                     Orleans,"'said Adele.r
- Benito new recognized his voiee, and secur-  "Ile can follow vs there," said . arold.
lag his mule to a post, lie went over.  "  '" But we will be in our own country, whets
"I lied reasons for not going over to the the law will speedily teach him a lesson if ie
light of the posada," said Pedro to Benito, as offers to annoy us,' said Adele.
the cacero went over to him. "Come with  "That is true. But I do not like leaving
me t tiorgona's wine-shop, and there over a this place without, in some manner, learning

I

j

t
T
i
I
S
T

Isa

I

tis intention.I He is good at disguise; as we  And edro pro iccd thejelidwFetli:"
have seen; bqt I overirate mys.lf gheatly,if  " tiuantbd ! The saints are oh  oiu side,
I eanddb sd disgdise .in  elf as to meet and surely, Pedro!" cried Benito' his eyes sjpark-
sound 'Ihini Witinit auy danger of recogni- ling as he looked upon the coin. "'Who is
tion,"*said Iarold.                      this new master of thine?"
"I tremble to have you risk it," said Adele.  "A great general-a prince frofS Kes-
"Oh, do let u3 g ) from the place at once p'  tucky."
"I will, if you insist upon it, my sweet  "Kentucky? Where is that?"
Adele; but it will te at least two .das to  "I do not know, exactly. it is somewhere
get the yacht ready for sea."             in North America, But le, is tich, and as
" Well, lt us go at the end of those two free with gold as the sea is with spray on a
days, Ilarold."                        -  wind day."
"I will, Adele. And now I will order sup-  "I believe you," said Benito, still looking
per. By the time that is fairly discussed, the at the gold. "I wish that I had such a mas-
boat will be at the quay, and we will go to ter."         .
our palace of oak, where no danger  reach   "Nothing easier, if I but interest myself
us."                                      for you," said Pedro, as he drank otT his glass
of wine and refilled it, while Benito did the
CIIAPTER XX5.                ' same. "How much does the man who hires
Pedro lel tie way into a private room at your volantc pay you ?"
Gorgona's, and calle I for a bottle of wine of "I charge him but half a doubloon a
the highest priee, with a nonchalance which  right; and that is g.odpay- -better than wo
quite astoisihed Benito, the volante driver. can get from los pobres tubanos."
And when e aied to his order a couple of  "'True; but my doubloon doubles it; be-
brace of pVos de Florida--a small duck of sides, I have my extras l"
delicious flavor, and thought a great delica-  Benito looked at the doubloons which still
ey among   the IfH iiier'os, espeelally as it is lay upon the table, and sighed.
a highi-priced dish-Benito opened his eyes  , " 1 think my master can find use for you,"
wider,                                    continued Pedro. "But he, too, has his so-
"Have you found a gold-mine, Pedro ?"he crets. If I interest myself for yoi, will you
asked. "By your dress, I see. that you have keep his secrets ?"
been able to afford the masguira, and now   "May I lose my tongue and die without
you order a supper fit for a prince."  '  - the sacraments, if I do noti" said Benito ;
Pedro only laughed, and jingled the doub- and he again formed and kissed the finger-
Joons in his pocket.                      cross.
"Bring two bottles, tanto," said Pedro, to "Well, we will sup merrily, my old corn-
the waiter who brought the bottld of wine. rade ; and then, when you have finished-with
"Gentlemen of our condition can stand two  your employer for the night, we will go and
bottles without winking."                 see mine, and you shall talk with him yon
And a'uin lie jingled the gold in his pocket. self."
"Do 'nfold me this mystery, brother Pe-   "Ab, Pedro, you are too kind. But you
dro. Yiu know I am a true comaradel" cried ever were a free-hearted fellow ; even if you
Benito, nervously.                         are a little free-handed sometimes, and rather
"I ivil, Bonito--amigo mio--I will, if you  quick with your knife, yet you have a good,
will swear on the holy cross not to reveal my  heart !"
secret. Do but that, and listen to my advice,  "A good heart 'for a friend, compasero, but
and, as I told you before, gold shall jingle in a bad one for a foe. But here come the
your pockets, too."                       ducks-cdices preciosas. Fall to, Benito, fall
"I have sworn !" said Benito, as he laid to, and let them swim in wine. With sixty-
his two fore-fingers across each other at right eight pesos ia my pocket, I can't afford to
angles, thus forming a cross, and  kissi g feel stingy,."
them. "I have sworn by the Cross, Pedro ;   Benito didnot need muchs pressing, forsel-
and you know I will not, dare not, break my donr did lie indulge in a feast. his breakfast
oath. tow for the secret." '         -  of coffeeand salt fish, his dinner of jerhedr,
"Well, Benito," said Pedro, Is be poured beef boiled with rice, his supper.of chocolate
for each a bumper of wine, " the'truth is, that and buiscuit, was an near luxury as he ever
I have'a generous dmployet, for'wham I work attempted to go. As for wine, the common
ahe64. I no longer depend on chausee fares red vintage, which sold at one real a boltie-
in the harbor. I am hired at a double on a sour enough, too, to sharpeO'one's teethi'was
day, and am, besides. allowed about as much the beverage he was most used to ;' thdngh,
more for pocket-miney. As this is' my first' sometimes, lie took a glass of fiery diuad-
day, my master has allowed me four doub- iente when some of his brother 'calaciros -in
loons i Do you see them ?"                vited him to do so.

t
,


)
4                         IILLIARE U1ENDERSON ; OR,
Pedro luul spok en truly wlien he s'aid thatt ounce of gold hidden away for Lire winter of
l~Bonito loved nei tey. lie lovedI it so well, life."
that wlhets it was on ~e in 1118is jo seioti, it  '' Suppose that I taike ohu itto my employ,
wrung his heart to part with it, eveu o r the uItti the samec terms that 1 have cngngcd.
ncc'esaries o~Iife.                        Pedro, wvill you Le fitittil to rue " asked'
The two nowe went rtttheir sn phr heartily ;(ltastave.
and, for a Lrn. nuthitug; was hvarl1 Iot the    I will, cxce~n~a."  Ai:l a win leaito kiss..
jingle of glasses ntul the elitter of their knives ed 1lue fitigir-erosp.  '' 11 tie ntui u n. I willjII
anti furls,                                 tell the ki or Mo rley tint  will driiy for him
At list, they fniulcel. Nting ltt hones no longer"
wi(re 1et of their uliiek.  '1ity h luemputied  "You iJ1 noat tell lii o. IPu tutu," said'
twco bottk s of e i  in i vte as COut(iitc(l fis (.iitnve.  I wi-li \ 1to 1"(+i l: fr him just
a lanir it old r:ului S ji a gutie ii th jilctuty of as luefoIro, nnd, at tL ;I ci-u  u Imi, to &amp;,1 C) my
8e  (n(tittcin                                         u~l~;.     "I V ieu \ (lt ;;)go ( tui i o  t 1 imntt dru'vi t) " YkCS, (.iCCtiCi u.'
his 11oat, itlru Iiii o h t i \oU tiinl; of It:ti'-  ''You ate to 1lt'ireu-ci f' ittu11 hretghr,
ig hii s Fr1 c-''s i - eulro+, t') I~t'tii, wtuui(' Pedro, there, of nih I. i- n (1(t  u-d it i+! uiomus,
they  1ta1t tiuuiu1o - i+tt wu'I'  it i t   h ve 1 i  t iiit knowv 11 .tu t " o~ i-  .:1 1 i-. il'.:lllnd
tiurt;unt-PI it ( hay ul ii.'aisl)- ti1,   heliche guits.  Yuiti.i . 1.: +lit Ten
't of :rs- , I r:all no,' ' tiulI}(li~tui.  tanhday,iutah I ui ti ut i c t h u.,swien (tI           I
''till snuuutt'r td+)11i +  to itin' quay.'  t iiirCe. J)() P-nul.(+m:1,.1 iltuy1 utlio?9"
cunthiu (t't" I'- +uu' ' ainu  :i fu-r  your  1+uo I -lo + t  tii-r-ltv,  uJc1  ua.'I
hare Ift, I will 0110 p iittie v1' ,', :Itil  " ]i 1d Mi. hlu It 1 ;' i ' ltait~iifor lea'-
-11 C eini iii V    1"ti,  ti the l'uuih il de  ii1g thitoern-a  r                                    '(1i)11        ll/
Curp.wut'-  n  Ij     ijuuuu"         '' INlic hteettt, aou~uzu:; 1 it t(tigbt         1        jIt'l
"Y1cs ;Ii'111gou in ii? 1:t- , ++IIi if you  het~c yciu g 'ra 11in s FI - ii liu1 1l 1so.     "IIij
ring  me stu-i  iif rtutuc  'u  1..i1.+;-  i n+,'1'(-  Xlutcni  hk-tI itnti  i t. I-a-  .t. Ii   1 nie  at
dry, ot it iil rut tic' rlry fur it. I1uwil bet,'I  in, to-nnpurrow, to etu(. iii.:tii rs  eul at
your frien(il fit lifetI"ti~e huay."                                                            .i
As itt-au lturl Itme forit-ktltto (Meect '  (u odl. -Co  t '.1'1 lt r(Iiilitu-t1(ray
IHarold's  cii l  I  1ut' i +"I  iiuk to  his  that tii;otliert  Ins  iill i  t a uu  x  ltu 'i  ill.
ve!aric, , wiuie  I  uul e ui- I+  !'3\ &amp;iU  itteu;l  tue  uti  t 'iui 1111'ii  Iat  (ii   xl I tIm11  fol-
Iidowtl toward                 tit.' Ili--li' jluIiet        luw  3  ti t it ttituut 1tia  i -  t  u u111 (1'Ikdr'o,
ii ierve  luitti' i-:.i-cr! ui(tl ht"1ou. will
onlyv kiuni uelt- i-i  .  'ii.
tCIlAPTEIt XXXI.                                         I     1'. this mll,utat(/ i.i ry  I4,+  eio
Wh en PtyIrd a-o te iidute clauili t'in itluiclm. !ltukoi mugittie 'i lowuti ouu qIs ii-eu.tmued to
0uuilWc F:it.n authil hi- 1tur ;suiltetut lii-ca/a- I trnt upitutlos ~uuliui
tao ff     lur1im, u t. louf ijubr  i usu rpt  ''Yes ;till1(1rilue Ii(itt I1" d11o still
ed  lltofwed ucr'iintu h'C u1ibloudccn ittin~g convy yfurticrs~i ti  Ltn IdIniitmccs*
ral, an~l 'itrot:( iio'? I isi cap11 and  oiw. -lie sure I(le ICt-re t   (it  i u  iio tui OWtt li'Cta
tig aetv ton.--ann (I itule iust:iiul h ftlloweci ttl its n uuacme , Wtihi0 -1°iiu su-ia, niul *
by ]Benito. 'Ii haoy iuuriiul tni it thucrus  good pitul.'
IA t eep l tur sier' t.1. lz /:a( iuuir:ii, atuul winie,  ' Yes, llissa C irural. P. 1rttiill lie hero
also. ,Ie dit  1ru  jt  yVt  ,i   (1  alit !  if 1he'lai,'it~s ure-itsthe 'ti?1 l ( (\(ii-  ( ( .t
my kiuife amii 1i; irdu- wuuuil Itilc e aeuiuimut. I'ue two mWitnitt amuk tetlo (fA rcd gliaa of
Alice."                                    trmne, amidnlejui(rt u it
'This, thetn, is fCLduto,'youu'r fr'iitd r said ' Tlittgs n1iujsir hi. I. Ok f:i\(ty t for n
Gustnt-e.                                   ciilmiiiumtln," sttidntu  i1sc e,t itt(1ui', "bcn
1(The   same. .xclluitaFi ssi  tt-  hue was onuce nire '1', ".  ' It wtiltI-e nniat
eecloitig lu-fr--Pro )ei~hliru-pin". ".  thing to get IlnuoldC(+11(lo iia- ilout.- "/
Murlu-y '"                                  ploy. Atud thn,t t  111( ue nid of I'edro's      '
V i ' , (xet' fflii."ktnife, tl'y iillCitttit$ with1htult                                Pii} (sil(1) 1
Docglie (( \nti ell "  setled  I htoo 1(0.I~it cist     u (fltZeIla;
t.Nt cy. ri'un~i." ?" for                clth'J  la Btlnrgue pzuj is~ i hfid to OooI
Y     oUlwu'.hdlike to wr  lr1etter rpity"r' to 8lield hter, fronm  miy tp. lu. il linre will
't Al. t-s ex-ellen~aefr Iu-it cr-y-poor."I lie atomuslACei liet i I in-. t  lwtitithi loth of             -
. aI-              ,.-c"           (r..tt.ri....r.,to..it',t.i..,.t.d i 1i :... ut ,1,..E  Ihanuil,. u.rle

I

r'
r'
ss"
/1,11/11 J/A' : , ,
rr rl'                                                ,
J 1 J r1    1rtrl
!   rr   '1   t                                            j
,
:7 J  ,f
uj
,
/1     1                                         d
i 1j
r
' K
r
i
J                                                {
l/       r                                                  J
r
fr W4
,
I

4


-1)

i
i
a
f
gi
1
q
4}
1

cream .f a suecess which cannot but be
mine. 4-__
CHAPTER XXXII.
" I know von will chide inc for my folly,"
said Adele, to Harold, when they met at the
breakfast-table on board the yacht in the
morning which followed their last visit to the
masquerade, "but I must tell you of a dream
-a fearful dream! which I had lastnight.
I know that you laugh at all things superna-
tural, and disbelieve in ominous dreams, yet
this dream lies like a leaden weight upon my
heart
"Dreams, my love, are only the effect of a
nervousness felt before sleep; and whatever
wild, nervous fears or fancies you feel before
you sleep, form the burden of what you sup-
pose to be dreams. The truth is, that they
are not dreams-they are the same fancies felt
while you are in a semi-somnolent state, half-
awake and half-asleep. But I will not laugh
at you ; tell me your supposed dream ; and,
afterward, we will both laugh when it fails in
reality to come to pass."
knoww I was sadly nervous when I retir-
ed," said Adele. "It was a long time before I
slept. When I did, I thought my spirit was
disembodied, and that I was permitted in spirit
to sweep through the air and see all things as
with my mortal eyes. Half-enchanted with
joy, I flew over beautiful gardens, full of fra-
grant flowers ; over lakes which glittered like
molten silver ; over vine-embowered  cot-
tages and splendid palaces ; over streams
which bubbled and gurgled over sands of gold,
and through groves where myriads of birds
sung in wild yet dulcet harmony.
"I was delighted. I flew over broad fields
of cane, and rice, and coffee ; -I looked down
upon groves of orange, lemon, and lime ; I
rested on the emerafd-crowned palm; I pluck-
ed the ehiramoyft from its stem, and placed
it, melting in its juicy ripeness, in my
mouth.
"Suddenly I saw a votante like that in
which we ride, and it halted by the ruins of
an old palace. There was but one person in
it. I hastened toward it, and came so near
that Icould see thatyou were in it, andalone-
none but Benito, the driver, near you. You
seemed to be curiously looking at the old
ruins. And now, when I wished to join you,
my wings, hitherto so airy and so swift, seem-
ed to fail me, and I remained like one anchor-
ed in the air.
" While I fretted to be free, again, as be-
fere. I saw another volante driving toward the
spot where you were. It stopped behind a
half-ruined wall, and from it descended Gus-
tave Ilenderson,. With him was a man, whose
dark, ferocious look made rme shudder. In
Ids hand, this man carried a dagger. Hen-

derson pointed toward you, and stealthily,
like a serpent gliding toward its prey, the
murderous-looking man crept toward you.
"I knew his intention--I struggled to fly to
your side-alas ! I was helpless ! I tried to
shriek out a warning to you, but my lips
were sealed with fear and horror. Closer,
closer crept the assassin, while you, heedless
of danger, plucked fruit from the trees which
grew amid the ruins.
"Oh, the agony which I felt ! Now he was
close to you, only one tree--a huge palm--
between him and yourself. You paused be-
neath its shade--he was close to your back--
his hand holding the glitteringsteel upraised!
With one fearful effort, I broke the dreadful
seal of silence, and shrieked:
"'Harold! Harold ! beware!'
"I woke, and found myself cold as ice with
terror, and trembling from head to foot.
Now, do not blame me, dear Harold, if I tell
you that I do think this dream is ominous;
nor chide me when I beg you, for my sake,
not in any way to expose yourself on shore.
I know what a base, treacherous, revengeful
wretch is that Gustave Henderson. He is not
a brave and open enemy ; the assassin's knife
-the poisoned cup-either would he use to
rid himself of one whom he hates and fears !"
"There is the foundation of your dream,"
said Harold, with a smile.  " before you
slept, knowing his characteira t husaud fears
of what he might do torments) your n ind.
Was it not so ?"
"Yes, Harold ; yet I know I slept soundly
when I dreamed that dream."
"You think so, love ; but never mind, let
us try to "1o justice to the breakfast which
our good Nathan has provided for us. By
the way, do you believe in dreams. Nathan ?"
"Do I, capting? You might jist as well
ask me of I believed in the Gospel of Saint
Luke !" replied Nathan, who had listened,
open-eyed and open-mouthed, to the narra-
tion of Adele. "Yes, capting ; I do believe
in dreams. I dreamed, the only time I ever
was in love, that my gal gin me the mitten ;
and sure enough she did, the very next time
I axed her to go to meetim' with me. She
said she'd found better company; and she
went and took up with Ben Smith, the shoe-
maker, and she's been his lap-stone ever
since !"
Both Harold and Adele laughed at Nathan's
story ; but Zella remained silent and glopmy.
"What is the matter, Zella, asked Harold,
kindly.
"I, too, have had a dream, kind Master
.Harold," she said ';but I will ndt tell it to
be laughed at. Only I beg you to beware of
Gustave Henderson. lie is a bad man, and
dangerous, because he works in the dark."
The reply of Zella brought a shadow once

6
l
i
1
i
i

A

THE SECRET REVEALED.

,.:
,
11       i l l


I
't
I

82                       HILLIARE HENDERSON; OR,
more upon the face of Adele. She could not vor ?" asked Adele, smiling through her
shake off a foreboding which seetiid to chill tears.
her heart.                                  "Ef there is anything on airth that I'd
The breakfast was eaten in silence ; and no 'specially like to de, Miss Adele, it would be
- one but Harold did justice to the faultless ca- jest whatever would please you," said Nathan.
teriug of Nathan.                           " You love Mr. Morley, do you not ?"
-                         "Jest as Jonathan   loved David, in the
CIHAPTER XXXIIIL                Old Testament, only a little more so," an-
N+t long before the hour of noon, Harold swerved Nathan.
tli Adele that he was going on shore to visit  "I fear that his life is in danger if he goes'
the va ious hotels, to see if he could not dis- on shore alone, and he is too brave and proud
cover where G ustave Henderson hiad located to take any one with him."
himself, so that lie could have a police sur-  "Jest like him. lie was always ventur'"
veillainee placed ipon him. For Harold hal some to a digit."
brought letters t introduction to the Amnri-  " I want you to make some excuse to go on
can Consul-Gn rd, who had presented him  shore in the same boat with him. Do not let
to. ti governor, wio had treated hini with hiim know that I asked you to go, nor let him
great reelect ,ad kinilm es, especially after think that you go for any purpose connected
enjo ing the hoslitalities of his beautiful with his safety. But after you get on shore,
yacht. Therefore he felt confident that, if do lot lose sight of him until he returns in
he requested it, the use of the police would safety to the vessel. Will you do that for
be accord d him. Not that he feared any me,     athan?"
open attack from his enemy-that he was     "1 will, Miss Adele, and the human critter
ever prepared to meet-but treachery was to that lifts a hand to harm one hair of his bead
be guarded against.                       had better begin prayin' afore he lifts a
Let ine go with you, dear Harold," said singer!"
Adele, anxiously, when he expressed his in-  Adele went to her state-room, and brought
tention.                                  out a richly-mounted revolver.
" It would scarcely be proper ; besides, I  " Ihere is a present for you, Nathan," said.
shall run no risk. it is daylight, and I will she. "It is carefully loaded-use it, if you
conic off before night. lRemieimber, we are to must, ii defence of his life."
ho to the opera to-night. You and Zella prs-  "I will, Miss Adele," said he. "I've no
pare your dr sales. I took our box yester- doubt-that it'll tell a s'arching story ef it baa
day."                                    to speak at all. I've a pair of hose-pistols in
-Diar harold, I cannot keep that dream  my bunk-flint-locks-that m  grandfather
from my mind."                           used in the battle of Bunker IIill. They're
l"Pshiaw, Adele! do not let such weak fan- good, but most too cumbersome to carry
eit a take possession of your mind. Besides, about by daylight. But excuse me, marm;
is it not for the very purpose of putting the they're calling away the boat's drew on deck,
villain tinder surveillance that I go ?"  and I must be off, or lose my chance to go
" I cant help mily fancies, harold, and I ashore."
;htl i1 i no mire at peace until we are again  And Nathan hurried on eek.      -
on the lii.' unt rs of the dear old ocean."  " Ef you please, capting,* be you goin'
"'lhnt il soon occur, dearest. I have ashore?" he asked, as he approached Harold.
t.rdi to have our vessel ready for sea  " Yes, Nathan."
ls t miorrowsv."                            "I've got to see about them small stores,
"Tianiks, dear uirold, thanks. Do not sir, and ef you've no objection, I'll go ashore
idamiie mie for iiy anitety-your life is far in the same boat."
mire d ar to mie than my own. With you,    "You can certainly do so, Nathan, and re.
the wi1 "Ifull of suishine-without you, all member that we will most likely go to sea to-
would I e clouds amid darkness. I would be morrow. have everything on board to-night
doubly orphiained, doubly widowed then."  that is needed."
And hi ars came into her great dark eyes  "Sartingly, eapting-sartingly."
while she spoke.                            And when the boat was manned, Nathan
-' Cheer up, dear st, I will soon return," took a seat in the stern-sheets, near his com-
said hiarold, and with a kiss upon her fair meander.
I row he bade her "adieu for but a little
while," and went oi deck to order a boat to        CHAPTER     XXXIV.
Barry hinm to the shore.   -                When Harold Morley reached the shore, he
, The moment lhe was gone from the cabin, found Benito waiting, aithfully, according to
Adele rung a bell. It was answered by the orders, as he had always done since he first
steward.                                  employed him. Upon landing, Nathan hur-
" My good Nathuan, will you co me a fa- ricd away, as IaroId supposed, to visit the

,I"

I)

THE SECRET REVEALED.
store of Don Juan Cabargas, there to make !question," said the landlord, with a look of
his purchase of provisions. But Nathan hur- .surprise. " It is a favorite drive, with straa-
ried past that store to a vo/ante stand near gers especially. Far more attractive, though
the large s 'loon known as "La Longa," and loss frequented, than the Pasco del Tacon.
looking out a driver who understood English, It once was more beautiful, and is even now
told hi  to raise the cover of his carriage, more romantic."
while lie hired him to follow and keep within  Harold looked again at the handwriting on
sight of the ro'antc of Harold, which he de- the register, and in his mind assured himself
scribed, and which he knew must pass up that the hand of Gustave Henderson had writ-
that street.                             ten-the name of "General Weston."     He
WhenI Harold entered his volante, he said thought for a moment of asking a description
to Benito :                              of the person representing himself under that
"I wish you to drive me to each of the name, but considering that it might be im-
hotels in the city, in succession. I expect an prudent, he refrained and returned to his ye-
acquaintance in the city,'and would look at lane.
their registers to see if he has not arrived."  "Do you know where the Bishop's Garden
"Yes, crcllenza," sail Benito. And he is, Benito ?" he asked, as he entered the car-
mounted his mule, casting, at the same, an riage.
apparently-careless glance at a country-look-  "Yes, excellenta - very well," replied Be-
inig roante nea- by,-into which a very fleshy nito. And a gleam of satisfaction shone in
man was getting, who looked, with his bronz- his keen black eyes.
ed face and huge, black whiskers and mous-  '.' Then drive me there," said Harold. And
tache, his broad-rimmed Panama hat, his sinking back upon the cushioned seat, lie add.
loose nankeen coat and trowsers, like some su- ed, in a low tone: "I will solve my doubts
gar-planter from the interior. The calacero at once, if I can. I will not be dogged around
of that volante was Pedro, the boatman, and by Gustave Henderson ; if he persists in an-
there was an evident understanding between noying me, he will be apt to lose the number
him and Benito ; for as the latter started his of his mess."
mule and drove close by him, glances were
exchanged which Harold did not notice.
When the volane which contained Harold           CHAPTER XXXV.
passed the spot where Nathan sat in hisvehi-  When Nathan, continually following the
cle ensconced well back in its huge top, he volante of his captain, saw that the one just
was surprised to find another volante follow- ahead of him seemed to be doing the same
ing the first s closely that his driver was thing, stopping whenever the white mule
forced to fall into its rear. Cautioning the stopped, and going on again when it moved
driver not to lose sight of the volante with forward, lie grew very uneasy. He knew that
the white mule, though to keep so far in the Harold was alone, and if the single person in-
rear as not to appear to be following it, he the volante was Harold's friend, 1h  would
bade hin drive on.                        drive up and speak to him.
From  hotel to hotel --- Spanish, French,  Several times he thought he would'order
American, an 1 English -- Harold rode and his driver to pass the suspicious solante, and
carefully examined the registers of each, hop- to close up with Harold, so that he could in-
jng to find the name of Gustave Henderson ; form him that a suspicious craft was folhw.
or even if lie had'registered a false name, to ing in his wake ; but then, remembering the
recognize his handwriting, which he had seen directions given by Adele, that he was not
more than once.                           to let Harold know of his vicinity, but merely
The last hotel which he visited was La Po- to keep so near as to protect him when in
sola de la Europa. Here lie saw the name of danger, he held back.
"General Weston, Kentucky ;" and though     Gustave Henderson and Pedro were both
not certain, thought that lie recognized in the so intent in watching the volante before them,
handwriting chirography similar to that which that they took no heed of that which folfr
he had seen emanating from the hand of Gus- lowed.
tave Henderson.                             When Harold, after his visit to the Posada
" Where is General Weston ?" he asked of de la Europa, ordered Benito to drive to the
the polite landlord.                      Bishop's Garden, and the latter set off at a
"-Absent, sir. He bade me say, that if any brisk pace toward the gate which opened on
friend called to see him, he had gone out to the road that led over the sierra, Pedro said,
the Bishop's Garden."                    in a low tone :
"The Bishop's Garden?   Where is that?"   "The mullet has taken the bait, Massa
asked Harold.                             Gin'ral 1 Benito is bound for the Bishop's
"The gentleman has not been in Havana Garden !"
long, or he surely would not have asked that  "Good I" muttered Gustave Henderson.


64

HILLIARE HENDERSON; OR,

'i
II

" Good I Mr. Harold Morley will soon be see it lone. I should be haunted all my life
bound for a worse place !"               it I dd. I have not such cold blood as Pe-
And he sunk back upon the cushions of the dro has ! Dios me guarde, they are coming !"
volante with an expression of savage satisfac-
tion upon his well-bronzy d face.                   CHAPTER. XXXVI.
Benito urging his mule rapidly on, soon   We will now return to Nathan, and those
pissed the city gate, then sped away over the upon whom he kept watch. The old steward
.ierra, an I soon was beyond the suburbs of grew more and more nervous as the volantes
the citv, passing through a series of hand- left the suburbs of the city, and when they
some grounds which surrounded beautiful came in sight of the broken gate-way and the
count- y villas.                          ruined wall, he groaned:
" H ow fir is it, Benito, to the Bishop's Gar-  "The dream-the dream ! Sweet Jerusa-
den ? asked Harold, at this time.         lem, but'm afeared it's coming true 1" When
"It is a league anl a half from the city. cx- the volante in which Harold rode disappeared
el/raze. But we will soon be there !" replied from sight, he would have had his driver
ihe calar ro.                            pass the other if he could. But the road was
And driving his Ige spurs into the flanks so narrow that it was impossible. And he
if his mule, lie hurried on.              groaned in agony when he saw the volante
llarold sail no more, but gazed upon the ah ad of him drive just within the gate, and
heauCtiful scenery, which continually met his there stop, while the man in it descended and
eye, with ph-asure.                       walked on with the driver, who dismounted at
I wi5h I ba1l brought Adele with me !" he the same time, so fastening his mule that no
said to hims 1f. "She would have vastly en- other carriage could get by.
joyiel a rid' liic this !"                Ordering his driver to stop where he was,
They soon arrived at a gate, which was Nathan leaped from the volante, and hurried
quite dilapidated, as was also the wall on on through the gateway. In a fewseconds he
either side of it. Driving quickly through came in sight of the ruined palace.
this, into a grove of various trees, such as 1 "0 Moses-the -lrcan - the dream !" he
pain, cocuaiut, guava, cinnamon, and others, moaned, as he Ine ric on, clutching the wea-
they cmne iin sight of a building which had pon which Adele had given him.
evidently once been a noble palace, but which  Fortunately, for many paths diverged there,
was now alrmEst a heap of runs. Broken he saw the receding forms of the men who had
columns, fallen walls, shattered statues, and occupied the rolante ahead of him, as they
fountains which seemed long since out of use, hurried up one of the paths.
met the eve all around. But fruit and flowers  Stealthily as a panther, but swiftly, the old
grew profusely, and the broken arches were steward followed  them, passing the well-
covered with vines and creepers.          known volante in which his master had ridden,
"This is the Bishop's Garden, excellenza I" where Benito had fastened it.
said Benito, as he checked his mule.        On-his heart beating faster than his pulse,
Harold thought of the dream of Adele, as and so loud that it sounded like a drum in his
he looked at the rnins, and for an instant a ears, Nathan hurried.
cold chill went to his heart, while he felt of The path was winding, but fortunately it
she weapons which he always carried with liim  had no branches, for those whom he followed
when on shore, and then looked around to see were now out of sight, and had there been
if any one else was near.                 diverging roads, he would not have known
But not a person could be seen or heard ex- which to follow, for their feet left no track
cept Benito, who sat carelessly in his saddle, uipon the hard gravel.
whistling a Biscayan air.                   lie had probably walked and ran a quarter
"I thoughtthis place was much frequented, of a mile, though to him it seemed to be
lenito!'' said he.                        treble that distance, when he came to the
"It is, steor, later in the afternoon. We verge of a small space which was nearly free
are early. Besides, there may be many people fr'om trees. In its centre, shaded by a I'rge,
in the walks. They extend some ways further, royal palm, was a small fountain, which
though it is not good driving for the vo- gurgled up through a group of broken marble
lante I"                                  water-gods. Leaning against this tree, Nath-
Very well--I will wait a while. Keep the an saw his master, but the other twopersons
ro'ante here while I take a stroll !"     were not in sight.
"Yes, excellenza !" and Benito dismounted,  "The dream-the dream !" moaned the old
and fastening his mule, waited a few moments man, and he was about to rush forward to
until Iharold was out of sight. Then he liur- join.Harold, when he saw the calaciro who had
tied off into a by-path, muttering as he driven the volante nearest to his own, appear
went :                                    suddenly on the border of the open space not
"They may kill him-but I don't want to , thirty feet from him. The man was crouched

n
I

TILE SECRET REVEALED.6
down, an held in his hand a long, bright-  " The tother man must be round here some-
bladed knife. His position was such that he where," replied Nathan. " He came along
could creep toward Harold's back unseen by with this chap as far as I seen 'em. He's
the latter.                               been dogging you ever since you got into the
In a moment Nathan's revolver was held to volante, and I've dogged him."
a " bead" upon the calacero's head, with a  " Yes, it is Gustave Henderson. He must
hand as steady as the finger of Time.     be sought out, arrested, and punished," cried
But Nathan did not fire. He watched the Harold, as he drew a revolver and rushed to.
motions of the would-be assassin, and at the ward the spot where Nathan said he first saw
same time looked for the other man, whom he the calacero.
intuitively knew to be the employer of the  He found no one there but broken flower-
first.                                    stems, bent grass, and several broken branch-
"El I could take 'em both, 'twould be a es, which betokened that some one less eau-
clean job !" he muttered.                 tious than the calaccro had been there, and
But the employer 'did not show his head, that within a few minutes.
though Nathan, who had shrunk back into a   Something white slinging to a bush attract-
clump of guava bushes, thought he saw the ed Harold's attention, and upon reaching it,
small trees shaking strangely, near the spot he found it to be a linen pocket-handkerchief.
where he first saw the calacero showing him. Had he doubted before, here was proof of the
self.                                     late presence of his dastardly enemy. The
The would-be assassin was now within a few  handkerchief had the name-" G. Henderson,
feet of his intended victim. Old Nathan pre- Georgia," marked in one corner.
pared to act with a nerve fitting the perilous With renewed eagerness, after this, Nathan
need. As the calaccro, who till now had-crept and Harold searched the entire surrounding
along the ground, rose to his feet behind the groves and thickets, but without success. At
palm-tree, Nathan took deliberate aim, and at last, Harold determined to return to the so-
the very moment when the villain raised his lante, and see if lie could not be found there ;
hand, while the steel glittered in the air, there and if not, he intended to go at once to the
was a sharp report, and without a groan, or governor-general, and stating the facts of his
an uttered word, Pedro leaped high in the air, attempted assassination, to procure an order
and fell dead on-his face, burying his knife to for the arrest of Henderson as an accomplice
wle hilt in the soft ground.              of the dead man, and the real instigator of the
"The dream   hasn't all come true --the  attempt.
arcam hasn't all come true !" shouted Nathan,  " What shall we do with that poor eree-
as he rushed from his place of concealment. tur ?" asked Nathan, when Harold said he was
and threw his arms around Harold's neck, going to the solante.
while the tears streamed down his cheeks.    "Let him lie where he is, until the proper
At the same instant, had he not made so  authorities come to take care of his body !"
much noise,' a bitter curse might have been  said Harold. "He will probably be recogniz-
heard in the bushes on the left, from whence  ed ; I think I have seen his face before."
Pedro had crept ; and a crashing as if some "I knots I have;" said Nathan. "He's not
person had hastily fled away.          '  in the same rig, though, that he was then.
"What, in the name of heaven, does this He has carried me off aboard in his boat; he
mean ?" cried Harold, in wild astonishment, has a wherry in the harbor-or, least-wise, he
as he looked first at Nathan, then at the man had ; for I calculate he has got done wherryin'
who lay dead at his feet.                 in this world. That was a proper nice shoot-
"It means, capting," said Nathan, actually in'-iron Miss Adele gave me to-day."
sobbing with joy, "that Miss Adele's dream   "Did she~ send you to watch over me
t   hasn't quite come true. That ereetur there asked Harold.
was jest a goin' to knife you, when I let fly at " Sarting she did, capting ; ef she hadn't,
him. He won't knife anybody any more. I your goose would have been cooked before
put the ball right through both his ears--'ye this time o' day, sure ; for Ididn't know noth-
see?"                                     in' about your bemn' in danger."
And Nathan coolly rolled the body over on  "Heaven bless the angel! To her and to
its back.                                 you I owe my life ! Heaven bless the angell"
Harold saw the knife clutched in the death-  "El I didn't say amen to that, I'd be worse
grasp of the corpse,,and Instantly compre- than a Universalist ; and my old father, who
hended his recent peril and the noble service was a hard-shell Baptist, thought there
which Nathan had rendered.                couldn't be nuthin' worse than them, though
"But this man could not have been alone ; his son ain't jest of that opinion," said Na-
he must have had confederates-an employer. than, as he followed Harold along the path
This is Gustave henderson's work. Where is ;that led to the spot where the volantes had been
he?" cried Harold.                     I+heft.

st .
'   7
z .  '
_t , ;
i  '
-
,}
t('
,la
ij
#+}.


IIiLLIARE HENDERSON, OR,

Upon arriving at the place where he had
left his volante, Harold found it thre-the
white niule standing tied asLUenito had left it.
He shouted for Benito, but neither answer
nor man caine. But the driver, who had
Lrouglht Nathan, hearing the shouts, came
and said .
" Seor, if you seek Benito, von will not
find himlire. About twenty minutes ago,
he and a large, fit shy man came running out
of the garden, and taking a vu/ante which was
fastened just before mine, turned it, and near-
ly upseitmng my vo/ante in passing, drove off
at a gallop toward the city."
"The murderers! Even Benito was in the
plot,'' said Harold. Then turning to Nathan,
he added : "We must lose n time-can you
act as calacecro, Nathan? I will get into this
man's roan/c, and drive to the governor's pal-
nee. Can you follow with the vo/ante that be-
longs to Benito ?"
I reckon I can ; leastwise, I can try," said
Nathan, turning the white mule and prepar-
ing to mount, while Harold went on the other
vo/ante ; and tossing its driver a piece of gold,
told him to drive with all possible speed to
the governor's palace.

CIIAPTER XXXVII.
When Harold arrived at the palace and sent
heis card to the governor-general, he was in-
stattly admitted.
Upon his relation of the attempt to asstassi-
nate hin, and the death of the man who at-,
tempted to commit the deed, the governor in-
stantly ordered one of the officers of his guard
to take a file of men to scour the entire neigh-
borhood, and to arrest any persons whom
they might find there, also to bring the body
in for recognition. And when Harold told
him whom he supposed to be the instigator
of the attack ; and under what false name he
thought he had registered himself, the gor-
rnor at once gave him an officer and a guard
of soldiers, with orders to arrest Henderson
and Benito wherever they might be found-
itt the same time ordering the volante and mule
of Benito to be detained in the government
stables.
"If they are caught, the garote is their des-
tiny !".said the governor. "We have an oe-
easional murder in the night-time," he added ;
but never since I have ruled upon the isl-
and, has such a bold and desperate crime been
attempted in the day-time. Let the criminals
be secured, and an example shall be made
which will strike terror to the black hearts of
all others who are like them in disposition."'
Harold at once went with the officer and
guard to the Posada de la Europa, and inquir-
d for General Weston.
"lie returned less titan an hour ago, paid

his bill, took his baggage, and went away,
senior," replied the landlord.
"Did he leave word whither he was going ?"
asked the officer.
"No, senor," replied the landlord. "iIe
seemed in great haste ; though but last night
he said he should stay some weeks."
"Which way did the rolante go which car-
ried him ?" asked the officer,
"Down toward the harbor," replied the
landlord.
"We will get him yet, senor," said the offi-
cer to Harold. "his excellencythe govern-
or-general, will doubtless offer a reward for
both the fugitives, and they cannot long es-
cape our vigilance."
Ihen taking a careful description of Hen-
derson and Benito, the officer returned to the
palace to report.
Harold started to return to his vessel, re-
questing the officer to say to the governor
that he would return to the palace in a, short
time with Nathan, to give any evidence which
might be required when the body of the as-
sassin was brought in. -

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
In a short time, Harold, with Nathan by
his side, stood once more in the cabin of his
beautiful yacht.
"I never will laugh at your dreams again,
dear Adele," said lie, as lie pressed his lips
upon her brow. "To your thoughtfulness
and Nathan's courage, I owe my life."
"Then you have been attacked ?"
And Adele, as she said this, turned pale.
Yes;' amid ruins just as you describe
them, beneath a palm. hnd you seen the
spot before-seen the assassin as lie approach-
ed me with his uplifted knife, when I was un-
conscious of his presence, vou could not more
correctly have described 'what actually has
occurred, than you did hen you related your
dream. But Nathan, with the weapon which
you gave him, shot the vile assassin down at
the moment when his hand was raised to drive
his weapon to my heart,"
"Thank Heaven ! O Nathan ! I know not
how to thank you-how to reward you!"
cried Adele, grasping the old man's band.
"In saving his life, you have saved my own."
"Then I've got all the pay I ask for in this
world," said Nathan. "I only wish I could
have killed t'other one, too."
"Was it Henderson that he killed?" asked
Adele.
"No-merely a tool of his," replied liar-
old. "The chief villain has escaped, for the
time; but the authorities are after him, and
his life is forfeited if he is captured."
"I hope they will secure him," replied
Adele. "While such a villain lives, and,
bloodhound-like, is on our track, your life

.I

*

4

ii

1

I
1


THE SECRET REVEALED.
will never be safe1 !Nathan cannot always the party which ha.1 been
be near you; I may never again have such a garden had returned. T
dream. Oh, I pray that he may be captur- successfully, for any per
ed !"                                    but had brought away
lie will find it difficult to escape. Under In his pockets, they had
such strict police and military rule, the es- loons which, the governor
cape of any well-described criminal is almost edly the price -of blood
an impossibility. And now, my Adele, hay- But there were no paper
ing come off merely to assure you of my safe- which could bring how
ty, and to thank you for the precaution which Henderson. But the hand
you took in sending Nathan to look out for old had found, the descri
me, I must return to the palace to be present which the landlord of t
at the examination of the body of the assas- all went to prove that it
sin, and to learn if any arrests have been had hired the assassin.
made."                                     "I would ask your cx
Nathan will go with you, will he not, old, now, for the irst tir
dear hIarold ?"                          statement which the l
"Yes."                                 "whether the Bishop's
" Then I am content. He has proved his fashionable resort ?"
truth and faithfu ness, and I had rather that  "Quite to the contrary
he were with you alone, than any other twen- sons ever visit it."
ty n"n."                                   Harold at once stated
Don't, Miss Adele-lont make me too had told him.
proud ! said Nathan; and tears of joy stood  "lie must have been
in his eyes. " Though, to speak truly, I'd have him before us at onc
rather hear one word of praise from your lips, ernor; and an officer w
than all the singin' I ever heard in meeting ; patched for that purpose.
and I used to be mon-trous fond of that."  In a short time the lam
'-Take this, and wear it for my sake," said mod to death (for he kn
Adele ; and she drew a diamond-ring from  laid against him), stood in
her fioner, and put it in his hand.     the governor-general-w
Nathan looked at the golden circlet and power, holds life and deat
the glittering jewel. 1Ho tried to put it on "Why did you tell th
the end of his little finger. Then, as it failed he inqired after General
even to go on the tip of that finger, he burst that the Bishop's Garden
into a hearty laugh.                     lonable resort'W' asked th
"''would take a hoss-collar to fit my fin-  "Please your excellent
gers, Miss Adele," said he. "Please don't or the cutleman who reg
think me unmannerly or ungrateful, but I'd General Weston, before
no more know what to do with this- purty my house in the morning
jewel, than a parson would with a pack of gentleman, whom he des
phayin'-keerds ! Ef you'll only jest give me scription answered to thi
one lock of your black, shiny hair, I'll keep possibly call to see him.
it jest as long as I live."              tian was a friend who
And be handed back the ring.        ,  to see. Also, that he was
Adele took up a pair of scissors and sever- day at the Bishop's Gard
ed a long tress of her beautiful hair, and with truth, know nothing, for
a voice which quivered with emotion, said : there. He wished his fr
" Take it, Nathan, and I will yet try to and bade me tell him, as
find some better way to reward  ou."     very words which I use
" Please, Miss Adele, don't talk of it ay and  did so. I had n
more. I haven't done nothin' more
duty, and I'm well paidal                                 that an
tig andime understand eac other, and made to assassinate this g
there's no danger of there beim' any odds be-  "Upon m olemn oat
twixt us at the last reckoning."         fortunately, livcd so long
"No, indeed, Nathan ; but we must go cellency, that my charact
ashore, now, to see what is going on there," bear the closest scrutiny.'
said Harold.                               "Your explanation ap
-an truthful," said the go
CHAPTER XXXIX.                 return o your hotel, with
When Harold and Nathan reached the pal- you are under surveillance
ace of the governor-general, they found ta leave-the city without my

i

599
sent to the bishop's
hey had sought, un-
sons lurking there,
the body of Pedro.
found several doub-
said, were undoubb-
l paid in advance.
s, or anything else,
e the matter unto
kerchief which Har-
ption of his person
he hotel had given,
was Henderson who
ellency," said Ilar-
ie, thinking of the
ndlord had made,
arden is a place of
y. Very few per-
what the landlord
in the plot. I will
e," replied the go-
as immediately dis-
dlord, frightened al- .
ow not what charge
the presence of was
ho, with vice-regal
h in his own handLs.
is gentleman, when
Weston (so called),
was a place of fash-
e governor, sternly.
ey, General Weston,
istered his nnme as
he went away from
, said to me that a
cribed (and the de-
s gentleman), might
He said this gen-
m he much wished
going to send the
len-of which I, in
I have never been
iend to follow him,
an inducement, the
d. To oblige my
o other earthly rea-
attempt was to be
entleman I''
h, no, sir! I have,
in Havana,your ex-
er and conduct will
pears to be candid
vernor. " You can
the knowledge that
ice, and must not
special permission.


60

IIILLIARE HENDERSON ; OR,

t1

I

THE SECRET REVEALED.

61

And should v-on, cr any ( ne else, bie so for- leas as was Gustave Hletdesin, Vt r ' te for
tunate as to tind an:d a r ,  this Gneral W es- crime and villainy, lie was yet an arrmin cow-
t.n, at as 11emh1 r-o, or linito. the calaeiro, ard, morally and physically.
u, or th . sh1.  ree 've from my hands j  When hesentPedro forward to do the deed
ote hunir d011o      O i  1i.'           which he dared nt risk himself, after having
fIun, tuiruing to an id, the governor add- cunningly entrapped Ilarold into that lonely
place, he watched the movements of his hire"-
i (i+ofT r a:: 1 a d1e(sriltion of the hag with treimulous interest. Ie had no
1 I          h  ho lldtl throngh51 thli  city, and thought of having been followed ; and when,
n.r thel idant."                      it the very moment which he thought would
.i " bndr lird, nw a liti- more at case, was he Harold's last on earthi, lie heard a shot,
tlriitd t, d, art ;  1 the governor, turn- and saw Pedro fall dead upon the ground, he
:ug tI l:roil  hi a fmle, sail :         was so stricken with terror, that without wait-
:   r. I liave 1nI angi-ate] and ex-it iting to Sev by whom the shot was fired, he
h 1    t..  not'r, n I    amill  , i  -  Ie l wildly through the bushes'toward the
St to'ier.mci:i. 1 ht I have IL 1ovr   11Cnee where he had left the rolante. lie knew
urb yi. I lunte nthr. 1   .a:n ti:n:  to Ot whether Ilarold had niany friends to aid
cr ratulat  at upoi ,- r  enp:l from the lito or not-lie only knew and felt that his
a --ia Ihe."'1p lot had filed, anid therefore, that his own
"g :it ftlvt ha.k 1 r excellence fir life was in danger.
1. :1 f  :  y'u c   r s," repli il IIar- ,In rushing through the thicket, lie ran up-
. "   t n   vt eritnt:n to you this faithful on lenito.
rt 1 : d   I .: ",  whoe rdai ni"and    " Saneta Maria-excellenza ' What is the
'itchlf..1 c rn ii vied miule, I feel that  matter?" asked Benito, liniiself terrif ed at
preent one wit ee   worth is far above his the agitation which Gustave exhibited.
rt'"'                                      " All is lost, Benito!" cried the chief con-
I He 1- Ins  , ' iond service in ridding spirator. "Pedro has been slan, and we must
our ii-l  I tf a  rt- h itwort lv to live upon fly for our own lives! Hurry with me to the
itr (   the ott rt:o . " lhat is his name, volante-we can reach the city before the alarm
ser                                     is given there ; and then when I get my money
Nhan har,.lan . y :r e lb ney-a from the hotel, we can find son e place of con-
:.1  rs i to yt ttinthir eitfoir' I was eealment un'il we can leave the island. Hasten,
t 'tIl n ow equialiy f.iit hfdt Ito ne.''  m  good ntw, I have plenty of money, and
"aitltftlu:ushoull ever ihe rewrdtd," will not desert you if you do not desert mc.
tiitl the gon rnor, kindlt. Ant taking frio  We are both in peril,~f r this Seior Morley
I is pcket a large atl magnificent watch, will follow us to the death."
from which hung a chain be ring a massive  "I am  ruined, ruined, senior !" groaned
enierald lor a s.l, lie added :          Benito. "I will fly with you, because I must;
"'atlian Slr.nklan I, accept this from the not because I wish. If I stay, the garote will
Governtor-Geeral of Cinba. nt alone for say- be my doom !"
lag the valued life of your tiuster, but in re-  By this time they had reached his rolante,
muenim r ne if one who valte  dclty wherey- and lienito was about to unhitch his mule.
t It it I.1.' "NO; io not take this! We will gain time
'   it rentblet from head to foot with by 1  Ii ntg the other which Pedro drove," said
agltaatiina s th governor ha:ld hlims the G it ave. "' When Morley and his friends
mnagnificent preen t. 'Tears ca:ne up in his cone here, they will see this rolante, and,
eyes. Ie knew' not what to say.         thinking you arec here, will waste time in took-
At last, ie statuiieredottt:         itg for you. That time will be precious to
--Please, casting, do jest ray what I feel. us ; for in it we may reach some hiding-place
I cnt ; miy heart lis come cliar up into my that you know of, and be safe until, with my
ti rat, ant stieks thIl re I'             abundant means, we can find a way of lear-
1he governor smiled good-naturedly at ing the island. Let me but once get back to
Natians enIbarrassnent, and asking Ilirilil my own country, and I will make you a rich
imI to take a glass of wine in his private apart- man, Benito.
liNCnts, toll tan otlicer to see that Nathan was  Benito sighed, but hurried on; and turning
provide,l with refreshments.              the second rolante, leaped into the -sddic,
--^-while Gustave sprung into the seat.
.    C'IAPTER XL.                   Putting spurs to the mule, Benito dashed
We'll john, if von like, dear reader, in a by the other volante, nearly upsetting both
lok afher Mr. hlenderson anti lienito, not carriages in the passage, and at a swift gallop
l hiig, however, for any part of that guber- sped away toward the cit .
natorial reward. If I recollect rightly,'I hpve  "To the Posada de la Europa, Benito. My
stated elsewhere, that knave and conscience- trunk there is half-filled with gold I" said

1~

Iienderson. "We must secure that; for in is seen near bece?" asked Gustave, ore he
my gold lies our best chnice of safety.    looked before him to see what hmid of placo
Benito answered not a w ord, but rode mad-  he was entering.
ly on until thec reahel the city, where more i  " No, exccllena. The mule will go direct
temperate speed was necessary, to avoid creat- o his stable, which is half a league from here.
inig a suspicioi-whichi might delay them, if No one will know where we left the volante;
not cause their arrest.                    for, as you see, all is still now in this street.
Soon they were at the hotel, where Hender- It is only lively im the night-time. The class
son, or rather, as he was known there, "Gen- of people who live here, sleepinm the day-time
eral Weston," called fir his bill, paid it with- and do their business in the night. Look, cx-
out even a glance at the items, and having cellenta."
his single traveling-trunk tossed into the   Henderson looked ahead of him. A long,
nodnti!e, 'bade Benito to drive on.        narrow room, so low that ie could barely
The latter  'll silent, again moved swiftly stand upright in it, contained no furniture
forward with ho  nieni', driving down toward but several black and greasy-looking tables
the lower eti of the harl)or, in the l.eighbor- and a row of wooden benches by the wall on
hood of the Punta, into a section mostly in- either side. These benches were occupied by
habited ly fishermen.                     men who were sleeping, and IIenderson ehud-
 Where are you going, Benito ?" asked dered as lie looked at themn. 1 egroes, iu
Gustave, at last.                        - lattoes, and swarthy white men, lay prmnis-
"To the only place in this city where I cously there, and ragged, filthy, fierce-looking
think we can he safe, ."-:llen:a. It is a re- wretches they were.
sort for smuggle's and hard eases, and it will , Scarce one of them but carried a knife in
be the last place where the police or military the sash around his waist ; unshaven and un-
will look for a gentleman !'"              shorn, they looked like the offscounings of
What is that ? asked Gustave, pointing to the world.
something whienh looked like a huge barber's  The place itself was horribly dirty :n a stench
chair, made of iron, and mounted on a large 'of garlic, tobacco, ani aguadiente, almost
stone platform.                          stifled Henderson as he advanced to a knd of
It is the Girote !" said Benito, with a liquor-bar at the farther eid of the room, to
shudder. " Dios me guarde, itis the garote l"* which the negro whom Benito called Pablo
And lie hurried his mule past the dreadful had carried his trunk.
in-trument of death, which in Cuba fills the  . "In trouble, elh, Benito?" asked Pab lo, his
place whichthe gallows Qecupies in our more one eye shining like fire.
merciful G) land.                            "Yes, Pablo, and you must take care of
Very soon after this, they came to a nar- his excellenza and myself uhtil we can leave,
row and illthy ailey, close by the frowning You shall be well paid-his excellenza will
walls of the prison and fort, known as "La give you a half-dozen doubloons now as an
Pnta." Into this, with a coolness and skill earnest of what he will do, if you' will hide
that quite astonished Gustave, for the hubs of us away safely."
the volante wheels almost touched the walls oni  "Certainly-there are ten of them, Pablo,"
either side, Benito drove ; and turning a cor- said Gustave, handing out the money. "But
ner, he paused before a dingy-looking house of can you not give us a better roons than this
stone, over the portals of which was fastened and one not so public ?'
a sign, with a fish, a bottle, and an anchor for  "Yes,",said the negro, asline clutched the
its emblems.                               gold in his hand, while his single eye burned
lie knocked   against the door with his yet the brighter as he gazed upon it. '° Yes,
clenched hand, and it was instantly opened by excellenza, you and Benito follow me."
a hideous-looking negro, who had lost one    And taking up thi trunk again, he opened
eye in somi' way, and who, half-naked as ie a door which was back of the bar, and so
was, looked more like a devil than5a man,  ounningly contrived that the shelves upon
"Pablo, take his excellena's trunk in ; we which the liquor was placed turned with it,
will be your guests for a time," said he, as he and revealed a room some ten or twelve feet
st rang front his horse. " nter, excellenza," square behind it. In this there was a table
he said to Gustave; "'tis a poor place, but and half a dozen chairs, also a couple of
safety here is better than death elsewhere."  bunks, mih like those to be found in the
Anid starting the mule on with the volani, forecastle of an old-fashioned merehant-ship.
by a heavy kick, lie entered the den with    "Ihere, excellenza, you will be safe from the
Gjstave.                                   very devil himself. You can order whatever
Will they not track us by the volante, if it kind of food or wine you want-touch this
spring, it will ring' a bell. Whisper your
* The same machine upon which the brave but yn- order at that panel, I i11 hear and attend to
fortunate General Lopes met his fate.      it. When old Pablo gives his word that a

..
,,  f
,

t
.

s


62

BILLIARE HENDERSON; OR,

'I
4

Ii
f(

man is safe, he is safe. Tha-police don't like  " If the gain was sure, and the project
to neddle with me ; for when my friends are possible," said Benito. "They are men who
aw.ike, they are a hard set to meddle with. value life lightly when gold is balanced
Benito knows mce well ; he did me a favor against it."
mice, and I have not forgotten it. Give your  " Do you not think that I could get twenty
orders, and I will see that you want nothing ' or thirty of them to aid me in taki
Let us have some god brandy and some sion of Morley's yacht, while she is at anchor?
food, qie', tl'hen," said Gustave. "I am  ie would never dream of such a rash and
tiedanid faiit."                        daring attempt, and probably keeps no watch
"You shall have both in a little while, at night.e
czcre lera. I will pass them in by a sliding-  Benito was so astonished at the proposition,
panel, ne:ir the floor; for when the door is that for a moment he made no reply, but
lutiieied niey bar looks right, and no one will looked in open-mouthed wonder at Gustave.
(Ieali that there is a dior here. And, excel- When he spoke, he said
lenza," added Pablo, "if you hear a good   " Excellenea, I believe you North Amen-
deal of noise here when night comes on, fe I cans fear nothing. Do you not knowmthat
no alarm, for my friends are not very quiet the yacht lies within-hailing distance of more
after they wake up. 'they will drink, and than twenty men-of-war, who keep sentinels
lay ear s, and sometimes fight a little to on the alert d y and night?"
keep their Iands in. I can't stop them. And  "True; but boats with  muffled
now, adios, crcellenza, I will attend to your pass them in the dark, and board her without
orders directly."                        noise."
Pablo closed the door ; and Gustave and  "Then the government guard-beats," con-
Benito were alone in the noisome, window- tinned Benito, "tire rowing about the harbor
less den, which was evidently Pablo's "best all night long."
room," perhaps his parlor.                 "We should hear their oars and could
"This is cursed bad luck !" muttered Gus- avoid them," said Gustave.
have. "I thought that I had everything so  "But the yacht could not be captured
fixed that Morley could not escape me. How  without the alarm being given," said Benito.
ny plan failed, or who  na there to aid him  "It would be impossible, excelena ei."
is more than I can comprehend."            "No-not impossilk, with cool and de-
wIth a:1 ruinedme,i xcellera !"  d Benit, termined men. A single blow with a knife
with a heavy sigh. " My rolante and mule, would silence thme watch on deck, if there was
my house- yen my poo- earnings which lie one. I have been    board of he, an know
buried in the elilar--all are gone; for if I the way to the cabin. I think she could be
return to save anything, they will have me in taken easily," replied Henderson.
the gerote. Ay, ar de nti! I amt ruined !"  "But suppose you had her in your pos.
"Not so, I tell you !" said Gustave, ii- session, what would you do next ?' asked
patiently. "I du rich in my own land. Let Benito.
us but escape from this island, and you shall  "Why, make sail and go to sea," said Gus-
have gold enough to buy twenty volantes and tave.
mules, id a house be-ides. I will make you  " Excellena, no vessel is permitted to leave
overseer of my dlantation, and give you fifteen the harbor, or enter it, after sunset, without
hundrv4 pesos a near."                   she is a  an-of-war; aid even tl:en she must
Benito's lugubi'ious face grew brighter when have a permit, or they will fire upon her
he heard this.               .           from the Moro Castle. If the guard-boats
"I will manage to secure a passage off, did not retake the schooner, ste would be
through Pablo," said he. " More than half sunk before site could pass the Moro."
of his customers are snugglers--the rest are  "I would hardly care, if those I hate were
wore i Pablo will do what he can for me. sunk with her !" said Hndersoe bitterly.
Being a house-owner, I went bail for him  "Others might value their lives more, e.
once, when he was in trouble, and he does eellenra."
not forget it. 'true, he paid me well for  "IHigt-hiist !" said a voice outside, and the
doing it; yet ie thinks it was a great favor, sliding of a angel was heard.
and, am content now that lie should think " It is Pablo," said Benuto.
so   edc ots      ntig o       o~d      And as he spoke, a large tray was showed
rbte di e,   t say nythin for aon id- into the room through an aperture in the low-
b'betne  ut sented engaged in a deep, er part of the ceiling. Benito took it up, and
study. At last, lie started up and said :  placed it on the table.i
enito, the class of ten who harbor    "Pablo understands the wants of your ex-
here, would enter upon almost any des operate cellcnza," said the cal ewro, as e took first a
expedition, if it promised gain, would they clean, white table-cloth and s etreadoitkonrthe
ot "                                   1ftable, then put from the tray sundry bottles

68

labeled brandy, rum, and wine, with glasses to know not how I dread this delay," said Adele.
drink from.Then came some nice white rolls "Until he came' like Satan, into our Paradise,
of bread ; a cold chicken, some butter, sar- I was happy. But now a constant terror op.
dines, pickles, and cold tongue. Also, lemons presses me. If you are absent from me,im
and sugar, and some fruit,              fancy conjures up a thousand dangers which
"n  e is a better caterer than one would seem to beset you. The drink which may
suppose he could be. These things look clean, pass your lips, the food you may eat, I fear
in spite of the filth which abounds in his will be poisoned ! 0 Harold, it is agony"
place," said Gustave.                      "It shall not last long, love. If within
"le has sent for them to some first-lass three days Henderson is not arrested, I posi-
restorador," said Benito. "Shall I open a bot- tively will sail, whether it pleases the gov-
tle of wine, excellenza ? He has not forgotten ernor or not. I will prefer your pleasure to
a cork-screw."      s                    all other things."
aOpen a bottle of brandy for me, Benito,"  "Thank you, Harold. Do not think me
said Gustave. "It Mill serve my nerves bet- unreasonable. Remember thatI- am but a
ter than wine. We will eat and drink, and weak, nervous girl, and pity rather than con-
then think over the matter of which I was demn me.'
speaking."                                 "I do not blame you, my Adele. Do  ou
"Very well, excellence. Trouble does not think you will enjoy the opera to-niht Y'
spoil my appetite. Poor Pedro ! but yester- .."If you insist upon my going, Harold, I
eve he and I supped merrily. And now he is will try to enjoy it. But I would' feel far
cold, and will sup no more. Poor fellow! if more happy, enjoy myself a thousand times
he hiad not ever been so willing to use his better, here, if you were to remain on board.
knife, he might have lived to pull gray hairs We can make an opera for ourselves. Zella
from his beard."                         with the guitar, you with your flute, and I
While talking, Benito kept his hands busy,: with my harp. Nathan, can you .not play
end soon had a couple of bottles uncorked, some instrument ?"    'in'
and the food arranged for use. Henderson   "Nothin' to speak of, Miss Adele,'eti
whetted his appetite with a brimming glass of the jewsharp. Used to be greaton the little.
brandy ; and Benito, after asking permission, drum, when I was young, and went to yearly
followed his example.                    muster andtrainin'; but them days have gone
by!I"
--And Nathan heaved a deep-drawn sigh.
CHAPTER    XLI.                "I will not go to the opera, then," said
After his interview with the governor-gen- Harold, pleasantly. "I should not enjoy any
el, Harold returned to the yacht, accom- music if there was a sadness at your heart.
panied by Aathan., Get us up a good supper, Nathan, and we'll
The latter, as soon as lie got on board, spend a happy evening here, where no dan-
went to the cabin, and, approaching Adele re- gem can reach us, and where the world is all
spectfully, exhibited the present which he our own."
had received.                              "I'll do jest that, eaptin. I got Mr. Mor-
"Please keep it for me, Miss Adele," said ton to put down everything that we wanted
the old steward. "It's too nice for me to in the shape of stores on paper, and I left it
carry, except sometimes on aSunday. I'm  with 'Tom,' the head American clerk at old
afni- e of loam' it, or breaking' it; and then, Cabargas', and I find that he has sent every-
besides, there might be a temptation for some thing aboard while we've been scootin' around
one to steal, it. I know you'll keep it safe; ashore. I can give you jest ne nice a supper
and then, ef I should happen to get washed as ever was got up at the old Tremount, in
overboard, or be sick and go off all of a sud- Bosting ; and they used to be some on sup-
den, I shouldn't like anybody to get hold of opera when the "deacon' looked out for cup-
it butyou and the capting. For'twas through board matters I"
you tlat it ever come to me."             And Nathan hastened away to his duty ;
Adele told Nathan that she would take care while Harold gladly threw himself down upon
of it for him if lie desired.            a sofa to listen to Adele's dulcet words ; for,
After saying this, she turned to Harold, and when she was happy, her voice was like the
asked :                                  carolling of a bird.
"Are we going away to-morrow, dear liar-
old ±?"
"I intended to, dearest," replied he ; abut        CHAPTER XLII.
the governor wishes me to delay a little long-  By his watch alone, could Gustave Render-
er, so that I can appear as a witness against son tell that the day was nearly at an end
ieuinderson, if he is arrested."         and night approachin; for the room in
"I fear that lie will not be found. You which Pablo had placed lim and Benito was

-g4
U

Ia

THE SECRET REVEALED.

;


yf
s
.  .
,{
4
s
J

IIILILIA1cE IIENDIERSON ; OR,

1

3
r
st
t4
I

windowles, and ia- lamp hung in the centre)
a orle I tlieni the only light they had.
lie I  euhow   or, with the aid of food and'
l.'or, aohr.d hhiiself into a much better
of miil, :t1 hal almost reasoned Ben-
io ii0o the belef that the yacht could be
e +pturel, in the harbor, with a dozen or two
p iek   11d and desperate men. WIhile tIhey were
cnuisiltiuig upon this suliject. the secret door
wans cre fuly opened, and Pablo made his ap-
alt-held  two  papers  in  his  hand.  O ne  was
:n evening gazette, containing a highly-col-
orel account of the attempted assassination ;
thet oti r, a proclamation issued by the gov-
 r:or, cou"t:iining a i- scription of the person
rf  o1n Gustave Ileiiderion, ai s We-ston ;
and one Blenito,  caic'o," accused of at-
tempting the assassination of a distinguished
foreigner ; and offering a reward of one hun-
hed didouloons for their apipreihension, dead
or a ive-thus" outlawing" them completely.I
Your excellency sees that the governor
places a ligh value upon you ari U1 nito,'"
said Pablo, with a grim smile, as he handed
the papers to Gustave.
. Not So high a I p1la  uponr myself,'"said
Gustave, attempting a ghastly smile.  Look
you, Pablo, I will give double that amount
the imomuent that 1 can see my way clear of{
the city!"
r Two hundred loubloons?    Ciramba i
seaor, you can depend upon getting away for
that son ! I will manage that mat ter' ivmelf.
I can disguise yu, antI get you of' in a fish -
ing-boat that will make the p ssage across to
Key We st in eight or ten bours, and there
you'll be safe from all Cuban laws."
Perhaps  our can so serve m that I can
take miiyself off, and reward you yet more,"
said Gustave.
"1 do not understand, your excellency.
One thing is certain, the sooner you are away
t he better ; for such a reward as the governor
l.as otired u il set ten thousand lpairs of
eyes, ten thiousan l heads upoi the constant
watch. I know that my plae will be ran-
sacked to-night ; but the police will never
find this room," said Pablo.
I have thought that, n ith your aid, I
might possibly take possession of a yacht
that is anchored in the harbor," said Gus-
tave. "You have men here who would run
a little risk where there was a good prospect
t gain?"
Pablo shook his head.
" Senior " said he, gravely, "you are in
danger enough now, without incurring more.
I sliall not risk my own head and the ruin of
my house in any venture like that. If you
will pay well, I'll stake my life upon getting
you clear of this island ; if rot, you can look
to your own esfety ; for I will not betray

you. But attempt no further adventaree
here, when a price is already set upon your
head l"
Gustavd saw that lie was helpless; and
though the sirit of anger burned like fire
away down in his black heart, he answered,
with forced composure:
"It shall be as you think best, Pablo. I
place my fate in your hands, and will abide
by your advice. Secure a passage hence for
Benito and miiyself, and the money I'named
shall be yours before I leave your house."
"You shall be safe out of the harbor by
to-morrow night. senior. I will engage my
men to-night, and make a l ready for to-mo-
row night. You will have to go over the
city-walls by a rope-ladder--which I have
us-d before- and embark a league's distance
up the coast ; but I will see you safely off.'
" Very well, Pablo; I trust in you. have
your preparations made secure ; and if you
need gold to bind your men to the work,
conic to me."                  -
"Yes, seiior," said Pablo, turning to rMtire.
" Stay a moment. Pablo," said Benito. "I
have over one hundred doubloons hidden in
i my house. I like not to go away without
then. I can easily go off and leave tiy wile
I -for she has a sharp tongue and a viegar
temper-but I do not like to lose my gold,
nor yet to leave it where it will not benefit
anybody-, for it is so well concealed that
neither she nor any one else could find it,
were they to search a life-time."
"'Cell inc where it is concealed, and I will
try to get it for tou," said Pablo. " Al-
though." he added, " it is likely that an espial
is alre a y kleput upon yoxr house."
If there is, I have a way of entering my
cellar whieh no one but myself knows. It is
but a few paces to the old church of Saint
Ursula ; anid from one of the deserted vaults
I have a passage which I dug out myself,and
blocked with flags which I can move. I fixed
it so that I mi 'lit hide my money without
letting rmy wife see it; for she used to take
every dollar of my earnings and put it in
silks and laces on her own back. Now she
has to get along with cottons and ginghams."
'Maybe, if you was to black yourself like
me, and put on old clothes, we iight get it.
I'll go with you, and help you, if you'll give
me half," said Pablo.
"half is better than none--I'l do it," said
Benito.
"Well, von stay here till I go and get in
gal to tend bar. It won't take us long, and
none of my esustomers will get very trouble-
soame,before midnight. I'll bring the clothes
and some lamp-black first, though.''
And Pablo departed, carefully closing the
door behind him.
"I do not like to have you leave ue, Beni-

9

-1
w~
Ma
ci

f
3


f1I
THlE SECRET REVEALED.
to," said Gustave, nervously. "If by any though she had her suspicion
ill-chance you should be taken, you would will learn in due time.
betray my place of concealment to save your-  Having seen Bonito and
self !"                                  their missions, we will pree
"Never, seior, never " said Benito. "I how his dame, Cotignola, b
never would be so treacherous as that. Be- and the news, which had alre
sides, to betray you  would never save me, of his flight and outlawry.
with such a governor-general as w have now.  There was no appearance
Fear not, senor-fear not !"              her highly-colored face, as s
Pablo entered, a moment after, with the upon which was a bottle of
mans of disguise, and aided Benito in so al-- pie of glasses. On the co
tering his a ppearanice that his most intimate wore a very pleasant express
friend would not have recognized him,    were necessary, because opp
" You will do ; come quickly-for I d not fine-looking man, somewha
want to be away long," said Pablo.       Benitb, dressed in the dashi
And turning to Gustave, he added:      sergeant in the "Queen's L
"Keep perfectly still, senor. My gal will ment always on duty aear th
be in the bar, and she does not know that any governor.
one is here. The lads are waking up, out   That she wd not only an
there, and may be noisy ; but do not mind him, but had known him be
them.                                    ferred from the tenor of thei]
-   Then, lifting a trap-door, which ne#her   "You do not blame me, m
Benito nor Gustave had noticed before, he ha," said the sergeant, as he
said to the calaciro:                    glass, "for volunteering to c
" We'll go out this way, Benito-i± is the heard that a guard was to be
most safe, though not the nicest. Senior, be rest Benito if he ventured ba
pleased to shut the trap when we have gone, you would rather it would b
and by no means attempt the passage your- other man who would be a si
self, for there is danger in it." "Blame you, Sergeant S
"I shall await your return," said Gustave. deed! On the contrary, I th
"Anid I pray you to be cautious ; for if you my heart ! And I'hope th
two were lost, niy chance for escape would be rascal Bonito will never von
slim indeed."                            roof again. He is my husba
-.-                    but suech a husband ! Mean,
CIIAPTER XLIII. ly-a very brute! My dress
The wife who had been linked by the eer- meanness! Yet the other
emonics of " Holy Church" to Bonito, the he has earned more money
i                                                                                                             calaciro, was not a woman calculated to them, and never spends a e
make him very hiappy. Hie had married her gars. He has hidden his m
twhen she had reached the sour-cider stage of -I'd like to know where."
life, but before sire forgot thrat she had once "Perhaps he has put it in
-been good-lookirig. Thle consequence was, sergeant.
that when she changed her state of ancient  "No," replied Cotignola.
maidenhood for that of a married woman, she q~uiries made at every bank
thought that she must live and dross up to it he does not come  aek, o
the full extent of /os means-not her own; for, and garoted, his  olante ar
though lie supposed her to be well off when mine, and this house, also!
lie married her, she had not a peso beyond quite penniless."
what she had expended in jewelry, dress, "No, indeed, Cotignola,"s
false hair and teeth, to catch him with.  " Iis big white mule and h
This did not suit Benito, who was miserly will sell for more than a the
and parsimonious ; and long before the usual that, well managed, with
time allotted for honeymoons had passed, make you very comfortable.'
their quarrels were sharp and frequent. Be-  "Yes," said Cotignola; a
ing as gifted of tongue as the, eloquent Lucy herself a   of wine, and
Stone, with a spice of Xantippe in her humor, evident gusto.
having sharp nails and a heavy will, the In-  As she put it down, she
dy generally got the better of poor Bonito, which caused her to start to
who seldom I rou ght any money into the "Did you hear that ?" she
house wich shre did not got before lie left, look frightened as she spoke.
For this reason, lie had found a place to "I certainly heard somneth
hide it in, and a way of secreting it on his sergeant; nnm rising, hre dre
(own premises,; without her knowledge - al- one hand, anid a pistol with 1
g9
/

67
ins, as the reader
ablo started on
de them and see
ore his absence
ady reached her,
of mourning in
he sat by a table
wine and a con-
ntrary, her Mace
ion. J'wo glasses
osite to her sat a
t younger than
ng uniform of a
aneers "--a regi-
o person of the
good terms with
fore, may be in-
r conversation.
ty dear Cotigno-
refilled his wine-
ome here when I
sent here to ar-
ck ?  I thought
o me, than some
trmger to you."
inola?  No, in-
iank you with all
at the fool and
ture under this
nd, to he sure ;
stingy, coward-
-that shows his
calaceiros tell me
than any two of
nt for wine or ci-
oney somewhere
bank," said the
"I have had in-
n the city. But
if ie is naught
d mule will be
I shall not be
aid the sergeant.
andsome volante
usand peso., and
this house, will
nd she filled for
drank it off with
heard a noise,
her feet.
asked ; and se
ring," replied the
w hris sword with
thre other. " But


i

TILE SECRET REVEALED.

c$                       IIILLIARE HENDERSON , OR,
it seemed as if it was under the floor. Is I  "Come down into the cellar and see," said
there any one else in the house ?"        the sergeant, while he reloaded his pistol.
' Not that I know of."                  " I've shot something, that's sure ; and, I hope,
"No cats '"'got a bag of gold, besides, for my trouble, if
Not a cat."                           the devil hasn't carried-it off."
It ritay be rats."                       And the sergeant put his sword back in its
If so, I never heard them here before. scabbard, so that he could take the lamp in
hiark : sieak in a whisper. 'There is sonic one his left hand. In his right, he carried his
digrg in the e liar. I am sure I hear it !"  pistol; and thus prepared, started again for
" o do I, and I will soon see who it is !" the cellar, followed by Cotignola, whose en-
a tid the sergeant.                       riosity overpowered her fears.
fakee off your boots, so that you can walk  Upon entering the cellar, the sergeant saw
without being heard," said Cotignola.  " I the man at whoi he had fired stretched at
will show you the way to the cellar-stairs." length upon the ground which he had just
And she took off her own shoes, so as to walk digged up. In his hand he still clutched the
lightly-                                  spade which he had used. But the oth-
"'lak're another glass of wine before you er person, human or superhuman, was gone,
go," added the woman ;  " it will steady your and there was no bag of gold to be seen.
nerves. Shoot whoever you see, no matter    "Is he dead ?" asked Cotignola, with a
who it i."                                shudder.
The sergeant took some more wine, and    "I'll see," said the sergeant ; and ie turn-
wiped his lips on ('otignola's cheek. Then, el the body over with a coolness peculiar to
whispering to her to lead the way, ie follow- sur ons and soldiers only.
ed until site opened a door which led to thie  " Yes, dead-dead as Christopher Coluni-
cellar. The moment this was opened, a faint ihus, and-eli ? Why, fifty ounes are mine,
gkamrr of liht was seen below, and the sound as sure as I live !" cried the sergeant. "It is
of soine one digging came more plainly to Benito, with his face blackened like a ne-
their ears.                               gro."                 ,     '
With proper presence of mind, the sergeant  "Benito?  Are you sure ?" cried Cotigno-
instaitly extingished tire lampavhich Cotig- Ia, with rt exhibiting the slightest sign of a
nola carrie min her hand, and putting hris fin- hysteri al attack.
ger on Iis lips, t inieate that she must be  " Ye -look for yourself! Wlien his face
silent, ie went dowir the stairs a couple of is washed, you'll see that it is Benito, plain
steps, noiselessly, and then bent his head enoih."
down to survey the interior of the cellar, if  " But the bag of gold-you said something
ie couil.      _                         about a bag of gold !" cried Cotignola.
According to Iris report as made afterward, " Yes ; Benito digged one up here, and
he saw a strange as well as a fearful sight. handed it to something, or somebody, that
He saw a ragged negro, as hue supposed, care- looked more like what 1 suppose the devil is,
fully digging  a pit in one corner of the cellar, than anything else. I heard it jingle, and
whie tire devil, or his image-a black man just then I fired. Now it is gone
with one eve, and tit in the middle of his  " Yes, and there is the way it has gone !"
forehead---stood, grining, by his side, hold- said Cotignola, pointing to an aperture in the
ing a light,                              wall, through which a man could creep easily.
At that moment, the man who had been      " Well, I shall not follow the thing I saw
digging said, in a low tone ;             here," said the sergeant. " I'm not afraid of
"lvi' come to it-the gold is here."    anything human, but I'll swear that it was
And the sergeant sw thyii lift a good-sized not human ! I'm going to the governor, to
bag, and hand it to the being wiro looked so report and to claim my half of tire reward for
like thne arch-f'enld; and ie also heard the getting one of tle fugitives. It may be my
ring of golden pieces.                    luck yet to get the other. Dead or alive, it
At the sane moment, the sergeant leaped  makes no matter!  So the  proclamation
into tire cellar and fired his pistol at the man runs."
in tire pit. In an instant, while the cellar  " You will not leave me alone, will you,
resounded with a terrible yell, the light went dear Spinola ?" said Cotignola, tenderly.
ont, and ie founiId herself m butter darkness,  " Why, no. I'll send a neighbor or two in
while Uotignola was screaming,i a paroxysm  at once, to stay until I conic back from the
of terror, abohve-                        palace."
The sergeant hastily groped his way back  " And you'll come soon, will you not?"
np the stii s, and scolaiing Cotignola out of  "Oh, yes. I shall have to come for his
her hys-eries, inale her religit tire lamp.  body. The governor will have to see that.
"   nhat have you seen? what have you It must be seen and recognized by the Amer-
shot ?" she asked, in a half-sob, half-scream. ican captain, I suppose."

69

"And after all is over, you'll come and see
me often, will you niot? I shall be so lone-
some. my dear~3pinola!"
" You will not find me remiss in my visits,
eara mia. I have not forgotten old times.
Now we'll go up. I will take just one glass
of wine, send in some neighbors to keep you
company, and then hasten to report to his
excelleney, the governor."
CHAPTER XLIV.
Gustave Henderson felt anything but easy
af er Pablo and Benito had left htim alone.
As Pablo had intimated, the " boys " in the
outer apartment had begun to wake up. Their
harsh calls for liquor, their frequent 'oaths
and brut 'l language, f l distinctly upon his
ear, andhough he was not himself al-vays
perfectly refined in his language, he felt chill-
ed and shocked at what he heard, even though
the languages used-Spanish, French, and
Dutch, as.well as English-were not all well
understood by him.
He felt uneasy, for he feared that if the po-
liee or military should come while Pablo was
absent, that they might by some accident dis-
cover his hiding-place. And again, lie feared
that Benito might, by some mischance, fall
into their hands while out, and in spite of
all of his protestations of fidelity, betray him.
More than once-ay, more than a dozen
times-did the Georgian find it necessary to
resort to the brandy bottle, to stimulate his
failing nerves.
And when, suddenly and all unexpeefdly,
Pablo by main force lifted up the t p-door
from'below, while he'(Henderson) was stand-
ing upon it, tossing him over to one side of
the room, he trembled all over with nervous-
ness.
For the negro was panting for breathe as if
he had been hotly pursued, and huge drops
of sweat were pouring down his greasy face,
like oozing water along the side of a eoal-
none.
Ile flung a large bag of gold upon the floor,
and shut down the trap without speaking,
and then pouring out a glass of raw rum,
drank it off in one swallow,
What is the matter?  Where is Benito?"
asked Gustave, pale with consternation.
The devilish fool is dead , but there's the
gold he risked and lost his life for 1" said Pab-
lo, almost savagely.
"Good Pablo, be not angered with me, but
explain, will you not?" said Henderson, gen-
tly, for the ferocious looks of the negro tern-
tied him.
Pablo drank another glass of liquor before
he would reply. By that time he had re-
gained his breath, and seemed more calm.
"We went to the house-Benito and me,"

'ii
-I

ri
}i
.4

-Ir -

said he, "and got into the cellar through the
old church-vault and passage, as he said we
could. And we went very still, and I struck
a light, and held it for him while he dug up
the money. Just as he handed me the money,
I got a glimpse of a soldier, who fired a pis-
toi at Benito, who fell, with a death-yell, on
the ground, just as I put out the light. The
soldier seemed to be as badly scared as I was,
for he backed up out of the cellar, and hallo-
ed for a light. I stopped to feel of Benito, to
see if he was sure dead; for if he had been
alive, I would have brought him away. But
it was no use-the ball had gone right through
his heart. So I kept the money,, and got
away as fast as I could, and ran all the way
home, except when I was near a guard or
sentir.el I"
"Were you followed ?" asked Henderson.
"No, senor, I think not. I did not wait to
see, until I was at the entrance of the hidden
passage which leads to the trap-door. I list-
ered there, but heard nothing."
"Then-you think I am safe yet ?"
"Yes, soinor. But I shall get you away as
soon as I ean. There's bad luck with you.
Isere are two good men gone on your account,
and you have failed in what you came for."
"True, Pablo. I wish to get away as soon
and as quietly as possible."
"You shall go, sure, to-morrow night, so-
Bor. Now I must get in to my bar, and keep
the boas quiet. They're getting rough, to-
night.'
"Take in a couple of doubloons, and say a
friend treats them," said Gustave, offering
Pablo the money.
"No; I have made enough.for to-night,"
said Pablo, pointing to the gold. "Poor Ben-
ito ! I would not take more than my half,
were he here !"
And Pablo took up the bag of gold, and
sliding back the panel through which he had
passed the tray of provisions, put it through.
Then pointing to one of the bunks, he said :
"Senor, you had. better try and sleep to-
night, if you can. To-morrow night, you
will have no chance, and you will need all
your nerve and all your strength. You need
not fear any danger. I will be on the watch. Ia
the morning I will see that you have a'good
breakfast ; and by that time I will have seen
the men I want to use to-morrow night. Bu-
enos noches, senor."   '
"Good-night, Pablo," said Henderson. "I
will try to sleep, but I fear it will only be a
trial."
The negro made noreply,butcrept through
the panel, which led into a recess close beside
his bar, and in a moment he was at his usual
post, as Henderson knew by the change of
confusion outside. The man evidently had
great influence with those whom ho called


IIILLIARE IIENDERSON, OR,

t        _
41         i
'
r
i
{
}
.
4            Y  t
t
4
. '
_
tr    3
k     I
t
£
f
2gisi
i
i

his customers, fbr they made far less noisd said the old steward, as lie went to call the
sifter heappeared.                       first mate.
-P   X                  . Te latter came into the cabin in a few
CIJAPTERt XLV.                 minutes. and arsked for orders.
It was the noon of another day. Harold      You will hoist the Spanish flag forward,
Morley had been sent for early in the morn- Mr. Perkins, and fire a national salute," said
ing by the governor-general, to recognize arid Ilarold. "After that, we  ill aeigi anchor,
identify the body of a un said to be Benito, and stand out to sea. I am bouid for New
t lie a/accro. lie knew the body the moment Orleans."
he saw it, as did also Nathan, whom ie had  'Yes, sir; but I fear we will have heavy
:ini with hirm-much to the joy of Sergeant weatherouhsiile, before another day's sun
ipinobi, who now became entitled to the re- rises. T  eiearometer is away down er the low
ard which lhad been offered for Benito, dead notches, aid the weather signs ar te lbad,"
or ali e.                                . said t  n e mate.
larold inquired if any trace had heci found  "No. matter, if we can make a good offing
of Jlendersrn, but without success. No ofli- before tire blow reaches us," sail  o i
eer, either police or military, had found any gn ly. " We've tried our staunch little erlft,
iepi to liit hir ' n        gsat.       and know how she can weather out a storm."
tp g   ivt.enI  trl  niesty to go to sea t  -"Yes, sir, she is good; and it we hav seven
ti1'g verrir, I ha;"olclriiw solicited Idlit treorofeight Lorn's sato r.ae  e'l~c  a
iepositioni of imt iseif ani Nathrn mightbe(f i  irstart of the gale, we'll clear
taerr, so as to lie used against lendersor, if enough into tire Gulf of Mrtco, for sea-
ii we capt urged, ani that lie right be al- riom.''
I   l to cml for lh(w Orleans, prrnising to  )We'll try it at ar ite. Fire tie salute
r turn, as a witness, if sent for t-y the gov-  'Io as yoa arc rea  F, aid then ilautor.
e rnor.                                   My papers are all right."
The governor-general assented, almost nn-  " A'. a  r. sir i
w hngiy, for' hie had become nich interested  And Pe.kins went on deck to fulfill his i-
im liarold, who hailund nreservedly told him as rections.
mniuci of iris history as related to Adele and  Sooni te heavy booming of the brass piece
the llenrhisons ; rind the governor, like most echoed over the harbor,ind seat its sounds
if tlh old ciii alric Spaniards who come front  rattirg thor  trhe  tron nd W its regndst
tite sunny lndofAdusahd      atatefo     hcig    throughthe town. With a regutlarity,
nc       ngef Andriluysia, had a taste for which io rman-of-war in port with her full
roivzice, efigendered by tire literature of iris battery could have excelled, the gun was fired
native laud, as n ll as its eve in history,  every thirteen seconds, until the requisite
Pro rising fithfl  to revisit avernaifie nurnrber of the salute was given.
lived, arold took leave f the governor, af  ihen, as the flag of Spain came fluttering
ter nn exhonge cfhip-risendt-retrrd oasine  iown front the fore-truck of the schooner,
rhentne. of frieudship-naid returned to is and the cririson signal-pendant, " Adele,"
haceit h                                  went aloft, the Amrerrean flag was seen flutter-
w  ien ire eateris the enin, Aele  et n hi  ing from a signal-staff upon the Castle Ca-
win tiis hr;r he.frIts lie, ahrichr hind henr shad- baaars, aid its heavy grins thundered back tire
owed with care fur tihe last three days, row  return sne of there Governor.
wore an altered and iocire joyous look.    And while yet tire srok.r
"We are going to sea, dear lHarol," she iAlnd whiley the amdoke-fwreaths were
*said.  " I know we are.'            "   e circling amove tie grand old fortress, the crew
SmIe yoing tad anhe dea Harold     of the Adele were engaged in heaving up her
"h akve youi ha lanotier drear, my love?" ancor and loosing her sails to the breeze.
lie ;sei inn a lmakerttonc.    -        Many an experienced eye looked with won-
yNoe hintd pn ifiketeht  forour aith ryder at the rapidity with which so light a crew
eyes ril open, if that will hury 3 on off," as Ilarold had, got his beautiful vessel under-
se rehilied.                              way ; but they knew not what young Amen-
Jucre will be rito ied of dreams, dearest," can seamen, who loved him who comruanded
wire. "'lire reality is at hand. Inian hour therm, could do.
n" Jil l   "e eiecrirwad" "O               In less than an hour from tire time that
"Jtiy h-joy  s-e cried. "Oace more we Harold had told Adele he was "outward
will tterbound," the gallant yacht, under all her can-
'riln the ghas waters ro the ndark-blue sea e  vass, was standing out to sea under a light
O" Nthngs as bodiless and our souls as free"  bunt pleasant breeze from the southward and
Ntiin, tell Mr. Perkirs tiat I want to eastward, which allowed her to lay her course
se hm," sail hanrold.                     with, a flowing sheet.
" Yes, captain, I'll do that in a jiffy. In  w a
c'en a most as glad as Miss Adele, thlnt we'~ CIIAPiER XLVI.
going to wet our critwater outside once mere,"  After Pablo left himt, Gustav'e IIenderson

70

TIHE SECRET REVEALED.                                71
threw himself down upon the bunk which cannons being fired. The regularity of the
Pablo had pointed out, and tried to sleep. fire soon satisfied him that it-wad a salute
But no sleep came to his eyelids, weary as he which he heard, and when Pablo came an
was. IIis nervous nature was too thorough- hour or two afterward, with his dinner, ho
lv aroused to be calmed down into slumber. asked him what the firing was for.
o the long night passed away, and as he saw  "The American yacht tired a salute, which
by his watch, the day returned, finding him ,was answered from the Castle Cabanas, and
still awa;e, feverish,and half-sick.   then she went to sea. I saw her pass out by
At an early hour, when the drunken orgies the Punta," said Pablo.
outside had ceased. and the exhausted revel-  "Good ! The sooner I am upon her track
era had gone to sleep, Pablo made his ap- again, the better," said Ienderson. "Can
pearance in the back-room, bearing a tray, you not find out where she was bound, Pab-
u pon which a substantial and well-prepared lo?"
breakfast was seen.                         "Yes, seor, as soon as the Evening Gaze-
The senor has not slept well," said Pablo, ta is published. It will be out in an hour or
as he put.the tray on the table.         two."
No ; I could not sleep," said Gustave.  " Bring it to me as soon as you can get it,"
"I am unused to so much noise. And lam   said Gustave. "And then, after I have eat-
nervous."                                en my dinner, I will pay you the money, and
"The senor will be in safety in twelve or we will conclude our arrangements for my
fifteen hours,' saidI'ablo. "1 made my iar- getting away."
rangeiments last night. Two old smugglers,  "Very well, senor, I will attend you. ,
who hamve been running in salt froi tie Flo-  . And Pablo left Henderson to enjoy his dm.-
rida Keys, have engaged to carry the senor ner, which he did greatly; for he seemed to
o'er to Key West for two hundr d pesos. feel as if his safety was sure, and that ho
,'hey do not'know who be is, and must not; would now again be upon the track which ho
for with one hundred doubloons staring them  had sworn not to leave, until success crown.
in tie face, they might betray him! They ed his efforts.
will be with their boat in the cove I told
hin of, be oni the city walls, at midnight. I  About two hours passedbefore Pablo me-
will see the senor safely within their care."  turned, bringing with him the gazette.  Ihe
-- I know not how to thank you, Pablo-not paper contained a long account of the death
t , spik of the money which I  will give of 3enito, which evidently had been gather.
von.'                                     ed from the verbal report of Sergeant Spi-
Cacuratm ! I want no thanks! You pay iola : for it was well spiced with the super-
rue well -that is enough. Now eat your natural. At the end of the statement, the
breakfrat; then try to sleep. You will need editor remarked that the deposition of the
nerve and strength to-night!"            distinguished American, " El Senor Morley,"
Is there no danger, in procuring such  had been taken, and that he intended to sail
br'eakfasts as this, of exciting suspicion?' immediately for New Orleans ; but would re-
aa   I (hlust ave. "lsenito said that you had to turn if the great picaro, Henderson, was ar-
en i to a restoracler."                  rested.
What oi that?  I send my gal, who also  "To New Orleans!" cried Gustave, as he
waits on two rich old maids in the neighbor- read the article. " There is where I would
ho 'd.Theywillnot think anyt thing strange. like to catch tie gentleman. There, I can
epio in Ilavaanl, when they are getting have him arrested for stealing Zella; aid while
inoney, never ask whose pocket it comes he is detained in prison, it will be easy to take
fromn"                                   Adele and Zella back to Georgia. The fool
Aid Pablo, with a grin on his Satanic face, will play right into my hands! Pablo, can-
disappeared.                              not I engage the menwhom you have spoken-
how the fellow has altered in his respect to, to carry mc direct to New Orleans?"
since he saw the roclanmation !" said Gustave.  " I hardly think you can, senor. Their
llefore that, I'was an ' cccllenza.' Now 1 boat is small-it wil do for so short a run as
ani but a simple ' scdom.' Yet I believe I can that to Key West-a matter of thirty leagues
trust him.'                             or thereabouts ; but to New Orleans is a great
With this expression of faith, Ilenderson ways, and a heavy gale might come on, and
attacked his breakfast with a fair appetite.  own you'd go ! From Key West, it will be
-                       very easy to get a passage to New Orleans in
Gustave ate his breakfast, and now that all passing ships."
was still, feeling sleepy, he threw himself into  "Well: Iwill see. Anid now for the money,
a bnk, and soon was sensible to all worldly Pablo. Feeling confident that you will o
'inas cr thoughts, lie sle pt sounnly and your part, I will at once pay you the two
well,'mutil lie was awakened by the sonid of hundred doubloons I promise. They are in

r
l   i. _


72

HILLIARE HENDERSON; OK,

t
1                i
3
}r
111111[[[[[
t
f
F(        k
f
f
j
4           E_
z
I
yj {j}1
#1ii
C-
t(
F
1

my trunk. I got a great part of my money
exchanged into doubloons, in New York,
knowing that they would be most useful and
handy here."
And Gustave unlocked his trunk and coun-
ed out the sum for Paulo. The negro took
it, and noticed that quite a large sum m gold
still remained i the trunk.
"has not the senor got a money-belt?" he
asked.
No," replied Gustave.
"lie must have one," said Pablo. "We
cannot carry the trunk over the wall, and it
would not Le well to tempt the men, who carry.
you away, with a heavy trunk, in which they
could hear the jingling of gold. I will get
you a money-belt, and a quilted vest, with
places left for money; so that you can carry
your gold without danger of ita being known
that there is so large a sum in your possession.
I am as big a rascal as any of them, senior,
without I pledge my word for a man's safety.
When I have done that, he is safe, if he bore
a million pesos' worth of diamonds upon
him."
I feel that it is so, good Pablo, and will
Lake your word and advice implicitly."
You may, secior," replied the negro. "I
will go and get the belt and vest at once.
Your trunk and clothes must be left behind,
fur we will have to scale the wall, and then
walk over rough, rocky  round, without a
path for a full league. You cannot carry
more than you wear. Keepl a full purse in
your pocket, so that you can pay the men
who carry you away, but be sure that you
do not let them think you have any more."
I wil le careful, Pablo."
"For your safety, you will, senor. And
now rest all you can-you will need it."
Again Gtistave was alone.
CHAPTER XLVII.
The beautiful yacht had not fairly got out
of sight of Moro Castle, when the ' weather-
signs," of which Mr. l'erkins had spoken, -e.
gan to show themselves so distinctly that the
veriest tyro in the study of storms could not
mistake them. Adele-who, with Zella, hr.d
been on deck ever since the vessel had weigh-
ed anchor-looked upon them with curiosity
and without fear. For, in her short experi-
ence, she had seen how the yacht behaved in
a storm-how staunch and trustworthy--and,
besides, she had an unfailing confidence in
the skill of Harold, his officers and crew.
As the "Adele" drew out from the land,
the wind, which drew rather off the shore,
freshened rapidly ; anId Harold, who was in no
haste, told Perkins that lie might as well
nake the vessel snug, under short sail, and
lay her to, for her natural drift would hike
her out of danger, and she would not roll and

pitch so much as she would shedding before
the ale.
This the first officer speedily did,-and when,
at twilight, Adele went down with Harold into
the cabin for supper, the vessel lay, close
hauled by the wind, under a balance-reefed
foresail, heaving steadily with the sea, and as
graceful as a mermaid at sport, or a swan
upon the water.
It was far better thus, for there was no
straining of hull, rigging, or spars, and the
crew had but little to do, but to watch the
heave of the sea ; excepting, alone, the
hielnisman, who was obliged to watch for the
falling off and coming to.
Everything seemed pleasant to Adele now.
Her voice was as cbeerful, her smile as bright,
as it had been before Gustave IIenderson's
presence had been discovered in Havana.
Uarold, too, was fully himself again-Zella
seemed quite glad, and old Nathan had hard
work to keep down the exuberance of his
spirits.
"I swow to gracious, capting !" said he, as
he poured out tea, "that I feel ten years
younger since we've left that miserable one-
boss place ! Call that a city ! with streets no
wider than cow-paths. sojers at every corner,
and wimmen a sniokin' all the time like so
many chimneys ! Ef Ilhad to take my choice
between hein' there and crista' in a New
Bedford whaler, I think I'd go in for the
whaler. Though an easy death by htangin' or
drownin' would be a heap better than either
of 'em."
Harold laughed at the idea, but Adele said
that she thought Nathan was quite right.
"In truth," said she, "Nafhan is always
right."
"'Ceptin' when he is wrong, Miss Adele,"
said the old man.
"When were you ever wrong ?" asked
Adele, with a smile.                -
"Oh, a great many times, Miss Adele !-
'specially when I wasyoung. I used to stick
crooked pins under the seat of the deacon's
trowsers, when he stood up to sing in meeting',
for his pdw was just afront of our'n. And I
used to put red pepper on the stove at sing..
in'-school, and sneeze everybody out o'doors
and cough 'em into fits. I used to be a wild
lad ; but them days are past."
And Nathan heaved a heavy sigh.
After supper, Harold went on deck for a
time, accompanied by Adele ; but as the
storm grew heavier as the hours of the night
advanced, they soon'returned to the cabin,
where Adele, with her music, made all hearts
joyous until the usual hour of retiring.
Another day was just dawning. The storm
had grown stronger and stronger during the
night, and now it blew a perfect hurricane.

But the gallant schooner, laying up else in decks. Put one of the crew over him as a
the winds eye, rose and fell with the moun- sentinel, with orders to kill him if he attempts
tain waves, as easily as the gull, which makes to escape from confinement, No person must
those waves her home and resting-place.    be allowed to speak to him!
Mr. Perkins was the officer of the deck, and " Ay, ay, sir !"
was standing near the helmsman, quietly     "Have the vessel laid to the wind again,
sinng him a yarn about a nu ricale he had sir."
once weathered on an East Indian voyage ;    "She is upin the wind's eye again, and tiw
when; with a startling vehemence, the look- carpenter reports all right and sound below,
out forward shouted '                     sir.
"Sail ho !   Close aboard ! Port your      "I am glad to hear it. When this blow
helix !"    'goes down, we will return with the prisoner
Perkins sprung forward -it was not yet to Havana."
light enough to see far from the vessel. But  "Oh ! have mere upon me, 9r. Morle,'
before he hid reached the fore-mast, lie caught groaned Henderson,blanclied with terror.  I
a glimpse of a small craft on the crest of a I must die, kill me here ; but do n t take me
sea, driving right down upon them.         back there 1"
"Port -port hard !" e shouted to the      Iharold made no reply ; but turning upon
lehusianin.                              ihis heel, walked aft--for he saw Adele, who
But it was too late ! The next second the had just come on deck, wrapped in a shawl,
small vessel struck the yatst upon her weath- followed by Zella.
s-bow, with a concussion which made her     "What is the matter, Ilarold? have we
trebe from tuck to kelson. And the con- struck upon a rock ?" asked Adele. "1 heard
cushion crushed the smaller vessel as if she and felt a terrible shock !" she added.
had been but an egg-shell.                   "No. A small vessel an against us, and
One wild cry, and as the schooner under was shattered," he replied. "Our vessel is
a full of canvas as her helm was put up unharmed."
forged ahead, the shattered fragments of the "Were the people on the other one saved .,
other drifted off under her lee.           she asked, fee ingly.
One man, as the vessels came together,     "All were lost but one, and he had better
made a wild, desperate leap, and clutched have been lost than to have put his foot on
the fore-rigging of the schooner. He would my deck ! It is Gustave 11enderson !
have, lost his hold the next instant, for the  "Gustave  Her.derson !" gasped  Adele.
schoongshipped a sea, had not Perkins, with "Can it be so?"
a giant effort, grasped and lifted him in-   "Look for' our'self!" atnd Hlarold, as lie
board-                                     spoke, pointed t' G ;stave, upon whose wrists
At the same moment Harol wto had been Perkins was now engaged in fitting a pair of
startled from below bythe co  ssion, rushed handcuffs.
upon deck and hurried forward. As his eye   "It is! But, Iharold, what are you going
rested upon the face ofthe man whom Perkins to do with him ?"
had saved, he cried:                         " To put him in irons, and carry him back
"tireat Ieavens ! it is Gustave. Mender, to lhk atna, where a hasty trial and a certain
son'."                                     death awaits him1"
Adele steerred strangely agitated for a mo-
CHIAPTER XLVII                 meant ; then, while tears stood in her eyes,
Sound thu pttump, and see if the schooner she said
leaks !" cried Perkins, not--even in that mo-  " Harold, will you be less merciful than
meat of fearful excitement"-losinr; his press. God?  Vile as that mants. hte Almighty lies
enee of mind, or forgetting his duty.      spared him from a fearful death! You know
But llarold and henderson stood facing how I dread him--how I hate hint; yet now,
each other-the first, with a fierceand angry  when lie is helpless, I ask you to spare him!"
1 ok - the latt r, pale, trembling with tee ror.  "That lie may again nttemjt to assassinate
lis knees shaking, his fae'as whites the foam  me-or perchance do worse, y trying to rob
upm the dark waters. Amiu lie was the first me of you?" asked Hirold, with something
to alga'.                                 of bitterness in his tone.
" ForGod's sake, spare my life, Mr. Mor-  "No, Harold, no! But spare him ; put
y'' h!"e groane. " I have just escaped a hin on shore,somewhere, and if lie is human,
fearful death ; do not. murder me !"      lie will feel so grateful for your clemency
" I am  o'assassin h' said Hlarold, contempt- that he will never persecute us more."
unousiv. " But you are too great a viihiri to  "I doubt 3iiuch whether he can be clas'd
live '~ Jutice claims a victim, and I will not as human !" said Harold, deeply moved b.9
deny her due. Mr. Perkins, put that man in  her noble appeal. " But I will spare him,
double irons, and have him coatined between- because you ask it  io down into the cabin,

THE SECRET REVEALED.

Y "
I        .   T hY
ads
i       _
+      7
x
t    +
f
{
i
is

ii

z
4
t
'
i
_}
" Y
,.      .       _

73


F
I'            t
s
'
1
{
i
}
z4
Iy
t
$
1
E
3
(3
i
tk
T
i
i
4
{       4      ,
i
F
3
f
{
i)    i
i

HILLIARE HENDERSON; OR,

dearest, while I go forward and ask him some
questions. Then, after seeing him so secured
that he can do no harm, I will join you in the
cabin."
"Do, Harold ; and there I will thank you
for listening to the voice of mercy."
And Adele, with tears streaming from her
eyes, went below.
Harold walked forward to the spot where
Henderson stood, looking sullenly at his now
manacled hands.
'You need not put irons upon his feet,
Mr. Perkins,'' said Harold. Then, addressing
Hienderson, he said:
"Sir, one whom you have persecuted most
cruelly and unjun tlv, has pleaded with me to be
merciful to ti u. I have not yet decided what
course to pursune. Your own conduct will
influence my de csion. If I carry you back
to Cuba, the laws which you have transgressed
will demanyl von as the third victim of -our
own con-piraev to assassinate me! If I do
not take yon back there, but at some con-
venient lace 1:in1 you, what assurance will I
have that you will not again try to take my
life, or to persecute her who but now pleaded
with me to spare you ?"
"My honor! tUpon my honor, I will go
home to my plantation, and never leave it,
or breathe your name or hers, or think of, or
do, a deed of hiari to either of you!"
Your honor ?" and Harold looked coldly
upon him. " Mu of honor have enmities,
but they do not hire assassins to terminate
them!"
My oath ! May I be accursed of Heaven
and among men, if I do not keep my oath I"
sail Hlenderson, imploringly.
" I will take your oath; but mark me, Gus-
tave henderson, if you break it. I never will
spare you again! And until I can put you
on shore, yom m1)rust be content to remain un-
der guard here. Now answer me a few ques-
tions."
"Ask them, and I will reply truly !" said
Henderson, meekly.        -
"how long had you ben in Cuba when
you attempted to have me assassinated ?"
"Only two days.   I went to New York,
found out what port you had cleared for, and
*     followed you."
"how did you escape from the Island ?"
"In a fishing-boat, manned by two men,
who were to take me to Key West. They
went down with their boat, I suppose."
"From Key West, you intended to follow
me to my next port?'
"I did."
"Did you learn whither I was bound ?"
"Yes-to New Orleans. It was so an-
nounced in the lavana Evening Gazeta."
"And you now will swear, upon the Holy
Evangelists, that if I spare you, you will

cease to follow me and Miss Dumesle-will
never attempt to do us harm, and will return,
after I have landed you; to your plantation,
and will remain there ?"
"I will, so help me Heaven !"
"Very well, sir. I will have such an oath
written out and subscribed by you. Mr. Per-
kins will relieve you of your' handcuffs, but
you will be placed in a state-room, which
you must not leave until I am ready to set
you on shore. A sentinel will be kept before
your door, and his orders will be to shoot
you down if you attempt to lass hiiu
"I will remain where you place me, air,
and not transgress your orders."
"Very well. Mr Perkins, you will place
this man in Mr. Merton's state-room, and put
a trusty man on guard, to be relieved every
two hours? The officer of the watch will per-
sonally see to the safety of the prisoner once
in every hour. Mr. Merton can room in the
after-cabin, until we make land.  See that
refreshments are provided for Mr. Ilenderson.
And the moment the storm lulls so that we
can carry sail, inform me; for I shall steer for
the nearest of the Florida Keys as soon as
possible."
Having thus given his orders, Iarold went
below, for he knew they would be implicitly'
obeyed.
"Adele," said he, when lie entered the cab-
in, "at your request, I have spared him, and
taken his oath that he will not follow or per-
secute either of us more I"      ' -
"The pizen sarpint won't keep it, eapting,"
said Nathan, who had been a witness to the
interview on deck, and who had followed
Harold into the cabin. "I know he won't;
he said so with his tongue, but the devil in
his eye lied all the time."
"Well, my word is passed. Spare him I
will, this time--but never again, if he breaks
his oath and crosses my path !"
"We will hope that he will keep his oath,"
said Adele. "And now tell meAHarold," she
added, "could you, when by such a fearful
chance he was thrown helpless into your pow.
er, have delivered him up to certain death,
without compunction ?"
"No, Adele ; on calm reflection, I could
not have done so, and I thank you as much
for your interference, as I honor you for the
noble ebarity which you have displayed to-
ward a fallen foe. You ar., in all things, my
better angel!l"
" You flatter me, dear Harold. I try to be
right and to do right. I knew your good,
brave heart would second my thoughts, as
soon as you took time to consult it.'
Mr. Perkins came down at this moment,
and said:
"I think, sir, if you especially wish it, that
we could edge away for the Tortugas, under

THE SECRET REVEALED.

75

o;r foresail, and make it before night. If we a "station whale-ship," ner rigging was
did, there are almost always vessels there, ac- clumsy and her sails as black as her masts-
oording to report, from Kev West, looking which last looked as if they had been scrap-
)t for wrecks, and we might land tle man ed the day she was launched, but never after,
there."even if she had been launched in the year one.
" That is so, Mr. Perkins," replied Harold-  Harold ran his yacht under her lee, and
You can keep the schooner away, if you rounding to, hailed:
think it is safe.'                          " Schooner ahoy !"
-           " Hallo !" came back, in a squeaking voice,
. CHAPTER XLIX.                  froma little,-dried-codfish-looking man, who
The drift of the schooner had been wester- stood at her tiller.
ly, slightly tending to the north; and when,  "What schooner is that, and where is sho
at noon of that day-the clouds having clear- bound ?"
ed away, and the gale much abated-Harold    " The 'Whale,' a wrecker, Conch Thomp-
took a meridian altitude of the su, he found son master-bound to Key West I" screamed
by his latitude, and the deal-reckoning of the diminutive human.
their longitude, that they were not far from  "Will you take a passenger?"
the Island of Tortugas.                     "Yes, if he has got any money, and hasn't
Sending a look-out aloft, the man, in a mo- got the small-pox1
ment after reaching  the  fore-cross-trees  "lie's all right in those particulars," said
shouted:                                  Harold, laughing.  "heave to, and I will
"ai    " ho -                        send a boat with him aboard."
"Where away ?" asked Harold.'             "There isn't any need of my heavi' too--
"Two points on our lee bow, sir."     it'll be half an hour before the old schooner
" Can. vou make out her rig ?''         gits headway onto her."
"No, sir; but she shows canvass high out  "You don't make much by speed, then, $n
of water."                                your business ?"
Mr. Perkins, take your glass and look at  "Oh no ! We go in for luck, and wait till
her from aloft. I expect it is the light-house, it comes 1" said wenzen-face.
The land is not ten feet higher than the water,  Harold now went to the state-room where
and makes no show when you are eight or Henderson had been kept.
nine miles off."                            "I have hailed a vessel which is bound to
Perkins had no sooner got aloft, and level- Key West, and which will take you as a pass-
ed his glass, than he said:              eager," said he to Gustave. "Have you
You are right, Captain Morley, it is the money enough to reach house with? - If not,I
light-house."                             will furnish you."
" I thought so," said Harold.            "I have enough, sir," said Henderson,
Turning to the helmsman, he said:  ,    quite humbly : for he had been treated far
" Keep.her off a couple of points. Slacken better than he expected. "1 am thankful
up the sheets a little more, some of you men, that you have spared my life--for I did not
forward there."                           deserve your clemency."
The schooner, with more sheet and full    "No matter-speak of it no more. Keep
sails, dashed onward with increased speed, your oath, and I will forgive you. Get ready
aid ire a short time the light-house, and two to go at once-my ,boat is waiting. They
or three small islands,* almost level with the know nothing of you on hoard the vessel
sea, covered with a few stunted bushes, could which I-have hailed, and you can explain how
1e seen from the deck. There was no build- you were wrecked and picked up, as best suits
ing except a poor hovel, in which the light-, you."
house keeper lived, except when a gale drove  "Thank you, Mr. Morley, Your kindness
him to greater security in the light-house it- completely unmans me. but I would ask one
self., Myriads of gulls, cormorants, man-o'- favcr."
war hawks, and pelicans, were seen ciroling  "What is it?"
through the air a ove the island, often diving  "To see and thank Miss Dumesle for her
into the sea for the fish, upon which they kind interposition."
live.                                       "I will see if she wishes to see you," said
In the inner harbor two large wrecking- Harold. And he went to the after-cabin.
sloops laid at anchor ; and in the outer harbor,  " Oh ! that I could rend his heart out, and
as the Adele neared it, a large, black-hulled, spit itin her face !" said Gustave, with fiend.
loafer-looking §chooner was just getting un- ish bitterness, the moment he was alone.
der way. She looked as greasy and nasty as "Keep an oath forced from me when my life
- --.-_--                      was im peril? Maybe I will; but if I do, may
+ The largest of these islands is now occupied by a I roast in the hottest furnace in the regions
United States fortress.                   infernal !"

r

S 74

},
t
#.
k    #
1

.I
-I
}t
SV
V 4

9

L(


7t

HILLIARE HFND)ERSON; OR,

a
i
E I'

Harold came back, and as he heard his step,
Gustave subsided into the same apparent
\tuutble mood which he had exhibited before.
"Miss Duunesle does not desire to see you,"
said Iarold. "But 8e 0bade me tell you to
go and be a better man. As soon as she ar-
rives at her majority-in less than two years
--she will return to Georgia to claim her
property ; and if then she finds that your ref-
ormation is complete, she will greet you as
a friend. And now, as the boat is waiting,
you had better he off. I myself wish you
success in all lawful and honorable pursuits."
Henderson made no reply, but followed
Harold on (leek, and in a very few minutes
stood upon the deck of the " Whale," which
had just begun to gather headway.
Having shipped his passenger, Harold now
bade his helmsman to put the helm weather,
and bore away on his course to the westward
again.
"rake your bearing and distance, Mr. Per-
kins, and lay our course for the Balize," said
hIarold, cheerfully, after speaking to the
belmsiman.-
Seeing Nathan standing by the cabin hatch-
way, looking gravely toward the schooner, he
naked the old man what he w'as thinking of.
I'm awful glad, captin , that Jonah has
left us and gone into the Whale !" said Nath-
an. "And of the Whale never p ued him
ashore ag'in, the world would be better off.
That's what I was thinkin' of, capting !"
Harold laughed at Nathan's not incongrous
idea, and rwent below.
CHAPTER L.
"How far is it to Key West ?" was the first
question which Gustave Henderson asked,
when he got on board the schooner," Whale."
"A matter of seventy-five or eighty miles,"
said the shriveled -up skipper.
"When will we get there ?" asked Gus-
tave.
"If it hl   thard enough, in a couple of
days." said the skipper.
"'Two days? Why, a crab could crawl
there in that time !"
"Yes; a crab would have the advantage of
us in goin' to windward. B~ut we're in no
a    hurry; and the old schooner is confrtable, if
she is ugly, and isn't fast. Yoq can't capsize
her; and when she once gets agoin', she keeps
agoin' till you dro her mud-hook, and bring
her up I We've plenty to eat and drink, and
that's about all that a man wants in this
world. D'ye chaw tobakket mister?" And
Captain Thompson pulled out a huge plug,
and extended it toward Gustave.
"No, thank you." said Gustave.
"Maybe you drink rum? I've god some
capital old Jamaica down below. Took it
from a wreck up on Caryefort reef, five years

71

THE SECRET REVEALED.

ago. Had four puncheons-used 'em all up
btit one. Come here some of you and steer-
I'm going below to treat the passenger."
Having been relieved from the tiller, skip-
per Thompson led the way down into what
he called the cabin. It was a dark, greasy-
looking hole, about twelve or fourteen fest
long, by six or seven wide, ,just high enough
for a man to stand up in, with two bunks on
each side, filled with blankets and quilts,
which looked as if they had never been in-
jured by contact with soap andewater.
In the after-end of this den was a greasy
table, set firm against the stern timbersrand
over it a lot of shelves, with ledges in front
to keep the dishes from sliding off.
The captain took a couple of tin cups from
one of these shelves, and a broken bowl half-
full of Muscavado sugar ; also, a couple of
pewter tea-spoons. Then be inserted his arm
into a side-locker, just abaft the sternmost
bunk, and drew out a jug.
"Take hold, mister," said he, to Hender-
son. "This ere Jamaica is jest as mellow as
honey, and don't need no water, though I
like sweet'nin' in it."
Henderson poured out a eup of "Jamaica,"
added a little sugar, and rank it off, surpris-
ed to find it really good-far better than li-
quor of that kind which he had paid a high
price for.
When he spoke of this, Skipper Thompson
said :
"It's good, for tyo reasons. First, I've
had it a good while, and most likely 'twas
pretty well on in years when I got hold of it.
Then, it always improves liquor when it is
carried aboard ship. The jouncing up and
down, and stirring about, makes it richer and
mellower, I think. Churns it, you see."
"Probably," said Henderson ; and he tried
a second "nip."  "B  the way, captain, what
is my passage ?"he a  ed.
"Well, seem' that t-ou like rum, as I do,
and aren't like to be stingy, I'll leave it all to
yourself," said Thompson.
"Will that do ?"
And as he spoke, Gustave took a doubloon
from his pocket, and laid it down on the ta-
ble.
"Yes; with a thankee on my side to boot,
and jest as much rum as youcan drink, and
all you can eat till we get in, if it's a month
from new I" said the skipper, pocketing the
col'.
"If I had not met with bad luck in the gale
last night, I should have been in Key West
sooner !" said Gustave.
"Bad luck? fHow was that?" asked the
skipper, as he refilled his cup.
left the island of Cuba in a fishing ves-
sel, bound for Key West. The schooner
which hailed you ran us down in the night..

A   I ,,. ,:4   VC 'O. n te wreck. She light-house at thte Southwest Pass of the Ba.
i\   _. :1 w:t  t ' W ~l dall."   lize, was as pleasant as could i desired.
Wuat a p tv ! Now, if she had only come Nothing of interest transpired on board, but
ashore where ,we could have wrecked her, everything went "merry as a marriage bell."
'twoull have been consolin'. 'Twould have  Shortly after the "light was made,' in sea-
dOne us good, even if the crew went under ,oing parlance, and while the yacht lay in a
for we should have saved sonethin' out of dead calm, gently heaving upon the long-
ier. 'T te another drink, mister. Rum is rolling ground-swell, a large steam towbat
jest as cheap as waat r aboard the ' Whale.' was. seen coming out over the bar with a
Woullin't vou like a bit of pickled king-fish, merchant-ship alongside.
or son    ed, stewed conchs, or a cold, boiled  "I think   shall  ave to buy a breeze, Mr.
craw-tih, just to give you an appetite f..r Perkins,' said Harold. who had been walking
- supper, wileh we'll have in an hour or two the quarter-deck with Adele, looking for a
luru''                                  pilot to conic ofi', and hoping'fo' wind enough
No; thank   you," replied  hlederson. to take him to an anchorage in the Mississi-
Do you suppose I will find any vessels in pi. "Have the gun cast loose. I will signal
Key \Vest beund to New Orleans?'         the steamer to come alongside as soon as sls
Prehaps you may ; but it is no ways sar- casts oft from the ship."
tain," s-id the skipper, taking down an old-  ' Ay, ay, sr I" said Perkins. And e call-
black pipe from among the dishes on a shelf ed the gun's drew to quarters
ant tilinag it. " If von are goin' to New Or-  .Iad I not better get the sail-covers up
lcan, though. you'll be sure to get an atily from the store-room, also, sir If we don't
chance to Apalachy, or Saint Marks ; for the have them on, our canvas will be so blackened
we 'y packets tufro  New 'ork always stop I with smoke that e'llook like a coal droghr
at key West and run through the Nor'-west 1 out of Newcastle.'
Pass i  inside of the Mule Keys and Tortu-  "By all means ut on the covers, Mr. Per
gu. s tvia' the Gulf Stream and a hundred kmis," said Harold.
mdles or more of distance. From    them    "Must we be towed all the way up the rv-
place  you can go on the railroad, so I've en to New Orleans?' asked Adele.
heard .tel--though I never saw a railroad,  "We would be avery long time in g ting
an h lat exactly know what it is like. Is'pose up under sail; for the river is crooked, thu
yu-v  s      ?"                         current strong, and the navigation unsafe,"
"Oh. yes; and rode upon them often "  replied Harold.
"Th y're not built any like a tail-fuee  "We will not have a very good opportun-
are they ?" asked the skper.            l ty to njoy the river scenery, of which  have
"Nut exactly," sail  ustave, launig.  hBeard so mub," said Adele, " while that huge
And then he described a railroad, its care blaci steamer is puffing by our side.
and 1  utives. for the benefit of the skipper.  " We will not have hr alongside, love. I
Tie la ter listened with great attention un- will have her make fat to us with a hawser,
til Gustave spoke of a speed of forty miles sa  so that we can tow astern  Besides, it is
hour. Then the skipper shook his head.i  above and not below, New Orleans that we
"Ilcan believe alt you said about the iron will find charming scenery. While we are
rails, aun wheels, and wagons as big as houses, there I will take you up the river on a trip.
fa1 stean-engin's to draw 'em," said hue , so that you can see the beauties of the great
l)ut when you come fqr to go for to say Gardent  the Southwest."
they'll run foray, miles an hour, mister, you "The steamer hias got the ship overt me bar,
pile it on most too thick. Vhy, a dolphin sir. and the latter is making sai, said Per-t
couldn't do that and keep it up. Jest say kins. at this inmnt.
twelve or fifteen, now, and take another   "Then fire the gun, and hoist the Union
drink, and I'll believe you jest as much as if Jack forward at the sime time," said Harold
you'd sworn to it "'                       In a minute after. the pivot-gun of the
Gustave did not think it necessary to en- yacht sent its thunder-voice across the waters,
deavor further to convince the captain, who and the blue Union Jack fluttered from the
probably would not have believed anything fore-topmast head
but his own eyes in the matter ; so he took the  (l'he steamer, which had ,just cast loose from
proposed drink. nan  then lighting a cigar, the ship now headed for the yacht, and in a
went on deck to try and get some fresh air-- short time rounded to close alongside. She
for the cabin smelt rather rank of bilge-wa- was a powerful New York built boat--the
tcr, grease, tobacco-smoke, etc.         "Gladiator' her name.
I wish you to sceud out a hawser, make fast,
CHAPTER LI.                 and tow me to New Orleans," said Harold, to
The passage of the "Adele," from the time her captain, who appeared upon the wheel
s:me lost sight of Tortugas until she made the house, and asked what was wanted-

I

i

4

[

'1

r

t
"
.


_. 1

78

JIILLIARE IIENDEllSON; OR,

itt
14
i-j

-,

,prw    -    ++!  de  - "  r - t

rDo yo    wish to be towel up rlone, sir? am sure that yoi will enjoy ourself. And)
or nwil 3onu wait for sorne of Itlie otlier Ve'Bs s 1ioj)eZella wtc":," alded  rl, kindly.
,i light outside ? It will issn the xpens."  aWhy (      seemsosad  fla  , kinlly
I care not for the expense ; take only this lie asked of the m beautiful s of late, Zwhoa at
nelit, and nke the trip as quick as you cain.' near them, silent, eiul quroonewhosat
'Vry well, sir."                          uCembroidery,  tth her eyes fixed non
And soothe Ald1enann     kinnthefamini           rog.,upon which shc was work-
it bi(ieineathi j  h ows,  w h sj b s -.il   f-t, in  '-  try  to  lie  lheerfil, ind s r aro .
tw of one of the most powerlsi steainers onf                          m You and Miss Aaele:arelt.good t ri10, but
tue river.                               Ishadows-.shadrjv, leCj) Couling io(ito thes51111-
In a little while she was in over the bar; shine and I aiiot he1p bint ein theuirin-
the stenicer si ekeinel up)her"speed theiC rine;un inothep      tiieel1Theiriinflu-
t(sn-li  of of  e     srulicd, t   i-    n.Iootind moy sadness-it will wear
all l(!rnlsrar I"ath1 finding  aa."
al  orcgavc her the usual jerrnt to l ro.  And while Zella spoke, Pearly tears gather-
Aele foui inothin  in the  o    e     ed in her great black eyes ait rolled d  n
nctyrr rich, lark cherk, like dew upon the trans-
h auls of A ~ i("u  Ni, io interest her-theJ paint rind (If the pomegranatc
back frou        reii u n t  dierck ;s firing hoeti  we idl try to chase away those shadows,"
dit black Clo s Hrpod' atheleek  al o  was baillIlrold. "I will have 110 unliappiness
glad to flli Ilarol's advice,ab rid to go be-on board my peted yacht. All here should
low with birs into thels city be longderbe      adness ani msie, joy arind pleasure."
isrold ?" asked Adele.                                      ntthis moment to ask what
"N') longer han it is ;  ant t  -       his sister would prefer for dinner.
dear Adle," ie replied.  'I li"should -We arcga aiid catfish, by all means, Nathan.
ike o ream lng eoughio eumiuicat  de iii a latitude where they are coinsiderd
like to remnl-agentiiuli ihe Nort  ri eat delicacies.
with m  nertvage n  le NorI for Ih"Frogs, capting! Did you say FROGS?"
niotiue  lsles thua  whruise up the Medit l.  Yes, to be sure. A  Frenchmuan thinks
r   tl.''  ter- there is no better dish on earth."
"ai   o1e alightful that  i!  e "rd      n   ll, captiig, a Freicnman iankeep on
Ade  wi dethus- t"at T  .1lie ' a r ld thutn-inso, till his thiinkin'-hox i u all worn
Adele,     witherntheuia in Toes that laFd out; hrnt when I cook a frog, or eat one, a
n utel  aE r a their  m ane cr e  Jerusma     is welcoIme to eat rie ! Sweet
And ila ts nt i i :r r,1iheirc rareser,  Jerusaleim . Precious Gilead I Jest to thinly
ci atsniuie r angua  /ear-4.eeat n frogs! 'IThe'll go fo eating' mokey8
r h  hm n t, and  they're  thairfirst Cousins ! i''
ou Wsroll ! Shiln a vage w ill make mrue Harold laugheicil hartily at Natha' d
too happy I To lhink that ve shill together of frog-eatingarid hrertaly aNroathato have
glide   uon 'enuitia'r silver tide -- wander tI e old Steward tasteadishly pollried to have
among the relies of fallen CG  ce-tread  quarters, without beisg aware of wl hind-
where L'rorn trod-llarol, you are too good  wererf what they
t+,sucha    iiecedlittle good-for-nothing               rogs,
te'a             ll                          t havin' nirogs, nor nary catfish aboard,
"eapting, I s'posc some msutton out oshf the ice-
"Adele, your joy is the light of nv life !  box, and o me i mof tneC tba   of  a ie
sail he, pressing her little hand to his lips  a  a b'isi n  ith  pigeons in  pie,
That n luielh gives you pleasure, is delight to keeji front stnv i onvegeta ewilldto
Inc. As sooii as I can miake ny Preparations   O, ysta  ingsaid Nathan'
for suchl a lenth~lened v " a..0  e will sail. d , 's !--anrything, INathanr ! We will
for suchat liclee       iae, we will sail dine at thre tSaint Ciarle ' to-Inorrs
Meantime, we wil see all that is to be seen, us what you likento-day." t  row : give
and enjoy all that is to lie enjoyed in the
Crescent City. It is a gay place, differing             CAT          I
rriueh front Havana, and like -only itself.  " Tired of New Orleans LII
Your knowleie of French ill coine in play said Harold, just two weeks after their arrival,
there ; for more than half its people are of as Ie sat in erjustt ftr their privateCaor i
Prench descent, andI preserve tlie language CJharles",ont  f the most pariat the "Saint
aid, to a great degree, the customs of their the American Continent.  princely hotels on
"If they are as gay as the Snisbeaus        hThey had been obliged to take rooms on
ie    thel whm awe a lathind usins biau h    ; fr the schooner was being overhauled
there will be no danger of our dying of canu,"   fg her voy ti hro fuhl reparatory to mak-
saidAdele.                             ,    g     vo ge otefr. 'ast-
" Fully as eay, they are," rephed     H     arold's remark was caused by a sigh fromra
betteras ye, ntha f ar" rele arold. Adele's lips, and a murmuredI wish that the3
And better yet, riot half si, Ir- iiiru-r:s. I were at Lea again.

I
Aso
55~
,

79

TUE SECRET REVEALED.

1:: wv l'us a tuosdiesomeC, dissatisfied        CHIAPTER LIJL
*, ...r 0 .,'  sai l sh.   B u st, aero d,  you  can  A t  the  sam e  hour  w hen  1 arold  M orley  w a s
l ii s i iuna iue hy  I detest the  hollow-heart-  conversing  with  Adele, in  regard  to  the  place
e&amp;eeriouuial, fashionabl world ! The worn- of amusementli which they would patronize
e in it--two-thirst of them, to say the least- that evening, two other persons were hold-
seem to think that dress and flirtation is the ing converse concernig them, which was of
chicf end of life. The men, that to swear a far more serious nature.
Sothic,  iniok iat good  dea l drink  gluttonously,  One  of tienm  was  Gustave  IIenderson, who,
andsi na e love to the silliest of the opposite disguised, and under the false name of Ahet
sexis o b necinsplilie I"   urad,  ad arivd tsataftrnoonn ther
, is to bu are sarcasticaly severe, Adele."  Mobile boat, sir Lake Ponchartrain, and who
" Not half so rsehi so as truth and justice had met, at the " Verandah," a man whom ho
demandss" sail Adele. "Though remember, knew to be base enough arnd sufficiently des-
dar Iarold, I do not class yonuiwiths such perate to enter upon any erstuprise which
,nni, any snore thati I wusld cliass muyself as would pay.
a fanshiy:ilyo woman. You kno that I have   This man, who was the second party alluded
not bean scare1 in a fashionable atmosphere, to in the first paragraph of this chapter, was
Left. alone shiot altogether from childhood, I a slave-trader ard black-leg by oplun profes-
a -isiky wh ait N  ture andbookshave made me.".  sion, and  in that business had  made acquaint-
s Aslde, and I thank lHeaven for ith ances from Maryland to Texas, and had more
It ws3 the purity and grace which Nature than once fallen in with both the lendersons,
gavevos which first won my heart. Were and been quite intimate with Gustave in
you like the fashionable women whom I, as Georgia.
well as you, despise, youwould not, as now,  But so well was Gustave disguised, that Mr.
reigns queen over n undivided heart."      Yaney, the slave-trader and  lack-leg, when
"I know it, lurolid ; and were you like the spoken to by him, did not recognize him,
men I have described, yo would not possess  Gustave, whosusually wore exuberant whisk-
the undying love of Adele Dumesle, as you ere, and long hair, had been closely shaved.
now do."                                  His hair was cropped' quite close; li wore a
Upon that point we are both agreed, pair of green spectacles, and was dressed in a
then ,"ail Iailrsld. " Now let us lay out a full suit of sombre black. A black fur hat, .
programnte for the night. They give ' La fle with quite a broad brim, and a stiffly-starched
ie Reginnt ' at the French theatre to-night. white cravat, with a face blanched by a proper
At the American, Spalding and Rogers exhibit application of pearl-powder, made him look
what Nathan calls their 'horse opera.' At the like anything but what he was.  Is "make-
Saint (Carles, the bills announce Julia Dean up" was intended to represent an itinerant
Heyne, Alah Isaacs Menken, Edwin Booth, preacher ; and as such he would have passed
an. others. There's a choice-talent, beauty, amog nine-tenths of the half-observants.
genius, and all that ! Where will you go, whom one meets intravel.
Adele Y"                                     " Have you no room here, friend Yancy,
"Justs where Captain Iarold Morley pre- where I cans ee you in the way of business?
fears. I Am entirely at his service-that is, Let us be alone amoment, and I will convince
for this Saturday evening. But to-morrow   you that we are old friends," said Gustave to
night I will not go to the theatre. I am not the trader, when lie met him in the bar-room
a r'lieuse, but I will not attend places of of the Verandah.
amam ,-ent on Sunday, even if it is fashiona-  "Yes - I room  here; but curse me, if I
ble here'"                                 know you. You are rigged like a preacher,
"1 shall not ask you to, my Adele. I re- and they're not my friends by any manner of
member too well the lessons of a Christian means. You're nota preacher-are you?or a
-mother, not to pay a proper regard to the traveling-temperance lecturer, broke down
Christian Sabbath-much as I disregard the and wanting help?"
fanatical ideas of the Pharisees. who would  "Order a bottle of brandy and two glasses
make it a day of penance, instead of a day of up to your room and see," said Henderson.
worship. Bt let me think-I propose we       "Well, curse ne if I denth If you'veany
witness ' La ple de R'E-mncnt' at the Thiatre business, I'm on hand ; for it is as dull hero
Frangaise. ' It is a touching little piece, full of with me as playing' whist with old women for
life, with good nmussic. Arid lhen MIademoiselhe a lippeny-bit a corner."
Ada, whomyou thought so pifrsuelle, dances  "Or coon-hunting  in Georgia when Master
there."                                   Zip has taken water," said Gustave laughing.
"I shall be happy there, or anywhere by    " By the mule thatkieked Baalam, I believe
your side," sail Al' and she pressed her I know you! Come up to my room anyway,
rel lips upon his white bIrw with a fondness stranger," said Yaneey. "I'll ring for the
usore than sisterly         .             - liquor and cigars when we get there."
t    I

l

,

_
._.


f
,f
E
! t
2
t
!!E
i
f
t
{i
fE
it
=k=
t
f
t

81

THE SECRET REVEALED.

A

IIILLIAIE  HENDERSON; OR,
An    1:v s,'           e'    -story of!I sedavK.ey'West, and on my ::-age over
r t i  -,   -   I  i t        r tu w e  h s  h  r e - A b e t  D u a n d . "
rot,,i hev te i.  t o    n\Vell, rooi here with me, Gus. I'll have
Wh  n th  w re in th room, arnd Yancey your name registered below as Albert Dui-
har rig te beoll ant orderedebrandy and el rand, and thent we'll go to work in this ma-
(t o     :ioveis e vend sithe green spectacle  ter. I'll earn that ten thousand dollars. or
vron over hiseyes, and said, inc:his natural you may black me up, and sell me fora nig-.
voice .ger! I ye got a plan in mly mind already."
.have von forgotten our last game of eu-   " Let me hear it,' said  enderson.
hre at thue oil Pulaski, I ancey ne'        " You say that ou have the proper papers
S    Why,e urer, if it isn't Gus henderson !" for reclaiming Zella, proving her to be a slave,
eail the trader, in rstonislneit- " Why, and all that ?"'
'trm, have yon been in a mad-house ? What   '' Yes."
are you rigged tout in that outlandish style  "And an order for taking Adele back to he
for?  You h-ia  sacrificed the best pair of natural-or, rather, orlagAdeeiatohr
niikers that  e cr grew in Georgia except          o     h    er legalguardian ?'
mine "                                       "We shall only need them    to sate ouF-
And Mr. Yancey sootlhigy stroked down selves, if in any way my plan mniscarresanot
his own glossy-black 'card and tmoustache,  otherwise," said Yancy.
It is a long story, but I nustpletyou  ve                enWell, let inc hea' your plan," said Gus-
it   aid then if you'll help  re in hr ltter tave, rather impatiently. P
Il put ten thou:iloand o  dcarrs i  3 iou bran Keep cool - keep cool, and touch the
I    t ts  tur as m      e i   rs inyour brandy lightly," sail Yancey.  " We can (1o
ocrsure as my name is GsHader- nothing to-mght ; but if we work things right-
sort" Yly, we can do all to-norrow might. My plan
us are good for Ihatani lcenty more, is this : During this evening and to-morrow,
Ins.Wit till troerny cones, ant then we can find out where this Mm"lev sto :s. To-
*Inll l'':tr  "si tuji c l sce what I can do. morrow night we will invei: le  uto T o-i
One li i, asm e-l'i'm spoiling for somethirg htrelinigh0w1 wllineilehimtaout of his
spolin, g freenething  motl  sone way by a false message, and
to do. irs a:'r how, and greenies scarce, then have him arrested for stealing Zella. lIe
or sy'so si:irp with the news of tricks put can get no bail on Sunday night ; I will se
out ba the cursed newspapers, thnt, a fel ow  that the officer shoves him  mnto a ell, an
Theaca hr l-d  n i     e-t   '       keeps him there until exatnminutionidiosr comes
The        v     r    were soon on hand, on Ionday.  When lie is juged, we cant
ani then Gistavo related minutes the whole Adele and Zella into a carrinc by sending ae
history of Harold Morle.'ns fars visit to his messenger to say that Morley has fallen nd
brother an  all thesuequent events as broken a limb on board his ynchd. They
iknowalreah to teli  reader, not omitting a go off in a boat without any he(sitation, think-
single point. For lie knew that in priteuring  ing thyacgLigo   badte      kah;w
a future alviter and co-operator inl rYncgwh ge the going boa board the yacht; we
it was best that thelerisholdkno    eh  will get them'i  on board the el , -e~r  .f m
it hwn  t   I thlatde -ould know exact- friend, who is to be towed to sea to-morrow
l how ettie li l atethim so tiit lie might be night at any rate, and I can get him to inn
the better fist d 1 t  uatch ti in future.  into your place, for it will he buta few hours'
Yancey listened quie-  taking now and  run out of his course. Once on board his
then   sip of brandy he was too cautious to vessel, with you and me to guard them, they
be a Gard-hrankerdnisn u  ahis regalia" will be as safe as if the devil had them." '
utt Gave b   nd fi   e  b ra     that the     iv Jupiter!  Yancey, you are a king at
yacht was tound for New Orleans when he contrivance. Your plan cannot fail. There
"Se he at  ere'u w,TGe- sae frmer sail: is but one thing in it which I do not like."
Ihv   is frienw hGus-I saw her to-day.  "What is that ?"
I have asfriend ho has fitted out a clipper "If we do not appear against Morley on
for the corns". of Gtiinea, ati she lays in the Mond do, no allieti uedgl i  o  o
stream close beside her, and looks as much  MOf          c      hatssf wiat Before
like her as another vessel can, "nly she is he is free we will be at sea-lhe will have no
nearly twice her tonnage. The  t tthow- trace of us-; and if he loves the giil as much
ever,has asd ieitais unbentand is being as you say lie does, ten to one he'll go crazy
repainted antiorefitted."                  and blow his brains out."g
"Ten Morleyni.staying on shore . "said  "Perhaps not; and then he will come to
endersn. MGeorgia anti kick up a fuss."
there's wheretlet the h sat   Charles-     ")If lie does that, you can blow his brains
thes   e  the      gsstyet?',  h. ave you  out for him, and that will be an end of it !"
chosen a  oWtel yet?"                      "I'd rather do it here," said Gustave, bit-
" No   When I do, I shall register the name terly.'

- You could not without spoiling my plan  " There he is sir," said the servant, as lar-
entirely. And besides, Gus-I mean no re- old stepped out of the door; and he pointed
flections, though-i'm most decidedly oppos- to a short, thick-set manii, who was an  ctiro
ed'to shooting anybody that wears a gemnithe- straniger to Iiarold, antl who at that moment,
man's clothes without giving him a lair chance was speaking to a couple of other men wiomu
for a pop at me. If you want my help, you Ilarold knew, by their tress and eimblems, to
must take my plan just as it-is, without addi- be members of the city police.
tons or amendments. If not, say so, and I'm  " Did you wislh to see me, sir ?" said lIar-
done with the matter-though we'll be friends old, addressing the man whom the servant
ais fast as ierqtofore."                pioiinted out.
Yos knw, Yancey, I could not do with-  "our name is Ilarold Morley-is it not,
out uon. 'And I accept your plans without sir ?" asked the gentleman, politely.
a thotiultt of amendment. I have over bye  " Yes, sir," said larold, frankly.
g-t'lbt'di fi t lars with  me to  work  on -besides  " I have  a  little  us ess with  you, sir, of a
a letter of credit from Iilliare, indorsed by private psature. M:y I ask you to walkwith
bankers in iew York, for ten thousand more." me a short distance'
"Good! With such tools in and, we can't    I do not wish to be detained long, sir, but
find the wordfilf it in tii5Vorinn apers. i ow, I will wallk a little Way, if y ou will state your
S on your spectacles a nii, and we'll take a business !" replied Harold, loving up the
walk over town, look ast the hotel registers, street withthe strangerwho,withwhat seemed
get some oste, drop into the theatres, pick to i imsingular famihiarity, took his arm.
up my frniend Iwhto is bouiid for the coast.  Anid hiad larold looked around, lie would
make the bar-ain with iin, and then come have seen that the two policeman who had
home and turn in for the night to dreams of Iteen spoken to by the stranger, had followed
action on the morrow."                   else upon his heels.
"Good! I am with yojn, and comp'etely    When they had passed beyond the crowd.
under your diretions. ''ake that purse-it which usually loitered around te great hotel,
is full of gold ; use it freely-it is ;our own." Ilarold paused, and said:
And Gustave handed Yancey his purse.     " If you have business with me, sir, you
"I'll use it in the common cause," said can state it herc without making it necessary
Yancey, with a laugh. "-I have a pocket- to extend our walk."
book ; but I deposited the most of its coitents  " I au sorry to say sir, that we must extend
in  bank last ight."                   our walk, without you choose to order a car-
"A fare bank probably," said Gustave, with riage ! said the striumger, politely, but firmly.
t smile-" To be brif and to the ponlt, Mr. Morley,
"To the best of my recollection, that was my nme is Stoker-I am one of the detective
the batik in which I deposited my funds," police, and I hold a warrant for your arrest
said Yacey, quietly. "If we have time to- upon a criminal charge! I hope that you wl
night, however, I may make a-draft and g t make no resistance; for I have help at hand,
it cashed at the samebank. But put on your if it is needed!
.specke, Gus, and let's travel."           And as he spoke, the other two officers
ranged up alongside of him.
CHAPTER LIV.                     What is the charge, sir ?" asied Harold,
Harold Morley was sitting quietly with as soon aslie recovered from a surprise which,
Adele in their parlor on Sunday evening, at first, made hum dumb.
listening to her dreaiy anticipations of the  "Negro-stealig, sir-.a very serious matter
pleasures they would find in their occidental in t1is State !" said the officer.
voyage, when one of the waiters said that a  "May I see the warrant?
person wished to see him below,            "Yes, sir, as soon as we arrive at the city.
"Who is it ?' asked H1arold.  -       prison! There I will give you a copy of  it
"   iOne of yourofHicers, I understood him to  "Vou will permit me. at least, to return to
say, sir," said the servant.             the hotel to acquaint my friends of my po
"Very well--I will go down in a moment sit.ion---willhyou not?" asked Harold,in agony,
Excuse ne, Adele -I expect it is Perkins, for he knew that his prolonged absence would
waiting for orders about the work to-morrow. frighten Adele, terribly.
I will be back in a few minutes !"         "it would be againstall rule, sir! said the
And Ilarold took his bat. anti went down officer. "It might cost me my place i You
into the b:r-roonng.                    can easy send to them in the morning, for
"Where is the officer?" he asked of the your examination before the Recorder will
svant, who had called hia.              take place at am early hon. I am sorry for
"*I saw htim an the front steps as I came you, sit', but 1 must do my duty!"
down. sir," replied the waiter.         "At leastet me send a notoack1 sad
"ome and show uhin to me i!"said Harold.  -arold.

I


$2

HILLIARE IIENDERSON; OR,

" f
t
f        i
J '
? i
{3
+    f
,!
I }
s
f
2
t
-
#
t
f
i

I

8g

THE SECRET REVEALED.

" If you write ain open note, whiclr will not heart, could for an instant be comfortable in
r any way compromise me, after wo get to a felon's cell, no rnatter how spotless he stood
the prison, I will deliver it!"          in conscious innocence.
" Since I am your prisoner, on what I as-
sure you is a false charge, sir-for I have the,
means of proving my respectability, I must of         CHAPTER LV.
course yield to our own terms, until I can Patiently Adele waited ten fifteen, twenty
do better !" sai4 yHarold. " Move on, sir, I minute for Harold's retun  uyh  i  o
respect the law and its officers. Criminals come. Impatiently she waited an hour long-
only have cause to fear them !"          er, and then both herself and Zou became
"That is so, sir !" said the officer. "And I exceedingly nervous.
truly hope, s r, that you will be acquitted  Adele rung the bell, and asked fQr the serv-
upon examination. It is not a pleasure to me ant, who had called him out.
to arrest a gentlemnanly Person like yourself'." The waiter came.
Harold made no reply, but walked on with  "Where did you last see Mr. Morley?"
the officer until they reached the city prison. asked Adele.
Here lie was ushered into the office, and for "lIe went away with the gentleman who
the first time saw the warrant which had been sent me after him,a adam," responded the
issued for his arrest.                   waiter. "That was the last I saw of him."
It was based upon the affidavit of Gustave  At that moment another servant ame
Henderson, planter, of Georgia, that Harold in a hurry, bringing a man in a boatman'
Morley had stolen a quadroon slave-girl from  dress, who said that le had been sent byMr.
his brother, HIilliare, whoeproperty she was, Perkins frg~m the yacht, to ask Miss I)umes
and that the said Morley had brought her to to come on board as so as possible. Mr.
New Orleans in his yacht, and that she was Morley had fallen from the deck into the fore.
now In Ih' 4tssion at the Saint Charles hold, and received a severe injury.
Hotel, in said city. "uick-QuIo , my hat and shawl, Zella-
"This is iy reward for sparingthe wretch and get yours also," cried Adele, upon bear-
when he was in mly power 1" groaned Morley ig t ~s
In anguish.                                 Now she thought she knew the reason of
He then asked for pen, ink and paper, and his delay in returning. Net for aiiinstant did
wrote a hasty note, addressing it to Miss she doubt fliat the message hind not come di-
Adele Dumesle, at the Saint Charles hotel. rect from Perkins. She even thought that
In it, he told her that business detained him the boatman was one of the crew of the yacht
from her, and it would not be likely that e  "  mOrder a carriage  I will ride to the v-
could return to the hotel before ten or eleven er, she added. Poor Harold, how wrong was
of the clock on the next day. And he im- I to blame him for bia delay! 0 hastemy
plored her to keep her roem closely, and to Zea- haste I"r         hO         a
eerp Zella with her, for Gustave I enderson  Not five minutes had elapsed
aight have forgotten his oath, and yet be ceived the message, before Adele andZe,
lurking around. This, he thou ht was suf- with the boatman riding  besidelthe driver,
fcient guarded, an d he handed it to the ojil.were hurrying at them fs t e  tie
cer, with a request that it might be carried at horses, tfathet river-side.
once to the hotel.                         It was dark upon the water, but Adele heed-
The officer looked at the superscription, ed it not, and handing the carriage-driver a
and shook his heal,                      piece of gold, she sprung into the boat which
"u r. Morley," said he, " it pains me to re- waited at the edge of the levee.
fuse a favor to a gentleman in trouble, but in It was rowed by four mcei, and rap idly it
case the girl intnioned in the warrant should swept over the dark waters. Soon theywere
be missing in the morning, they would say alongside of a vessel which she supposed to
warned her or your friends of this trouble. prafferedby thieboatman who pulled the after-
and I should be held responsible. You will oar, Adele caught hold of the man~ropes and
have to bear your confinement, sir, in, silence, sprang over the side. Followed by Zelladshe
until the Recorder takes your case in hand; hurried to the cabin-door, rushed dow, athe
then  my  responsibilities  cease, and  I will do e nt erd thca b ,-door, nru s d nthea
anything thait I can for you"         do stps, eiitered the cahmn, aiid in an instant saw
andhingMirstokerand  threyofthat she was not on hoard the "Adele,"
And Mr. Stoker handed the officer in charge She turned to look at Zella, and her eyes
of the prison the warrant for committal,  met the fiendish gaze of Gustave Henderson,
The latter calling the turkey, bade him  and two men who were utter strangers to her.
' sondu t the prisoner to a cell by himself, and  "Trapped !-trapped, at lastI" cried the
to make him as comfortable as lie could ; just fiend in human share-Gsav  edesn
a,5 if a man, wdl-bred, seusitive,.nd proud of  Adelc looked ata im but one instant; an;

4I I

L}}k{F- -

with a moan of agony, fell senseless at his  There, in drkness and wretchlednessof
fet                                      mind and body, lie paced the narrow limits'
Zella, whose eyes, burning like fire, had of his cell, and counted the hours as le eard
been fixed upon Gustave 11enderson, knelt them tolled by some distant steeple clock, n-
now by the side of her mistress, and tried to  l the gray dawn stole, yet darkly, in to show
lbring her to life-for she thought she was hi the grated horrors of his dungeon.
deal.                                      And'thent still hie had to count the hours.
eCarry the lady into the after-cabin," said For not until eight did a human being come
one of the  en wht stood by henderson. near him. Then a coarse, repulsive-looking
Se oihms only fatedd"                  negro came .along, carrying a basket filled
hlenderson benut down to lift Adlele up.  with coarse bread, andtid another ofollwted with
Back ! you villain !-back I If she must a basket of tin e) a
be carried. I will carry her myself'!" said As they piussed each cell, they thrust a
Zela. lifting her mistress up and .-arrying her piece of bread through the bars, and setn a
to ai sota, which the ni who first spoke had cupof water, and hoarsely cried: "Breakfast,
1QittteJ out.                            dere, and went on.
'Pll pay you for your sauce, my wench,  Nine o'clock caine and passed. By his
whets1get you back on the plantation!'' said, watch it was a quarter to ten when the same
Gustv,  bitterly. " I , take  your  pride  o licer  who  ha~d  arrested  hint  ai no  ith thi
down, or cut your heart out !"           turnkey, who opened his cell. 'Alen Mi.
Zela made him no reply; but when tIe Stoker requested him to go with biu to the
lvrsn who, bw hula authoritative tonte, seemed offhi eo othe IRecorder, and promised to use
to be master of the vessel, brought some wine his influence to have the Recorder examine
and water, used it to endeavor to recover her him in a private room, and not before the
mistress. Aluith iot without effect, for soons public.
Adess.     A      ithom e e   rycs     Eveu  this seemed a favor to Iharold, who
slowl begae ato enclose.  ,-hranuk from              appearing bfore the pubhi
'a e eerliet" that stae-room," said the under the accusation of critne, however-unjfit
ca-tain, ointug to a room. "Take her in it was; and he endured the agony of waitig
thereandh attend to her. No one shall harm  in a private room until the Recorder hd die-
you or her, If you do not attempt to escape.- posed of the eases of drunkenness, theft, ami
Such an attempt will be useless, for you are vagrancy, which daily come up before him,
guarded, and will only cause you to be treated before his Honor cou d see 1im.
more has    ,,y."                         It was twelv9-full meridumar-before, lar-
Adele, though not yet fully in lier senses, old was visited by the Recorder and the prose-
seemed to comprehend a part of what the eutung attorney.     .
captain said, and, aided by Zehla, tottered into  "Where itIme comphaiuant in this case?"
the large state-room whicir the captain had said the Recorder, as he looked first at tht
pointed ut, and sunk upon a coi h therein, warrant and then pt Morley, whose genteel
'fle next moment the door was closed, and looks seemed to impress him favorably.
Zella heard a bolt shoved across on the out-  "Ho has not shown himself this morning,
side..hadi       ls   n   us             sir, though he told me last night that hom
Adleard it also, and burst into ears would be on hand early," saidthe officer.
For a long lime she sobbed and wept; amid. "That is strangee" sid the Recorder. "A
both Zella and she trembled when they heard man who makes a charge like this should bu   .
the heavy puffing of a steamboat alongside, on hianud t'o substantiate it."
aid felt, from te jar, that the vessel which " '1e villain knew that it was false, sir,
was their prison was moving, and, undoubted- and has caused my arrest, I fear, only to
hwas being' tuned to sea.' cover another crime of his," said to    aroeld.n
y"If' you have anything to say relating to
CIPAITEIt VI.     '-         the charge, you can say it, sir," sail the e-
It was a terrible night to,I1arold Morley--- corder, kmly. "At the same time," he ad-
that night spent in the city-prison. Though ded, "I would caution you agaiuut making
confined in a cell by himself, in which the any admissions which may eriminate your-
furniture eonsssted of an iron bedstead, a self."
straw mattress and a couple of blankets, he "I am no criminal, sir," said IHarold, proud-
otdr hear the howlings of some drunken ly. "Permit me the use of pen and paper
women on one side of him, and the fearful for a few moments, and let me give the names
curses "f souedrunken rowdies on the other, of gentlemen resident here, whom Iwish sent
Had not his mental agony been so great as to for to vouch for my position in life, and to as-
banish shumer from his eye-hds, he could sist me in proving not only my innocence of
not have slept with those terrible sounds the charge, but the conspiracy which has4
ringing in his ears.                 -   made mue a victim."

.


84                       HILLIARE HENDERSON; OR,
The Recorder himself handed Ilarold the whose mate has fallen before the eruelsports.
required articles. The list was soon made man's gun.
out                                        And not until hearing Gustave Henderson'.
"Be pleased, sir, to send at once for those voice inangry conversation outside the state-
gentlemen," said Harold.                 room, and learning that, even if she bad not
The Recorder glanced at the names with a a friend on board there was one who was man
look of surprise. The first men in the city- enough to protect her from unmanly outrage
bankers, merchants, and judges-were upon and cruelty, did she begin to.so recover her
the list,                                faculties as to be capable of thinking what
ie instantly sent an officer with the list, had been done, or could be done with her.
and then asked Harold to take a glass of   She heard Gustave Henderson say, ini bit-
wine.                                    ter tones:
This be did; for he was sick at heart and  "Captain Rhett, I will see the girl. I tell
faint with long-continued agony.         you she is to be my wife; and there is no use
And gaining strength, Harod then related in her fooling about it, and shammin off
the history of his connection with the Hen- ness.",sg
e attempt of Gustave to have him  "Mr. Henderson," said the one whom he
issarsinated at Havana-how he subsequently spoke to, in a stern tone, "you force me to
shared him, and all.  m      p   a         mind you that I am captain of this vessel.
The story seemed almost Improbable to You, sir, are but a passenger. I took this
the Recorder, but soon Harold's friends came lady and the girl on board to oblige my friend
flocking in and satisfied the Recorder that Yancey, and agreed, for a certain consider
hiarold's tale was true. An officer was die- tion, to land heri Georgia. That l dBut
e      t   hoe             oe    by the sir, I will not allow her to be persecuted here
request of Harold, to see if Adele and Zella You, over your liquor last night, said enough
still were there,                        to convince me that you were a cowardly, heart.
le soon returned, and told that they were less scoundrel; and I advise you to bear your-
gone, and also what message iad decoyed self quietly on board of my schooner, oryour-
them away.                               passage may be shortened considerably. I
d Lost! lost !" exclaimed Harold, in utter ave borne with you for the sake of my
despair, when he heard this news. "The friend Mr. Yancey, until I am out of patience
wret-h has decoyed them away ! My Adele Now, sir, you understand me. We are at sea,
is lost !-lost !"                        and the lady is safe. Offer either by word or
Andbe sunk, insensible, to the floor,  deed to annoy her, and you will find your fath-
Of course the Recorderdismissed the charge, her's son in trouble."
and urged upon the officers an immediate   Adele, who had listened intently-and oh,
search for Adle and Zella; and also gave how gratefully to these words !-now heard
orders for the arrest of Henderson wherever the retreating footsteps of some one. It was
he might be found.                       evidently the captain, for the next moment
Meantime, the friends of Harold had him she heard a strange voice say:
removed to his hotel, and called in the best "You had better heed what he'says, Gus.
physicians in the city; for the blow had been When Rhett's temper is aroused, he is a whole
fearful, and when he recovered from his team ; and if you don't walk a chalk-line th
s won, e raved i wild insanity,          him, you'll spill your pan -of fish into the
His cry was for "fAdele," one moment; fire."
Gestae e  lenduttered fearful curses against  ," What business, Yancey--what business,
Putaerk n dersn."                    I say, has he to interfere between me and the
Perkins and Nathan came up from    the girl?"h
yacht when they heard of his trouble; but he  "He chooses to do so. That is enough
didn't recognize either of them, and the you and I to know, Gus. Likee e-oug
physicians were obliged to calm him by the he catches niggers and deals in them, as Ido
administration of strong opiates.        -he has a tender spot in his heart, and some
little quantity of that scarce commodity
CHAPTER LVII.                known as honor left in his bosom. He p rob-.
Poor Adele lay sobbing and weeping for ably remembers that he once had a mother-...
many hours, after she and Zella discovered may have a sister to think of. I don beli
that the vessel on board of which they had that you ever had either, Guse; upon  y word
been so cruelly entrapped, was moving  Zella I don't, judging from the flinty character of
in vain strove to comfort her. She would your heart. Now, take my ad vice, and ret
not but believe that Harold had been assassi- 'well enough' alone ; whea you get th~e lady
nated by, or through Gustave Henderson; and and the quadroon on your ownground, why,
e        armourned afor hinmwithel the sorrow of a then, you can do as you please. Hero you
widowed heart-mrourned as mourns the dove caninot."y

I

THE SECRET REVEALED.
" So it seems. But they shall curse the day He did not permit himelf to despond, took
when I have them fully in my power: I'U such medicines as his physicians prescribed
log the wench to death with my own hand, to allay all nervousness, and slept all that he
and Adele shall envy her her fate. Come to could.
my room and get some brandy-come ! I       With but one idea-one aim before ini-
must drink, or go mad."                  the recovery of his lost Adele, it is not won-
"Thank Heaven, we can rest for a -few derful that when, two weeks after, h received
days!." murmured Adele. And, wearied with an answer to his letter from John imonds, be
sobbing and weeping, she fell asleep with her was almost himself again. Strong eiougi, at
head resting upon Zella's breast.        any rate, for travel, and as clear in mind as
he had ever been.
SCHAPTERLVIII.                  Simonds wrote to him that Gustave Hen-
For many weeks Harold seemed forever lost derson had been home for some time, though
to the world and his friends, so far as reason no one had seen or heard anything of Adele
was concerned. But, at last, through the in- or Zella. "Yet," said Simonds, "I am sure
eesant care of well-paid physicians and the that they must be here, from the manner of
attention of devo edriends-not least among both the brothers. They, of course, are not
whom were Perkins and Nathan-he so far re- now visited by any of our society, but they
covered his senses as to completely compre- wear an air of content ,n  even triumph,
Vend his situation.                      which betokens that they have succeeded inorth.
And though lie was very weak, he insisted some deviltry or other-
upnkoig eryptiular inregadt          . "oeRto me as secretl and as quickly as
upnkoigeeypriua               nrgr    o    "oethe manner in which Adele had been induced you can. Bring the certificate of your die..
to leave the Saint Charles Hotel, while he missal from the charge imade before the New
was chafing in a prison-cell.            Orleans Recorder; for, if I understand the
lie was so calm, and so earnest, that the  law, you cannot twice be arraigned for the
told him all. With a strength of soul which same offence, and we must hi ready for auy
astonished his attendants, e bore the inlr- tricks of these double-distilled,-super-extra
itnition quietly, and said :             scoundrels.b
"Hen person has carried her and Zella back  "You will find all of your old friends and
to Georgia. I will be calm, and grow strong, many new ones ready to help you, and none
and go there and recover her. Bring me a more so than John Sinonds. If the ender-
little wine and some light food i my strength eons bark too loud, or try to bite, I'll hoot
will come to me gradually, and in body as them both as I would a pair of mangy cure,
well as mind I shall be myself again. I feel and stand before a jury conscious of acquit-
that I am very weak, and that this has been tal, on-the plea that hyenas are hybrid, and
a long night or me."                     injurious to the community, and ought to be
They dared not tell him how many nights removed."
and days he had lain there, the taper of life Harold dterminred to start on the succeed-
flickering in the socket-how long he had] ing day after receiving this letter. The pre-
known no light, but had tossed in the black vious evening lie devoted to taking farewell
oblivion of manes.            '         of his kind friends at his rooms, and to ar-
Within a week lie grew so strong that he ranging his pecuniary matters. lie paid all
could sit u and write. And he wrote It long his bills, and then caused his lawyer to draw
letter to John Simonds, detailing all that had up a deed of gift and tranafei', making ov.
occurred, and suggesting to hil what to do the yacht to Perkins and Nathan Sha  1
for the protection of Adele and Zella, if, as if by any mischance he should not retura to
he supposed, they had been brought back to them.
Henderson's plantation.                    Both of them volunteered to go with him-
"Write to me the instant you receive my Nathan, with tears in his eyes, insisted ulon
letter," continued Harold to Simonds, "and It. But Harold, after showing them the let-
let me know if Adele is there. Fear not to ter which advised him to go as secretly as
tell me all that you know and can learn. I possible, firmly refused to let either of then
have been fearfully ill-for weeks a raving do so.
maniac, I am told. I an now well in body  "If I succeed," said he, "I will come back
and mind, but need strength, so that I can with Adele, and go, as I intended, in the yacht
travel. By the time that your letter reaches on a cruise to the Mediterranean. If I ail, it
me, I will be able to bear that fatigue, and will be because I am dead. In that case, the
shall start for Georgia as soon as I receive yacht is yours; and my will, drawn up this
is."                                     day in original and duplicate, properly wit-
Having dispatched this letter, Harold reso- neased, signed, andealed, will show how
Intehy set to work to nurse his strength, and much I love endssah." you for your faithful
to recover his physical -and mental energits. kindness."

ii,
v

t

4

r            _
..              ?'                _                                                           r
+"S, {c                                                                                                                                                                '^"£t""      rti   6{s' ;',               i                               ,        JN T1                    r        +  ry, c(        R   %a'
.,                                                                                                                                       ,v      _     _.                                         _         -\,                       _             -               _                     -                                                                                                           .  :      LLB'

r


N8

IHILLIARE HENDERSON ; Ofi,

4;

I

87'

THE SECRET REVEALED.

Both of those good men wept as Itarold tender care of Zella had so far restored Adele,
thus talked to them; and it was with diffoul- that she could walk about her room  .and
ty that Harold could induce them to say on two or three occasions - in the night..
"good-night" and "adieu," so that he could time only-Ililliare enderson, who seemed
get some rest before starting for Georgia in strangely kind to her, had assisted Zella to
the morning.      ____hake other out of tl                 iouse into the garden,
whereTtheLfrei air, and the fragrance of the
AdelerDumestefhdbeCAPTER LIX.  orange-blossoms, and oilier flowers, might
Adele Dumesle liad been landed in safety by aid in giving life to her almost dormant vital-
Captain Rhett at the plantation of Ililliare ities.
Henderson. Arriving off the harbor at ight,  No person but an old Guinea negress
the captain of the slaver, who all the way had named Dinah, had been permitted to idol
protected her from insult and persecution, communication with Adele or Zella, besides
La  add her and Zella in his own boat, Ilillinre; and the poor ghl  utv  n  acyfloedi  n  erneadknns  irl knew that his for-
while Gustave and Yancey followed in an- bearane and kindness as but cloak to con-
But the Adele who landed there then, was ce"Oh, ie  e could  ut
but a shadow of that Adele whom we have --know that he yet lived  ar from Harold
seen so happy in almost all the ehapters-of our That was her constant thought.
story.                                     One evening, old Dinah, who, whenever her
Sfie was so weak that she could not stand master was not present, spoke kindly aer
unsupported; and if Zella was not every lityingly to Adele-a manner ekntly and
instant by her side, her nervous terror was trary to that which she exhibited in his pres-
so great that she would fall into hysterical enec, said, as she was alone with Adel and
parosmis.                              Zella :
hlilliare was overjoyed at the final success  "Will de child be quiet, if ole Dinah tell
of his brother, but terrified at the situation of herome good news "
Adel. When    e had seen Captain Ihett    "Oh, yes! Yes ; if, indeed, you have good
p aid off, and the latter had departed with news to tell me I!" said Adele, eagerly. For
Yancey, who, with ten thousand dollars in in her heart she feltd preentegerth  the
hand, concluded to try a trip to the "coast" news was from Harola presentiment that the
himself, Hlilliare hell a consultation with Gus-  "Be quiet,  d
tare in regard to both Adele and Zlla.Gus- "Masa e     den, chile, and I tell you.
tave wished at once to begin his work of re- chile has seen him sheassaDoar, nd'. Die
vnue upon Zella, by flogging her and putting you tink of dat "mnow         what
her into the rice-field to work with the comn- And the old negress assumed an air of im
mon hands. But Iilliare, who did not wish mense importance.  a        nif
Adele to (die before his ends were accomplish.  "Did he send me no message ?-write me
ed, advised a different course.          no letter Y"' asked Adele.
"Let her nurse and attend upon Adel,     "lie was agwine to, but Massa Simonds say
until she has recovered sufficiently for us to no.--him unprudent. S  i el  es yo
foreder arrien  wh cyou, as Zonce pro- go out in garden, to-night, like I tell him you
posed, and then you can treat Zella as you done before, and he'llroeadt
ke, and I will not interfe  i,                         e' come and take you
, a   I will nt it'ere," said Hilliare.  and Zella away, if it cost his life. Andhe
"We will keep their arrival a profound say ie'll buy old Dinah, too, and not let her
secret from every one. I will attend upon work never no more. Xi! won'tmyefaidprpsbyod'nh'gldwndtdycms!?   dis chile be
them m yself, aided, perhaps, by oldDina gla when dat da coes I",wntdi hle
whom I know I can depend upon ; and, if we  It was hard forAeet    epqitwe
do not alarm or annoy her, Adele will soon she heard h  to her, gloriousenew.
come around and he well again. Kept secure-  Oh ! hinase en' a herout erwo.waee
1 in the house, not a prying neighbor will ajar while the old negress was talk or wa
dream  that they are here. For the vessel she seen the flashing of Hilliare Hendes'
yo am iun        seen off the coast before eyes, as he listened to every word, brief, in-
dark, and now, long before it is light, she will deed, would have been the gleam of sunshine
be far out at sea."                      which seemed to come from heaven to warmowr+
Gustave, impatient as he was to wreak his her poor sorrow-chilled heart.cm
cowardly hate upon the defeneeless, now com-  But she did not; and -e withdrew in utter
pletely in his power, could not but acknowl- silence, to communicate what he had heard to
edge the wisdom of thee remarks; andthere- Gsae  n   ofr        lnfrdcsv
fore gave his cold assent to Hilliare's prop- ateeon-va plan to ri themlan for deeioe
foe, at once and forever.
It was some weeks later. Quiet and the

CHAPTER LX.                    " Hilliare Henderson, you have murdered
Night came on-soft, dreamy, balmy moon- this man shoutedtd Sionds.
light. A gentle breeze rippled the distant wa- "It is false 1" said  enderson, whose face
te, and the waves were dimpled with silvery was white as snow. "Mis Dome s and this
gleams from above. The low wind rustled girl c'+n prove thatt it is not so !"
through the leaves' and flowers, sighing a  dnThe iorieaccursed brother  ustave has
young girls sigh vyhen they are happy. It done it! Neighbors, s     c y  erch h
was a lovely evening-too lovely for any of out and arrest him. I will stay here with the
God's creatures to think of daring its beauty body until you retuaters started to obey the
by deeds of darkness.                                M t    l
lyi    niare Iendereon had visited Adele short- directions of Mr.  imonds.
ly before night came on, and in the kindest  What was Adele Duniesle doing all' this
manner had a ked after her health. He bad, time
to her great joy, though by her unsolicited, She had shrieked but once. Now she was
t        a wak in the garden during the calm-fearfully calm.  ic face was pale as
-vening; and she could hardly conceal her the magnolia flowers w
wiieitinoluf joy when she assented.  heir head.
id eemtin of(joyS wherent o       al.   Shetook Harold's hands and folded them
A~ ny difsumateet afilm usuro.
Ait, what a consummate actor a villain can be, upwmi his bloody brcast~ She bent over and
when lie is such by Nature, and not by force kissed his white 'brow. Then, in a tone low,
of circumstances b                       but terribly distinct, she said :
Adele had counted the minutes after Hilliare  "Hear me, an high  Heaven! of man, I will
left, until hie came agin. She hal drank heart and soul by teculyo      aIwl
r   lakes of wie strengthen both be maA foe forever !.Harold, ever drop of
nerves1andlbody for the ocesion; and when your blood is a precious jewel!-  will set
illiare did comne, lie found her with a flash-; them in a coronet of revenge ! If your spirit
ink; eye lad iue seal cheek. But hoeudid not can look down from heaven, it shall see hoWr
appear to notice it, but simply told Zella to true to this ow will be Adele Dumesle "
get a shawl and hat for her- mistress, and,  And Zella, too," whispered the quadroon,
wit hmtoasisthe i wlkngout,      as she knelt -by Adlele's aide. "For Zelus
with him, to assist her in walkingou..              .7      d'     '--buyesh
Adele trembled with agitation, and not loved--in silence and in grief-but yet she
from weakness, as IHilliare pretended to think loved, and hers will be thd vow of revenge,
when they walked out upon the graveled too.!"            whom Simonds had sent to
pgths of tihe beautiful garden.            The gentlemen who    iod     a   et
They walked for some distance in silence, arrest GustaveIenderson, returned with him,
for Adele (baled iiot trust herself to speak. and said that they had found him asleep ini
At last, they paused while they stened4o bed in the room wl'ch he usually occupied
the sound of a night-bird peculiar to that in his brother's house.
section, which seemed to be perched in an  Hilliare Henderson now felt easy. He
orange-grove n1"ar them. Upon one. side. of knew no proof could fix the dastary de
the graveled path where they stood was a upon himself or brother. He therefore said,
hedge of the bayonet-pointed cactus-on the in a haughty tone:
other, a hedge of acacia in full bloom.  . "If you are disposed to pursue this matter
Adele reached out her hand to pluck a flower any further, Mr. Simonds, you can go and
from thi hedge, when she heard footsteps be- get out warrants for myself and brother. We
yond it, and her name distinctly pronounced. shall not shrink from aiyinvestigation."
At the same instant she saw a blinding flash. Before Sinionds could reply, Adele- arose,
of fire flying from hbe lied ge, not ten feet be. and, with a supernatural calmness, said :
vend er-heard the loud report of a gun,   "Hill iare Henderson, you will escape the
and a cry of agony from the same well-known laws of men, but not thevengenee of Heaven !
voice which haid pronounced her name.    Mr. Simonds," she added.,1«hcnceforthI place
With a wild shriek, she bounded through myself under your protection, and let him
the hedge, and tie next second she was upon claim me, or my girl Zella, if he dares  n Let
her knees by the side of hlarold Morley, who him or the fiend Gustave now try to hold
was struggling in the agonies of death.  "either of us 69e instant, and they will learn a
"God -Goo  of Heaven " she shrieked, lesson which will be ended down-down in
"ave-O save my     arold i"              hell  Take my Harold home to your house,
"Adele ! dear bless-Adele-my will--- Mr. Simonds. Come, Zell; we will go there,
friends !"he incoherently gasped; and as John to-night."
Simonds and many friends rushed Ltp on one  The Hendersons glared like hungry tigers
side, and Hilliare 'enderson and Zla on the after the departing girls. But 'they saw te
their, lie looked butonce at them; then his many angry faces toeare an attempt to de
head fell back andhle waa--DKAD I        tamn them. They were permitted to return

1

.(

"


S88                                           HILLIARE HENDERSON.
to their own house, while the surrounding fearing the result of a trial , they gladly gaye
friends of poor Harold bore his body back to up to Adele Dumesle her own property, and
the good planter's home.                 gave Zella her freedom. Adele was, by his
Reader, my story is so nearly done, that a will, sole heiress to all df Harold's wealth.
few words will link it witBhi "Beath Secret." Her subsequent career, after she left the
The Hendersons could not be proven guilty South, was told in the "Death Secret."
of the murder; but proof went so far, that              [Tax aNZ4.)
f4
Y S
-
-
tV


                                              
             
         
       
   
