
    ----CITATION----
        Chase, Lucien Bonaparte, (1817-1864). English Serfdom and American Slavery, or, Ourselves as Others See Us .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6019 wright2-0493
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            English serfdom and American slavery, or, Ourselves--as others see us
            
                  HISTORY OF THE POLK -ADMINISTRATION.--By Lu. ClIri B. C'HASE, Member of the Twenty-ninth and Thirtieth Congress. 8vo., pp. 512. New York: George P Putnam. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS THE administration of Mr. Polk is probably unsurpassed by any previous one, in the grandeur of its enterprises, or the brilliancy of their accomplishment. The conquest of Mexico, the acquisition of California, the settlement of the Northern Boundary, the adoption of 'a new Commercial system, the Reduction of Postage, and the opening of new and vast routes of postal communication, belong to a class of national meastires',so wide, so far-reaching, and so wfeig-htyithat their progress attracted every eye, and their adoption touched every interest. Jt is for this reason that the influence of Mr; Polk's administration is so vast, so immeastlrable, and even, as yet, so partially developed. Amid such gigantic operations, there were lilie wise mistakes and errors, wtlich were serious, widely pervading, though never disastrod's. To take up such a subject, and do justice to its merits, in a single volume, requires a comprehensiveness, and grasp of intellect, a condensation of thought, force and energ'r of style, which belongs only to the most culti- vated- and talented writers. Highly as wek have ever esteemed the abilities of the author of this interesting volume, we must confess that we were not prepared for such a successful and brilliant ac- complishinent of his great task as he has here presented to us.  The great measures of Mr. Polk's term ; their nature and ex. tent; the causes that led to their introduction ; the embarrassments and obstructions that beset their progress'; the difficulties' that were vanquished, and the circumstances of success, that were even created by foresight, and judgment ; their successful achievement, with the strong approbation of the nation, are po'urtrayed with a fullness, a discrimination, and a justness, which renders this work not only the most correct and best general history which we have of that period, but probably. places it beyond the reach of acompe- titor. The statement of, facts appears to be prepared with much care, as it regards their correctness ; and for this the author pos. sessed unusual advantages, as he was a distinguished member of Congress during ttie entire period. The work is remarkably free from partizan bias, and the errors of Mr. Polk'are related without qualification or extenuation. It is also entirely free from anything like bitter, or -party epithets, and the dignity of the historian is pre- served throughout. As a historical work, in itself; as a history of a most important period in our national existence ; as a collection even of some of the most interesting events in our career, deline- ated with much urbanity and graphic richness of style, this) volume should be sought and obtained by every patriotic American citizen. -Hunt's Merchants' Magazzine.      HSTORY OF THE POLK ADMNISTRATION. HISTORY OF THE POLK ADMINISTRATION.-It is an able defence of the Administration of Mr. Polk; abler, indeed, than the oppo- nents of that administration, whether whigs or free-soilers, will probably be disposed to admit ..... In the narration of events it is brief and clear; in its statement of facts accurate and guarded; and in that portion of it relating to the war with Mexico, it is suc- cinct in narrative and apparently impartial ...... Those parts of the work animated by a spirit of self-respect, in defence of his party-or those written, con amore, and, as it were, under the vic- torious banner of the Union, in praise of the gallantry of the army, and as a tribute of respect to its chivalrous leaders, are in our judg- ment highly creditable to their writer, and exceedingly interesting. These passages, brief, off-hand, and evidently penned without effort and without labor, are indeed as just as they are beautiful.-Whig Correspondent of the Albany Argus. "Mr. Chase, a member of two Congresses, a personal friend of the President, and an intimate friend of Post-Master Cave Johnson, whose district he represented, has undertaken to write the history of-,that administration. He seems to us to have performed his task with impartiality, with clearness of style, and particularly with great power of argument. ..... Evidently there has been no effort spared on the part of the author to find the most reliable au- thorities for every statement, and he has consulted in his relation of the Mexican War, the Mexican account as well as our own. . . Mr. -Chase censures as readily and as honestly as he praises, and his work, if we mistake not, will become authority upon all the points which it treats."-New York Evening Mirror. "For the statesman and politician and those who devote much time to the political history of the day this volume possesses de- cided interest. The author was a member of Congress from the -State of Tennessee during the whole of the Administration of Pre- sident Polk, and enjoyed a large degree of intercourse with him. His position was therefore such as to put him in possession of va- rious facilities and a mass of information relative to current politi- cal events accessible to but very few. These have been used with great discrimination in the production of the present ' History.' The remarkable events that crowded into the administration of Mr. Polk are narrated with perspicuity and vigor, and so arranged as to prove invaluable for reference."-Buffalo Courier. "The History of the Polk Administration-one of the most eventful and memorable in the history of the government-has been written by a distinguished member of Congress through Mr. Polk's entire term, the Hon. Lucien B. Chase. We have it before us in a large quarto form, from the press of Putnam, of New York. It is an interesting and able review of the policy and measures of the late administration, of the Mexican War, and the great questions in agitation during that period, with sketches of Mr. Polk's career, and of the cabinet-which it will be found useful to consult, now, and in the future."-Albany Argus.   !    OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.           @ "This work opens with a view of the contest that resulted in the election of Mr. Polk, and then proceeds to a consideration of the various questions that came up in Congress during his administra- tion. A large portion of the volume is occupied with the Mexican war, and the narrative is clear, interesting, and impartial. The reader will not only find here a detail of the brilliant progress of the American armies, but a good view of the rise of the whole Texas question. This history occupies seven of the twelve chap- ters of the book. Three other prominent questions occupy a proper degree of attention, and are treated much in the same way-name- ly, a concise detail given of their origin and progress-and those are the tariff, the internal improvement, and the slavery questions. These are presented with great fulness and ability. *    k    *    *    *    *    * This volume is a valuable addition to our political history. It contains facts gathered with care and much research, which the politician will find to be most convenient and useful;-and which the general reader will find to be reliable. The author, though a mem- ber of the democratic party, and though in the main a defender of Mr. Polk's administration, is no blind eulogist. He does not hesi- tate to blame as well as praise. The reader will find here written in a friendly hand, and yet in an impartial manner, a good history of the remarkable events that will make Mr. Polk's administration stand out forever in our annals. The work is handsomely got up --no small recommendation-and is as creditable to the scholarship as it is to the patriotism of its author."-Boston Post.        ENGLISH SERFDOM AND AMERICAN S LAVEIRY: OR, OURSELVES-AS OTHERS SEE US. BY LUCIEN B. CHASE, * ** AUTHOR OF 'THE HISTORY OF THE POLK ADMNISTRATION." "The celebrated saying of Sir Richard Fletcher, uttered more than two hundred years ago, ' Let me write the ballads fo)r a people, and I care not who make the laws, might be transposed by saying-Let mne write the fictions for a people, and I care not who make the speeches."-NATIONAt, TNTELLIGENCER.. Now step I forth to whip hyp(ocrisy."--SuAxICZPARt. --- ? NEW YORK: -H. LONG & BROTHER, 43  A N N - iTR'R  ET.     ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-four, by LUCIEN B. CHASE, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.     TO THE ARISTOCRATIC LADIES OF GREAT BRITAIN IS DEDICATED THS WORIK, Wherein the author portrays the graceful equanimity with which they regard the horrible condition of the substratum of English society. Credit is also very properly given them for discovering fascinations in the sooty progeny of Ham-that excellent gentleman, and especial favorite of the Almighty-which may vainly be looked for in their own vulgar race: fascinations that have aroused the admiration of England's too susceptible Dames, and awakened the slumbering goodness of her benevolent politicians, to such a painful degree, that they are disqualified for a performance of those charit- able obligations, which are imposed upon them, to ameliorate the condition of English Serfdom.     PREFACE. T world is indebted to the philanthropic ladies and gentlemen, who frequent Almacks, and lead London fashion, for several remarkable improvements upon the example set by the Redeemer. Their sensibilities 'are so intich affected by the presence of SUffel"iDg, that they take especial care to avoid it. At the same time they discreetly compromise with conscience by an ostentatious bestowal of alms upon distant, and, therefore, more worthy objects. Our Saviour did not avail himself of an expedient which commends itself to Persons of less goodness, but greater tact. With him, charity began at home; with them, a commencement there, would preclude the hope of its ever reaching far enough to swell into notoriety; especially where it has so many objects to relieve, as can be ' found upon every square acre of the British empire, And hence, the folly of makiDg the attempt. Again, Jesus taught humility. Now humility sits very uncomfortably upon a proud man, or wonian either, and hence, it is much more agreeable for them to asseverate'their own purity, and the sinfulness of the "rest of mankind." They have made a decided improvement upon 'the teachings of the Saviour, in this reward ; for they graciously condescend to point out, and with commendable precision, wherein other nations, and especially the slavery-loving people of the United States, are far less holy than they are. The Redeemer was cele- heated for modesty as well as meekness,;- both of which traits were, perhaps, eminently suited to his time, and to his     PREFACE. divine character, The English nobility bowever, have effected changes, in this particular, no less striking than appropriate. He rode into Jerusalem, on a certain occa- sion, upon the back of an animal, whose venerable appear- -race cannot fail to win our respect, while the distinguished services tendered by his ancestors, of which mention is made in suitable and flittering terms, bv history, sacred as well as profitne, places him in the very front rank of four footed'animals. But now Timoth Lord Snizzle and Sir PertiDax McFlurnmux would ride their own leas froin Lon- don to Newcastle, rather than be seen mounted upon a respectable donkey, in the centre of Hyde Park. There is this striking reason for a modification of the crude morality of the Son of God. Hle was born in a man- ger, a place that would, of course, preclude him from estab- lisbing rules for the government of- those who consider poverty highly reprehensible. His circumstances or his inclinations were such, that he neither rejoiced in purple and fihe linen, or indulged in the pleasures of the table. There is a marked contrast between his humble career and the dashing life of the English nobilitv. There is a manifold propriety in the fi-ee indulgence by the hitter in extrava- gance and folly, else bow couldthey create a sensation, D Ot having a sufficient amount, of brains wherewithal to do so. Their only chance of Winning celebrity, is by expanding with liberal hands the money which is, moistened by the tears of the poor-tears that are entitled to no sympathy, from the aristocracy, because they do not shed them! But seriously-no thoughtful mind can fail to observe, the zeal with which the nobility and politicians of EnLyland seek to withdraw public condemnation from their own poli- tical and social organization, by concentrating it upon the peculiar institution of the southern states. Leaving the tyranny unrebuked, which has debased the spirit, and broken the constitutions of their lower classes, they assail the Americans with a vindictiveness which is only equalled by its unblushing effrontery. Overlooking the ab-   PREFACE,             Vii salute control of the Czar of Russia over life and death through the terrible agency of the halter the knout, and the snows of Siberia they launch their curses aaa'nst those who are ied totem by the bonds of a com munism, of language, of interest, and of blood. What is the motive for this energetic and persevering cru- sade against a people who, so far from having wronged them, are furnishing cotton for their manufactor'    employment for their laborers, food for their starving population, and homes for those who are driven by famine from their native land Recognizing with apparent sincerity the existence of those ties which trade and commerce would rivet more closely every succeeding year but for an impertinent interference in the domestic affairs of the great republic, why is it that they assail their transatlantic brethren with the combined power of money and abuse? The motive is indubitable. They have ever' thing to gain and nothing to lose from the example of Russia, and every. thing, to lose and nothing to gain from the example of the United States.  The principles upon which th 'e constitution of the niodel re ublic is based are not confined to the west. ern continent. They are wielding a silent but irresistible influence u'on the masses of the old world who are awaken. ing to the grand idea that absolute power is vested in Ihe people alone. To save their rotten institutions from crunfib- ling beneath the tread of the Goddess of Liberty, her great exemplar must be destroyed. Therefore, they leave their own hemisphere to labor be. Heath a load of oppression which cries aloud for v -ei4*ce, while they cross the ocean in search of objects 'upon-'Whom they can expend their sympathies, and shed the- tears of com. miseration. Abolition agents are sent forth,' money is ex. ended, the press of London groans under the weight of misrepresentation and calumny, and the pulpit and the forum swarm with Pharisees who thank God because they are not like other men. To cap the climax of absurdity, the most     illustrious of England's Aristocracy, and the favorite of her Queen, indulges herself in the agreeable pastime of chaper- oning a negress! The patience of a long-suffering people is exhausted. There is a point beyond which detraction cannot go unre. buked. There is a period of time when the assailed will turn upon their foes. That point of time is the present, and by the powerful aid of facts, the author has, in the following pages, exposed the monstrous iniquities which are hourly perpetrated by the slavery-hating government and aristocra- cy of Great Britain; and with the trenchant blade of truth has assailed cant and hypocrisy, where they seek to entrench th'Vselves behind Pharisaical protestations, a false religion, and a disreputable philanthropy. New York, January, 1854.   ENGLISH SERFI)OM AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. CHAPTER 1.        A "Behind the master walks, builds up the shocks."-THOMSoN. THE threatening cloud that had been gathering its forces in the west, urged the already wearied laborers to renewed exertions. Shocks of wheat thickly studded the field, but there yet remained upon the earth long rows of gavels ready to be bound into sheaves. The young farmer cast frequent and anxious glances to the dark mass that rose like a moving wall, and then, by his voice and example, stimulated his companion to increased activity. But the relentless storm heeded not his imploring countenance. It hurtled onward, and vivid flashes of lightning gleamed along the base of the cloud and darted into the blue ether above, followed by quick, sharp peals of thunder -that increased in violence as they rolled away until the last report shook the earth. Turning his eyes upward to the summit of the cloud, his vision ranged along the broad belt of whirling vapor, until it rested at the point where the dark mass swept along the ground. There his gaze was riveted, and a look of awe overspread his features. Through the mist that partly shaded the body of the cloud, he saw that the storm was raging furiously. Here and there a tree was twisted off, and the roof of a cottage upon a neighboring hill was carried away. He looked toward his own humble dwelling-the chimney was thrown down. Folding his arms, while his teeth set in despair, he saw the advance guard of the storm sweep up the ascent, her- alded by large drops of rain. As it reached the wheat-field, it made a swoop, and those shocks that had been reared with so much labor were scattered over the earth. The next moment the rain descended in torrents. "Begorra! Misther Christie, thaive lift divil of a shock standin' at all at all." Christie Kane turned gloomily away, and without seeking shelter from the storm, walked slowly out of the field. "No wonder the lad takes it to heart, for we've tried hard enough to dry this batch of whate, and now, be me sowl, we must be afther spreadin' it all oot again. Never mind, we poor divils have only got to work all the time; that's some comfort ony how, So here goes for a dry skin, and a thatch that don't lake." Saying which, Phelim Savor rapidly proceeded towards the house, dividing his thoughts between the rain that beat through his tattered hat, and the song that had pleased him so much at the last 2   10-         ENGLISH SERFDOM wake, short snatches of which burst from his lips between the peals of thunder. Be the holy St. Pathrick but the rain, bad luck to it, finds -1-----alc"r"iv'icesinthiscoat. Neverml'ndifitlakesnowitisairy in dr weather, that's sorne'satisfaction, any how. 'They. walked, And talked. He tormented. First she sighed, Then consented To be hirs bride.' Ni'ver a dry Tacr Will Phalim. Savor have upon his back in the matter of ten minutes." 'He tormented. First she sighed, Then consented- "Arrab that's the" way wid the darlings To be his bride,-' "Whoop, wan't that. a smasher! The father of the blacks fraternity 'is forging' s6me big thunder to-day, onyhow- ' Then consented.' Suzy Gowrie, what dul ye think of this," said Phelim, as he entered the house. "It's a braw storm, ee'n for the heelands. But where is Mr,. Christie 1" "He's offended bekase the wind blowed over the, whate." It did not show mickle eaft -in its course, -sure enough." Nivir mind complaining , Suzy. It's the duty of the lab'rer to work all the time. Don't the praists tell us that we must be satisfied wid our condition, and if the nobility hiv it all their own way'in thia world, that, perhaps, we shall be as happy as thim, in the nixt?" I don't think it right for half of the human family to work for the other half.; and you know I don'tt" '.'Be, azy now, Miss Gowrie darlint,- don't git- on that subject untwi-I you have somethingfor -me to ate. That's a jewell of a gal ; cold parties and brea& Now, let- me ray-son the matter wid you. Do you suppme the ilobility and'gintry would like to come out of their iligant houses, into the hot fields and bind up the shares of whate Hoot! what a q- tiestion Well, of cDorse you will say 'no. An' why should they? Wouldn't the sun scorch their- white skin I and wouldn't the rough grain, and the thristles,- too, hurt their delicate hands? Isn't it azier. for us, who are accustomed to such hardships, to labor for thiin, than, for such gintlefolks to work for , themselves 1 Come Dow, Suzy, ba einerou, an' admit it.',' "And because we have been'their slaves, shall we alwaysbe so 1 Oin't we all flesh and blood 1 If we receive a blow, do we not feel 1 If we are cut, do we not bleed? If we are hungry, do we   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. not want food  If we cease to breather do we not die  Hoot mon, you deserve to be a slave!" And Susan Cowrie proceeded' about her work with great im- Petuosity. "There yow go now, Suzy, there's no reason in, a fiymale, anyhow. Now see here, Suzy, suppose you was Ellen Knowles, would it ba the likes of yez that would be played -to scrub the kitchen, and stan' all day fernenst the fire?" Suzan Gowrie deigned no other reply sive the indignation that flashed from her eyes. "ffavn"t they boen towld from their infancy that thev hiv, a dervine right to our services; that we are to work while they are not to do a haperth, and when 'they hiv such expectations, shall we ba after baing so mane as to chaste thim, out of, their blissed rights The blue veins were swollen upon Susan's forRhead, and she re- lied with great energy. "An' we, every mother's chiel of us, must suffer hunger, disease, afid death, to gratify the lazy aristocracy! We must toil and sweat from morning till night to mini's't'er to their wihims.- W6 must broil over the fire, or beneath the scorching sun, while they roll in their carriages, or recline upon - their couches! Phelim Savor, you are a fool!"  - A merry twinkle appeared in Phelim's eyes, during the nervous retort of the girl, but the reply that rose to his lips was checked by the entrance of Christie Kane,whose dripping garment -s bore eV idence of the severity of the storm. Passing through the kitchen, he entered the humble sitting-room, and throwing -himself into a chair, reclined his head upon his hand. In the damps again, are ye?" exclaimed the harsh voice of a female'. The young man remained silent. Christie Kane! am -I always to see you, gloomy and discon- tented  Ever to look upon a frowning brow, and- bear nothing but complaints!" continued the woman, querulously. Still he deigned no Deeply. "Come,'come, Christie," she said more kindly; do not look so disconsolate; your cousin Ellen is In the other room." momentary smile crossed the features of the'youn man, and y                   9 then they assumed once more an expression o deep gloom. "Mother, my patience is entirely exhausted "Pooh! child; compare your situation with that of your neigh- bors : is it not far better" No! look at tho condition of the upper classes, from the Duke of Sunderland to Sir William Belthoven: what oequpation - have they but to spend-often in wanton extravagance-the money which is earned by toil and suffiering!" "Yos, but see how many there are who are not so fortunate as ourselves. Look at the, poor'families in our parish. - They can hardly obtaiasu'fficient food to keep- them from -starvation." Aye, that is the result of the accursed - political System which a griWing the lowerclasses--,-the substratum  "nto the d U# Z     It         ENGLISH SERFDOM "What would you do '?" "Do! I would equalize the condition of the people; educate and elevate the masses; abolish the hunting-grounds and parks of the nobility, and surrender them to the plough; reduce the sala. ries of corrupt public officers; curtail the benefices of avaricious clergy'; and abolish the standing army by rendering its existence unnecessary, when the government is sustained by,/the affection-of the nation. Do? I would apply the knife of reform to the social regulations and laws of England!" The door was opened, and a girl glided into the room. She had numbered eighteen years, and her form was round and well-devel- oped. Her eyes were blue,-and of a strange expression. While the glance of Christie Kane was directed towards her they were demurely turned to the floor, but no sooner was his look withdrawn, than a cunning look gleamed from the sidelong glances of her eyes. The features of the young man softened as she seated herself in the chair just vacated by Mrs. Kane. "Ellen, it was kind of you to come over when the sky looked so threatening. I am glad to see you. Did you get here before the rain commenced falling?" "A -few minutes," replied the sweet voice of Ellen Knowles, as her hand rested upon that portion of the chair nearest to Christie Kane. "What a beautiful hand, Ellen," he said, softly, as he placed the point of his fingers upon it. As he raised his eyes to her own, the cunning side-long' glance was withdrawn. He started to his feet, and turned towards the door. "You will not encounter the storm again, will you, cousin Chris- tie? The water is still dripping from your coat," said Ellen's gen- tle voice. "The rain is over," he replied gruffly, as he stood in the door- way. "Have I offended you, Christie?" inquired the maiden, as a tear gathered in her mild blue eyes. ," Oh, no, Ellen; you could not," said the young man, as he turned frankly toward her. "Come, will you not walk with me? ; See how the drops of rain glisten upon the trees. I will show you what sad havoc the storm has committed in my wheat field." --  -Excuse me, Christie; I fear the damp earth." "Good-bye, then, Ellen." "Good-bye," replied the gentle voice. "She is a strange girl, and I am half afraid of her," muttered Christie Kane, as he emerged from the house. "Why is mother so anxious for me to marry her!" The storm was raging still far to the east, but the west presented an unclouded sky. Directing his steps down the lane, Christie en- tered the high road crossing the small stream, which was swollen by the rain. He was proceeding slowly through the forest that spanned the valley, when his steps were arrested by a carriage which lay in the middle of the road with one of the axle-trees bro-   ANI AMERICAN SLAVERY.            Is kIen, and a wheel lying upon the ground. Looking around to see what caused the accident, his eyes rested upon the form of a young lady, who was standing beneath the bending trunk of a large oak, which had sheltered her from the storm. The maiden gazed half terrified at the young man, but observing his look of opens and re- spectful admiration, the warm blood returned to the cheek from whence alarm had banished it; so truly can the gentler sex inter- pret the impression which their loveliness has produced. Christie advanced, and with innate courtesy raised his hat. "Will you suffer me, madame, to inquire the cause of your mis- fortune?" "A defective axletree ;" and the young man thoughtltlfs- voice exceedingly musical.                .... "Will you allow me to tender my services?" "They will hardly be required. My companion has been absent at least. half an hour, for another carriage." "But I shall consider it a great favor if you will permit me to bring a conveyance. I am certain you will take cold, if you re- main long exposed to this damp atmosphere ;" said Christie1 plead- ingly. A smile wreathed the lips of the young lady at the earnestness of the stranger. After hesitating a moment, she replied, "Very well, if you return first, perhaps--" Christie did not wait to hear the conclusion of the sentence, but with a gratified look, proceeded rapidly towards the cottage. By the exertions of Mr. Savor, the dapple grey was soon har- nessed to the plain gig, and having changed his hat, coat, and boots, and donned a smart pair of gloves, Christie Kane, with a flushed countenance, drove rapidly away. "Why didn't he 'ask me to ride, as well as walk?" exclaimed Ellen, sulkily. "I can't tell what has come over the child. He has changed for the worse lately. Formerly he was so gentle and obedient- and now he is'morose and abstracted ;" replied Mrs. Kane. "Would yez belave it," said Phelim; "he grumbles bekase the likes of us hiv to support the nobility. He niver wonst remimbers that whilst we do that same, we live ourselves; whin the poor divils who are starvin' hiv no support at all -at all. But even they hiv the satisfaction of swelling the population of this mighty koontry, though by the holy St. Pathrick its little their amaciated figgers can swell it, onyhow. What's your opinion, Suzy "  Susan's only reply was a look of mingled pity and contempt. As young Kane arrived at the spot where he had left the lady, he observed an equipage approach from the opposite direction, from which a young gentleman descended, and offering his arm to the maiden, observed: "I hope you have been put to no inconvenience by my long- absence." "And if I have not, it surely, cannot be because sufficient time has not elapsed since your departure," she replied, tartly. "I do not deserve that sarcasm," he said, reproachfully; "I made all possible haste. But come, do not delay any longer." ,      "         ENGLISH SERFDOM I shall ride in, this conveyance," and the inaiden appro.-wached Christie's vehicle, disclosing as she did so, the most bewitching little foot and'ankle, encased in the most bewitching little boot that ever caused a thrill- in-Ahe hearts of, the sterner sex. Christie sprang from the.-aig,'and dethrentially tendered his hand to aidher ascent, but1iienially pronouncing a malediction att'he folly which prompted him to Wear, a glove upon his right hand, thereby de- priving himself-voluntarily depriving himself of the pleasure which a touch of the taper fingers of her ungloved hand would, produce.' "Thank you," said'the musical voice; and she adjusted her dress swas to make room for Christie Kane by her'side. And now, Melville, let us see who wiWreach home first." The person whomshe addressed as Melville, stood with folded arms, and frowning brow. Ha! ha! ha!",rang forth the merriest laugh Christie had ever heard.  Come, take the reins," she exclaimed  I dare you to the trial Ing at yo' ng Kane, the stranger sprang into his gig, and wheelin.- hAds horse's head, dashed furiously onward. Thou art a craven," said the merry girl  but you may have the ad Y-I..-Aage of the' start.' May I test the speed of your horse 1" she asked, turning to Christie. To +.'.-,e death replied the young man, to whom she had im- -parted her own enthusiasm. "Th,1,.n let me take the whip and reins. Stay, change sides- there, that will do. Now forward, my gallant steed," and the lash fe!! Jiahtly Upon him. The horse had observed with impatience the departure of the other steed, and now, as he felt the, touch of th'e whip, he darted eagerly onward. Sobo! a spirited fellow," said the -damsel, as with form thrown J;ack, she guided the course of the flying animal. Several times she avoided a collision with-,the trees, as they rapidly crossed the valle but now they began to mount the ascent that led from the river. Thus far, the leading borsehad gained a:little upon the other, and the distance between them perceptibly increased before they reached the summit of the hill. Christie watched& the two as though life and death depended upon the result. GentIv, my noble fellow; you have weight against you. Gently, ho! we shall soon be at the summit. There, now! The horse advanced -at tremendous rate of speed, as she gave him the reins, And it was soon apparent that he was the fastest horse of the two., - The road now led down a gentle descent, and then stretched out across a-broakle-v'el, plain. Untie my hat strain's " she said. The hat had fallen back upon her shoulders. Christie's trem- bl ,ing hand approached her ivory neck, and he made several in- effectual attempts to untie the, ribbon. 6 6Wbat a blunderer!" she exclaimed, pettishly,.  There, now, make haste;" andahe turned 'her flushed countenance towards his   own. With a desperate effort hesuccee'ded, and as the hat was removed, a large mass of dark brown hair fell down her back. !"Did ever any one see such a bungler I You have made 'me lose at least ten feet by your awkwardness." - -The horse bounded Irlorward under the application of the whip. As they swept by each field, the Ja6orers turned th  wondering eyes to the road, and twice men were seen advancing rapidly,to arrest what they supposed were runaway horses. Christie's horse was not more than ten yards behind the 'other, and was fast gaining upon him, when the latter diverg6d from the road, and enteredthe private carriage-way leading' through the grounds and up to the castle of the Earl of - Rossmore. To his astonishment, the young lady also drove through the gate, narrowly missing one of the posts, as the, horse' swerved to one side. For heaven's sake, madam, are you not aware thatthese are' private grounds?" he. observed,. anxiously. She deigned no reply. Her attention was entirely absorbed by the race ; and her triumph was now at hand. The head of her horse lapped the wheel of Mel- Ville's ig. Twice she requested him to yield part of the narrow 9 way, but he obdurately kept the centre of the road. They now emerged from the grove and swept along the open space in'-front Of the. castle. Its inmates collected upon tire ortico, as if surprised at the unwanted intrusion upon the groun s. The panting and struggling horses were approaching a small sheet of water that B read out directly in frotit of the castle. Along its border, and elevated three feet above it, ran the road. Each driver was aware that now was the moment for the finai struggle. "Will you yield part of the road?" exclaimed th e maiden. He did not diverge a hair's breadth from his course, Then take the consequence    She wheeled her horse out up- on the greensward. A loud cheer was heard. Casting, his eyes toward tire -castle, Christie saw the waving of hats and handker- chiefs. He bad no time ftir contemplation. They st6adily drew forward-she turned the head of her steed and crowded the other toward the lake. 'He was forced nearer and nearer, until one wheel rolle-d over the bank, and Melville was precipitated headforerno'st into the water. The gig, relieved of its load, bounded upon the bank again, and the horse ran towards the lower end of the park. Christie anxiously gazed after the form of Melville, but seeing him ascend the bank unharmed, once more addressed the maiden. "You have triumphed; let us now leave these gAnds: we may seriously offend the owner.' The I a-ughinj girl heeded him not, but with unabated speed drove in the direction ofthe goodly company who were cheering and waving Weir hats and handkerchiefs from the portico. Chr stie's lance turned from them to his companion, and then back agaiti. 9 Why, Kate, mad girl! what prank have you been playing now said the cheerful voice of Lord Rossinore, as shd'sprang from the vehicle into his arms. Only teaching, Melville that he is -but an indifferent whip,- not- withstanding all his boasting. See what a sorry finxe ho,cuts. Come this way this way my Lord Melville."     ENGLISH SERFDOM But he took his' dripping garments around an angle of the castle, without confront ' the merry party 'A right'noble horse, papa ;" said Katharine Montague, caressing the head of the panting steed. And swift o foot," replied the Earl.  Will you sell bim!" he continued'i4d resting Christie Kane, who sat in blushing silence. I should be loath to part with Surrey, my lord." Where did you pick up your country beau, Kate?" inquired the Countess of Rossmore. The blood rushed to Christie's face. You are wrong, Ma'ma ; he picked me up :",replied the maiden, quickly  and what is more, enabled me to achieve a triumph over the vain Lord Melville. Let this be a slight token of the gratifica- tion which that triumph has given me and sh6 took the rose that rested upon her bosom, andplaced it in the band of Christie Kane. He returned his thanks, andraiSiDghis bat, bowed to the company ; then picking up the reins- proceeded slowly homeward. He started as if an adder had--stung him, as a masculine voice observed, "A well-behaved fellow, for a plebeian, and a clodpole.1' "Such are the distinctions of societyy" he muttered gloomily, an the laughter died away that had recorded the unfeeling-jest. CHAP'rER JI. On wan, as ran retfdDill,& Vet However debased, andsolle, anh dint, The crown upon )As foreheaA set- The immortal gift of God to him."- ff'hiltier. ITwill be necessary, to give the reader a more formal introduc- tion to our characters than was obtained in the last chapter. This we will. now proceed briefly to do. Katharibe Montague was the only child of Lord and the Countess of Rossniore. With a small circle of friends they were passing a few weeks at the castle of Montage. Lord Melville and his parents, the Duke and Duchess of Sunderland, with their guests, were also tarrying 'at their coun- try-seat upon the adjoining estate. Christie Kane was a tenaDt of the Duke of Sumderland,and Ellen Knowles was the grand-daugh- ter of a noble dulie, her mother having hoped with, and married, a young ensign, who afterwards rose to the rank of a colonel. Mrs.' Ka ne, the sister ot'Colonel Knowles, had married more humbly, and since the death of ler husband, had barely escaped from the horror of *ant. Robert KaDe, Christie's brother, had been in London several vears. and only paid brief visits to the paternal roof as a temporaryrelief from severe toil. The character of each -will be delineated during the progress of the story. . Upon the morning of tire day succeeding the events recorded in the first chapter, Lady 1ossmore was i seated in the elegant draw- ing-room of the castle. entertaining the Duchess of Sunderland and her son. --'Lord Melville was JOUDgin'g upon a sort, eastiag occa- A',   ANID -AMERICAN SLAVERY. isional, glances towards the door. If he expected Katharine Mon- tague to enter, he was disappointed, for she was at -that moment a pile from the castle, upon the back of a spirited horse. it Are you troubled with complaints and excuses from your ten- ants?" "Inquired the Countess-of Rossmore, as shea4juste'd herself more comfortably in the large armchair. "Constantly. One would really suppose the lazy creatures had nothing else to dobut to annoy their masters. And they are so importuAateltoo. You m'dstlistentotheentirecatalogueoftheir grievances, from' the failure of the crops to,'the death of the only horse. It was only this morning that a brazerr-faced woman per- sisted in forcing her way into my presence, and nearly crazed' me with her volubility. Her husband had deceased, the rot had-de. strayed their potatoes, the storm had blown down their chimney, and, to come to the point of 'the whole story, they could not pay the'rent, and she begged me to direct the steward not to turn her out upon the I wide, wide world,' to use her own expression." "And what reply did you make, my- lady niother'c" a-5ked Mel- ville, as he lanouidly Taised- his head from his hand. O1 I said the steward had informed me that I must expect such applications frequently," replied the Duchess; "but that I should pay no'attention whatever to them. He further remarked, if I be- lieved one half the tales of suffering that were poured into my ears by weeping mothers and distracted daughters, every moment of my tirne would be occupied." Well, what said the woman?9' She assumed a threatening aspect, and half wildly exclaimed, 'have a care, madam, how you treat my request. I may have it in my power to humble your pride.' - I called the waiter, and di- rected him to remove the disagreeable person. She erected- h6r form to its fall height, while her eyes flashed fire, as I pointed to the door. My nerves were very much shaken, very much shaken- indeed, at the rudeness of the horrid creature." What was hernarne? she shall be'taught to respect our posi.., tion," said Lord Melville. "I did not take - the trouble to recollect it. Some common name, I believe; the steward can tell you ; Keen orKine, perhaps." b Was it not Kane?" inquired Melville, eageriy, as he started- to his feet. "Yes, that was it. But what -possible in'terest',can yon take in' such. vulgar affairs?" "More than you suppose," muttered the young nobleman as be left the room., In a few moments Katharine Montague entered the drawing room, and addressing her salutations to the visitor, seated herself at an em- broidery ftame. - "What have we to do with their hardships?" said the Duchess. They were, born upon our soil, and are sheltered by our roofs we ave claims upon their services instead of being under obliga- tions to them." KithariDe Montaeue divined at once the subject of conversation, oind 6bsorv6d- wh'Iew demure expression sat upon hier couut6nin'de Ae,     ENGLISH SERFDOM If they hesitate to pay the last farthing, even if it does reduce them to the, verge of starvation, it is only exhibiting a proper der gree of (Yratitude and respect for those who are the accidental own- ers of the soil." "Very trae; I am glad to see you have a just appreciation of our prerogativ'es. There is nothing more important, iny dear Coun- tess, than to apprise'the youna, nobility of the exact scope of their prerogatives." "' And is it not quite as essential to teach the substratum that' their duties consist of unceasing toil and suTerin(r 1" inquired Ka't'h- arine Montague, whose eyes were bent upon her embroidery. "You are right, my young friend," said the Duchess  there id nothing like commencing a thorough training early.1) , M              O     0 "And it is quite as important to continue it. There should be no relaxation-no moment of ease-when the toiling millions can raise their heads and w1pe' the sweat from their aching brows," observed Katharine Montague. Precisely so. There is probably no class of selfs so Admira- bly drilled as the Encrlish. They yield a. princely revenue to the nobility and clergy. in Theyenable us to indulge in costly excur- sions abroad, and to gratify our taste by the most lavish expen4i- tures at home. We have no trouble in watching over them, except to enforce the payment of rents. It makes not the slightest differ- ence to us whether they are sick or well. They pay their own doctors' bills, and if their crops are blighted, they must resort to ,the most pinching economy, for the 'rent must -be paid. If long continued suffering or the whispering of demagogues make them restlessly the authorities have only to swear in an additional number of constables, and they are reduced to submission. I really cad conceive of no condition of societymore charming," and the Duch- ess flourished her ivory fan with the greatest satisfaction. "And the beauty of the whole system," said Katharine Monta- gue, while a covert meaning played upon her lips," consists in its justice and fai"      We receive, the fruits of their labor', but do we not cause them to be respected by other nations I They Tour the money earned by days of exhaustion, an nights of anxiety into our laps,- but do we not arouse the envy of a less fortunate aris- tocracy. If their own honor and that of England is assailed, do we not evince a disposition to redress it, even to the extent 'of em- ploying a press-gang to d       their helpless families ; and rather than permit the in        avenged, and the stain to remain u on our fia-a. do we not wash it out with their own blood!" "Xite, my darling, where'did you obtain so just an appreciation of the rights and duties of the English aristocracy!" said the Duchess enthusiastically. I think any person of ordinary discrimination cannot fail to ob- serve them. The substratum display great ingenuity in adapting themselves to this 'condition. They bestow vast wealth upon the clergy, but how are they repaid? By being permitted to stare with open-mouthed gratification at splendid churches, gorgeous robes, and magnificent equipages. Tfiey shower untold sums upon the nobility, and how do we reward them  They are allowed to gaze   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. a:t processions, crowd around the ball-room, opera-house,, or private dwelling, wondering how much their own money can adorn man- hood and beauty, and -thank us for generously permitting them to- take note of the'magnificence with which we lavish their-gifts." "It never occurred to me that there could be a system in our exhibitions of splendor," said the Duchess of Sunderland. at Really, my dear madam, you mu'st allow me to think you are too modest. It occurs to me that nothing could be more pialpabl&- than the effect which pomp and splendor are designed to produce upon the vulgar. Do you suppose if the formed aristocracy of Eng- land should be clothed in the humble garb of the laborer, and suf- fer the sun's heat to brown their complexions and the rude contact of implements of husbandry to crack and soil their hands, that they could for forty-eighi hours overawe and control the peasantry of the British Empire? No! it i's the result of no ordinary forethought and sagacity, this wringing its faults from the hand of labor with the design of ostentatiously displaying it for the purpose of dazzling the giver, thus creating a necessity for still further contributions to be. expended in the same manner. And the poor creatures manage by some sort of a mental process to blend our extravagance with their own celebrity." "Well, that is a fortunate circumstance," said Lady Rossmore, for it makes them contented with a social position that-that-" That none but the substratum are desirous of occupying, in- terposed, Katharine Montague.  They ought to be satisfied with the privileges, which, in our gracious condescension, we have deigned to confer upon them," continued the young lady, while the' slightest possible approach to a sarcastic smile phLyed about the corners of her mouth. "Are they not allowed to furnish us with food I Do they not construct our railroads, and pave our streets ' 1 Are they not suffered to bring to our shores the luxuries and neces series of life  leave they not our full, I may say unqualified per- mission to perform the most menial offices 1 Are they not allowed to fight. our battles, and to bear the cross of St. George iii triumph upon the bosom of every sea 1 And as a climax to our generosity, do we not make their laws and relieve them from the troubliD of governing themselves! Nay, suffer them to throw up their hats and cheer, while we pass, without even permitting a look of dis- pleasure to cross our features at such familiarity?" I Katharine Montague worked with increased diligence while she gave utterance to these opinions. It was evident that her'lady mother listened with a feeling of intense pride to what she conel'-p dered-.the wisdom of her daughter. "-But how do 'you account for the fact, that the aristocracy of! England, although occupying different social positions, all unite in defending the system Easily. It is because, there is no one so hurpble but that he can point to an inferior. The Duke can dot'his hat to royalty be- cause the Earl must yield him precedence. The Earl can,'give up the post of bonor to the Duke, because the Baron must recede at his approach, even if by doing so he treads upon- -thb knightly toes of the Baronet, and so, on . through all the gradlations of society,.     20          ENGLISH SERFDOM until you come to the substratum upon whose -.9houlders- rests the vast fabric of British despotism." The last words were uttered by Katharine Montague with energy, and as she concluded, putting aside the embroidery frame, she withdrew. The day succeeding the storm the weather was changeable. The'sun emerged from the clouds at short intervals, and then the-- sky became again overcast, and the rain descended. Christie Kane watched the heavens with the greatest anxiety, for his wheat lay scattered upon the ground. It bad already been exposed to one storm since the reaper had performed his task; and he was fearful that before it was ready for the stack it would become mouldy. He was more than usually alarine'd, Pecause he not only depended upon it for bread, but with it he expected to lessen somewhat his liabilities f6r rent. It was, then, with an anxious e' e that be saw' evening approach before the sun broke through the clouds. Jt was too late then to accomplish anything, and he was slowly proceed- ing towards the cottigre, when- he beard the sound of horses' feet rapiAy approaching. Turning his bead be saw- a party of ladies and gentlemen riding up the road, and a momentaTythrill of plea- sure was produced as he saw Katharine Montague among them. He was in the act, of raising his hat as she passed, but h,6r eyes rested upon him mechanically for a moment. as upon person she had never seen before, and were then withdrawn. "Of course she will not deign to recognize me, fool that I was to think so," exclaimed the youth b utterlyy. "Yonder is Lady Katharine's gallant," exclaimed Lord Mel- ville, tauntingly, as the rearof the party were riding past. Half- a-dozen persons looked in the direction that he pointed, and then a peal-of laughter rang upon the air. A momentary pang shot to the heart of the poor fellow, and the n he bore himself bravely up in the strength of innate nobleness, and conscious rectitude, He m6t'his mother at the gate.; Well, Christie, I went to see the Duchess for the purpose of getting the time extended for the paym ent of the rent." A flasb of displeasure shot across the, features of her son. Mother, how coald you so degrade us Hoot, boy! Degraddus, indeQd! What have the poor to say against degradation. Where is the money to pay the rent? What is to keep us from the highway even now  Potatoes destroyed, and with a fair prospect of the entire loss of the wheat, methinks you have little to do with pride, unless you expect to carry your aspirations to a ready market. Degradation, forsooth!" Christie turned gloomily away. "Well, she heeded your prayers did -she not?" "By the foul fiends, no  With a haughty languor she replied that her steward had informed her she might expect frequent ap- plications of the kind. She could not, she really could not think of troubling herself about such vulgar matters  May heaven de- sort me, if she shall not repent, aye bitterly repent, her insolence." I   AND AMERIOAN SLAVERY. Ha! ha ha! Well repaid, my gracious mother, for your con- descension." Have a care, sir, how you are wanting in respect, said Mrs. Kane, fiercely. lt is useless for you to attempt to treat me as a child, mother. And while I am upon that subject, let me say once for all, that your tyrannical conduct towards me since I was an infant--the marked contrast in your bearing towards me and 'Robert-has iven you small claim upon my gratitude and affection. I am a 9 man now, and will no longer be treated as a child!" The' air of calm determination with which this was announced, overawed Mrs. Kane for a moment, but her form.- trembled with rage as her son entered the house., The pensive eyes of Ellen' Knowles met his, a6'Christie Kane seated Himself upon the old fashioned sofa. The subdued bearing of ihe maiden contrasted so strongly with the harsh demeanor of his mother, that the irritated f6elings - of the young man were soothed. Cousin Christie, I sympathize with you sincerely in your rais- fortunes." 4' You are a good girl, Ellen, and I am grateful for your kind- ness.-#) Why do you not compare your condition with that 'of others!" I do." But you compare it with the fate of those who are more boun- tifully supplied with this world's goods than yourself.` "It is natural to do so." "Nay, 6ut Christie is it wise V said Ellen hesitatingly. Perhaps not." I was glancing at the paper while waiting for you to return; 'that is, I was reading it, having nothing else to do," sta miniere-d Ellen, confusedly-.' "I understand; well?" And it gives the most terrible*scription of the suffering of the peasantry upon the western portion of the Duke's estate." "And the next column describes the brilliant ball given- -by. the Duchess at his country seat, wh 'ere the strains, of music blended, as they floated away, with'the wailing of despair i" It does," said the maiden sadly- I thought so. Ellen looked at him with tearful eyes. Their glances met. "Come, Nell, I will gratify, your pitying impulses by 'listening to those tale's of sufferiDg. '. Read, Nell." With a grateful look the damsel read extracts from"the report made by COMM ,ssioners appointed by the English Parliament to, I'll- quire into the condition of the hand-loom weaveTS.* One, witness called, before the commission, said- Children of 'seven years old can begin toiturn the wheel to a in *The quotations are taken from a Yeport which war actually made to the British -Parliameut in 18402 and can. be found copied -into' a speech- ado Hon. Charlbs Hudson (a member of Congress from -XaaaudhuseW     ENGLISa SERFDOM '22 flax, which is very hard work, and they're kept at work from five in the morning till nine at night. I might enumerate the number of weak and crooked-leaged children in towns-an evil that is at- triblitable to this sort of wor A manufacturer testifies that- Their dwellings, their clothing and that of their children, evince great misery. There is often great distress among them, They are generally sober, industrious, steady men; but, with the best in- tentiQns, at the present wades, thOy cannot get a living. Many of the weavers are obliged to apply to the parish forassistance.' Mr. Otway, the commissioner who examined into the condition of the weavers in Ireland, says: "The cabins that the weavers live and work in are fearful speci- mens of what habit will enable human beings 'to endure. The weavers are obliged to pay as hiorh rent for these dens as they ought to get comfortable cabins for. Nothing can equal the distress of the poor cotton weavers. I never witnessed greater misery than in their cabins an& mode of living, The houses of some of the lower lasses of weavers are in thd most wretched state, with only a littl straw- and a coverlet for a bed; plenty of children, but sear  a chair to sit down upon. Erasm'tis (D.,harlton, a police. sergeant, testifies Sometimes he has had occasion to search the houses of some of the weavers on suspicion of stealth yarn, and had witnessed very distressing cases-children crying for food, and the parent having neither food nor money in the house, nor work td obtain any, Another witness says: A poor weaver came last 8,unday to my house, an*d stated he had had a, poor Sunday, not having a potatoes. or even a bit of bread, in his house. The'weaver had a wife near confinement and 'three children.' Another witness testifies that:- He has no doubt many of the weavers and their children, es- pecially young children, die from disease brought on by want of proper nourishment.' " Christie Kane moved uneasily in his chair. At that moment the merry laughter of the party of equestrians was heara,'and, as they cantered by the house, the yduncr man's brow was contracted into a heavy frown.  Others starve while they lanohP he muttered between his teeth. A sup' dressed sob escaped from the overcharges bosom of Ellen P Knowles. She- raised her kerchief to her eyes, and then asked Christie if she should continue,  Oh yes, let us scan the picture in all its details." Ellen continued-"- One of the weavers testified before the corn- mission as follows :-1" Question.' Have you any children P 'Answer.-No -. I had two, but they are both d ead, thanks be to God V I Que3tion.-Dak vou express satisfaction a1 the death of your children P   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             23 Answer.-I do. - I thank God for it. I am released from the burden of maintaining them ; and they, poor dear creatures, are released frorif the troubles of this mortal life.' "o)d! for God's salce! this is too frialitful! Accursed des- potism, that can perpetrate such horrors ; and abominable hypocri- sy, that affects great sanctity while it points at a4d condemns the faults of other systems," exclaimed Christie- Kane, as he abruptly left the cottage. The eyes of Ellen Knowles followed him ; but the whole expres- sion of her countenance had changed. Instead of s empathy, a look of triumph sat upon her features a's she soliloquize I have pricked your confidence in- the nobility, my aspiring cousin, while I have convinced you that persons in your-humble position ought to be grateful. If this fails to elicit a declaration of love, I must e'en try some other plan. Shall this inexperienced boy baulk one who 'boasts of her power to baffle and deceive 1 Nev- er!" and her pearly teeth pressed hernether lip as she vowed he should yet kneel humbly at her feet. CHAPTER Ill. "Ahl that deceit should steal such gentle shapes, And with virtuous viior bide deep vice 111-Shakspeare. CHRISTIE KANE: rose from his bed at an early hour the follow g morning, and eagerlyscanned the appearance of the heavens.  is spirits sank as he observed the searle't-tinte 'd' clouds gathering in the east. 'Slowly the sun mounted from the horizon and cast his ith a red, angry glare upon them e Ah, while occasionally a rays W                  ar hot breath of air came up'from the south. Kane looked anxiously over the field where his wheat lay, fast mouldering ti upon the satu- rated ground. The clouds heeded, not his imploring glance, but rallied their force until the whole firmament was overcast. Then the rain descended in torrents, and With an imprecation' forced from him in the excess of anguish, he turned moodily away. #,& Niver mind,- master Christie, the world owes us a living, for Sir Wm. Belthoven told the frayMen so, and said they mustn't make themselves cmasy or discontented no matter what Iniaht be their sufferings, forthey'd niver die ontail. their time come an' if they did, for the matter o' that, become a little pinched wid hunger, they must consider it a bountiful affliction of providence as a punishment for their transgressions." "And what response did the people make?" Why, yez say, the farmers who hiv provisions to sell cheered vahamently bakase they did hiv provisions to sell." But what said the Oay-Ubof&rsT' Why,'the ungrateful spalpeens tow1d him that was n44ghty poor consolation to a man wid an empty stomach ; and th6n the 1 farmers began to hustle them out; but Sir William,- wid one of his banivolent smiles, towild them not to molest the people, bekaze they     EING H SERFDOM had nothing to do wid the matter, as the parliament relieved thim from the trouble of voting; and said they were compensated far any little inconvenience they might suffer be manes of having noth- in toateitithemagnificentandsplendidgover'nmentthatwaspro- 9 vided fur them wid their own money. Which reasoning satisfied all parties, and they said- Sir William would make a jewel of a mim- ber." - "Fools! fools! thus to hug your chains," said Kane, passion- ately.                           f The storm now'raged, and Christie Kane saw the utter loss of b s crop, which he foresaw would be succeeded by civil proceed- ings, ejectment, and ruin. The brow of Mrs. Kane wore a deeper frown as they were seat- ed'at the difiner-table. "What think you now of my application to the Duchess of Sun- derland 1 Does your-pride still revolt at it? , Or does the appre- bension of adversity, -or rather absolute want, smooth down your self-esteem 1" "Whatever misfortunes destiny may have' in' store for me, I will never aoop to ask favors, of the oppressor. Fate Xnay , do her worst.17 We shall see-we shall see. Hunger is a conqueror of stub- born wills. But, Christie," she continued, in a milder voice, "Why do vou. not seek the hand of your cousin Ellen; I 'am cer- tain she loves you?" Do you think so, mother?" he replied, while a gleam of pleas- ure ht up his features. 1' There is not the slightest doubt of it. Besides, you will always be able to secure a competence through the influence of Colonel Knowles." '14 And become pensioner uponhis will," replied Cbristie.,sternly. 71 Did ever any one see such a suspicious and unmanageable boy. I am no longer a boy, and I will take my natural position among the thinking, resolute men of my time." "And bravely, no doubt, will a peasant succeed. Ha! ha! Without money, without friends, without a name. Go on, m' self- willed'ehild, and let us see how far you will ascend the ladder of fa m e "But, mother, renown bas been acquired by the humbly-born." said Christie, in a low, half-imploring voice. Yes by a few pam pered menials of the crown." No! 'DO! by some of the ablest and purest of philosophers, o-ra.,, tors, andstatesmen. - NewtoD, whose mind could not be controlled by the shackles of nature-Boyle, who dissected with the knife-of a master the organization of matter-Thurlow, the dispenser of equity, and the custodianIof the king's conscience (which I a s-sume to have been a very difficult task)-Locke, who laid bare the pro- cess of reasoning,and tire foundation and dovelopme t of human judgment-Erskine, whose magic eloquence swaye the senate and controlled the bench-Cromwell, glorious Cromwell, who con- v'inced a despotic king and a corrupt nobility that popular vengeance in sometimes terribly --appeased when Justice is outraged  and   AND    RICAN SLAVERY.           25 Washington, immortal Washington, who taught a rapacious mon- arch that an empire was the price-of unmerited rashness: all-all of those illustrious men carved their renown with their own hands, and in characters that time can neither- mutilate nor efface." Christie Kane spoke with the fire of enthusiasm, abd for a few moments his mother was startled by bis'language; and then she, remarked, with cutting irony. And, pray, is it' in the field of philosophy, eloquence, or war, that you intend to commence your career? Will you become a competitor of Newton in philosophy, of Locke in ratiocination, of Erskine in oratory, of -Cromwell in treason ; or does your patriot- ism prompt you to emulate the conduct of Washington by instigat- ing the Canadians to revolt, or, mayhap, to place yourself at the head of some tribe in Hindoostan, or of a few straggling cannibals in South Africa 2. If these enterprises are not su#1ciently lofty fok your ambition, you can mount Surry, and, placing Phelim astride the cow, for the want of a more showy animal, 6tart forth, Don Quixote like, in search of adventures." Mother,", said Christie with a forced laugh, "I am sure, -if you had been an acquaintance of Job's wife, you would have caused her to break one of the commandments.)' Why 1" Because she would have coveted your tongue for the purpose of putting the patience of her long-suffering husband to a final test." The conversation, which mas in danger of becoming personal, was interrupted by the entrance of Ellen Knowles, who extended her hand to Christie Kane. Her voice was -subdued, and the melt- ing eyes were cast to the floor, as if her bashfulness could not re- ,main unmoved in the presence c-f Christie. Elle'n, you are always welcome; I am. glad to see you." Thank you, Christie ; the assurance gives me much pleasure. I came to offer my sincere condolence upon the distressing condi- tion 'of -your agricultural affairs. - I fear your wheat crop will be destroyed ; is it so?" and'the maiden's voice trembled with anxiety. "Hopelessly."  it "And what will you do, Christie 1" "Do? that is difficult to tell ; only I shall preserve -my inde- pendence.11' 'Fau6!` exclaimed Mrs. Kane, with extreme disgust. "No, no, Aunty, you are wrong," said the mild voice"of Ellen. "You are always defending his absurdities. Io- your estimation Mr. Christie'Kane cannot err." "Oh, Aunty, why did you divulge-" "Never mind, cousin'Ellen,'she has only increasedthe high opinion I have'always entertained for you."- Th`e blushing cheek of the girl was shaded 'bI a mass of curlis as she turned her glance to- the window, but h, erTeatures wore an expression of-triumph which the young man did not observe. Come, Ellen, your presence has brought sunshine once more. Will you walk with me?" This time she did not refuse, and together they passed through     26          ENGLISH SERFDOM the garden and entered the little thatched roofed arbor that wais separated from the highway by a hedge. Ellen, you have man'ifes ekaa Interest in my affairs. I will confide-to you my hopes, for am certain of your sympathy."' She smiled, gratefully. I cannot pay the rent, and unless I greatly misunderstand the disposition of the Duke's steward, if not the Duke's son, I shall bb ejected from the house in which I was born." Ellen Knowles eagerly caughtat his words. What reason have you for supposing that Lord Melville will prove your enemy 4.9 It is needless -to explain them ; suffice it to save I cannot be mistaken." Again a gleam of triumph shot across the features of the girl, but was as qqickly succeeded by a look of solicitude, vyhich Chris- tie attributed to an-intense interest in his affairs. In the event of such disasters befalling you, what will you do  and the large, expressive blue eyes were fixed tearfully X;pon h'i s fa c. e. "-1 will leave England for ever." tile'n was visibly affected by this annunciation, and her cheeks rested upon her hands. But her mind was eagerly revolving the resultswhich must ensue from such a course. With the qui6knesis of thought she, foresaw it would aid her own views, but she had too much tact not to appear unhappy at the prospect of a -separa- ration. The tears trickled through her finders and a deepsigh es- caped her. Dear Ellen, does this intelligence give you pain Another, and a louder sob succeeded, but she did not speak, for she'linew that silence was more eloquent than words. Christie contemplated her well-formed head and blooming, form, and taking her soft white hand in his own he bent his head down until her glossy curls touched his cheek. His attention was attracted by the a'pproach of his mother' who stalked into the garden.' Perceiv- ing that the intrusion was untimely, she retrqped -her steps, but tile spell was broken, and Christie rose abruptly to his feet. Ellen Knowlesebit her lips, and a scowl of racre disfigured her brow, as they proceeded towards the house. The conversation between the aunt and niece was brief after they separated from Christie. "You are always thrusting yourself where you, are not wanted,)t said Ellen, with calm insolence. "-Indeed, Miss Malapert! and I should like to know what pros- pect you would hav6 for winning Christie's hand without my- as- sistance, eh!" On-Ahe country, your offensive and turbulent interference is the most formidAle obstacle I have to contend with. It is strange what a savarre beas you make of yourself." Mrs.'Kane seize Ellen by the arm, and bending a fierce glance upon her, exclaimed: "You are a deceitful, lying, hypocritical hussy, and can cloak the most intense meanness under an appearance of candor and gen-   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY fleness. Have a care, miss,or I will thwart your designs upon Christie." No you won't, because in doing so you will thwart your own, my precious Aunty. So good bye. No, youwill think better of it, because you can't, afford to thwart my designs upon Christie Kane, and you told a lie when you said so, dear Aunty. Just peep into the glass now, and see how beautifully you look when you froth so at' the mouth. , See bow much better my placid face ap- pears, especially when I smile. Good bye, Aunty ; you won't thwart my designs upon Christie, will you  Ha! ha! ha!" With a graceful courtesy she departed, leaving Mrs. Kane over- come with rage. Slowly the maiden proceeded homewards, revolving in her mind the most effectual plan to accomplish her desicrns,upon her cousin. It is strange how difficult it is to force-a declaration from'the obstinate fellow," she soliloquised, " and yet I am considered hand- some, and, thanks to my powers of deceit, as Mrs. Kane calls it, I am thought very agreeable. Others call me beautiful, for their eyes tell me so. And Lord. Melville, too, could not disguise his admiration. It is strange what an influence his lordship exercise$ over me since I was maonetised by him at Bath. I am certain there is a peculiar charm in being magnetized by a lord that a com- mon person cannot elicit. The sensation that stole through my I'mbs and crept along my arteries, waSI I am sure, more extatic than- if any one but a lord had produced the excitement. And then the dreamy delight which succeeded was more soothi - and pro- found. Most decidedly should I prefer being excited into the deli- cious state of magnetism by one of the nobility ; the pressure of whose fingers could produce such deli&ht as those of a lord? Who could, with such assurance, in'stil the myster-ious and rapturous bliss into my frame! But the reaction that succeeded! I attended -a concert the saine'evening, and when he entered the room, a cold shudder passed through my frame, which, without my seeing -him, warned me of his approach. I was obliged to leave the room, and during the' long night they were anxiously watching over my couch.' The restoratives produced a temporary relief, but it was ,only by several days of repose that I was -freed from the excess of animal magnetism with which my body was surcharges by the graceful Lord Melville. Mrs. Skewtonwas affected by his lord- ship in the same way. It is strange that her form is so easily ex- cited, for she is quite- thirty-four; a period of life when it is 'Sup- posed the nerves of the human form are not so easily influenced by contact, as at a more youthful age, especially. if, as in the -case of Mrs. Skewton, the female has given birth to three or four children, besides having been troubled for any number of years with 11tose complaints incident to our sex. Be that as it inia . Mrs. Skewton declared that she should never, she was certain 6be shou]4 not, be refievedfrom the overdose 'of magnetism which' Lord Melville con- descended to give her. And, her eyes did hav6 a languishing ap- pearance, and hek form did tremble as if it desired the sustaining Arm of his Lordship, notwithstanding she is upon the shady side of life, aud.-her fritrue has been tested in the manner-but here I am-     XNGLISH BBRFDOM talking to myself. Enough of Mrs. Skewton. I shall suffer Lord Melville to cultivate me, and perchance he can assist my 4 designs,' as Aunty calls them, upbn Yhester Kane." rhe, unscrupulous girl, with a sneering response to her mother's salutation, entered her room and banged to the door. Standing in front of the glass, she gazed with - sava4e delight upon the gentle face that was now transformed into the lineaments of a fiend.  "Ha'! ha 1, won't I astonish master- Christie when he is mine I I'll teach the prudent and courteous boy that bell is preferable to my company. Won't I adopt every expedient to torture the gen- tleman I Hatefulness shall, for the future, be what deception has been for the past-my study-my thought by day-my dream by night and when he turns to upbraid me and meets a look like this, won't be shudder I Ha! ha! ha!" And the face of the girl was contorted into an expression that a rnaniac would have envied. Throwing herself upon the sofa, her face once more assumed its natural beauty and, repose. It was one of those clear, open, frank, countenances, whicli, as well as the fair complexion and the light auburn hair, may sometimes be called emblematical of gentlenelse, but whose possessors often become notorious for their diabolical cruelty. it was that complexion and cAor of hair which we find so difficult to associate with Lucrezia Borgia, while we mistakingly, attribute to her the darkest hair and lineaments of her country. She matured her plans by resolving to call upon Lord Melville for assistance. It was necessary for Christie Kane to be persecu- ted. 'The most rigorous enactments of the law were to be put in force for thecollection of rent, even to the extremity of turning her aunt and cousin from home. She saw no other way of humiliating Christie so that he would appl' to her father for that assistance y which would alone save him from- absolute want, if not ftom the rigors'of a prison. With a triumphant expression upon her face, she approached the window and clapped her bands with joy as she saw Lord, Melville riding up the avenue leading to the house. Shewelcomed the young nobleman with downcast eyes and fal- tering words, as though she was agitated by his presence. Mel- ville made his salutation with that easy assurance which the Eng- lish aristocracy exhibit while in the presence of their inferiors, and whicI4 by the way, is in marked contrast to their bearing when con- fronted by their superiors. "Existence has been unendurable,'Miss Knowles, since I saw you last, and it gives me the most intense delight'to behold you agairt. " And he, gave the hand of the placid maiden a prolonged squeeze. Your lordabip is altogether, too condescending, to keep my poor self so long'inyour memory. You- do me, shocking injustice, 'pon me honor you do, me charming damsel. Now really, I have been dyin- to. see you again."                       9 I cannot believe your language is candid." And why, not, pray?"  I I  -il-     I "Because you act cruelly towards my relations."   AND AMBRIOAN SLAVERY.            ISO Don't say so. To whom have I been guilty of wroug'2 I was not aware that you had any lovely cousins.", Ellen could not repress a feeling of disgust at the egotism of the nobleman, yet she replied calmly-: -1 do not refer to' any one who - may have found We graces of yo ur person, and the fascination of your mannersitoo-powerfal for, theirsuseeptible hearts," To whom, then, can you possibly allude, loveliest of your sex." To my cousin, Christie Kane." Melville started. it it possible, Miss Knowles, that the boor, Kane, can beyour cous 1" It is true; bat I hope your-lordship will have the kindness to overlook a: fault which cannot strictly be laid to me, as we may not always have it in our power to locate our relatives in precisely the grade of society, most suited to our tastes. , This fact your lordship will not be disposed to controvert, As your great aunt- formed a ten- der connection with her footman." Hell and damnation!". mattered the nobleman., Now I have a great favor to ask of yo - r lordship" continued Ellen innocently, as if unconscious of the elect -produced by her sarcasm. "Oh, very well, you have pat me in the proper mood for grant- ing it," said Melville savagely. That was what I was desirous of doing. My cousin is a ten-, ant of your gracious father. It is' hopelessly out of his power to pay his rent." A'gleam of joy, which did not escape the notice of Ellen, flashed across the countenance of Melville. He cannot pay the rent, hey 1" Your lordship understood me correctly." And you wish me to interfere in his behalf 1" he continued, tub- bing his hands ileefully. Jf your lordship can forget how immeasurably -he is beneath youi famil   sition, if we inay except the -great aunt W y in po                     hom mentioned as having formed an attachment for her foot--"' Your cousin shall hear from me," exclaimed Melville, in a load voice, as he rose abruptly. Pray be seated, my lord. I hope you will not mention to Christie Kane, or to any one likely to communicate the information to him*that I have been instrumental in averting misfortune from him. He shall remain profoundly ignorant of all the" benefits which your information will confer. upon him," said the other sarcastically. "I thank your lordship," said- Ellen, -with a grateful look, " for the pleasure which this iassurance -gives me. You know' we can- not feel otherwise than solicitous for our kin4red, notwithstanding their' plebeian origin, as in the case of my cousin Christie,' or. any departure from the strict rules of propriety, as in thecase of-, your #reat--." Good mornings shouted Melville, as *e-, closed the 4ot* violently.:,     so         ENGLISH SERFDOM Ellen Knowles watched the receding form of her visitor as, plung- ing the rowels into his horse, he rode furiously away. "He is in a delightful mood now for attending to the case of Christie Kane. Thanks to the faux pas of his great aunt,Il was enabled to stimulate his ferocity and arouse his revenge by lancing his family pride. Every conceivable crime of which England's monarchs and England's nobility have been guilty, gives the humbler born a glorious opportunity of calling a little of the ' best blood' to the cheeks of their descendants." Thus soliloquized this flint- hearted girl, whose native talents were desecrated lo the purposes of malignity and revenge. She had not miscalculated the effect produced upon Lord Mel- ville by her information and the taunts by which it was accompan- ied. That person had not forgotten the part taken by his father's tenant inAhe race which resulted in his immersion in the sheet of water that ornamented Montague park. It was, then, with the most determined malice that he sought his father's steward and gave him specific directions to. enforce every remedy which the law gave him upon Christie Kane. Leaving wickedness to its work, we must call the reader's attention to Robert Kane, another character whose career we have undertaken to delineate. CHAPTER IV. , "Go then--tis vain to hover : Thus round a hope that's dead; At length my dream is over, 'Twas sweet-'twas false-'tis fled!"-MOOR. IN a narrow street in the city of London was a small tenement inhabited by several families. They belonged, with one exception, to that poor but honest class who manage, by the aid of pinching economy, to live from " hand to mouth," as the independent some- times call it. Although to the uninitiated it may be a very amusing expression, yet to those accustomed to test its bitter experience, it often presents the dread reality of anguish and despair. The ten- ants of this dilapidated building, however, were, in the main, ex- empted from those vicissitudes which the day-laborer so much ap- prehends. - They managed to return, at a late hour, with sufficient money to supply their moderate wants for the next twenty-four hours. One family, however, that helped to make up the little world, possessed no ostensible means of support, and yet they were rather more bountifully supplied with the necessaries of life than the rest. In what manner they were acquired, no one knew, al- though all had their suspicions. The members of this family con- sisted of the father, two boys, and one little girl. They remained at home during the day, but sallied out at night, and returned long after their wearied neighbors were asleep. The father was a di- minutive fellow, with a dark, sinister-looking countenance. It was impossible to encounter his furtive glance without a feeling of ap- .g.. ' fi ' t S  r t    AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            81 prehension. He conversed with no one; and if by chance he was met in the little hall, or upon the narrow stair-case, the only recog- nition he vouchsafed was a stealthy look from his half averted eye. His children, too, were morose; and if they met those of their own age, it was with grim little countenances. Even the girf,;a toddling thing, three years old, had an elfin look. The whole family were regarded with a feeling of apprehension by all who knew them; and, to add still more to their unpopularity, the father was suspect- ed of being an agent of the press-gang, whose recent operations had carried terror into the houses of the poor. This man was known as Matthew Riley. It was in this humble dwelling that Robert Kane, the brother of Christie, resided. He occupied but one room, and within its narrow limits were his wife and children. The for- mer had won the affections of Robert Kane by her sweet face and gentle deportment, and despite his humble prospects they were married. Three children were the fruits of this union, a boy eight years, a girl four years, and an infant eight months old. Into this lowly habitation we will now introduce the reader. Mary Kane was busily engaged in preparing the morning meal. Her coun- tenance wore a contented expression; and she alternately talked with Robert, and addressed a few words, in the language of a moth- er, to the baby. Kane was dressing the little girl in his awkward way, while Henry, the oldest child, was playing upon the floor with "Frank Tot," as he called the infant. "Why, what an awkward fellow you are," she exclaimed, as she held the tea-kettle in both hands; " you have put Dolly's shoe on the wrong foot, and, as I live, one stocking is wrong side out. Men never can do any thing right." "Only rig ships well, Mary." "Yes, you can do that, for I heard the foreman say there was not a more skillful rigger in his employ." "And I can do something else." "What's that?" "Love you." She put down the tea-kettle, and coming over to where he sat, pinched his ear, while his stalwart arm encircled her waist. "I believe you are a humbug, Robert. But come, breakfast is ready, and I want you out of the room' so that I can put it to right, for I have ever so mudh to do to-day." "What?" "Why, wash, and iron, and mend Henry's coat, and cut out Dol- ly's frock, and get your supper ready, for you always come home so hungry, you know." "Yes, that is one consolation the poor have." "What is that .'   " "Plenty to do, and a good appetite." "Ha! ha! Come, now, every thing is ready; place Henry's and Dolly's chairs to the table, and give me the baby." "Sha'nt I hold him?" "Catch me trusting him with you; Frank is too precious to be scalded." Squeezing him to her bosom, she inflicted half a dozen kisses upon his rosy cheeks. i I k ^ .^ 't  -' . 3* ' .. '  '  *   *     .,  -     EN GLISH SERFDOM 9 And now," she said, when the frugal meal was oyer, " you may, go. Mr. MacDougal likes punctuality. Here is your dinner; all ready 17 4-ii;hank you, Mary." "What a careless man you are. Don't you see it looks like rain', and you going without your thick coat. There, now, good-by." Good-by, baby - give me a kiss." He raised the child cautiously, as tho 'irh he was fearful that his Tough hands would mar the delicate limbs. The boy waited until his father's face was within reach of his dimpled hand, and then he inflicted a little blow upon his cheek. Straightening himself up for a moment, as if he had performed a wonderful feat, he broke out intoan infantile lauah, which was re-eeboed by Dolly and Henry. Robart bent hi's head until his stoat beard came rather roughly in contactpith the baby's face, The Ia'ughte"r was hushed, the lip curled, ind a sob-a premonitory symptom of a tear-was heard, when he was suddenly raised to the full height of Kanes elevated arm. Cla ping his- hands, every sign of grief disappeared from his  P chubby countenance. I "There, there now, will you never have done with such folly. It was only last week that Daniel Doughty let his child fall, and broke one of hislegs.1' I'm going. Take good care of the children." And the happy fellow. went, whistling down stairs. In the lower hall he met Riley, who was just returning from his night wander- ing. He threw a stealthy glance at Kane, and was sneakina past him, when the latter arrested his footsteps by placing his stalwart form in the centre of the passage. Don't you touch me- Robert Kane, if you do, I will call in the police, 1 exclaimed Riley in sharp voice. Look you," said Robert, sternly, 11 it would require a strong provocation to induce me to soil my hands by touching your car- cass. But if, as I suspect, you are in any way connected with the press gang, you had best get your neck insured, that's'all." Threaten me, do you? IN see whether her Majesty's liege subjects' are to have their lives put in. danger.  He made" a mo- tion -as if to approach the door, but his progress was arrested by the strong arm of the other. Mathew Riley, I am a hard working, honest man, and support my family by daily labor, You never work, and it is thought you obtain money by means that on1v a villain would resort to. Now then, if you take. -food from the mouths of my wife and children, by causing me to be arrested, I will slay you as if you were a mad dog. Go 1" The malignity of a fiend gleamed upon the cadaverous features of Riley as lie glided away. . Mar'Y Kane, with a light heart attended to her household duties. She first washed up the breakfast things, and then commenced cutting out the frock for Dolly. Ma, shan't Dolly and I oro out and play while you pat Frank Tot to sleep Do you want to leave we 1"   AND &MERICAN SLATERY.             83 No, but ma, I c6n't keep Doll from laughing, and she will be sure to wake, Tot. She is always a-giggling." And for the matter of that I think you are fond of laughing as well as DoU." That's because she say's such funny things. She told me yes- terday she should be very h a-ppy if I could be quiet, for she was sick And tired to death with my nonsense. What a speech for fit- tle Doll to'make, wasn't it, ma 1" It was rather funny," replied the fond mother. Ma, let Henry and me go into the great park in the next street and play with all the fine little boys and girls." "You can't go there, my dear." "Why riot, ma V' "Because no one but rich people's children go there." And why are no poor little boys and girls let go in',"' Because-because-" Because what, ma" Because the parents of poor children do not own the land 1" What does own the land mean 1" inquired Henry, for Dolly was pondering over the hard fate of poor little children. To do with it as they please, I suppose." Then J will tell my father to buy some land, for it would make Dolly so happy to run through such shady walks as those in that park. And brother, too, wouldn't, he clap his Hands 1 Father must buy some land when he goes out to-morrow. And then I would let all the poor children-all the good poor children, run through the park, and all the rich children, too; f9r they must all be good or they would not be dressed so fine." Oh, yes! do let pa buy a park, won't you, Ma? He will do anything for you," exclaimed Dolly, joyfully. Mary Kane was silent, and tears gathered in her eyes as she contemplated the hard fate which her offspring were doomed to en- counter in their brief journey through life. Thinking it better to apprise them at once, as far as she was able, of the distinctions made by the political apd oociat laws of England, she laid the baby in the cradle, and quietly rocking it with one foot, took Dolly upon her knee, and proceeded to reveal her stock of information. "Well, ma, tell us; me-and sissy." "You have, my children, seen ladies and gentlemen riding on horseback and in carriages?" "Yes, ma." "Dressed in rich clothing?" "Oh, yes, such beautiful dresses!" exclaimed Hepry. "Well, those are called favored people." "Why so?" Because they perform no labor, and go. where they please-" Don7t they eat'?" asked Dolly. Of course they 'eat.$? And don't they work no as to get bread like father, does V' dt No.99 Both the children paused in mute wonder, for -they could not comprehend how people could live without work.     "         ENGLISH SERFDOM But, ma, aint they human' beings, like we arel" said Henry, returning to the attack. Yes." WeR, the bible says that the descendants of Adam shall earn their 'bread bv the sweat of their brows. But perhaps they are not the Jescendants'of Adam, for they ) ook somuch handsomer than ragged persons." They are all descendants of Adam and Eve, and the reason why they are so much more beautiful is because they have never been accustomed to toil." If they are human beings they'Ought to obey the bible, and work," said Henry positively. Ma, if they don't work, who gives them bread, and meat, and tea?" asked Dolly anxiously. A certain;portion of the inhabitants of England, by the operation of laws which they have themselves made, live in idleness, while all the rest labor to support them." Dolly pondered over this information as though she was sadly puzzled, but Henry, after a few moments' reflection, inquired, Di& God make these laws?" 71 No. Then, why do the poor people obey them?" Our masters are so powerful that we have to submit." But father, I am sure, 'is -stronger than either of those richly elothed gentlemen ; why don't he make thein work?" said the bo y eagerly. They make some of the lower class, as they call them, force the rest to perform labor." And do they Yes." I would not," he exclaimed stoutly. Then they would make the others kill you." Dolly opened her eyes at this intelligence, and thrawing her arms round her brother's heck, clung convulsive] there. y I will explain the matter to you as I have heard your father tell it. The nobility, andgentry, have divided the kingdom among themselves, each renting the portion allotted to him to land- lords, who in turn underlet to the farmers. , The landlords pay rent to the nobility, and gentry, and the farmers pay rent to ther'n, so that the land 'is cultivated, the crops .are raised and sent to mar- ket, so that theprivileged classes receive their rent and live without work. But as the laboring part of the people think this is wrong So do I!" cried Henry. The Lrovernment have taken measures to see that it is done," st 110 W ma!" You have seen the soldiers marching through the streets with flags anddrums!" a  'ight be a soldi6r too.." Oh y6s ; and I have often wished th It I m These soldiers are dressed upand irmed with gu4s and swords ke'the poor people ma          Perform their tasks." Father, too20   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. "Yes' "Then I will never want to become a soldier, again." Rut they will make you, Perhaps." "And force me to fire uponpoor creatures?" "Whose -strength cannot endure the heavy burden they are com- pelled to perform, and upon whose cheeks the sweat mingles with their tears. I tell you I won't do it," exclaimed the ebild passionately, as his lips curled, and the large tears gathered in his eye. I will tell you how they will force you. They will reduce' your wages as a laborer so low that you cannot buy bread enough to keep you"from, starving; and when you are very, very hungry, you will be willing to do anything to obtain. food, even if it is to enlist as a soldier. Henry rested his head upon his hand as he felt the truth of her words.                        I "If they should fail in this, they will seize upon your person if necessary y "What, ma, in free and happy England, as Mr. Kossuth said' it was. 77              O My child, there is no freedom in England for the poor; it only exists for the favored class. We are crushed to the 'arth by laws that force us to toil from daylight until dark for the paltry pittance which is scarcely sufficient to keep-starvation from our doorsq-whiffe the rest is exacted to fatten a pampered aristocracy. No, Henry, there is no freedom for you, for when the government requires your services as a soldier or a sailor, the press-gang will seize you as thev have seized thousands before." 'But, ma, why do they become soldiers?" Because a disobedience of orders is punished with death." I would die, then." No, you would -not; you would follow the examples of those foolish men who, for the shadow of military glory, will turn-their y arms afrainst friends as well as foes." 6C What is the shadow of military glory, ma?" asked Henry. It is losing, one's health, and limbs, and life, for nothing but to confer honor and glory upon one's masters. The common soldier gains nothing by the battles i 'n which'he perils his life ; on the con- trary, he rivets more closely the chains which bind hi's classic be- cause he increases the power and renown of his tyrants." Cc But I heard fattier say that money and honors had been given the iron Duke. Why do the call him the iron Duke?" y Because he won thoS6 honors and that money by sacrificing, without remorse, the lives, of his'men. 'Yes, they have showered honors and wealth upon the Duke of Wellington, but what, has -be- come of thos w, poor fellows by -whose aid he acquired his renown?" Do you mean his soldiers, ma? Ain't they the officers I kee ,so handsomely dressed and who ride such splendid horses?" Alas! no, my child. . Moist of -them have 'cru-mbled in'todust, and- now enrich the soff of - Portugal, Spain,- Ond- Belgiumf- or are lying far down in the deep, 49rk'sea." BO if they cover' up soldiers in the growk and,'as father- aid,     ENGLISH SERFDOM without coffins, and put the sailors into the seaq for the fishes to eat, why are they so careful to put the dead bodies'of the Iron Duke and Lord Nelson where not even the worms can get at them I Didp't the soldiers and sailors fight for their country too VI "Yes, they suffered more than tl% (Acers." "Then why should they be treated like dogs!" said Henry im- patiently. Because, having won victories for England, and lost their lives, the government could gain nothing by decently burying their remains. But they can strengthen their own power by fawning upon the chieftain." "Are Wellington 7s and Nelson's men all dead, ma," he inquired sorrowfully. "Not all; there are some survivors." "They must be well fed and clothed," he said, confidently. Henry, did you ever pass by the Workhouse in --street, Yes, ma,11 he replied with a shudder. And you baVe seen half a dozen old men with trembling limbs, snow white hair, and shriveled faces?" Oh, yes, and I have pitied them so often,%' The boys call them crazy- " Want of food and hard labor caused a loss of mind, -and now those. helpless old men are left to drag but the, remainder of their miserable lives, with no home, no relations, no friends." A loud sob bursa from Dolly, whose cheek rested upon her mo- ther's bosom, as she listenbol with all her little might to the con- versation. Mother!" exclaimed the boy, springing from his chair, " you don'i mean to say thern old men were at the battle of Waterloo V1 Then if I wasn't afraid to swear, I would curse the government for its meanness." "Hush! you must not talk so." "I would, ma, so I would, and I will too when I am old enough not to be afraid of swearing. With doubled fists lie paraded across the -narrow floor for several minutes, until his excited feelings were calmed down, and then he seated himself again, while Dolly continued to weep over'the suf- ferings of the. poor old men. But why don't they give them something more to ektl" It takes all the money to pay for the fine clothes, splendid car- riages, and magnificent buildings of the nobility." And the old soldiers and sailors must be hungry. Yes." Henry was silent for several minutes, and then he exclaimed, joyfully, "Ma, Ma, I'll tell you what can be done for them. Food can be raised from the ground, and then they will not be hungry." The earth will only yield a certain quantity."' Yes, but the earth is'not all cultivated. - Don't you remember when we were at gridmals I saw a large park belonging, to the Duke of Sunderland,- in which nothing gyrew 1 Now, enough   ANWAMERICAN SLAVERY. wheat and potatoes would grow in that park to feed all the soldiers and sailors, I am sure there would;. and then they would look cheerful and be happy, wouldn't they, ma 1" Dolly's face brightened at this -new idea, which she managed, with some difficulty, to- comprehend. You forget, Henry, t at those parks belong to the nobility. There are deer, and pheasants, and other game'in them, which the rich people hunt during certain portions of the year." And be the parks only used by game?" That is all. They are devoted to -the pleasure of the nobility." And does it give the nobility pleasure to do anything that will make the poor hungry?" What odd questions you do ask, Henry! Come, you had bet- ter get your hat and go out to play. I don't like to think, much less to talk, upon this subject, for it always puts me in an ill huindr, and then I'm not cheerful when your father comes home." Dear ma, answer my question. Does it give the nobility pleasure to make the poor hungry?" "Oh! I suppose they don't think anything about it." "But don't they see the ragged clothes and pale faces of the poor Doubtless." Then why don't they tell them to 'go into the park and raise food, instead of letting wild beasts occupy them." Mrs. Kane did not reply. "Perhaps they. think the old soldier is not as good as wild beasts V Heaven'forbid that I should say that!" Well, they don't think an old man is as good as a hound." Why Because I saw Lord Melville strike an old man with his whip, when be slily picked up a piece of meat that Lord Melville threw to his dog." "The English nobility inherit -their power by descent, my child, and they are accustomed to think of nothing- but their own plea- sure. Thev reirard the lower classes only as soulless, feelingless instruments to minister to their happiness." "What is inheriting power by descent VI "The wealth and power of the father belongs to his -oldest son after the parents' death." What becomes of the othe r children?" They have to take care of themselves'. What fu'nnv people the nobility ,are. Don't you love brother and sis a's well 'a's you do mel." I "That I do2" and she pressed Do ly fondly in her arms. "Why do they love theoldest child the best then." s' se they do not, but the law, I bel'    ttlei the pro- Uppo                 lovese perty upon the 'oldest child." Don't they make., the laws?" Yes, but they wish to keep the wealth and power of the king- dom in the hands of a few' individuals." " The nobility" said Henryt amusingly,  've their property. to     ENGLISH SERFDOM the oldest son, and they would let poor little brother, Frank Tot, take care of hims'elf,and they feed beasts and let poor old people starve. I think the nobility are bad, mean, persons; that I do2' Come, now, take Dolly and go play in the street. I will call you when dinner is ready." With compressed lips and a stern brow the boy took his sister's ban'd, and together they descended the staircase, muttering as be went- it Poor old soldiers treated worse than dogs." WI "What's dat you say, Henry?" asked Dolly. "Let us go and sit down upon that bench, and I will tell you all about it." Together they seated themselves upon the old bench, and Henry recapitulated all that he remembered of the grievances of the lower classes, and the oppressiIons of the rich. I Her tears flowed afresh, and she sobbed herself to sleep Resting her head upon his lap, he took off his coat to prevent her -from catching cold. And there he sat, watching over the sleeper until the rbun had mounted to the meridian. She 'Was sleeping sweetly when three boys smartly dressed came down the street, loudly talking and la6ghing. A flush of'anger overspread the face of Henry Kane, when lie discovered they belonged to a class who were guilty pf such heart- less cruelty as his mother had portrayed. The youngsters, who were about his own age, stopped near Where Henry sat. "Oh, here is fun for us!" exclaimed one of them, as he directed the attention of his companions to the sleeping child. s t4ey ap- Henry raised his hand with an imploring gesture a preached; but their laughter awakened her. Rubbing her eyes, she looked up, and, gazing upon the derisive countenances of the rude boys for a moment, she clung to her brother for protection. See how his sweetheart clings to him. Ha! ha 1" She is my little sister; go away, you frighten her." His little sister. Come, little sis, look this way, and let us see if you are handsome." You are bad, bad boys, to scare a little child so. Go away, I tell you. Pray, Mr. Riley, make these wicked lads leave us alone." The mischievous fellows turned in momentary alarm; but seeing the malicious grin u 'on the face of Riley, and the smile of the one- p eyed man who stoQd by his side, they followed the retreating forms of Henry and his sister. "Go it, my young gallants!" exclaimed Hardy, the one-eyed 'fellow, who was known as a savage member of the press-gang that infested the neighborhood. One of the boys seized Dolly's. frock, and held - her fast. "Leave her alone 1.11 exclaimed Henry, fiercely. . The only reply was a violent jerk, which threw her upon the cement, from whence she arose with the blood flowing ftom a cut in her cheek. - A sudden blow from Henry's clenched fist knocked the offender down. Springing to his feet, returned the assau %&At bim, my little gentleman; show the beggar how you can beat    cried Hurdy.,   AND AMRICAX BL&VERY.             39 Again the aggressor tumbled upon the -pavement and this time he ran bawling away, with the blood spouting from his n9se. "Let them both at him," whispered Riley. "I'm d---d if you aint right. At him both of you," exclaimed the brute.                       IF No, no! be Jasus! fair play 'is a jewel - one at a ti m-ef" said a stout voice from across the street. During this scene Dolly stood by a post, watching them in silent terror. Another of the boys now rushed upon Henry, and they fought until their' strength was. nearly exhausted. He seized Henry by the hair, and bendina, his head down, kicked him several times in V            III the abdomen. Dolly screamed.  Foul play. Exclaimed the man who had already interposed in behalf of the pers opted lad. y Rallying his strength, Henry released himself; and grasping tha other by the throat, bore him back, until, no longer able to maintain his feet, he fell, and his head came violently in contact with the curb stone. He lay upon the ground still. and motionless. Henry stood in the street; and with panting form, but flashing eye, awaited the attack of the remaining boy. But, rendered cau- tious by the fate of his companions, fie recoiled a step from before the glance of the little hero. Now's your time for an easy victory, 77 said Hurdy, patting him on the shoulder. "But he fights so." "He's weak and exhausted, and you can beat him easily," whis- pered Riley. ib Oh don't, pray don't let there hurt brother any more. See, his face is all bloody," cried Dolly. At him, my little gentleman 19said Hurdy. "This way;" and taking the boy's hand in his own, lie thrust it with such violence against Henry, that, already weakened by th6 prolonged conflict, he fell heavily to the around. You have killed m poor brother Henry-I know you leave y killed him," sobbed, Dolly, as she tried to raise his bruised head upon her lap. That was a mane act of ourn, Master Hurdy, an', be the holy y St. Patrick! I'll tell Robert Katie." Will yez V replied Hurdy, imitating the Irish brogue. wnin, by the inemy of all the toads in that same koontry of yourn, I don't care if yez do tell him." "Away wid yez, for a bragging kidnapper, as ye are.". II ake care, Mr. Pat, that I don't kidnap you." Ye'll get a broken pate first." May be so." Mary Kane, coming in search of her children, saw her' boy lying upon the pavement, with his face bruised, ffifrq which Dolly was trying to wipe, the blood away. A crowd, who had enjoyed the spectacle, were standing around making their- comments upon the scene ; the more humble portions of it congratulating themselves upon the bravery of Henry Kane., while those whose affinities were with the aristocracy were saying that the spirit of the lo-%,er classes     ItCNOFLIdH iJERFDObll[   PIE;ID 4MERICA SLAVERY.     -42          ENGLISH SERFDOM "He will die, I am sure he will die," sobbed Mary."land I wronged him so. Dear Robert, wake up, only say that you for- give me." He opened his eyes, and a thrill, of anguish darted through her frame as she saw they were lead-like.  Footsteps whre'heard mounting the staircase, and the Doctor entered the room.. He looked ' on the- form of Kane. UP "What, honest Robert intoxicated?" he said in a low voice. "No, no, not that, I was guilty of harboring the thought. He has been in the hands of the press-gang."' So so, and they inflicted a blow here, is it not so?" 'He parted the hair upon the forehead. Yes, here it is, and an ugly out too. Don't cry. I trust it is nothing serious." - "Then why don't he awaken from that stupor?" "The functions of the brain are suspended by the blow. Bring me a bowl, I must bleed him." With that perfect reliance upon the doctor, which is so often -%witnessed, she obeyed his directions, and with 'blanched cheeks saw him tighten the cord upon the arm ; but averted her face as the polished steel entered the vein. The dark blood flowed slowly at first, and then, as the body beaan to reassume its powers, th e crimson tide spouted forth from the stalwart arm. The sleeper-opened his eyes and asked for water. 1,am. much better now," he said. Mary pressed his hand in silence. 'Cllas the Doctor seen Henry 1" What, another sick person? why, this has been a day of wrong 112 Has Henry been abused too 2. " asked the father, quickly. Come, Mr. Kane, you must remain quiet. He is not danger- ously hurt, and you will both be better to-morrow. You must keep them quiet during the night, and I will call early in the morn- ing- The next day Mary told her husband all that had occurred during his absence, and learned from hirn, that returning home at the usual hour', he was attacked by the press-gang, under the leadership of Hurdy. After a desperate resistance, during which he was knocked down, he was bound and carried to the Thames. He managed, however' to make his escape, and eluding his pursuers, reached his home-that castle in which the most humble'of England's subjects, are sovereigns, But thereis no safety for us here, Mary," he continued. "Where shall we go?" she anxiously inquired. "Any where, rather than be torn from you and our little ones. To leare you tq starvation, perhaps to insult, if not dishonor I The thought is too horrible." "Bat have you no plan for' the future I Have you no idea in what direction to escape?" I have thought," he said in a low voice, 11 we had better seek the friendly shores of America."   AND AMERIOAN SLATERY.             43 And leave England forever f" What have we received from Enorland but ill treatment Ill But here we were born ; here repose the ashes of my father and mother ; here lies buried tke dead bod of our first child ; and here, too, are my brothers and sisters." She wept at the thought of a separation from every tie that bound her to the land of her na- tivity. it Yes, but Mar , look upon the other side of the picture nothing y but wrongs here ; a happy home with no one to make us afraid in the United States. One of my cousins has been. there several years. He has now a farm of his own, and he writes to me that they are happy and contented "Well, Robert, I am willing to do anything that you think best-," replied Mary, as she wiped the tears from her ey66 and smoothed down her white apron. "Thank you, dear Mary, and now you have said that, I will frankly tell you that during the long hours of the past night I have pondered upon the, subject, and have come tothe conclusion to leave England at once." Indeed,Robert V' Yes, there is no time for delay. We cannot tell how soon I may be again seized by the press-gang." Oh, let us go at once, then," she exclaimed eagerly. I have enough money to pay for a steerage passage, and if the voyage is not too long, the supply of provisions which I shall be able to buy will be sufficient to prevent us from suffering much for want of food. When once we get to the United States L can earn enough to keep you all comfortable, and to educate the children." Mary's face brightened at his cheering words. "I am willing, Robert. We will go as soon as you please. Shall you visit your brother and mother V' "I would gladly do so, but the necessity of leaving jNgl 'and at once is too pressing- to admit of delay--what was that?" he whispered, proceeding towards the door. His chiek turned a shade paler as he saw Riley moving stealthily from the door.  InJess than a week we must bid adieu to merry England," he said bitterly. CHAPTER V. Do I merit pangs like these, That have cleft iny heart in twain I Must 1, to the very lees, Drain thy bitter chalice, pain FI-Mointis. THEREwas no prospect of a harvesting day. The sky still looked threatening, and at short intervals the iain, fell co "ously. Christie Kane 'filled a portmanteau with provisions, and, accom- panied by Phelim Savor, started in his gig for the western part of the Duke of Sunderland's estate, situated six miles distant. Phelim, what makbs you alwa s so cheerful PI inquired (),hris- y tie Kane, abruptly'.     ENGLISH SERFDOM Is it me, master Christie Yes. " Och! plenty to ate, an' no care, I belive." Christie was struck with the rdply., He thought there was phil- osophy in it. Plenty to eat and no care," he isaid, amusingly. But suppose you did not have plenty to eat, Iftelim V By me sowl, but I belive in that case there would be a fierce struggle betwane natril good humor, and rebellion." We are going where, I fear, we- shall witness absolute want." Thin there is one matter of consolation to the parties interes- t6d. They will be, the better plazed whin the tem orary restriction is removed, and the supply is equal to the demand, as Sir William Belthoven said other day to the independent fraymen," How is that?" You see, the Baronet was a candidate for member of Parlia- ment, and so he made the fraymen-yez see they call themfray- men bekaze they fall upon others to bate knowledge into other's heads wid shellalaghs an' lie towld thim that it gav him uncom- mon satisfaction to address voters so rernarkablo for their intilli- gence as that same body of men. tul whom he war; at that moment spaking.. Yez say, they are called - wery intelligent became they don't begrudge the use of thim same shillalaghs. Whin they heard sich gentlemanly language from Sir William, all about their own wisdom, and sich like, they giv their hats a tirl and cheered until thev got red in the face. When he had done justice to their merits, he tould thim a heavy duty must be laid on foreign importations, so as to exclude them from our markets. Bad lack to his strange words, I didn't know what heavy duty meant, and so I axed a stout bit of -a lad, who was a very intelligent frayman, for his calp was cut in several places. He said I must he comedy from e koonty Clare, which he tow1d me was the greenest koonty of the Green isle. I Not kfiow what heavy -duty manes,' he cried, in a voice so loud that Sir William paused, 'and all eyes were directed to me. - Why, heavy duty means to attach something so weighty to the importations that they sink into the depths of the ocean, and don't lafid at all at all.' "The crowd charged, and Sir William smiled, and bowed gra- ciously, and said: A very good explanation, my intilligint frind.' An' tho person who was thus publicly complimented looked as wise as St. Pathrick, after the -small toad investment, and the fray- men tired their hats again, for they were p!azed that Sir William appreciated their intelligence. Yez say people like to hear nice spaces all aboot their own good qualities, and especially their ht- tilligence; it put them in good humor directly, and makes thim. feel decidedly comfortable."' Well, what more did Sir William say?" After he had done justice to the fra man wid the cut head, he towld us-for having obtained the valuable bit of information about the heavy duty, I considered myself a frayman in embree-he towld us that a heavy duty would exclude' sink thim, mind ye-   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             46 foreign provisions, and thin the supply would be less thin the de- ,nand, which would make the price of food very high. An' thin the fraymen twirled their hat's agin, for yez say they had provisions to' sell. At that moment some. unlucky divil. said, I that if it was to increase the price of food, -thin he for one, was feTnenst heavy duties.' Ye ought to hiv been there thin. Och! but didn't they hustle out the 'Paddy whack,' as they called him. 'Is it the likes of yez that'll ba after expressing an opinion? Sure an' you hiv no vote, anyhow, an' what Business is it of yez whether pr visions is high or low.' Two, or three brawny devils flourished their shillalaghs over me own head, and axed -me did I endorse the trea- sonable sentiments of me ignorant coonthryman. I tow1d thim I bad inflexible confidence in hivy duties. An' thin they said I might hiv the benefit of Sir William's apach. But Sir William was de- termined to be universally popular, an' so he towld thim, to listen to his explanation, which was to the effect that if provisions did become higher, thim's as b 'ad parties and whate to sell would be played, and thirn as had to buy, would hiv sich excellent appetites, be razon of the scarcity'that they would relish -amazingly what they did git to ate. An' thin the fraymen, an' the I Pa--ddv Whack,' an mesell, tired our bats.' Some (Yintleman, who was sated fer- nenst Sir William, on the stand, lau crhed an' tow1d him he explained that matter beautifully. An' his benevolent countenance wascov- ered wid smiles too: an' then I exclaimed, begorra, nis honor's an illigant speaker. The gentleman smiled agin, but the frayman wid' 6he cut bead thumped me in the ribs, and towld me not to spake agin until I was axed, an' so H" "This is the house, Phelim," interrupted Christie Kane, and they alighted from the gig. Passing through a narrow wicket gate, the lower hinge of which was broken, they approached the door of a hut. It was scarcely twelve feet square, and a bank of dirt encircled thb outside to the height of four or five feef. The dilapidated thatch roof was ele- vated about two feet above &--bank, and, between' 'the two, was an aperture-it could not be called 'a window; because there was no glass-for the admission of light and air. The entrance to the hovel was reached by mounting three steps, and as Christie Kane ascended, be saw the miserable apology for a cellar was tenanted by a very weakly pig. In the corner of the hut was a filthy straw bed lying on the floor, upon which the water was dripping from the thatch. The room-for there was but one-was entirely desti- tute of furniture, save one chair with three legs. With folded'arms Christie Kane contemplated the objects of destitution around him. Upon the straw bed was 'the skeleton form of a little girl, some eight years of age, whose wan cheeks and sunken eyes, betrayed the effects of hunger and disease. Her lips were dry and cracked, the eyes were bright and restless, and the body emaciated to such a degree, that the bones protruded from the skin. Be me sowl, but this is too bad, intire'ly,11 said Phelim, in'. a low voice, while big tears rolled'down his cheeks. The wistful glance -of the tortured child Tested upon the port--     "          ENGLISH SERFDOM manteau, while her fleabless fingers played convulsively with the ragged bed-clothes. Ye needn't be coming after the rent, for it's nothing you can get but -the pio, below, and y'e'll have to carry him away, for he can't walk," said the mother, in a cracked voice. It was evident her sensibilities were deadened by suffering. "You mistake the object of our visit, good woman," said Christie. Although poor ourselves, we come to commiserate, if we cannot relieve." "Well, it's all the same to us now. 'Little Mary can't live long," replied the woman, with a look of hopeless despondency. "Do not say that," exclaimed the young nian. "She cannot, sht, must not starve to death, in a country which boasts of its wealth, power, and philanthropy. It would be too horrible." "I tell you it is too late," said the female, sternly. "Not all the wealth of the avaricious Duke of Sunderland could now pre- serve the life of that victim." "Hush, you will alarm her." "Not at all, she is as willing to die as I am to part with her. Her form is too weak to suffer any more." Mv God! I cannot endure this!" burst from the lipsof Kane. Tgen you are'more tender hearted than our landlord." Does the Duke know of your condition V eagerly inquired Christie. "Of 6 'ourse. Lord Melville, his son, came here with the stew- ard yesterday, accompanied by a distress officer, but it's very -little they found to seize, except the pig, and he couldn't stand." "But surely Lord Melville relieved your wants." Hoot! you must have lost your senses. He told the officer to turn us -out of the hut. But the steward, as unfeeling, as he is was shocked at the proposition, and so they left Mary to die in peace." "May the, divil get the ungainly spalpeen,"cried Phelim, whose good nature wasn't proof against such atrocities. "Mo 'ther," said the child, faintly ; and she pointe4 to the port- manteau. The darling little crater shall hiv something to ate amadately," said Phelim, as he hastily open6d the leather-bacr. Sbe turned her eyes. away with an expression of utter hopeless. ness, as she felt thafthe nod rishment, which a few days before would have been so eagerly seized, the stomach now loathed. Her glance fell again, but mechanically, upon the port .inanteau, and then she whispered, "Mother,",with more earnestness, for she saw a bowl of fresh and delicious blackberries. "AU that may prove a welcome present," said the woman, more gently. The little, wan face seemed to brighten as her look followed the movements of her mother while she pressed the juice from the ber- ries, mixed it with water, and sweetened it. An expression, almost of happiness, overspread her pale and attenuated features, as the female raised her head and applied the grateful beverage to het parched lips. Bat as she swallowed one draught, she coughed vio-   &ND AMtRICAN SLAVERY.             47 gently, the lower jaw dropped, the eyes closed, the pallor of the countenance deepened, the rattle was -heard in her throat-she was dead.  I Loud laughter was heard in the highway. Christie turned to the door with a frowning brow, as if he would rebuke unseeinly merri- ment. It was a party of equestrians convoyed byLord Melville. Their laughter mingled with the'sob of the mother, and the last moan of the dying child. Cc Proud and boastful government, unequal and tyrannical laws, exacting and unfeeling aristocracy, may the trenchant blade of truth lance thy- chanting hypocrisy, and expose' thy unblushing wrongs!" said Christie Kane, as his eyes followed the receding horsemen. Heart-broken sobs burst from the bosom -of the mother. It was evident, notwithstanding the willingness she had manifested to have her child relieved from suffering, that now the link was severed which bound her to her offspring, the uneffaceable strength -of a mother's love would reassume its dominion over her feelings. - She laid her down upon the homely bed, and adjusted 'her' body and limbs with a tenderness which the living form could have felt with- out pain; and then, falling upon her knees, with the hand of the dead clasped within her own, she wept long and violently. Christie waited until the first outhurst of grief had subsided, and then he uttered the words of consolation. Oh! if you only knew," said the wretched'mother, wiping the scalding tears from her cheeks, " how her poor father -and I almost worshipped her when she was an infant-what happy hours we passed watching over her cradle, for we were then well off. How often he came during the day to look at her, for he said he was afraid to touch her with his big hand 's. And then when she grew to be little toddling girl, and could run about the room, with what gentleness he raised her to his knees, and how patiently he taught her to lisp her first words. I am sure when he comes home-if hp, ever does      finds she is dead, it will break his heart; I am sure it will," and the poor creature cried as though her own heart was breaking. "Where is'your husband? Why is he not here to aid you in the hour of affliction?" "Alas! Sir, he cannot return. Three years ago severe hap- py. We had a small house in London, and my husband, by his in- dustry, obtaine(1- a comfortable living. One evening fie did not re- turn at the hour when I always expected him. The minutes flew by.  ary cried, for her father always pettedher before she was place in her little bed. Midnight, morning came, still he was ab- sent; I had not closed my eyes during the long hours -of darkness. I started forth in search of him', but when I reached the next street, I met an acquaintance. He was terribly cut about the head. The truth at once flashed like fire, through my braim My husband had been seized by a press-gang! The wounded man informed me that as my husband and himself were returning home, having been unavoidably detained until after dark, they were beset by a press atain. They -resisted stoutly; but my husband's -right -arm was broken, and then he was knocked down. Irt piteous accents -he     ENGLISH SERFDOM implored them to release him. He told them he had an unprotected Wife and a helpless child at home, who would be reduced to beg- gary, perhaps to. starvation, if he was forced. away. They replied with derisive laughter, and told him that his wife would console herself with another lover, and bischild would find another pro- tector. On his knees he su pplicated ; but ibev answered him with scoffls. At last he -implored them only to suffer him to bid his wife and child a last farewell. Enraged at his pertinacity, one of them dealt him a heavy blow upon the head, and he was borne insensible on board ship. The other sought an opportunity , when the atten- tion of the gang was directed elsewhere, and by a powerful effort made his escape. But my poor husband was less fortunate, for I have never seen him since." it Have you never heard from him?" inquired Christie, deeply affected by the tale of woe. Only once. He was then attached to one of her Majesty's regiments in the East." An unwilling victim, pouring out his blood as an offering to the Moloch of insatiate ambition!" We remained in London until we were reduced to beizaary, in the hope he would return; for I looked forward to that'e-v-ent, oh so anxiously. Then I saw the cheeks of my darlinge--his darling, Mary, becoming pale and thinand we left London; and hearing there was employment here, we came down to the Duke of Sunder- land's estate. Bitterly have I repented the step. . For eighteen months we have existed in this hut. My exertions alone could not keep us from want; and Mary, at the tender age of seven years, begaq to turn the wheel. I tried to have her task lightened; but they required her to work from five in the morning until nine at night, sixteen hours, or else'to, give up the situation. I told them it would kill her. They answered 'it was not their fault; they could not change their regulations; the precedent would be a bad one. The dear child saw that laborand anxiety. ha4 enfeebled my frame, and with -the most touching devotion she insisted upon'per- forming her daily work, until over-exertion in the performance of labor- too great for her strength, brought on an attack of sickness. I could not leave her side; and then commenced that pinching want, which gradually increased to starvation. Aye, to starva- tion! Do yon knomr what that means 711 she inquired, with a look of wildness. "Starvation! that- yearning for food until you feel that your frame is in the grasp of dissolution-that horrible torture of the nerves and fibres, the holies, and sinews of the body, as though about to be severed by mortal agony  It is too, too fright- ful for contemplation." The poor creature started to her feet, and stagger6d wildly around the room. At length she became, more calm, and seating bers6f by the' wretched pallet, gazed upon the wan features of the dead. I 11 it is'better that she is relieved from suffering. Her whole life 'would have been one of toil and hardship. Yes, yes, I am gJad she is dead!-glad she is dead! But what will her father say 1. Oh, the thought is horrible!"',   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             49 And again the foundations of hergrief were broken up, and the tears streamed down her cheeks, while her body moved backward and forward in the intensity of woe.         I Christie Kane saw that consolation could avail nothing, and promising to make arrangements for the burial of 'the -chiW, left some food, and emerged from- the hut. As be entered the gig he saw Lady Katharine Montague seated upon a horse, some twenty rods down the road. She appeared to be looking for some person, and beckoned to Christie, as soon as her e'yes rested upon him. Without regarding the signal, he wheeled his horse in the opposite direction. "See, yon lady-wants yez, 77 observed Phelim. "-I care not if she does. If I am poor, I am not a lacquey. "Ah! but master Christie, she may be in danger." On the instant the horse was turned, and they rapidly approached the lady. Phelim spran g, to the ground, and touching his bat, placed his hand upon the rein of her horse, while Young Kane sat erect in the gig. She tossed a small portmanteau, which hung upon the frame of her saddle, to Phelirn, and then sprang ljLrhtlV to the earth. "Thank you, my good man. Take charge of the-se horses un- til my return. Here," she continued, turning to Christie, " take the portmanteau, if you please, and come wit me.'7 The hot blood mantled the cheek of Christie as he replied quickly, I am neither your father's tenant nor the footman of your lady- ship. 17 She gazed at him a moment with a look of surprise, and then a glance of approval flashed across her features. "Tie the bridle of my horse to the fence, 77 she said, addressing Phelim. "If your master, if such be be, is too proud to aid me in a mission of charity, be will not be -so ungenerous as to refuse me your aid." I beg your pardon for misjudging your intentions. Here, Phe-' lim, -take charge of both horse-s,. Your ladyship may command my services." "Then take up the portmanteau.1) Passing over the stile sheentered the narrow path. Raising the folds of her apparel, so as to prevent the rich and spotless'm trial. from coming in contact with the grass and weeds which surro nded' the way, she disclosed the. exquisitely shaped limbs where they tapered into the we'll booted, small Norman feet. Sintier as he was, Christie Kane could not withdraw his gaze from those little feet, as they quickly but noiselessly touched the ground, as she rapidly proceeded, only paiising to gather up her clothes as the obstructions of the pathway loosened them 'in her grasp. The lady was ex- tremely modest, only her companion was far below her in rank, and her thoughts dwelt upon her mission. Passing through a portion of the Duke of Sunderland's park, they em O        all country thoroughfare, upon the wayside of which several -small buts were situated. Grateful voices wel- comed Katharine Montague ; C'bildren ran out from each of the     50          ENGLISH BERMOM houses to kisser hand, while some of tkem pressed their lips to her dress. Several aged perTons clasped their hands, 'while tears of joy coursed down their furrowed cheeks. Even some emacia- ted dogs staggered forward, wagging their tails, and whining, to express their pleasure at the approach of the maiden. "Wf11 you open the portmanteau?" "Certainly," responded Christie. From its ample store each person was supplied, and even the curs were not forgotten. She now beckoned Christie to follow her. They entered the most wretched of the hovels. - There were two rooms upon the ground floor, if, -indeed, that could be called a floor which was only misshapen boards with wide crevices between them, made by the touch, of time. The rude door was opened. and Katharine Afintague entered the first room. "Many, many thaAs to your ladyship, '%7 said the weak voice of a female.  I am grateful to you for yourkindness ; indeed I am." You are better?" I feel like a different person since I eat the food you brought me. " it Very well bereis something still more nourishing. How is the occupant of the next room He was able to go out in search of work, though I fear it's little he'll get for it. BUA there is a still more distressed object down yonder What! in the cellar?" C4 Yes, malam. He rented the apartment yesterday, and to-day he has a raging fever." "The apartment!" muttered-- Kane, bitterly. "We will descend ; give me a light," The woman obeyed, and delivered the' candlestick into the band of the maiden. They descended the damp and mould stairway, which possessed y scarcely sufficient strength to support their weight. The cellar was -dimlv lighted by an open space beneath the sill of the house, but it I was too indistinct to enable the visitors to discover the dweller -of the miserable abode of wretchedness, without the aid of the candle. Their attention was attracted to the corner of the. cellar by the quick, short breathing, and restless motions of the sick inan. He had rolled from his rotten bed of straw, and lay upon the cold, damp earth. His feet were in a pool of stagnant water, upon whose slimy surface there was a dark green coating. His head rested by another festering and loathsome pool, from the bor- der of which several toads leaped -sluggishly away as Katharine Montage and Christie Kane approached. In Iiis delirium, the sufferer quenched his raging thirst in this fetid and putrid mass. The cheek of the lady grew pale, her head swam round, and she would have fallen bad not Christie sprang forward to her assist- ance. In a moment she rallied, and'passing her hand across her brow as if to dispelah unpleasant dream, when her sight again rested upon the stern and terrible reality.  "Such are the fruits of an accursed system,", said Christie Kane, as he raised the form of the unconsciousman and placed   AND AMERICAN SILAVERY.             51 I= upon the miserable pallet'. , His eyes met the glance of the maiden. Perhaps, as one of the class Who exist upon corporal and mental agony, she'felt herself justly accused, for her eyes fell. Kane turned moodily away. The mind of the sick man wandered. He spoke at first mut- teringly, and then his fevered thoughts became more connected. Ah!, that's it," he said. "The vast mass ; the physical power of this empire are no longer to be crushed into the earth. They are going, to do us justice -yes, sir, they have found out that we can sniffer. Thank God, for teaching them that we are human beings, as well as themselves. And now they are efilightened. upon this important subj6d, the'y voluntarily right our wrong$. Ain't they generous?" He muttered incoherently for a few moments, and then he ex- claimed, Vehemently- I tell you, I am not mistaken. I have reflected too long, suf- ftred too long, to be mistaken. Can you not see for yourself Look yonder! The magnifi6ent hunting grounds attached to the domain of Sunderland are now fields of waving grain. No not all, for he has been suffered to 'retain - lot me see-ten acres for a park. 13ut the remainder, instead of feeding worthless deer, and affording cruel sport to hunter, borse, and hound, will now feed those who are starving. So courage, friends-courage, brave friends ; our su6rings will soon be over. They are, i-ndeed, ter- rible ; oh, almost too terrible for human endurance." The sick man pressed his hand upon his side, and then in the delirium of his fever inflicted a heavy blow upon his forehead. I, "They cannot last. See, the grain assuming a golden hue, waves in the breeze as I loved to see it in infancy. How deli- ciously it smells. Let me, see : That field of grain will be -ready for the sickle in one week. In one day more it can be cut down; then it will take one day-will one da be enough?-yes, y if it is a fair day, it will be dry enough to thresh. But suppose it should rain? Hal ha! that would be delightful; delightful to persons starving. Ha! ha! ha'! howmerry it would make them. Ho! ho! ho! Bv the gods, it's too funny." The dreary abode rang with Maniacal laughter, but suddenly assuming a serious look, be continued "There would even then be on'e cause for congratulation, we should have water, yes water. The earth would no longer be parched with thirst, I could then wet my fevered lips. Thank Heaven! There is a cloud eve'n now. See, it grows darker and darker; but Father of Mercy! can't withstand, much more over- spread, that painfully lurid and scorching sky I It pales before the intense heat, it will be consumed. No! no! by heaven, no. - It struggles bravely. Noble, gallant cloud, move on! Now it spreads out its dark'wings like an army with banners. Hark! listen to the roavof cannon ;- the rattle of muskets; the neighing of steeds. Let me buckle on m.' sword and once more join my regiment. Alas y I am too weak. But I can witness the conflict. - Now they, are moving hitherward. Take care; the enemy is crowding his legions upon-your left wing. Fool, fool!.reinforce it, or he will out you     52         BENGLISH SERFDOM off in detail. Ah, that was well done. Glorious! Now follow it up with another charge. How the cannons roar! It is music- sweet music. Blood is poured out like rain;, see, the earth is saturated with its crimson tide. It forms a rivulet. If it would only flow this way I could quench my raging thirst. It does! it does! Nearer, nearer, here it is. Thank God!" He crawled eagerly in- the direction of the putrid water. As Christie Kane arrested his movements, he struggled fiercely, but soon, overcome with exhaustion, sunk upon the ground. A sob burst from the aching bosom of Katharine Montague. She pointed to the portmanteau. Kane eagerly searched its am- ple folds, and drew forth a bottle of cordial. Raising the head of the sick man he applied the grateful beverage to his lips. With a convulsive start he pressed it for a long time to his mouth, and then sunk back, while a calm smile played upon his fevered coun- tenance. "The man has seen better days, but poverty is a remorseless leveller," said Christie Kane in a low voice. The feelings of the spirited girl were subdued in the presence of such horrors. "What shall we do for this poor fellow?" she inquired. Young Kane's heart thrilled as her melting eyes rested upon him. "He must be removed from this loathsome spot, and receive medical assistance." "Yes, and at once," she responded energetically. Giving directions to the occupant of the room above to watch over the sufferer, she retraced her steps to the place where she had left her horse in the charge of Phelim. Suddenly halting in her progress, she confronted Christie Kane with the bearing of an accuser. "You scan with a sharpened vision, each fault of the aristocra- cy; what excuse can you offer for the brutal conduct of those peo- ple who permitted a human being to toss upon the damp earth without an attempt to alleviate his sufferings?" "Their exculpation is found in the fact that their sensibilities have been brutalized by the aristocracy. Brutalized, because it was necessary to gratify their inordinate vanity," replied Kane, with an unflinching gaze. Katharine Montague pondered upon the reply a few moments, and then she resumed her walk. Arriving at the stile, she moun- ted her horse, and bestowing some pieces of silver upon Phelim, galloped rapidly away, without recognizing the existence, even, of her late companion. Christie Kane gazed after her, until her form was concealed by the foliage of the wood. "Be me sowl, she is a beautiful and ginerous lady, thot same, and long life tul her," exclaimed Phelim, as his eyes wandered from her receding form, to the silver, before he consigned the latter to his pocket. "It's well there is two, to keep each other company, for its few of the likes of yez that iver pay a visit to the pockets of Phalim Savor, onyhow. An' ye needn't ba afeerd of dating   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            os wid an inimy of another color. Begorra, the Pace Society might rist from their labors if foes were as scarce outer dooers as these bits of siller in the breeches pockets of Mr. Savor. Fur the mat- ter o' that, I might as well have no pockets at all at all, ony its better to ba afther kaping up apparances, like the rest of th/e world; though if there was as little rayson fur thim same apparances, in gineral, as there is fur mesell hiding pockets, the world is beauti- fully humbugged, onyhow, don't yez think so, Maister Christie?" But Kane suffered the observations of Mr. Savor to pass un- heeded, and bidding him enter the gig, proceeded homewards, muttering, sotto voce, "She is a haughty maiden, but she may find me as proud as herself." " .  .  .    . . CHAPTER VI. "Will no man throttle him, once for all?"V-ScILLEa. "WHAT kind of a country 'is America, ma?" inquired Henry Kane, when he had sufficiently recovered to be apprised of the con- templated emigration to the United States. "The people are the sovereigns there." "Is there no king?" "None." "Nor nobility?" "No." "Well, who abuses poor people there?" "No one, Henry." "Then I shall like America," he said, quietly. "But ma, who governs the people, for they must have rulers?" "They chose their own public servants, as they call them." "What does that mean ." "Persons to make laws for them." "Just as they wish them?" "Yes." "And will the press-gang ever seize father?" "They have no press-gangs in the United States." "I am sure I shall be happy there. Why don't all the poor people go to America? If they did, the nobility would have to wait upon themselves, and I think they wouldn't like that." "They are emigrating by thousands, and more would doubtless go if they were not so poor, or if they were not so lamentably un- educated as to be ignorant ofthe advantages which a more favored country possesses." "Does the English Government try to keep them in ignorance?" "The government plays what is called a shred game. It mana- ges to let out as many of our criminals as possible, and also the very poor from the impoverished districts, while it practises the most ingenious methods to retain the hardy and serviceable." "That is cunning of John Bull, ain't it ma? But when shall we start; I am so anxious to go."          - O      .        I:     54          INdLISH SERFDOM Weshall know wfien your father returns; and here he is come -in, Robert AM success had yQu His cheerful countenance bore evidence of flattering hopes. "Phil Hogan says I shall have my money to-morrow." "But can you rely upon his word He'has neveffAiled me yet W If he pays you, father, when can we leave this hateful place,!" asked Henry. The day after." Oh, I shall be so happy," and he clapped his bands with joy., 'With smiling faces, they commenced packing their little store in a substantial wooden box purchased by Kane; even little Dolly contributing her feeble aid, with troublesome zeal., The next day Robert started for the money that was absolutely necessary to ensure the success of his plans. As he reached the but, he saw Hurdy and Riley in conversation. They both regarded him with malicious e -es, and for a moment the strong man faltered y beneath their glance. His agitation elicited a coarse laugh from the kidnapper. Kane approached them. "Have I injured you in any way, Mr. Hurdy  he asked in a steady voice. "I won't tell you." "Why do you persecute me? Have you no compassion for the, humble 1 You ought, for you belong to that class yourself." "Aye, but I am not so humble as to work, Mr. Kane. I can live without that. He he!" Because you live by means that none but a scoundrel would resort to," exclaimed Kane passionately. "Very well; very well. You only strengthen a determination I had already formed, Mr. Kane; so be on your guard, Mr. Kane." Miscreant, you will find me prepared. It will be more than your carcass -is worth to attack me again." "We shall see; he! he! he! We shall see." With frowning brows Robert strode onwards, inwardly resolving to inflict a terrible chastisement upon Hurdy if he molested him again. Arriving at the house of Hogan, he was excessivel dis- appointed to learn that the money he expected to receive -could not be paid for several days. This was the morie vexatious because every hour's delay periled his liberty. It was, therefore, with a sad heart that he' returned to hi's W'if'e. With that hope which is sofirmly implanted in the female mind she- attempted to reassure him. "God will not desert us, Robert; I know he will not. We have injured no one, and we are only trying, to escape from oppression; be assuredthen, all will bill right, yet. ' You incur no danger in the house, and they will not attehapt to seize you -in the day time. So -we must wait patiently. But'our limited means, Mary. We shall require them all to' take us across the Atlantic. I would Continue my employment, but it ii -so late- whe'n- we are dismissed -that it is dark be ford I can reach home."   AND AMPRIC&N SL&VERY. Then do not attempt 'It. It is better to suffer a little for the want of food than to lose a home where you will' indeed enjoy freedom." Slowly the"days rolled away to this anxious family, but at last Robert returned with the Touch coveted money-that pitiful amount of, dross, ppon which was staked the happiness of five human be- ings. Rarely do those who are accustomed to the immunities of wealth think how much of joy or woe is periled for the want of what, to them, is the merest trifle. The importance of money is measured by necessity, and when that necessity is pressing in its demands, at what point will honesty wagre an unequal conflict with ,me 1 Let Min who has be  ut  the t6st answer; none other can. The final preparations had been made, and Robert Kane and iiis family were seated at their last supper in the city of London. Now the time for departure had arrived, all the recollections of the past crowded upon them. Memory, with a gentle hand, softened the hardships through which they had struggled, and gilded with a bright radiance the joys that had checkered their career. A sub- tle negotiator is memory, when it seeks to elevate the realities of the past above the dread uncertainties of the future; for it presents the beautiful outlines of an existence that is seldom entirely desti- tute of green spots, while the unseen terrors of that which is to come are impressed upon the imagination- with ineffaceable power. Life had been, however, to this humble family, chary of its favors, and with pleasant recollections, there was sprinkled too freely the remembrance of suffering and wrong. It is true that a final sepa- ration from the presence of the living, and the ashes of dead, rela- tives, caused more than a temporary pan'. But to them alone was paid the tribute of a tear. The municipal and social laws of Eng- land merited and received ihe bitterest execration. That which the privileged classes so often favor with their laudations, and with such offensive bigotry require others to endorse, was viewed by the Kanes, as it is by all who are not bribed t4i defend it by xnoney or position, with the'rnost intense disgust. If there is any one thing which becomes 'a subject of amusement to foreigners, more than another, when the transparent, egotism of John Bull-we mean the well fed John Bull, if, indeed, it would not be considered a " bull" to intimate that a person pinched with hunger could represent that burly character-is displayed, with his'heredit'ary vanity, it is the complacency with which, overlooking the miserythat is plainly visi- ble to the whole 'world beside, he congratulates hift3elf upon tho evidences of wealth and power which his country exhibits. With such 'ludicrous 'Intentness are his eyes riveted upon these Qbj'ects of his idolatry, that 'it is utterly impossible'for him to see,'much more to relieve, the world of human- agony upon which Tests the vast and hideous superstructure of British despotism. But while invariably overlooks the-suffering that is visible upon every he aqua-reyard of the British Empire, he engages with cha-racteris, tic zeal in the small business of pointing out the short-ebmings of his neighbors. He manifests at this gaine more than his' accus- tomed ma-lig-nity and tact. In'short, John Bull,-by his prying, hab-     SERF OX 56          ENGLISH quire -the reputation of being among nations what the, its, has-ac        ibe, always busy never satisfied; and mosquito is to the insect tr               o enter insects no crevice is too small for him t  ral like that loquacious      on. Such, at least, is the ene pting to instill, his Pis            iently while attem           those who know him isu reputation of John Bull among         r who do not- suffer well not to be, deceived by his pretensions, O . joli of what con- trolled by his own opin their judgment to be con    charitable people. wealthy., and              ined stitutes a powerful      ided him, Robert Kane enterta So far as his experience gu        a satisfaction greatly there'fores with these opinions. And it was,         which, to him and his, overbalancing regret that. he severed the tie had been fruitful Of misfortune.    eluded to start tomorrow 4.4 And now, Mary, since- we have con how do you feel ill ," Very happy, Robert." it And you7 Henry V          e to keep sis ftom being it I shall never have to fight any rnor hurt."             h6ad." "That seems to run in your   head yetq I suppose*" "Because the pain hazent left my ing glances. The fond parents exchanged approve "And what 3 8 little Dolly!"I           o settle the drowsiness that began t The little girl rushed away upon her eyelids.          nd ma, and Henry, and-and "Ilse w ill go any where wid you, a Frank T(A-97                  ek blanched, while A knock was heard upon the door. MaTY's chp ry frown. Walk- 'the lines on Robert's brow deepened into an ang         it ok from it a long dirk-knife, and inserted ing to the desks he to elevating his form to its full height, he said, in his bosom; and thent in a stern voice, '& Come in."    apon its hinges', and the round, jolly face of The door creake(I i      Im Hogan was seen. Robert's features relaxed* -lighted to see you*" "Welcome, Phil? I am del   alutatiQn; the reaction was too A glad" smile was Mary's only s powerful for words. - ", You leave tomorrow, Robert?" difficult prevents me. If no unforeseen d     to walk over to Martin Lennon's; it Will. you have the kindness 3sage to his son. he wishes to senda mef                ght 11 almost ot go into the otre0u O-DI Oh no 1. no! he must n shrieked Mrs., Kane.            to, iui goiny the mat- "Why note Surely no harm can happen        0 ter of half a, dozen streets."         being attacked by To tell you the truth Phil, I am fearful of the -press-gang-tl              would not Gave asked Oh, if that is the cases, I will notinSist.     !" the old man seemed so verY anxiou r at alD Only -you to go ove see you.       I asked Rob -id he seem so       ort, amusingly. yes.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. Why did lie not send a letter!" I axed him that, an' lie said he was too old to write.19 Mary, with. -parted lips watched the thoughtful countenance of, her husband.", It is shameful that an nglishman should be afraid to carry a message from an old soldier to his son. I will go." Robert raised his head from his bosom, and, taking his hat, stood in the door-way. "But dear, dear Robert, if any thing should happen to you, what will become of us?" and her eyes wandered to her children. "Mary, that old man assisted me once, when I thought all man- kind were my foes. He has but one son, who is now in the United States. If I can lighten the grief of the scarred veteran, and make his few remaining dkvs kappy, shall I hesitate to do so, because we apprehend, perhaps, imaginary dangers!" The lip of hi's wife trembled, while she regarded him with tear- ful eyes. "Father, I would do so match for the old soldier." "You are right, my boy." "But if they should-oh, if they should  vI She could say no more, for she burst into tears. Mary, don't cry; Phil wi It go with me, and I will return 'in half an hour. There, now, cheer Up." He encircled her waist with his arm, and pressed his lips to her own.. "Good-night, Mrs. Kane, I will see you otT to-morrow." "Good-night,' she replied, sorrowfully, as she followed the re- ceding form of Robert to the door; and as he left the house -she- sank upon the floor overcome with apprehension. Robert,- accompanied by Hogan, proceeded rapidly towards the houseofMartinLerinon. Thestreetswerequietanddesertedand there was no appearance of danger. Bat Robert's departure had been observed by Matthew Riley; andwith stealthy steps he descended into the street a few moment after the other left the house, andswiftly proceeded towards the head'-quarters of -Dwyville Hardy and his band.' "I have him now," he muttered, with fiendM joy. "I Fool that' he was to venture out to-night. And I U*e him, too, just at the moment when he thinks he will,,esev qpe me. What-are you talh-ing a4out ihip-mate1l' exclaimed a gruff voice, whfne language was alteented by drunkenness. "Ab   thitig..ibat--,'l hteiests you," replied Riley. as he -attempt. ed t    6 tothdll- "Pit the narrow side-walk. e to and sfiVlyou'r colors, or I'll stave in your bulwar'ka." retorted the soaman, an, steadying himself w, ith grisat difficulty, he prepared to   1W ise a little of that -11*holesome discipline," to which, having beeo- freet' -'sal 'ected himself, he felt at liberty- t6- practice upon all the que6n'V.4j  cts"who happened to be uuckr sail at that late hour. tell you to let me pass 'or I will call the police."' "Avast there, comrade, don't you know thatmar-fial law is $up-     ENGLISH SERFDOM -,susupe-su-pe-re-er to civil law., Heave to, and run up yer colors fj or I'll sinkerr" Let me pass, you drunken beast-" cried Riley fiercely. Boarders, to the assault shouted the sailor. Poising his huge frame for an 'attack, tot-ally unexpected by Riley, he hu-rled himself forward, rather than aimed a blow, and his fists coming in contact with the stomach of that individual, he was doubled up, and before he could regain his natural attitude, he came violently in contact with a lamp -post. The sailor would have been seriously injured in his fall upon the sidewalk, but -for thQ 're- laxed condition of his frame; a circumstance to which all inebri- ates, as well as opossums, are Andebted for. an exemption fro"M broken boneei , With endeavors that -appeared for some time of doubtful suc- cess, the sailor attempted to regain his feet, but seeing the difficulty of accomplishing that desirable object without the aid of extraneous assistance, he scratched his head, ;and setting his hat firmly upon his brows, proce6ded to " take possession of the disabled craft," as he called the insensible form of Riley. To that end he crawled along upon his hands and knees, and pulling out a flaming hand- kerchief turned Riley over, and commenced binding- his arms to his side. You see the victor always runs up his own colors, messmate, so you will be after excusing me for -displaying this little bit of bunting." , Riley slowly returned to consciousness, and at length fixed his eyes upon the sailor with a perfect recollection of what -had taken place-,' Retaining a firm grasp upon the handkerchief, the sailor addressed his cap4ve with the confidence of a map who"had per- fdrmed a brilliant exploit. Steady ho! Don't remain any longer upon your beam ends. Right yourself, man. There now hoist my sheet anchor; the wind is fair, heave away  You see, I'm not the first heavy craft, that's run aground in following a light oue into shoal water." ow I hope you are satisfied. Let me go." Not so faifi   st- take you into port. You'll make 'a handy little craft for t ," What, you      n to say you are going to impress me shrieked Riley,   le at     he was endeayorinir to inflict upon Kane. Call it what you like, landlubW"'   h in 0`0'man's phrase it is known as making use of a prize, so "But I have a helpless family at home         t upon me, for bread," said Riley, as the I cold - a     upon his forehead. Shall we try it yardarm and yard-ar igaftW' laid the sailor, squaring himself. Oh, no, not that," replied the  pp ivering with terror. Then let me bring you into The old salt reeled along the iewalk, and at every lurch hauled ROY after him,; The latter individual, now almost palsied   AND AMERICAN SLAYRRy. With frightg cast eager glances around in hope of a rescue) but no footsteps fell upon the pavement except their own. At length a thought flashed upon llis mind. of the liberality Z5             He had  of sailors.             -fte- head Come," he said, coaxing] v (4 2 Y9U will not take we on board Ship without treating me?12 steps, an   airing an equilibrium The -sailor arrested his &ot    d in LY ' ' the form of Air. Riley was made to swing 6a"ck Zd forth like. the vibrations of a pendulum. For a small craft what a lurch you have, shipmate. Treat you? To be sure I wilig if I have. any money left. Let me over. haul the old chest. I gave that -soldier one crown ; his pretty daughter another. By the shade of Columbus, her build is beauti- ful- I spen anotherr attheBall andAnchor,-and I h  our, so there otiaht to be another amidships.") Releasing his'hold upon Rile , he was attempting to find the crown that, Derhapsq existed onl y         CZ, L         y in his imagination, when his P'ri- soner suddenly darted away and ran swiftly down the street. Onl y for a. rn'oment astounded by the audacity of the escape, the sailor gave chase. Heave to! how dare you set sail from 'beneath rn ve pour a broadside into you, Heave to! heave to V) But the sailor ran awkwardly, and with lem- wide apart so as to meet any sudden lurch of the e'a'rth. In the naeantime Riley turn- ed down first one street an d then, another with such ra idity that at last he disappeared altogether. The sailor, completely 'baffled, drew up against a post. rest here for a fresh breeze. Did any one ever see a dcut out, more beautifully; and if the piratical villain  prize I  has not cleaned me'of -my last crown well, he deserves it, for, by the shade of Columbus, it was handily done.71 Matthew Rileyq notwithstanding his narrow escape-fr  min Ient peril, felt no commiseration for Robert Kane ; on the Om im  he was prompted b a fiendish impulse to lead him on t contrary, Y                  o, that uoom, the mere contemplation of which hacd -palsied his own heart with terror. With heaving chest and trembling limbs Rile entered the room where Hurdy could u idly be found. Where is ifurdyll" he inqu* d, eage Gone to Flet her9s," Hell and fories W",O#ef any thing so unfortunate . release my arn*,-. -,  e  ", I ,    U       He-re, 'Way yet be time;" and he rushed into t4e street. erous Kane, there is st' Courage noble file           ill hope for vou He had ree 'ved thie message of the aged soldier with promise to deliver itfAim was r4` Obeing his -steps homeward, having assured slogan that his pAeijoW wdald not be required. His heart bounded with that strange delight"*hkh-' rarely felt, and then only when some great success is'the rew'*d of an enterprises upon which doubt serves to rivet bur hopes Iwith greater i ntentness.            J So'absorbingly did his thoughts dwell upon the picture, that he failed to observe the crowd tnat was gathe ring around him. -One     A 9%         INGLISH BERFDOM m, before and behind, from by one they dropped into the -street fro each dark alley, or more public thoroughfare. until, ass he etood'mo- tionless, he was surrounded by a dark, and evidently a hostile group. Conspicuous among them he recognized the face of Dwy- ville Hur'dy, from whose solitary eye gleamed an expression of fe- oy, while across the -  stood the scoundrel who had rocious j           way betrayed him. For a few moments they glared upon their victim. Kane paused like a stag at bay, and then aware that his -only chance of escape was toact, on the offensive,he drew his dirk and bounded forward., Knowing that to shed blood where none but per- jured villains could witness the provocation was almost as much to be dreaded as to be overpowered in the conflict, he endeavored to force a Dassaae without using his weapon. Three of the gang were hurled to the ground by his muscular arm, and but one foe opposed his flight, when the powerful grasp of Hurdy was laid upon his shoulder; the dirk was wrested from his grasp, and he stood powerless in the midst of his enemies. "Men! men! why do you hunt me I ike a beast I I am flesh and blood like yourselves ; for God's sake let me return to my wife and children. They. will starve without me* 15 The only response to this appeal was a roar of laughter. I implore you, in the name of your mothers, of your sisters, of your wives, to release me. If you only knew the agony that my poor, dear, helpless wife will feel when she hears of my fate, I am Sure, oh, 1,am. very sure, you, would release me." Tush, man, don't bellow so. I'll take your wife'under my protection." Again a coarse laugh, accom anied by rude jests, rang upon the night air. "Merciful heaven! is our fate indeed so terrible V groaned Robert, in the anguish of his heart. The sound of wheels was heard approaching, and by the light of the moon Rober*saw a, liveried driver seated upon the box. A faint'hope that one of the aristocracy might have a greater respect for what that -01ais are so fond of calling the rights of Englishmen, than the fiends in whose clutches he found himself, prompted Kane stoutly to resist the attempt to force him into a dark alley leadinLy from the street, The resistance aroused to desperation the angrypassions of the gang. " -Kill, him if he will not yield," Shouted Hardy, as he leveled a blow with a heavy cane which fell upon; the;Aide of Roberve head with such force that the blood gushed from a loogcut in the tem- ple. File-staggered un4er the effects of, the blow, and, came down upon one-knee, Will that make you go quietly 11' exclaimed Hut&y, savagely. My wife, one more. struggle for my,   and With a mighty effort he shook off his, assa Hants and reached the car-riage. Oh, Lord 'Melville! thank God it is you, 1. I know your lord- iship will save me. "I dont know, you, fellow; you are itupert4nent,11 replied his lordship, vdineingly.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. But let me wipe the blood from my face; there, you recollect me now  I am the brother of Christie Kane, your father's ten- ant." Then to hell with you, as well as your brother,!' said Melville, fiercely. "But mer'ey, have mercy, my lord; my wife-" "Drive on, Hartman." She will die-',' On! on!" screamed his lordship. What an obstinate brute!" yelled Hurdy.  But may perdi- tion seize we if I do not subdue you." Again the staff descended upon Robert's devoted head, and this time it fell upon the scarcely healed wound he' ha'd received a few days before. Human nature could endure no more, and the poorfellow sunk. powerless to the earth. Raising him in their arms they bore him tothe Thames, where he was taken on board a small government craft and heavily ironed. Thus were crushed the bright hopes 6f liberty and pro- tection which that humble family had so fondly cherished. And yet such aggravated cases of human woe are never alluded to by those who are always boasting of the bliss enjoyed by the inhabi- tants of merry England I There was a solitary person near the scene of the late conflict. Matthew Riley was still gloating over the recollection of human suffering. So Intense was his delight that he could not tear him- self fmom the spot, and he rubbed his hands and chuckled  efu ly. Suddenly he was aroused by a heavy hand that grasped his shoulder. The marrow in his rattling bones seemed to crawl as he cowered beneath the glance of the sailor. I've overhauled you, shipmate, after a long starn chase and this-time I will take care that you don't escape under convoy of MY kood nature. And first of all, I'will-release your bold of the crown Ayou practically took from me. Yes, here it is. You not only escaped with arms, but captured prize money."  Riley saw from the determined manner of the sailoi,'who was; now sober, that remonstrance would be useless, and"With bloodshot e es and hueless features, submitted to his fate. You have only to serve his' ma esty faithfully for three yearn, and then if there is no necessity for your services, and you fight gallantly, or are killed, or so maimed as to, be unserviceable, per- haps you won't be wanted any longer. So' cheer up, messmate. Lord love you, I have been pressed into the service three times. First it went hardo as it will 'with you, mayhaps. But avast there, You will Lret accustomed to it, -and like it, too. Add they have such wholesome discipline,- the beating which seemed to giye you-so match pleasure a few minutes ago, is ' Riley groaned.         nothing to it." "To be sure the officers break heads sometimes -in moments of P4,08i0n, ; but the genteel Wa , and one which they.'enjoy -the mont, because it requires no exercise-nothing but calm, Placid d-elight- N to. see the skin of the sailor cut and mangled by the cat. ten happens during a voyage, and sometimes -when it is deserved.' -ba'        W My Ck* has been cut into every kind of shape, and Jhave W3 satis-     ZNGLISH SERFDOM faction of knowing that, although the operation has been performed seventimesitwasmeritedtwice. Tbat'ssomegratification. They didn't lacerate my skin them'times for nothing, anyhow ;" and the old salt chuckled gleefully.  But here we are on the bank of the Thames." "Will you, oh! will You release me "Avast! shipmate, I might have let your wretched craft escape before the wind if you bad not stole my money tender the false flag of good fellowship Even that I'might have forgiven, if you 6d not proved yourself so destitute of feeling when that gallant fellow begged so hard for his wife and children. In then with you, and thank yourself at the prospect 'of the world being rid of such a monster throughthe agency of a cannon-ball or boarding-pike. Into the boat with you." 15 The terror that had appalled the craven beart of the coward faded before the feelings of shame and rage that took possession of his soul as he'found`-bimself in the presence of Robert Kane, like hi heavily ironed and strictly guarded. C14APTER VIL A troop of tall horsemen I how fearless they ride! ITIs iL perilous path o'er that steep mountain side."-NEAIA A SUCCESSION Of stormy days utterly ruined the' wheat crops of Christie Kane. This misfortune destroyed all prospects of paying the re,-nt,and there was no other recourse hut ejectment from the premises.- This was a bard fate, because Christie Kane had ex- erted.'his energies to the utmost for the purpose of keeping a home her. Now, hope bad abandoned him, for he expected in is mot days to be turned bouseless and homeless upon the world. a result to be 'Much dreaded by a young man with a strong frame and a stout heart, but to be feared as a calamity when a fe- male relies upon him for shelter and su  A. Christie Kane be- came more gloomy and morose, notwit standing the taunts of his mother and the cheerful sallies of Phelim Savor, whose good bu- mor was unconquerable. A settled conviction had fastened itself upon bin mind that the political and moral structure of the English' -governmentandsocietywasallwrong., Hefeltthathewalkedthe earth as noble and as worthy of freedom as the proudest lordling in the kingdom; and yet the strong arm of the government. which ought to protect him, only sought to crush him. It first tried to debase the spirit that God had implanted in his bosom, and then seized upon the earnings that had been won through storms and beat. He was conscious of possessing a cultivated 'mind, generous impulses, and honorable principles ; nevertheless, fashionable soci- cry had placed its ban upon him, and he was'socially - outlawed. Hit position was expressed bv one word-he was a plebeian. It is not strange that his proud spf'rit fretted atits destiny. It perhaps would not have forced itself upon his mind with quite so mueh   AND AMERICAN SLAVZRY. power, if he had not daily witnessed the exercise of authority by persons in every way inferior to himself. Power was conferred upon titled spendthrifts, to control the happiness and health of ten- ants and operatives, and in some instances he had seen "it wielded with a remorseless cruelty that brought its victims to their graves at an early age.' And yet the infamous laws of England legalized these atrocious murders. While he was contemplating  e destruction of his crops, the fee. 9 activities in the castles of Momlow and Montague were at their height. Large accessions had been made to the guests of the Countess of Rossmore and Duchess of Sunderland; and as both of those ladies moved in the sarne'eirele in London society, there was a constant interchange of civilities between them, so that their guests were often thrown together. They had exhausted all the ordinary sources of amusement, when it was determined to have a grand steeple-chase, to be followed by a magnificent ball at the Castle of Montague. Great preparations were made for both &ot only the nobility and gentry, who resided in that part events. . of the kingdom, prepared to attend, but large additions were made from the list of tfiose who could only be induced to leave " charm- ing London for the stupid country" bysome extraordinary attrac- tion. The day at length arrived. The san, tired of having big C5 rays obscured by the clouds which roHed up from the west as if they would never cease, now burst through the wall of vapor, and cast his beams over the earth. It was a f., glorious day,' was the universal exclamation. Phelim Savor had taken more than ordinary pains with the dlDm e gray. He was favored with a-bran new pair of shoes. ffis hair had been rubbed until it exhibited a beautiful gloss; and, in the estimation of Mr. Savor, Surry was as fine an animal as could be seen in the United Kingdom. Yez needdent'ba ashamed of yersel' to-day, Maiker Christie, ony how, for the likes of that horse will ba harA t6find at the steeple- chase. I wish he could have a trial wid the rest of them; for, be the holy St. Patrick! there's niver a horse of bitter pedigree inall England. And why should'ent ye? if yersel', Maistet Christie, aint quite asenoble-blooded as the lords beyant, Surry can make it up, for he can boast a longer line of distinguished ancestors, on'both sides of the house, too, than any nobleman who will ride to-day; and sure, honey, that ought to make the-Oiing aquil." Do you wish to see the race, Phelim?" asked Christie Kane, as he threw himself into the'saddle. "Very much, invade, if yez plaze." "You will have to walk there." "I would walk the matter of ten miles ony day to see a steeple- ebase." "You can witness' it from here, as the course crosses a portion of our farm." Phelim resort& to that method of his class to show big ember. raisement. He scratched his head. It Well?" suggested Christie. "I should like toseeSurryamonghlooded-horsiesMaisterChria-     "          ENGLISH SERFDOM tie, it is -so seldom he gets into the company- of thim as can call themselves aristocratic horses. Though, 4e mysowl! there's divil a horse will ba'seen on the estate of Lord Rossmore this blis'sed day that can boast sich a noble birth as the dapple gray Go, then," replied Christie, as he turned Surry's head towards the castle of Montague. ", Whoop!" ejaculated Phelim, as he sprang into the air, And crackiad his heels twice. together before he came down :,a flourissn' that, weregret to say, was performed without the usual appendages of shoes and stockings. They were not considered by Phelim as -absolutely necessary appendages to that portion of the human frame which is brought in contact with the ground. An opinion which he had been known to defend, upon the assumption that the feet were no better than the earth, because Adam's whole body, feet included, were manufactured from 'that material, and he did not consider him- self any better than Adam. If made out of the earth, be was wont to say, it could be no disgrace for them to come freely in contact with it, if it was only to show a proper regard for kith and kin. Mr. Savor admitted that, with gentle folk, it might be altogether a different affair, because their feet having been so long separated from the ground, there was no obligation to recognize the relation- ship, only so far as they condescended to cozen it out of nearly all tile generous bounties it bestowed upon the human race. From an early hour throngs of people crowded to the spot se- lected for the competitors to start for the prize, They came in carriages, on horseback, and on foot. From far and near, the wealthy, the aristocratic, and the poor gathered to witness an event which is always regarded with interest by the patricianand plebeian. No obstacle was interposed by Lord Rossmore and the Duke of Sunderland, upon whose estates the steeple-chase was to occur, tQ the ingress of the lower classes. It was one of the cheap Decays of purchasing their acquiescence in the present order of things, for they had a happy faculty of identifying the princely exhibitions of the landed proprietors with their own humble fortunes. The sight of a'steeplechase made hundreds unmindful of hunger when they wentsupperless to bed. The carriages of the Duke of Sunderland and the Earl of Mon- tague had arrived upon the ground, each followed by, a long train of distinguished persons. The judges' stand was'erected upon the brow of an elevated plateau, commanding an extensive and bea'u- tiful view of the surrounding country, including hill, dale, wood- land, lakes, and streams. Along the slope of the hill were ranged the carriages of the most illustrious of the spectators; and in the centre of the group, B'Latha- rine Montague, who was to bestow the reward upon the success competitor, sat upon a milk-white steed' that scattered the foam upon his glistening hair as he impatiently shook the mins. She was attifed in a black riding-dress of rich material, and wore a black, hat without feathers. "My lord, I hope you may be more successful in Ybur trial to- day than you Were on the occasion of your unwilling visit to the   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. lake in front of Montague Castle," said Katherine Montague, as Lord Melville rode up and made his salutations. Lady Katherine,'I hope you will forget that affair some day," he replied, with evident annoyance. Not until memory fails me," said the therr girl. What adventure do you refer to?" inquired Sir William Bel- thoven. Lord Melville will relate it." Lord Melville will do nothing of the kind, with your ladyship's permission responded the irritated noble, as he spurred his horse to the judges' stand. He was mounted upon a black horse that had made some at- tempts at the Derby stakes, and not without fair prospects, if -he had been ridden with judgment. He was a thorough-bred and powerfully-built animal. ' He had many admirers too amon-,r the fairer portion of the company, but whether the brilliant prospects, and really fine person of his rider, added to the beauty of the animal, none of them took occasion to explain. Lord Melville seems annoyed at your remarks," observed Sir William Belthoven, who being an M. P., did not think it just to his constituents and the, government, to peril his invaluable life in the Uncertain chances of a steeplechase. It will make him contend with more fearlessness for the prize, though to do him justice, he is a bold rider." Well, Kate," said the Earl of Rossmore, a fine specimen of the English nobility, " a goodly number of gallants will contend foar the prize you will have the pleasure of bestowingOll "How many have entered the lists'?" "Fifteen, a ready, and half an hour more must elapse before they"will be closed. What, my lordof Delmore; it is an unex- pected plea-sure to see you once more on the turf." This station was'addresse to a g ntleman somewhat advanced beyond the morning of life.  is whiskers and bearing betrayed the old bachelor. "If ow could Jt be otherwise, when your charming daughter be- stows -the guerdon of beauty?" Lord Delmore gracefully raised his hat, and bowed. "Always yourself, my lord," replied Katherine Montague, ex- tending her gloved hand, which the veterah'a"nd accomplished beau reverently pressed to his lips, as an acknowledgment to what he considered a graceful compliment. "Your lordship is well mounted," observed the lady, casting an admiring glance at 'the superb bay Lord Delmore stro'd.6. "I am lylad to see his points indicate great powers of endurance, for your O formappears more portly to me than when ffirat saw youf'.now Some fifteen years, ago.71 Lord Delmore was very sensitive upon the subject of his size, and -nothing annoyed him more than an allusion to his increase weight,- for not many years had elapsed since he considered himse f little less faultless than the Apollo-Belvidere. His lordship, how-     "          ENGLISH SERFDOM ever, had been too long in society to suffer his annovapee to be ob- served, and he replied with a grateful smile, "I am glad your ladyship is kind enough to notice the relative extent of my proportions, for to -be'observed by the fair sex is evi- dence that we are still of some consideration '" "Doubtless, mv lord, you are yet of very decided importance, for I heard old Lady Margaret Summerville observe the other day, with a simper, that she knew of no one, who would be more likely to tempt her so far to forget the dear defunct Sir Charles Sum- merville, air to enter the holy estate of matrimony, as Edward L6rd Delmore'." Why, she is old enough to be my mother!" She says -you attended the same school ; that you were her beau ; and even as a child possessed something of that fascination as a lover, which has rendered you so dangerous to our sex, as a man for the last twenty-five years." I Lord Delmore did not know whether to be pleased or angry, the biting, sarcasm of her words being so modified by what lie regarded an a delicate compliment. Before he could reply, the venerable Marquis of Hungerford rode to the side of Katharine Montague. Her look, half merry, half defiant, at once -changed, and her countenance assumed an expres- sion of the'rnost deferential regard. 1My lord, this is an unexpected bonor," she frankly, said, re- moving her glove, and pressing his shrivelled hand with her soft, taper fingers. 1 could not suffer the occasion to pass, my younz friend, with- out witnessing the scene over which I understood you were to pre- side. I thought I should realize againsomething of the poetry of youth, and I am grateful to you because such is the fact." Oh, thank you, I can assure your lordship that the pleasure is mutual, for to' be honored by the presence of one so celebrated for every quality that proclaims a man, gives me no ordinary- plea- sure. I he marquis 'bowed profoundly. The attention of Katharine Montage was drawn to 14 a horseman who might have been seen" riding rapidly towards the judges' stand. She immediately recog- nized the dapple gray, and, in the rider, her quondam acquaintance Christie Kane. The young man rode into the centre of the group of competitors with a bearing quite as lofty as ihe most'impe'rious. All eyes were turned upon him, for be was unknown, except to Lord Melville, whose eyes flashed scornfully as he recognized the country beau of Katharine Montague." "What seek you here, fellow V' he exclaimed, fiercely. Kane cast a glance of contempt at the interrogator, but deigned no other reply. Turning to the judges,'he said,         I "I come to enter the list of competitors forihe award of beau- ty-" ' And he cast A furtive look at -Lady Katharine, whose cou'n- tenance was impassive. "' Why, gentlemen, he is my father's tenant; a clodpole by the name of Christie Kane," replied Lord Melville.   AND &HERICAN SLNVERY. And does that deprive me of the pleasure this day's amu-tement must afford?" said Christie, still addressing the judgess' That depends upon circumstances, replied one of them; " in your case i't probably will." Katharine Montague looked with admiring eyes upon the splen- did an 'imal which Kane bestrode. He had enabled her to achieve triumph over Lord Melville, and she felt a strong desire to 6ee the dapple gray enter the lists. Why in my case?" f6plied Kane, calmly. Because by the rules we hav'e established, no person under the rank of a baronet can become a competitor unless he is allied to the nobility, by affinity or consanguinity, within the sixth degree." That I am." How, fellow?" cried, Melville, haughtily. Who can prove your statement?" asked the umpire. "The word of a man of honor ouaht to be sufficient." At A man of honor!-the plebeian a man of honor!" retorted Me]. ville. "I will have you punished for this insolence." "If no one will vouch for you, it will be our duty to exclude you, replied the judge. Lady'Katharine Montague was in the act of addressing the judges, and had turned her horse for that purpose, when the c1dar, authoritative voice of a gentleman in the 'undress of a colonel of infantry, said, "I know him; he is the nephew of my wife, a daughter of the Duke of Rollston." "Ah! Colonel Knowles, your word is sufficient," replied the ur- bane voice of the oldest Judge  the young man may enter the lists 1, tt when I will withdraw from them," said Melville.  A prize for which he contends cannot-be worth the wearing." A flash of indignation overspread the face of Katharine Mon- tague, which was succeeded by an ashy Paleness. I "Come, MeNille, you are wrong," replied Lord Delmore, "We will have the satisfaction of showing him that a relationship to the well-born by affinity merely, will not enable him to contend suc- cess   ith the best blood of England." Y "  shall bitterly, bitterly regret thrusting himself where he in known only to be espised." "And, Lord Melville, you, too, shall p4y dearly Ur your unman- ly taunts,"retorted Christie Kane, haughtily.           I "Gentlemen, you will assume your positions," said the udges. The course marked out for' the horsemen to take led along the level plane to the right of the j udg'es' stand'for one fourth -of 'a mile, and then passed through an open Wood, the " underbrush" from which had been removed  The ground sloped gradually through' this wood and j U-st before it opened into the valley, the horse' m-ein 'Ouldnoth6seenfromtheiadges'stand- Attheterm'inttionofthe forest, a brook wound its course, the banks - of which "won ver'y abrupt. Iferewasthefirstieriousobstructiontotheriders. After passinir the valley, a'hedge, five feet in height, crossed the dourse.. This presented a formidable barrier, because the ground was- an-     68          ENGLISH SERFDOM even on both sides. But now commenced a succession of rocky and dangerous hills, and hollows, terminating in a low piece of ground that was marshy in certain laces. This brought them to a stream whose banks were separated a distance of nearlynwenty feet. The summit of each shore was of solid earth, yet the leap was fearful. The river at that point flowed in the direction of the judges'stand, so that it was in plain view of the spectators as- sembled upon the plateau. A succession- of gentle slopes succeed- ed, until the course led to the foot of 'the plateau, when a formid- able hedge and ditch crossed t  ay. This barrier safely passed, anct the acclivity of the hill w  terminated upon the plateau was the only obstacle to be surmounted by the horsemen. The herald proclaimed-the conditions of the steeple-chase, which were, that the horseman who passed-around the course between the flags, and arrived first at the stand, -should receive the prize from Lady Kath- erine Monta e, and be honored with her hand in opening the ball that night at ontague Castle. Seventeen horsemen sat upon impatient steeds that were grind- ing their bits between their teeth and stamping the earth, while they shook their reins and occasionally reared in the air. They were a splendid collection of horses, nearly all being thoroughbred. Not one among them was more beautifully formed than the dapple grey. Bo'th Surre and his rider attracted much attention in their humble y position upon the left, and slightly in the rear of the line of aris- tocratic horsemen. Christie Katie saw in that vast crowd the face of but one anxious friend, and that was Phelim, Savor's. The solicitude which was stamped upon the features of the honest fellow, strange as it rna-Y ear, reanimated the, courage and the hopes of the young man, app I as he satamone that group, the only untitled competitor for the prize. And'he mentally exclaimed Do not doubt me, for I will vindicate the claim of the plebeian to the honors of the day, or perish." The bugle gave the signal ; the ground trembled beneath the and the excited spectators breathed more freely. Lord le took the lead as they descended the slope through the woods, having, in the impetuosity of his feelings, plunged his spurs into. the flanks of his horse. Lord Delmore followed ne'xt, and Christie Kane, with his form thrown back in the effort to cheek the speed of his horse, brought up the rear.' As they emerged from the bank of the brook which we have described as flowing past the foot of the declivity, four riderless horses dashed across the plain, but neither of them was the dapple gire'. As the horse- men reached the open country, and Approached ythe hedge, their relative positions were the same. Neither of the dismounted horsemen is Melville, for thereby is, nobly leading the way," said Lord Rossmore. "I I I am afraid, Kate, the horse with whose assistance you accomplished a triumph over Melville will prov-e less successful in a struggle with practiced thorough breds. See, he is still far behind." 'BOX four miles is a long way, and they have not accomplished uri h of the distance. My noble grey may yet triumph." a fe t   &ND AMERICAN SLA-VERY.            69 The earl shook his head incredulously. They approached the hedge and Melville gathered the legs of his horse well under hirn and then darted at the barrier. The horse passed. it w ith a splen- did bound. Well done, Melville," said the Duke of Sunderland. Yes, that was a magnificent leap," replied Katharine Monta- gue, approvingly. Lord Delmore camenext; his horse stumbled upon one of the hillocks, and his rider was thrown heavily to the ground. The la- dies, shuddered. "A few more such falls as that, and Delmore's bachelor days will be over," said the Duke of Sunderland, coolly. Only eight horses passed the hedge when the dapple gre ap- proached. With a tremendous bound he cleared the barrier, and- ing several feet beyond it. 6 6By the memory of Queen Bess, but that was splendidly taken," said the Marquis of Hungerford, enthusiastically. The dapple grey swept by one after another of the horsemen until only two led him. 'They crossed the uneven part of the course, and approached the .marsh. Christie Kane., instead of attempting to pass them, suffered his horse to follow in the footsteps of Lord Melville'N. be ing convinced that his lordship had often examined the ground while he had never crossed it before. But as his horse reached the plain which'bordered the river, for the first time he gave him the reins.  His powers had not been overtasked, and be "rapidly ap- proached Lord Melville; the head of the dapple-grey lapped the the quarter of the leading horse ; he drew ahead until, as they struck the bank of the stream, they were neck and neck. It was evidentthe riders were utterly reckless, for they made no attempt' to arrest the headlong speed of their horses. As they sprang from the bank with fearful bounds a thrill of awe ran through the frames of the stoutest hearted. A moment of intense anxiety succeeded, while the noble animals swept through the air. It was succeeded by prolonged cheers as both horses alighted upon the opposite bank at the same moment. "Well done! well done!" exclaimed the Marquis of Hungerr- ford, as he waved his hat in the excitement of the moment.  He is a splendid rider, if he is a plebeian." Katharine Montague did trot'reply, but she eagerly watched the progress of the healdmost horsemen. Sir-Edward Donnelly, who next, approached the stream, did so more cautiously. His horse made, a gallant attempt to pass it, 4ut his strength tiled hiin, his fore feet struck the bank, and he rolled backward into the water. The next horse shared the -same fate, and warned by their fate the other competitors drew up their steeds upon the bank and watched the progress of the two horsemen who alone now contended -for victory. And it was a matter of doubt which must triumph, for a blanket would have covered them as they crossed the plain b e-tw'een the river and the inequalities that grooved *the land at the base of the acclivity. The excitement became intense as they ascended- and descended hills, and bounded across dhasms. - Quick., almost, as thought, the panting steeds reached' the fbimidable hedge and     ENGLISH SERFDOM ditch that now presented the only obstacle that intervened between them and the termination of the course. Christie Kane chec ed the speed of Surrey so as to approach the hedge cautiously. Melvi)l-e followed his example. Both riders reached "the barrier with frowning brows and set teeth. For the first time Christie ap- plied the spur to the flank of Surrey. With an anLrrv snort- he cleared the hedge and landed upon the solid earth beyond the ditch,-, and then gallantly dashed up the -hill. Lord Melville also passed the barrier at the same moment. Cheer after cheer rewarded these splendid efforts, and uDon the brow of the plateau could be seen a as and handkerchiefs. Katharine Montague long line of waving hat alone sat apparently unmoved, upon her white steed, but excitement was perceptible in her dark blue eye s.             I "Magnificently done," -said the Marquis of Hungerford, as lie re-covered his -silvery bair with his hat. With the last great effort of passing the bedge and ditch, the owers of Melville's, horse were exhausted; from that moment Phe'dapple-grey slowly left him, and Christie Kane arrived at the judge's stand a dozen yards ahead. The nobility received the victor with faint praises, with the ex- ception of the Marquis of Htingerford and Lord Rossmore, whose magnanimity rose above the pride of caste, but the humbler por- ton of the spectators were vociferous in their demonstrations of Ioy*,A solitary figure emerged from their midst, and regardless of th'd distinguished presence in which he found him-self, threw his armwa-round the neck of the panting Surrey. "-Och! but this is the blissedest day of me whole life. Surrey, Surrey! its mesel know'd you would bate every mother's son of thim, an' now yez hiv jist done it, an' so beautifully.'I And the happy fellow stroked the arched neck of the dapple-arey, while the tears ran down his cheeks.      horse         of Christie dismounted, and delivered his    Into the charge Phelim. Savor, to be led away-surrounded bv the admiring but humble portion of the spectators. The young man was conducted by one of the Heralds to the side of Kithekine, Montague's horse, and bowing, while his face was covered with a deep crimson, awaited his award. Her voice was steady and musical as she said: 6"Mr Kane, you have contended sueceisifully for to prize which I have been elected to award to the victor in the hazardous, but manly amusement of the' steeple-chase. B Your boldness and skill as a horseman, aided by the splendid qua ties of your magni- ficent steed, you deserve the reward which I now bestow." Bending forward, she placed the ribbon, elegantly embroidered by her own hands, and to which a gold medal wa's attached, upon his neek. For a moment his eyes met her own, as he raised his head. He spoke not, but their eloquent glance betrayed the' emu- none of his heart. Having'perfortned her uty, she ligh touched her horse, Without further noticing the hum e victor, an led the way to Montague Castle.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. CHAPTER VIII. "And thus I clothe my naked villainy With old odd ends, to, n forth of libly writ; And seem a saint when most I play the devil."-SEuKEsPEAns. ITis impossible to describe the - agony of mind experienced by Mrs. Kane, when her husband did not return at the time she ex- pected him. She did not close her eyes during the long, hours of the night. She started early in the morning for Martin Lennon's, with the faint hope that he might still. be there. She was doomed to disappointment. A visit to Hogan's Was alike unsuccessful. The most rigid search was instituted by her humble friends, and even the police, as is unusually the case, with that self-sufficient and independ6tit fraternity, Promised to rectify an. evil they ought to have prevented. But they meant nothing by their promises, for like all idle words, they cost them nothing. Mrs. Kane could not promise a reward to stimulate their sense of duty, or what is of "r greater importance, their vigilance was not aroused by having a bribe placed in their hands. It is amusing to see with what com- placency these gentry pocket rewards for the recovery of articles, when they are employed to prevent the thief from stealing them. When an amount sufficiently valuable is stolen to justify the o -ffer of a liberal reward, the property is often recovered, a consumma- tion that seldom gratifies the sufferer who cannot arouse the ea- pidity of our " guardians" by the tender of money. Nothing has Stich a magical effee't in impressing upon the rhinds of these worthies the absolute necessity of maintaining justice in all its purity, as VI a liberal bribe, Wily thrust' into their hands, when no one can ob- serve the delicate operation. The machinery of justice runs much better on gold, and if the reader doubts it, let him make the experiment, not only in Edgland but in any other corner'of the earth, where he may requi -re the ser- vices of the police. Bat there is one condition which must not be forgotten, the fender must be made in private, as their sense of duty and propriety would be outraged provided a third person Should witness an open assault upon the irv'lrttie. Thismakesall-thedif- ference in the world, as any one will discover by the angry rebuff be will receive provided he thoughtlessly tenders money before folks to an individual who would take it without the slightest qualms of conscience ; under the very different circumstance, how- ever, of there being no witnesses. present'. The efficacy VO the bribe depends upon seeresy ; and there is a manifest propriety in the fact, because the goddess of justicee is represented as being blind; and what is unnecessary for her to see, the agents of her will should not of course be required to divulge to the gossiping multitude. JHogan thinking himself not altogether blameless, although his 1k7     ENGLIS11 9BILYDOM intentions were honest, with what money he could command sought the presence of one of those Bow-street officers who are so often employed by person who can 11 bleed" well. It was with many misgivings that he ventured into the presence of the renowned officer, painfully conscious that his rough garb was not in keeping with the place. The officer looked at him from behind hiS sDecta- cles with a. auspicious glance, and Hogan involuntarily -trembled for fear some rascality, unknown to himself, would be ferreted out by the most celebrated of the detective police. He could not rally his thoughts, so thoroughly had the officer confused him. There was -something about him strangely inconsistent. His form was stout, even corpulent, and when Hicagan looked'at that he thought the mind which controlled it must be ftank, if not jolly. He verily believed that it would not be too -much Ito attribute downright jol- lity to such a rotund figure. But when he encountered the piercing gaze of those coal-black eyes, he doubted if the figure had ever ,felt the luxury of one good, hearty laugh. Well," 'grunted, rather than spoke, the officer. g Hogan 'Was certain he had unconsciously been guilty of some monstrous rascality, and that, from behind those spectacles, there was being taken a detailed account of the whole transaction. "Well!" more loudly grunted the voice. Aroused to a pitch of desperation, Hogain muttered- "I never-done any thing of the kind-" "Are you certain V thundered the other. "At least not that I know of. It must have been some other, or I did it in my sleep.'9 "What do you want then V' responded the officer, with a rumb- lin ar' kind of a laugh at the effect produced by his glance. come to see if you would undertake a little matter for me, and I brung some modey to pay any expenses that might-if there He took from his pocket a handful of coin, among which there could be discovered onl one piece of gold. How dare you thi of bribing one of her Majesty's executive th such a paltry sum," distinctly- whispered a voice. "Wi The policeman frowned, and Hogan looked furtively about with- out being able to ascertain from whence the voice proceeded. "If I could have 'brought-more I would have done so-" he Silence! Here, Fizgig, see what you can 'do for this fellow. Are you ositive, sirrah, that you were not, atleast, an accessory p before the fact in the murder case Never 1. sir, never Then begone; but if I ever set eyes upon you again I shall be sure to think you were an accessory either before' or after the Hogan foanahimself in the presence of Fizgig. That individual received him blandly, and Hogan cam' to the conclusion that he haa found the right person, and his supposition was true for Mr.   AND  AICAN SUVICRY. Fizgig had only acquired sufficient reputation to justify any one in bribing him, unless he belonged to Hogan's class in society. Mr. Fizgig received him blandly, but it was a cool blandness, that could bar either softened or hardened as pecun'iary'coD'*idera- tions might justify. Hogan began his negotiations by drawing forth his small store. 'The sharp- eyes of the policeman 'saw nothing but copper coin. here and there set off by a piece of silver, that varied in amount from a sixpence to a crown. The face of the officer said as plainly as words could have expressed it, "Your case, iny dear fellow, is utterly hopeless." But Hogan, not being skilful at translating the shades and lines of the, human countenance into words, proceeded to unfold his wishes, backing up his solicitation for aid by turning over the coins in his band so as to make as great a display as possible of the sil- ver pieces aforesaid. The blandness of the policeman stiffened very perceptibly is he replied, "I fear there is no hope for your friend. He has doubtless been arrested by the press-gang, and it is with great difficulty that we can rescue him, even if they have not taken him from their haunts on board a government vessel. Besides, an attempt would put me to very great trouble and. expense." The blandness of the officer became as stiff as buckram while he cast a contemptuous glance at the copper and silver which Ilogant instead of continuing ostentatiously to display, now sought'to cow ceal with both hands, as though hb had been guilty of stealing it. But a sudden' light broke upon his mind; he had not offered enough to stimulate the confidence of the officer in the success' of the undertaking or the justice of his cause. He thrust his hand again into his pocket, and ushered into the light a bright yellow piece. The starch disappeared from the blandness of the policeman like $now before the warm sun. In fact, it wilted right down intothe most affable complaisance. He was happy in his mental confor- mation, was Mr. Fizgig, for, his good nature possessed a sliding scale that was capable of expressing either the most insinuating regard or the' 'Most frigid politeness. "I expected, of course, to remunerate you for all your trouble, but as you think there is no hope-" "I trust you will excuse me for saying you slightly, very slight- ly misunderstood me ; a misapprehension that was doubtless owing imore to the want of copiousness and flexibility in the English Ian- guage2 than to any fault of mine or your own." Hogan'stared' at Fizgig as though he did not exactly compre- hend him. The officer paused with a smiling countenance, to give him an opportunity of making a further demonstration ; but Hogn -suffered the money, gold and all, to' slide -into his right-hand pocket, for that was his treasury ; the other bein 'devoted to his kJoife, and tobacco.                 9 am sorry the prospects of my friend are so gloomy, 4at if it can't be helped, it can't, that's all. Good morrithg."     11          gfImLlSSH SgEmrOM The affability of Mr. Fizgig took another slide, as the prospect of obtaining the money, especially the sovereign, diminished. "My language must have been unfortunate, indeed, if it led you to suppose that your friend'  r nsulted frend's-ase is hope- less. Nothing was farther fom my intention.  he exertions of one e' D y agre tomy terms n -e         o so generous a person as you are willing to rove yourself, ought Hogan began shrewdly to doubt the good faith of the officer, and he therefore buttoned up his pocket as he said, I, tell you what, Mr. Fizgig, I'm a poor man, but I would spend all my money to rescue Robert Kane, because, o see, het has done me a good turn afore now, and he is. .          . e..ki s fellow, with a family dependent upon him; and there's no saying how soon I may want hia .t e  fatherly eye upon my own lit- tle children. Now, Mr. Fizgig, if you will produce Robert Kane to me, face to, face, I will give you all the money I have here, and as much again, besides." Fizgig suffered a starchy laugh 'to escape from his thin lips. "You are too kind, Mr. Hogan, but we like to have these trifles arranged beforehand, you know, to prevent it from escaping our recollection; a mere matter of form, you will bear that in mind, "M y T memory is likely to be quite as good as yours. Not a penny will I pay till I see Robert Kane." And with something of the sturdiness of the. old English character, hogann set his hat firmly upon his head. Mr. Fizgig's blandness underwent another, change; for the at- mosphere of London is not susceptible of more frequent variations than was the humor of Theophilus Fizgig. "Do you agree to my terms V'" "You are pleased to be facetious." aYou refuse 'i' "Can you doubt it V'l For the first time the smile of Mr. Fizgig looked spiteful, yet it was so blended with a not unpleasant grin, that Hogan was for a moment doubtful whether he had inter,    was then' satisfied, and involuntarily his fists doubled. "I thought any one who would suffer himself bribed, must, in the end, turn out to be an infernal, scoundrel, and now I'm certain, of it. An' yer all alike too, the fat devil in there, whose eyes makes one think he's a villain when he is not; an' yer own smooth, de- ceitful manner, that leads one to believe he's an honest man, when he may be just as far from the truth. The only difference is that you are a cheaper rascal than him. Out upon ye all for a set of thieves. Mr. Hogan, you will please to recollect that you have been apersing the honest and faithful officers of the realm," said Mr. Fizgig in a soft voice. "Honest and faithful!" retorted the other scornfully. "And that severe and condign punishment awaits all such disre- spectful and contumacious individuals." * .; IA   AND AMERICAN SLAVERYT.  "Is that person here yet V" exclaimed the officer with the spec- tacles, throwing open the door of the adjoining room. "Yes," responded Fizgig. -  "Well, if he is to be found here in one minute from this time I will have him arrested, not as an accessory, but as a principal in the-" Hogan waited neither for the minute to expire, nor-for the po- liceman to finish his sentence, but moved with great vivacity to- wards the door, muttering, with dissatisfied earnestness, as he put that barrier between himself and the eyes that made him so nerv- ous, "I'm damned if I aint afraid of that cuss." Every attempt made to find Robert Kane proved unavailing; and at the end of a week the painful truth was ineffaceably impressed upon Mary's mind that she should never see him again. The money he had obtained from Hogan he thoughtlessly took with him on that fatal night, and she was now penniless. It is true, Hogan insisted she should accept the small amount he intended to expend in search- ing for her husband; but that sum would soon be gone, and even if he was inclined to aid her further, he would hot have the power, for his own family entirely depended upon him for support. Great as were her trials, the spirit of the noble woman was not crushed. Happiness, it is true, had taken its departure; but that unfaltering and holy love which a mother feels for her offspring, especially when they are threatened with danger, now exhibited its power. They would soon cry for bread, and she could not--oh! she could not let them starve! Dolly hourly asked for her father, unconscious of the tears that her mother often turned her head to wipe away. Almost from the. moment of their misfortune, Henry had become apprised of their loss, and with a sad face wandered about trying his best, but unsuc- cessfully, to let his mother see that he would be a little man. A week after the disappearance of Robert Kane, they were in the room together, about the time when he used to return. Mrs. Kane was rocking the cradle, in which the baby, at an earlier hour than usual, had nestled herself to sleep. Her features were much paler and thinner than when the reader last saw her. It was ap- parent that she had quaffed the cup of misery deeply; and yet her eyes beamed with devotion as they rested upon her children-his children. Dolly was humming a tune her father had taught her a few weeks before as she put her doll to sleep. Henry stood by the window leaning his head against a pane of glass, as he was wont to do, while watching for the welcome wave of his father's band as he turned the corner of the street. The big tears were rolling down his cheeks, while a suppressed sob, in spite of himself, occa- sionally reached his mother's ear. It became darker and darker, but still no father appeared. Every body else passed by that he had ever seen before; but the one whose approach would have sent    i an indescribable gush of joy through the hearts of that family, was still absent. It was too much for the little fellow; and throwing himself upon the bed, he wept long and bitterly. Poor child." said Mary, as she parted the hair upon his fore-  head and kissed it. .A.., S      7    .     ENGLISH BUDTOM With a her)effort he closed the fountains of his grief, and, taking his motoo  is band, looked anxiously into her face. "Ma, we have no one to give us money, now father is gone." She shook her head despondingly.  "And we cannot get bread without money. "9No, dear.,' "And without something to eat, yu, and sis, and I would starve; and Frank Tot, too, for I heard father tell you to eat a good deal, or you would not have enough milk for Tot. Mrs. Kane was visibly affected, in spite of herself. "I diddent mean to make you cry, ma; only I thought I should like to know what we are to do to keep from starving. "God only knows, Henry." "But if God knows, what good is that going to do us; he don't give people manna now, does he!' Well, if neither God nor any body else is going to help us, mussen't we help ourselves?" God sometimes extends aid to the unfortunate, with an unseen hand." Henry pondered upon these words. "Mother, I am hungryWnow; and do you think, if we get no as. sistance from heaven by to-morrow morning, it would be any harm to help ourselves V" "What do you mean by helping ourselves I "Take bread from the baker, and meat from the butcher." "Why, that would be stealing." "If it is only to keep us from dying V '*That makes no difference." "But are we not God's creatures?" "Yes." "Does it make him happy to see Frank Tot hungry "' "Not he is a kind and merciful being, and the happiness he des- tined for his children has been destroyed by the nobility and aristocracy of England, who appropriate that which would other- wise keep us from suffering, for the purpose of gratifying their own caprices." "Why does he let them act so wickedly V' "Because the human family are free agents. "What is that!" "They have the right-no, the power of doing as they please.' "Then it will please me to steal some bread and meat," he an. swered, promptly "to keep us all from being so very hungry." t Mrs. Kane was puzzled, for she saw her explanation was some how or other, incorrect. "Perhaps my answer was not right, Henry ; I believe the mul titude-the nation, possesses the power of- doing as it pleases, bu that individuals are restrained by laws. "If the nation, which must mean the English people, have th power of doing as they please, why don't they make the rich little less happy, and the poor a little less miserable!",   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.          V "Why, by giving the, rich money enough to buy chickens, and game; and turkeys, and geese, and cakes, and wine, and ever so many good things, and let the poor people keep enough to buy coarse bread,and the cheapest and toughest kinds of beef, most as good as the nobility give their dogs; would that be unreasonable, ma?" "No."   -           "Well then, why don't they do it?" he exclaimed, impatiently. "Because those most interested in keeping things as they are, have induced the majority to believe that it is all right." "What, them with empty stomachs?" "Yes, even some of them, I believe." "Then they have no brother, or sister, or mother, to pity when they hear them cry for bread." "There are not many, probably, who can make themselves happy while they endure pinching want, but others, who gain a precarious subsistence, prefer the evils that are not quite intolerable, to the certainty of death or transportation if they attempt to uproot the despotism which is so strongly protected by those whose in- terest it is, in a greater or less degree, to defend it." Henry reflected upon this answer, while his mother placed half of the pittance left in the house upon the table. At length his face brightened. "Ma! ma! oh! I've got it, I've got it!" "What, my child?" T "The plan to relieve us. I'm so happy. Tot won't look so pale to-morrow night; none of us will be hungry then. Ha! ha! why didn't I think of it before?" ' Hush! Henry, you are crazy!" "No I ain't, ma, I'm only very happy, that's all. You see this is it," he continued, with a look of immense importance; "I went t'other day up into Dexeter Hall, with another boy, Bill Wilson, and we sat down, way far back and listened. There were ever so. many kind, good natured people in that great big Hall. They seemed all pious persons too, for they wore white cravats, and they had such sweet amiable faces; and they were such charitable men and women too, for there were a great many women in the Hall- Dexeter Hall. Well, one of the most pious looking among the men, with long white hair, and such a good face, stood up and com- menced speaking. He told them how degraded were the negroes in America, and his voice was so tender, and he told so many stories of how the slaves were whipped and beat, that nearly 'all the men and women cried, and Bill Wilson and I cried too. And then another man got up and said they had collected, I don't know how much, but whole oceans of money, for the purpose of sending it to America, and the people clapped their hands, as I do when I want to amuse Frank Tot, and Bill Wilson and I clapped our hands too, for it seemed to make the speaker happy, and we thought such- a good man ought to be made happy. And then they agreed 'to send all this money to liberate the poor slaves. They were not decked out in silks and ruffles, them good people wasn't. Their clothing seemed to be rich enough, but they was cut plain, and     78         ENGLISH SERFDOM Bill Wilson said he knew some of themwere economical, and wanted to save as much as they could, to send to the slaves, for they wore broad brimmed hats, to keep off the rain, so they would not have to buy any umbrellas." Well, what has all this to do with our situation?" "Why, don't you see, ma? You must go up to Dexeter Hall to- morrow, for I heard them say they would - meet there again to- morrow, and you must tell them you have three children, who would work their fingers off to get bread for you, if they were old enough, but that they ain't. Tell them father has been stolen and carried off to fight; that he may be killed," and the tears gathered in his eyes, and his lip quivered-" and-and-that we shall starve 'to death unless they give us a little bit, only a little bit of that money they are going to send to America." "And do you suppose they would give me a penny?" "Yes, wouldn't they?" "Not if it was to save us all from starvation." The boy was appalled; his bright hopes were instantly dashed to the ground. "But ma, they said they were going to send away allHhat money for charitable purposes. Do they know there is any need for char- ity here?" "As well as you and I do." "Then their bible is not like ours, for that says charity begin- neth at home." "It is precisely the same." Henry seated himself, and crossing his legs, tried to divine the cause of 'this inconsistency. But apparently his efforts were un- successful, for he again leaned his arms upon his mother's lap. "If they know there is need of charity here, why don't-they-  they-" *  "I'll tell you why they seek distant objects upon which to be- stow their alms. It is because they obtain more notoriety by doing so. " "What is notoriety?" "It is getting their names frequently in the papers, so that the world may talk about their generosity and goodness." "But you must tell them that the bible says the left hand must not know what the right hand giveth." "I am afraid that would be the most unpleasant thing I could say to them. You must think of some other method of obtaining money, Henry, for an application at Dexeter Hall would be una- vailing. But it is time for you to go to sleep now."  Henry lay awake a long time, and the result of his reflections was a determination to go to Dexeter Hall himself the next day, in the hope that his mother had been misinformed as to the charac- ter of those pious and charitable looking men, who had made such a powerful impression upon his mind. After breakfast he told his mother he would go out a short time, and having found Bill Wilson, they proceeded towards Dexeter Hall-that renowned building, within whose walls cant and hypoce risy hold their court-where the meek and truly charitable spirit *   t                  ' ,   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.           '       l of the Redeemer seldom. finds an entrance, and then only to be grieved by the unblushing effrontery with which miscreants seek to cloak their impure and unholy ambition with its spotless and divine character.  .  Turning into a thronged street, their progress was slower than suited the excited feelings of Henry Kane., "Let us get into the next street, Bill." "Oh no, this is so bustling and gay, I like it best."  "But it will be so long before we get there," pursued Henry, as hle turned his head first on one side and then another, in the hope of finding some opening in the crowd. "Them long-winded chaps take a good deal of time to pray up in old Dexeter, which is very kind of them, considerin' how much better they all are than anybody else; and besides; we shall be sure to see somebody punch somebody else's head this morning, the street is so crowded ;" and William Wilson looked up and down the street to see if the hackmen, carmen, and omnibus drivers would not emphasize the gesticulations they were favoring the air with by a few blows administered with an earnestness indicative of a su- perabundance of bile and a hearty good will. His expectations were gratified, for there were unmistakable signs of a difficulty at the knot of drays, carriages, and stages that seemed to be inextri- cably wedged together at the corner of the street. The belliger- ents were favored with an impromptu and more attentive audience than generally rewards a dull lawyer or a stupid preacher. "Here's a good place, Henry," said Bill, as he scrambled up a tree; " a capital-place-can see-it-all." He made a paren- thesis at each hitch, and a rent, likewise, in his pantaloons, that could already boast of as many colors as the garment which exci- ted the virtuous indignation of Joseph's brethren. But William at last reached a knot upon the tree whose unaccommnodating outlines forced him to change the local part that was submitted to its sharp point, oftener than was consistent with his comfort or an attentive observation of the hostile parties below. A dray and hackney-coach had locked wheels. The respective drivers tested the strength of their horses, and all the draymen cheered because the two hackney-coach horses could not move the enormous dray horse. "Take 'em out; lean 'em up agin a post to rest." ".Put them in bed; thems weakly hanimals!" Aroused to fury by these taunts the coachman lashed the beasts unmercifully. They sprang forward, and under the impetus which the start gave them, they rolled back the dray. The drayman turned the head of his horse until he cramped the wheels of the coach, and it was again-brought to a dead stand. The coachee, whose red head and squinting eyes by no means gave indications that he possessed the placid temper that has been attributed to Job the myth, changed his whip into his left hand, and knocking the hat up from his forehead with the right, squared him- self for an indignant speech.              -  "You scum of the earth, how dare you treat the driver' a     . ; hackney-coach so?"                       4 A.     "MGMSH SERFDOM The other belligerent was a short, stout, thickest little man, whose bullet head was set jauntily on his bull neck. As the pre- liminary flourish to, a reply,'he doffed hisround skull-cap, and re- taining it in the same hand that he scratched'his head with.- ex- claimed I Resume a honest dravman is as good-as-the superfluous driver of ary hackney-coach in Lon'on!" The low' obeisance with which this aqnun citationn was accompa- nied was followed by a sudden erection of the drayman's figure into rather more than its natural attitude, which position it retained with the scornful eyes, elevated above the head of the coachman at an angle of at least fort -five degrees, where they remained im.- movably fixed, as if the pompous little man expected to see a foe worthy of his fists emerge from thesky. But if such were his am- bitioas aspirations they were doomed to disappointment, fo.- a blind- ing out fell from the whip of no more exalted a person than Timo- thy Spriggins, the coactman,' upon the uplifted eyes of Daniel Buzzle, the drayman. Take Mat, ye vagabond." "'An take that, you damned old Hessian, and that, and that, too!" exclaimed the drayman, who had leaped upon the box of the coach, and having encircled the neck of his antagonist with one arm, was poking sundry blows withthe doubled-up end of the other, into the abdorninals of Mr. Spriggins, an unwarrantable pro- ceeding which the coachman acknowledged with divers, grunts that corresponded exactly to the number and vigor of the aforesaid applications. The combatants were cheered on by their respective friends until the -police gathered in sufficient force to separate them and dispersed the crowd. Come, we have been here too long already," said Henry. Yes, the fun is all over. I told you we should see them punch each other. Didn't they do it well?"And he trudged along much better satisfied than before Collisions that end in blows are not common among the drivers in -Londo'n, owing to the efficiency, of the police in -preventing ob- otructions in the- great 'thoroughfares. In that parties 'lar the reader will recollect the great metropolis is much better regulated than many smaller cities. The two lads now pursued their walk diligently, and'soon ar- rived at the Hall. , Bill Wilson, after obt'ainipg,-vi , alimpse at. -the stand where all the most sanctimonious' andpelehig"t'e-4 of that cha- ritablecongregationwere'assembled'whisp6redt6-'Henry--, I'm, blowed if, they' ain't praying' -yet - 4-'td1d you- thek - were long-windedthemgood peoplefornobod' butthe-most piousest have. religionenoughtoputupsichlong-prayers. Oh,no, they Ain't praying yet." I tell you they is." replied William Wilson positively, "-Don't youhear his voice; do th-ey ever say, I yah," as -if they would never stop;'and so through their noses., lik :whenthe 'are- not praying'., , you-, iam   son. on nizal'. into Here the dissertation of Master Will'  Wil   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. nation, becoming rather too audible, was cut short by an ominous flown from a police offic',Pr; an arbitrary interference with -the freedom of opinion, and the right of speech, which that youngster, not having the privilege of denouncing in set phrases, contented himself with showing, his horror and detestation of, by divers con-' tortions ot the mouth. from right to left, and from left to ri'ht, ac- 9 companies by sundry flourishes of the toncrue, all of which are known to the initiated as giving expression to illimitable contempt and aversion. The hammer of t  Uesident was now heard uppon the desk, the sound of which echoed through the spacious hall with a gloomy distinctness, calculated to impress the lounging spectators wit4 a solemn respect for the cause that had elicited the prayerful atten tion of the salt of the Epglish Church. The subject for to-day's consideration is now open for remark,-" said the venerable president; " it is the awful condition of Ameri- can slavebolders. Brother Rumfelt will address you.." Brother Rumfelt did not discredit his name; and, therefore, an audible titter ran along the benches' upon the frontiers of the ball, when high florid countenance and rotundfigure became visible upon the speaker's stand. J'god, he don't belie his cognomen, Harry ; his face is as red as a beet." The man who made this most unfeeling and irreverent observa- tion was sitting near Henry and his friend. William Wilson had not observed it before, but now he thought the'Reverend Ebenezer Ramfelt's face did look like a beet-- decidedly like a beet. The likeness became so strong, and the idea was so ludicrous-, that when the general titter had subsided which greeted the advent of Mr. Rumfelt, and he had began to charm the vast auditory with, his elo- quence, a young, shrill, uncontrollable, thou' h brief laugh, ran 9 through 'the hall, at once and forever upsetting the most brilliant period in the exoidium, of that celebrated orator,  Everv body is eyes were turned in all directions to discover the culprit whose Pr(ranity merited condian punishment. But no sooner had Master William Wilson's throaDt given vent to his feelings-than his'coun. tenance resuffied an expression of the severest gravity.- The po- liceman happened to he in' 'another part of the building, and the person. son whose comparison caused the involuntary explosion was the only person who was certain treat the la(i was the offender- and as be felt an interest in one who laughed at his joke, it was not prob able he would expose Master Wilson. Mr. Runifelt pursued very much the same line of argument that the abolitionists have adoptedsince the days of Wilberfofce'; in dulging perhaps, rather more in anecdote and pathos than m cus- tomarywith even that sympathetic class, which aroused the deep- cat indignation of the audience at the'eruelties practicedkv-pon h4i man beings--all th, wa off in Amerida. I have, Mr. President, ladies, 'and gentlemen, reflected -mach find deep y upon the crimes of 'our transatlantic brethren, and I hive wondered, Mr. President, that divine wrath has not, in some ,01a) thanher, like the destruction of Sodom and GTomoh-A' Won"     ZNGjUSH SERFDOM poured out upon them for their iniquities. To buy human beings -to isell parents and children, body and soul, into, endless captivity, is too horrible for contemplation What a contrast does the -soil of EnglandpTeoent, for the foot that once rests upon it is instantly free." (Loud and prolonged applause.) " Yes, Sir, free, noble, happy England; rich enough in Christian faith, moral -.ulture, aye, and in pecuniary wealthy too, not only'for her own population, but with abundance to spare for benighted Africa and slavery-accursed America." (Loud and prolonged applause.) Henry, who managed to catch that part of the speaker's words, which intimated that there was money enough for suffering mortals in England and America) and Africa, too, -thou ght that was the time to proclaim the distressing'condition of his mother, and, with the courage prompted by affection and despair, be mounted tire bench, and, with a preparatory hem, was in the act of interrupting Mr. Rumfelt in hits sublime peroration, when the police-officer, in a stern tone, bade him descend from the bench. He would have demurred to the proceeding if the policemanhad not taken him, by the arms and seated him, but with a pressure upon his delicate limbs'that made him writhe with pain. The vaist assemblage, unconscious.of the pain, as they were of the agony he was trying to avert when the authority of England first laid its hands upon him, with vocifer- ous, applause' rewarded the last eloquent flight of the Reverend Ebenezer Rumfelt in denunciation of every thing like oppression --without the limits of the British empire. Please, eir, I want to tell them mothers starving," said Henry, imploringly , as the tears fell fast upon his hands as, they were clasp- ed -before. him. Hush! you beggars brat," exclaimed the poli eman, in a sav- age voice. I ain't a beggar's brat, sir, only my mother hu three children, and I am the. oldest; and I'm only a weak, little boy, and she hazent got a bit,* of food in the h4use ; and it's almost dinner-time, and they wil'I be so very very hungry; do, pray do let me tell them to give me only a few shillings of all the money they are going to send away,   away from England-oh, pray do, sir, do "Why, the brat is up to all the beggar's tricks. Now, you little whelp, if you do not keep quiet, I'll pitch you out at tire door, d'ye hearl*', If any one had thought he was a practiced beggar `aftr ob- -serving the earnest manner of Henry Kane, and had - seen the tears that fell ai he pleaded so hard, for his dear mother, the 'Indig- nation that flashed from his eyes when the officer,,caffing him a ,second time a 1* beggar's brat," assured him that he thought so, would'have removed an impression so degrading to the feelings of even that poor child. A gentleman who sat near him observed the ;6gony that was, visible upon the face of Henry as he urged his re- qu,"t, and it deepened his   nciation. as, rising, he said, in a voice tMt filled to its entire cow  the spacious hall Mr. -PresidenO There was ,S(mething`ominous and startling in the harsh Iroice-1, p it grUed upon the nerves of the self-lauding audience like the   application Of a rusty saw. it tion that the president inquired was therefore with a slight trepida- 1.9 the gentleman a member of the charitable asso eiatiOn for the abolition of -slavery., in the United State's, and for the re6rwation. and amelioration of our black brethren in Africa ?11 "I have not the honor of be - 4 , 4U.8                      ing numbered with that Wanctitno. to class of Englishmen.' Yet, I -suppose, a person who has' ' tribute to benevolent institutions elsewhere way be heard. here." There was a, prolonged and biting emphasis Upon the word sancti- Monioust which caused the president to move uneasil in his soft chair; yet the saving remark that he had contributed Y institute                                           to benevolent ions, produced a marked effect upon the less discriminating members of athe society,, and therefore cries of bear him! bear 46 him!"came from al parts of the hall, and no where more vocif- erously than from t e 46 outsiders," who, were crowding together in the vicinity of the stranger; drawn thither, not co               more by him clarion voice than by the scorn and   tempt that flashed from  h'- light grey eyes.                                               18 - "As it is the wish of the society to hear the gentleman, he will please ascend the stand and gives his names" said the president.' With a form slightlystooping, the stranger walked up the aiale, and mounted the stand. " John C. Jones," he -said in a low voice, replying to the secretary. The stranger was rather wore than six feet - high. His thin) wiry  frame seemed  indurated  by  exercise.  His face too, was long and thin; his rn outh large and capable of wonderful expres- sion ; his oicey sometimes sonorous, had also tremendous depth of con  8v .apa s) that ran down like the harsh and grating -lower notes of an organ, sending  the  blood  thrilling-along tile arteries. Mr. president, ladies and  gentlemen  he  began, with the self- possession of a practiced orators' this society is world-renowed. I nouncementfiattered their vanity, it was of course oud.. ly applauded. " No other has acquired such extensive not riety for itsfar reaching charity.11 This annunciation wais also l6udl cheered, and -the  Cheers werej                                y of course, disinterested because they were uttered by men who were blow - ing their own trumpet /abd thev were vigorous$ for who else'would expend their breath With such hearty good will. Having thus exhibited their entire concur. rence in all the complimentary things he could POssib!y say about theW7 they prepared to listen with sympathiewbxpanded to any im. aginable degree, to the soothing'words, that might fall f of the Orator.                                       rom  the lips " The hatnan'farnilycan never Pufflejently express their gratitude to  this society for  tak    under  its  especial  control  the  fallen members of our  race.   o other  society is favored  by  aim'  hty Power with such'a.superabundance of                         19 lift  P   your eyes in p'bl'         PIety, which  enables. you- to le places, and thank Godt like the Phari4ees Of Olds that you're not as wicked as other men. Few associations called  into being-by  a  desire to ameliorate    'Y, Mr. President, that, Waa your expresajon-,--am                VO#, eliorate the, Of Mankind, and tO obtain for. the members thereof a gratifyin g   84          ENGLISH SERFDOM notoriety, have b6en favored with such marked success as the one I have now the honor of addressing" The speaker dwelt upon  notoriety," as if he would never enunciate the word, and the president did not breathe half so hard when each prolonged syllable had visited every nook and corner of the hall. That sagacious individual listened as if they had been sold" from the start,-and he now intimated that he trusted some of his more illustrious associates were of the like opinion, by ex- changing ominous glances with them. Profound silence reigned in the hall as that harsh, emphatic voice continued to pour forth a resistless torrent, the effect of which was, to bring the irreligious portion of the audience to their feet, and to cause the members to cower involuntarily in their seats. "You have been fortunate, wonderfully fortunate, for renown such as you have acquired is enough to gratify the ambition of the most aspiring. When you, Mr. President, are seen in public, the welcome shout reaches your ears, I There goes the benevolent President of the Dexeter Hall Society.' What could be more soothing to your feelings? You exhibit a commendable improve- ment upon the example of our Saviour, whose modest demeanor, and secret charities. though, perhaps, very proper eighteen centu- ries 'ago, and no doubt in strict consonance with the divine charac- ter, 'is quite inconsistent with this enlightened age, and totally at variance with the ostentatious and pharisaical religion of the pre, sent day. And herein lies the grand secret of your success, Mr. President. - It is idle to su pose that money will be freely given p for charitable objects, if the excellent donor is not to reap a quick return upon his investment. He cannot, with reason, be asked to give liberally of his abundant store, to relieve those who are less fortunate, if the sound of his contribution, as it falls into the box, is never to be echoed by public approbation. It is not enough that bread scattered upon the waters shall return after' many days. Quick returns and large interest are more suited to these commercial times, than to that primitive period when one of the most illustrious of the apostles engaged in the humble' avoca'- tion of a fisherman. And if the Saviour should make a second ap- pearance upon the earth, for the purpose'of regenerating the human family, he would doubtless call to his assistance the members of this society, who have made such decided and highly respectable improvements in the method of extending alms over that practiced by the Redeemer and his lowly followers when they were satisfied-.- with the simple plan of giving in secret." The President honored with a reproving glance one of the lead- ers of the Society, who joined in the call made upon Mr. Jones to address them, which said, unmistakably, "Now I hope you are satisfied." And the humble way the chastened brother met thei glance plainly indicated he was. 'I "But what adds still more to your fame, and merits the attention ot the civilized world, is the fact that you have religiously obeyed the glorious mandate, that I Charity beginheth at home' before seeking to reform abuses in another 6emi-sphere."   AND AXIMUCAN, SLAVEP Y. The eyes of the President were fixed still more remorselessly upon the offending brother. You have relieved the S'ufrering and oppressed throughout Eng- land. The Streets are destitute of beggars the wail of anguish is no longer heard in, the factories, the howl of despair is hushed in' wretched hovels, crime walks no more in London, vice has left the great metropolis. Shivering clotheless forms are no lonLer ex- r posed to the blasts of winter; and starvation, withal] its- untold horrors stalks no more, Mr. President, amongm yo'ur tenants. Yoti no longer take bread from infants, no ]on with agony, tha '            ger wring parental hearts charities!11  t You may make -an ostentatious display of your The terrible irony with which these words were uttered caused the President to start to his feet, and exclaim with great agitation, "Order! order"' Turning upon him a glance of fire2 while his mouth was contort- ed into an expression of overwhelming contemDt. the or t  ai am not out of order, unless to recapitulate what you ought to leave donel'before " sm-per--li-nent-4 y meddling with the aNairs of others, is considered out of order." and lie shook- his bony linger threateningly at the President. In order! in order. came like a tempest from the outskirts of the building. "Resume the chair, Mr. President!11 he continued in a stern, commanding voice. The President sunk into his seat. My mission here is to expose cant, to uncloak hypocrisy, and to tear the thin, but impervious covering from that which you have dignified With the appellation of charity, but which is no more thall the painted sepulchre condemned by that Wessed Redeemer, in whose name you have perpetrated the most famouss rascalities, practiced hypocrisy that would have diagraleed the most abject Iblon, and consummated iniquities that a just God will punish with eternal damnation. You shall now hear what an AMERICA'N thinks This annunciation produced a marked erect, but the silence with, vvhich it was at first received, was broken by the thunder of ap. plause that shook the building. Cheer upon cheer welcomed the speaker from the'vast throng Of spectators who, having'filled the rear of the halJ9 now crowded along- the aisles so that the members the society could not escape the malediction of the indignant rator, W they would. The PrLbsident now sat te American had    in stupid silence until the storm, which raisedgshould pass away. ayThe gentleman who preceded me indulged in remarks tha is" d a lamentable ignorance of the peculiar institution of my untry, from the mornent ft was founded against our wishes, by ritish obstinacy and cupidity, to t1lb pre-sent hour. Advaittinz. r the sake of argument, that sla very is an evil, it is one that E avarice Established and one that English jealousy,' and- nnot 9. 19lish philanthropy, now seeks to'destroy." Vhis assertion was loudly applauded 'by the outsiders.     BITGLISH SERFDOM It cannot be forcibly eradicated without the total destruction of our government. And does it not come with a bad grace from those who planted Slavery in America, to ask us to abolish it at the imminent risk of subverting the most glorious system evoked b the Wisdom of the human race! And for what  To uproot the prin- ciples upon which the great Republic is based, solely fi)r the pur- pose of strengthening the crumbling foundation of despotism. The gentleman referred to the dreadfu I sale and separation of families "n the so        Who does not know that neces- I    other states. sity, stern-, iwWafthle, registi&.9 necessit is daily sundering the bonds which rivet the affections of your serfs I , Nay, within this hour I heard a poor child say that his father had been seized by a press-gang, and that, his mother has been left to wage an unequal contest with hunger, if not with dishonor; and he begged so pite- 'otisly to have the privilege of 'asking you, you, Mr. President, for A few shillings of that vast'sum you are about to expend in the cause of abolitionism to keep his mother from starvation. And here *--Within the walls of Dexeter Hall-where rotten-bearted philan- thropy revels in its foetidcorruption, yonder minion of power, whose livery conceals the heart of a hyena, savagely repulsed him." Storm. of -hisses were levelled at the officer, and fierce criers of, He's a brute-he's a brute met his startled ears. Now, Mr. President, how much will this society appropriate of the money collected to forward the unholy crusade of abolition- ism, for the'purpose of ameliorating the condition of that noble lit- fle boy, and others, in the same situation 2.  The speaker paused "Comer, I will yield the floorthat the motion rn  e made.$' "The proposition is out of order," muttered the pr  ent. "-Out of or-der! Yes, it is Out Of OR-DERto relieve the agony -upon this floor, a 'd "that that is visible        n    pleads with a child's -voice or succor; but it ia not out of or-der-English order, to let him ,starve. Well, sir, what will you give out of your own funds for the relief of this family 1" "Your conduct is unusual, sir ; your remarks are personal, air," responded the presiding officer.         I "My application was personal ; it was made to you, Solomon Greasebeans, in your'individual capacity, and the response is ac- compauied with quite as little aid as when I a' ealed to Solomon Greasebeans, the president of a celebrated society. What is the conclusion that must 6e forced upon every unprejudiced individual in this assemblage  That a contemptible ambition is the ground- work of your benevolence. In the United States we sell the father, but the wife and children are fed, clothed, and nursed in sickness. The law in its mercy requires it; the interest of the owner is a double guarantee'for its fulfillment. Here you steal the father, through the, agency of a, press-gang, and leave the wife and chil- ren to misery, dishonor, sickness, an -d death! 'There families are separated by executive sale ; here by a necessity quite as irre-sis- tible. There our slaves are well fed and clothed; here the trav- I- - eller 'is at a loss to know whether to laugh it the scanty raiment, which is sometimes an apology for clothing, or to weep over the emaciation that nakedness reveals. There the young uegroes are   AND AMERIOAlWSLAVERy. rarely taken from the Play-grounds ; here little white serfis drop .into the graves with broken Such ,                      Constitution$, at seven are the contrasts drawn by stern reality.   iyeim, of ,ge. I leavia vou to contemplate theme remarking, in Conclusion that we are, a ' Ving                                     I              annually 9' '  homes to thousands and tens of thousands of what P aceatly call the 6 surPlusr population'                 U corn- c othe, and educate those whom you woul Of England.         feed, enable them to send five'               d mercifully starve   We millions of dollars annually to relieve the wants of those who are so-urt-fortuaa(e as to-be unable to escape from s'ervitude-who are still subjected to the oppressive laws of the British empire. While we remember these facts, we can af- ford to despise the wanting hypocrisy which emanates Ifrom, the re- nowned society of Dex'eter Hall." The orator descended from the stand,, after havinff ance to the most causties eech overheard in that"' ,iven utter- p                       temple of the philanthropic. The president sat motionless,,"while the speaker was greeted by Aolonged cheers, that had more Of earnesto .ess in them, and less of sanctity than was usually vouchsafed to that ven. enable pile. Henry was 'as tn'uch excited as the most enthusiastic,, and he ex. claimed, ashe clapped his handle 64 Oh ! he'll do -something fo for Ma.ly                    r ma, I  know  he will do something P". 66 Now you httle rascal, out with youg" said the officer, as, seizing him by the collar, he led him towards thdoor. Oh don't, don't, till I've seen him ; pray don't." Will you hush ?11 screamed the policeman, all he shook him vi. " Shame ! -shame !" cried several of the- crowd. The officer paused  for a  moment and scowled u  on them.   Peri. haps You will try to effect a'fescue, Gentlemen 11,lp They we're appalled by. his words, and moving on, 4epitehed the child into the street. When Mr. Jones reached that part of the hall where his atten" tion had been attracted to Ifenry, he paused. it Have you seen the little child to whom I alluded," he asked of a bystander. '6 Yes, but a moment ago the officer thrust him out." The gentleman Dushed his way rapidly through the crowd, brut when he arrived atthe portico, the boy was no Jonger to be seen - his slight figure had been borne irresistibly gJpng-6y- the vast Vaul-91     EN(JIA18"SERFDOM CHAPTER IX. ws the festive chamber 69 Cbee-rful 910  I measure tirniles In the eire e - like wreftth of amber, youuts the fMC7 mth beeulles. Bright as 10ve its wftr SC;ARCrt LY had the full moon risen and -faintly brought the angles and tu'rrets of Montague Castle intoview, gently mellowing and subduing the evidences of decays as 'we love to see them repre- when the -flower of the English aristocracy rented upon canvas,         of joining in the festivities o began to assemble, for the purpose age rolled up beneath the portals the occasion. Carriage afterearri     n and their precious of the castle$ with their liveried coachme ,      of magnifi- freight-of wilt, beauty, and intelligence '. A long line     d i ,  almonds swept into the hall and mounted cent robes and sparkle ng di     The castle was brilliantly Wu- the staircase to the dressing-i0om.              o the minted. Each windows tower, and balcony sent its rays int night. Lamps were placed among the tiees that ornamented the ground, and their light mingling with the smile of the moon, pre. nee of more than oriental beauty. Among the sented an iappeara                   re and Sir 'ved at air early hour were Lord Delmo guests who arri                    'ling, which, William, Belthoven. The former earried'bis drni in a 8     I from pure accident, no doubts was made of the finest material the market afforded. 'Sir William Belthoven was radiant with satis- or the benefit of his constituency faction at being still preserved f              sted n bits estimation consi. and the service of his queen ; whieb      a willingness to tax (of what, in Englandt is not a peculiarity" of    M     he his constituents to any amount the wantsof her majesty or t  ht require. This, he Imagined, entitled him not public service mig  titude of those whom he enabled thus to inan- only to the lasting gra              parliament so ]on ifest their loyalty to the throne, but to a seat in p       9 succeed in humbugging electors not hitherto remarkable as he could    in detecting the groissest impositions. As John for the              S' 'William considered himself Bull is foncr of being humbugged, ir the position of a public benefactor, as occupying to.-some extent     ee to his complacency. which added in no inconsiderable de r aid his salu nations to Lord and Lady oss- Lord Delmore having p owed his way     rh the, crus through      h oflaces and more, gracefully b           1W silks, to that part of the room where Lady Katharine was sur rounded by hosts of admirers. "1 r     see, Lord Delmore, that regretted to y forebodings were too well founded." "ilov so 1" inquired him lordship. opulent it is no longer safe for -you ,1 That you have become so c to encounter the 6zards of a steeplechase. ioned by anxiety lest I should fail to win the "The fall was occas prize your fair hand was to bestow." Over weight, my lord."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. The dread of failure." Too much rotundity." 'Have it as you will, I am still spared, and remain the, most de- ed of your admirerss" replied the-veteran'and unconquerable U. Oh f. thank you"' replied the lady, as she made a low and grace- courtesy, in mock buinility. My mother says you have often made the same observation to remarked the young and transparently simple Lady Emily zzle, sister of the reader's acquaintance of the same name. 'Anobiservation I am fearful your ladyship will never elicit," marked the peer, with a stately air, vyhich had the effect of ren- ing that young lady extreme) taciturn for the rest of the even- He put a quietus upon her in his own Peculiar manner, which,' the way, he always adopted in silencing 11 sap heads." And it remarkable fact, that in the estimation of his lordship, it, made the slightest difference whether-'the " sap head" was attached he shoulders of a person whose great-grandfather was; apeer of realm or a tinker; and therein consisted the solitary proclivity ils lordship for republicanism. A proclivity which had, its ori- in a contempt for dullness, whether it was palliated by social ition and costly raiment, or displayed itself in the garb of Pov- r, rather than from a constitutional love for the lower orders. timothy , Lord Snizzle, now advanced to'pay his respects to Lady marinee. It was observable that "Tim Snizzle"I as Lord Del- -e irreverently called him, (with a reprehensible disregard for said Timothy's position, as the heir apparent to a dukedom,) Id see much better in genteel society without requiring the'as- ince of his eye-glass, than among the wealthy parvenus, who, imed that every thing done'by a lord must be worthy of admi- Dn. His grimaces were not, therefore, half so painful to con- plate, as when be was conscious of awak!I!I'ng mingled'emotions nvy and delight which hi's contortions elicited from that portion is acquaintance. Habit, however, sometimes made him uncon- usly thrust the glass into the socket of his eye. Upon such' visions the left orb instead of the right performed the unpleas- task of making him short-sighted, and the grimaces thereby kened were not half so fearful to 'contemplate asthose with Dh the right eye was accustomed to favor ,the'sub3tratum' of don society. Look here, Snizzle," said Lord Delmore, they have an ey6 mary in the city - why do you not have an o ration performed 7             P you cannot, of course, expect any prudent young lady to fully ielf to such a face as you now present. Judge for yourself; in the mirror." iord Snizzle turned to the mirror, and for a moment regarded contortions that had drawn up the lower part of his left cheek' ieet the u per part which had a corresponding depression. The -tion had the effect of disclosing several sharply point 'd teeth, eby giving to his mouth a voracious expression. 'he-muscles of his face collapsed as he finished a rather cursory     90          EN GLISH SERFDOM examination, and the eye-glass fell to the length of a pretentious chain. nozzlele," continued Delmore, 11 it is a great mistake to suppose that any defect of vision can add to the attractions of an individual. The e es are remarkably true evidences of mental conformation. y Thus, if i person is cross-eyed, you will find a corresponding ob- liqtiity in his moral perceptions. If he i's near-siahted. his conduct will seldom square with the recognized standards of propriety or common sense. There may be exceptions to the rule, but I have not been so fortunate as to meet with them. In either case, you will find their possessors have craftyor turbulent dispositions, way- ward and uncontrollable Passions, or are governed bya thorough contempt for the sacred and necessary regulations which morality has eittablished for the control of society." Lord Snizzle bad a great respect for the opinions of the veteran beau, because he was always cordially welcomed in the most select circles, and he inwardly resolved never to use his eye-glass except among plebeians, where he knew it couldn't fail of producing a sen. station. The ghests continued to arrive, and I the spacious rooms were thronged. The hour had come when the ball was to " be opened. "Kate, has the hero of the steeple-chase yet- presented him- self 1" asked Lord Rossmore. No, pa'pa," she replied. Has hei sent no message 1" Not that I have received." It is remarkable. I should not judge from hie bearing that he could be guilty of discourtesy." We could expect nothing else from a person occupying his po- sition," said the maiden, as her nostrils dilated and a Rush suffused her cheeks. "Perhaps he mav be ill, or more probably, his bashfulness could -not brave this array' of illustrious names." He certainly ought not to expose me to the taunts which the impertinent will indulge in, notwithstanding my hand in the dance would be an honor the most illustrious noble in the castle might be proud of. But it is idle to look for well-bred manners in a boor," Replied Katharine Wntague, as her eyes flashed, and her little foot impatiently taped the velvet carpet. At this inopportune moment Lord Melville made his way through the ess of silks to the, side -of Lady Katharine. congratulate your ladyship," he said spitefully, 41 on the hap- pin6ss which is vouchsafed YOU in being honored with the hand of my father's tenant in the dance."           I  "An honor for which I am indebted to your lordships want of skill and courage as an equestrian, whereby your father's tenant convinced your father's son, that so far at least as. one accomplish- ment is concerned, which- denotes a man, the high-born noble is not the equal of the humble retainer " replied the maiden sarcastic. Baulked, bey, Melville?" exclaimed Delmore gayl  66 WbY, ,man, have you hot measured lances often enough with  dy KAth-   AND AMERIOAN SLAVERY. arifle Montague to discover Your inferiority in the witp,                      tournament of It"And i I f have, I believe I am not the only 0 ith'the same 6Xperience1%      ne, who has heen favored W I replied Afil We ea Perhaps not %- but at all events     v   r"Istically. come to rny knowledge where exper YOU 8re the 001Y case -that- ha;$ s an old adage        3 not produced caution. But there i,           ience ha .&which. that says whom ti -scriptural or classical, I have fOrArotten mad. '         he gods would destroy If there, is any truth in it Your prospect they -fijt make ment of sanity is very slender."     I., -for a long enjoy- Melville cOntrolled"his indignation w walked away.             ith a Powerful effilOrt, -u he B"'ous, d6lidedly bilious he Ought to offer for .1 sea  remarked Sit Willian, Belth,,., patient          t in Parl' i I'll be bound,91    lament; th2twould tftch him With an anxiety that caused Katharine     tague to mile through her blushesq she glanced around the roo ble tenant whose presences under the circurns   But the hum. lances, would have caused a thrill of pleasure, did not make hi. a earance, h PP It was with a face flushed with a scarlet ue that sht addressed even Lord Delmore, the oldest and most ' ances.                esteerned of h' 4 &My lord, I hope you Will excuse t       er acquaint- you to favor me with Your hand i he liberty'l take in ask-ng PeDing the dance to ni The individual who was to have handothat honor       ght. proved a recreant knight,91          i, has, it seems ithe haughty beauty.   and a faint smile wreathed the lips of Certainly, my dear Lady Katherine; nothing coul greater pleasure than this unexpected honoryl replied more WM the greatest deference.          d   Del- The dancers took their Places and the gorgeous through the a aciotts saloon which so well n grace The polka and wilt, were excid    Orna a      uadrille shows off the beauty of f  9 the st The, figure wa,     Sic floate whose voluptuotts embrace less re ded          motion. fi  the Polka and viraltz, for I with it their fortunes      ned maidens pan4 as, thougil --thereby meaning rich tablishments-were mades and        husbands and fine es- Petual celibacy :      Without itthey were doomed to per. doorsky-ce-  the Polka and waltily borrowed &Ora the less romantic                       ,out- Hinged, leaf-Walled ballroom"Ot-theRhineq and the ,and respectable quar tiers of the rhe Polka and waltz,             Pari luau intended to display the accompli, rosettess, Whole whose heels can be cultivatedt but whose head  hmentg of 8 cannot: the 101ka and waltz, whose days are numberedg and-whos 'soon 90 to the wall, when heels will O     e votaries ,here 6raijj have                the pojition ,e       long been stationed.    the class "Own, -species snip, instead '     Then ecupy 'here wisdom modest  of thrusting their capering     as nong the, o -          I          stupi4ityt outsiders.  Ppe", w" reisuMe their rightful p -tion fted Wi th im     mOr8 will be see         001 'Ya hor  -Powng Presence      u the forms of men, Wh-6 yet stooi to the attittideof Moa,. the I)UrPOOe of enabling gaud their ligu;es a  Sgeo     Y-dressed van t.           Whead Ige'r          ably, ': Th  begrjj   a to show attempt to  -in himself      ess..stripling  ' stra                "g M" no UP to` A148hood, by the waist     XNGLISR BERFDOX some spinster who could boast of Maturity at least half a dozen years ago. That enchanting combination of hops, shuffles, and skips, that 'is simply a prelude to the more violent features of Ole main performance, though surpassing them in thespasmodic mo- tions which strot;gly resemble a double representation of St. Vitus's dance, will never more cause the hearts, of adoring mammals to overflow with happiness; never more cause the feminine member of the jigging partnership to cast devotional balance into the eyes of the male member as a reward for encircling her waist with a more vigorous arm, under an implied understanding that it is not squeezing-though very like it-only inecessaT Iy support.  Never again suffer demure yet observant glances to flash around, as she whirls past, to free if some other beau is not dying of envy because his arm is not around her zone ; to estimate the probabilities of that fine-looking stranger desiring an introduction. to encourage which she suffors several additional pounds of her invaluable weight to rest in the arms of her partner. Never again will she whirl around the room until her strength is completely exhausted, in the hope that all the spectators will have an opportunity of admiring the arace with which she can balance herself u on one foot' while %.1                                         p           I the other cuts two or three fantastic flourishes unseen, if it is fash- ioned after a shovelish mould; a performance that is duly reward- ed by suffering that foot to obtain a few moments' rest in gratitude for its vigorous demonstrations, while the other is made to cut the same fascinating shake. The figure W'as'the graceful and stately quadrille, and the inost observed among the dancers was Katherine Montague. Her spirit was not in the amusement, for she dreaded the biting sarcasm of Lord Melville. To avoid meeting himahe withdrew from the sa- loon when the figure was over. Passing along the balcony, she turned an angle of the castle. The night was exceedingly lovely. The moonhad mounted above the trees, and was casting a flood -of light upon the rich foliage that surrounded the castle. The stars were g'ood-naturedly winking at the festivities of the hour. The soft breezes of departing summer gently agitated the trees, and upon the fragrant air, mellowed by distance, floated the music of the band. The maiden contemplated the scene with emotions of tranquil 4- delight. Hers was a Find that could el evate itself above a dance, alf the world had the 'newest fashions, and the opinion which one-h formed and expressed of the other half. With all ber pride of an- cestry, and of caste, there was at the foundation of her character a lively regard for the rights of the masses ; less philosophical, -per- baps, than impulsive. It was this that prompted her to indulge in thoie ironical allusions to the government and social -regulations of England which were listened to by the Duchess of Sunderland and the Countess- 'of Rossmore with such lively satisfaction. The- abo- lition Opinions of the former she assailed wit[ a power of sarcasm, that nothing but the wretched condition of the tenantry upon the Sunderland estate could have enabled her to indulLre in. She - gladly turned from the gay crowd for a few moments to pze upon the beau'A 9 of nature. The private grounds of- this   AND AMERICAY SLAVERY. castle, with their flowers and shrubbery, lay invitingly open. The beckoning trees waveA her onwards, and descending' the staircase she entered the garden, slowly proceeding along the gavel walk I leading to the stream that bounded, the garden in that direction. She seated herself in a bower that overlooked the water and commanded a view of the, undulating park which stret6bed away to the south. She was -aroused from her recumbent posture by the wailing of a child. Ever alive to the voice of distress sbe listened. The cry became fainter, tot as she thought by distance, 6ut by weakness. It seemed to proceed from the darriage-way that led through that par 't of the grounds. Her sympathies were excited, and apprehending no danger where she was known to the humble only to be idolized, she descended the pathway leading to the stream and crossed the rustic bridge to the other side. Ascending to the summit of the acclivity, she paused to listen.' The voice of a inan uttered words of encouragement and consolation. There could be no risk in meeting one who was evidently engaged in the cause of mercy, and she advanced in the direction- from whence faint moans were now beard. As she emerged from the cluster of trees that bordered the car- riage-w4y, she saw the form of a man bending- over a ebild, whose head lie was sustaining upon his arm. He turned his bead at ber approach, and she met the glance of Christie Kane. The young man raised the boy to his feet, stili sustaining his weight with his arm.- " And this is the reason why you did not keep your engagertien 't at the castle I" she observed, in a tone that was in the slightest de. gree tremulous. No, madam," responded Christi6 Kane, decidedly. And, pray, to what other cause may your rudeness be attribu. ted ?" she curtly inquired. "Not to thrust myself where 1 should only be welcomed by scoffs. can hardly be termed an -act of rudeness."   - You misunderstand, air, the courtesy of our house. Whom we admit within its precincts, we know bow to treat with civility." " Probably, after they are admitted ; but there is a way to ex- clude an individual who may know what is due to himself, if be is a peasant," replied Kane, sarcastically. How ?-what do you mean?" I mean, lady, that nature has endowed me with too much pride, if I am humbly bornto pledge the grateful offeringof tbespirit's fbalty at the summons of amortal like myself," said Christie, sternly. The sinifing eye's of the lady apologized for the curling lip. Enough, air. Whom have we here One of the unfortunate tenants of the Duke of Sunderland, who has been so long without- food that he cannot stittid alone." Poor child," she said, in a tone ofdeep dommiseration. Withhold your sympathy, madam; the most illustrious of the Pests, who are now enjoying the festivities of yonder castle, can boast of at least a score of human beings who are dying, literally dying of starvation - and they will soon thank God at the near ap- proaA ofdeath, unless her grace, the Duchess, with the assistance of -the charitable ladies who meet- at Strafford House for the puir-    "         ENGLISH SERFDOM pose of ostentatiously displaying their benevolence, should, at a sufficiently early day, succeed in ameliorating the condition of the whole world beside, when she may, possibly, find time to direct her benevolent eyes to the appalling situation of her own peasantry. While there is a foreign subject, however, upon which her charities can be expended in a way to arrest attention and command ap- plause, she will not be able to discover the miserable condition of her own tenants. Her grace's moral eyesight possesses the rare faculty of only coming to a focus beyond the limits of Europe. So nearly parallel are its rays, that domestic suffering never meets with domestic alms." The boy moaned. cast carry you to the gig; it is only a few 'steps now. I hope our ladyship will pardon me for trespassing upon the grounds of arl Rossmore." Yes. Good-night, madam." Good-niaht." Raising the child in his arms Christie Kane proceeded down the road, and his form was soon- lost amidst the shrubbery that over- hung the way. An implacable enemy of our class," said Katharine Montague, as she retraced her steps to the castle. The grounds in front of the castle were thronged by the retain- ers, of the houses of Sunderland and Montague, and thei peasantry of the surrounding estates. The most healthy portion of the popa. nation were out; and as Lord Rossmore had ordered tables to be loaded with food beneath the trees, gayety prevailed without as well as within the castle. He was known as one of the most lib- eral and kind of the English aristocracy, and he was, consequently,. very popular with the substratum, the country round. He had suf- ficient tact to comprehend that such gorgeous display 9 as were now witnessed in the castle of Montague, if not partial atied in by the substratum, ipiaht occasion heart-burnings, if not disaffection. He knew how easily -they were satisfied, and wisely conceded some- ,thing to natural prejudice by'giving an humble entertainment upon the greensward, which proved quite as satisfactory to them as the display within the castle did to his courtly guests. With two vio- lins and abundance to eat, the few might for them rule the world. And Lord Rossmore knew it.' Among the happiest and most. Grateful of the out-door guests was Mr. Phelim Savor. Phelim was ordinarily blessed with un- quenchable good nature; but a well-71ined jacket added surprising' ly 9 to his facetiousness. It created a well of thankfulness that he con- sidered ,-inexhaustible, and he, therefore, drew large v from it. Phelim was the centre of an admiring circle, and he proceeded -to expatiate largely upon popular themes, for Mr. Savor possessed enough sagacity to know, that to become a favorite, one must never broach unpleasant subjects. He therefore enlarged upon the gen- erosity. of Lord Rossmore for his bounty, which he was then availing himself of to an extent that a strict regard'for truth -will not justify us in-pronouncing moderate. Having,after the manev   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. of more literary and refined gentlemen, expressed his gratitude to his entertainer, (which elsewhere is manifested b personal lauda. tion of the host, or in extravagant praises of whaythewy have in- vented, or   have to sell, or, as by no -meansis -unfre- gently the case                         9 may  e prepared for the benefit of the travelling  Ublic-) for his libe hospitality, he launched off into praises of ristie Kane, the hero of the steeplechase. As Christie belonged not exactly to their set, but to a few shades, on] , above'iti he was y deerned worthy of almost as mue applause -as Earl Rossinore, and if the occasion had been any ot er than one which displayed the Earl's generosity, and therefore awakened their gratitude to an un- usual degree, the name of Christie Kane would have been wel- comed more enthusiastically than any other. Fill yez glasses," said e -cheerful'voice of Mr. Savor;, " wid the permission of the gentleman beyant, whose iligant spach have 5een so properly and purposely praised, I will prayface me last 'oast wid a sintim.'entwhich will, as 8ir William Be"Ithoven says, -neet wid universal approbation ; bekase. as Sir William says, it ovill be unineasurably liked. Christie Kane, the gintleman-the humble gintleman" (added Mr. Savor, upon perceiving the word gintleman was not well received. by his, audience, and he had -earned froxh Sir William that offensive remarks were to be avoided)* who so significant triumphed over the no ility beyant at the teeplechaseJimeimployer." Phelimpause whenheannounced ie relative position of a     the idol of the hour aj;d himself ;, -a position )at in fact consisted of service u pon the one side for the consider 4on of very plain fare, and no wages on the other. Phelim. did A attempt to be accurate as to- terms; he 6ni wanted to apprise, S hearers that he was something more than ayn ordinary aequa'i'n- nee of the victorious horseman. In thi's respect Phelim . Savor allowed the example of thousands who are satisfied with reflecting e honors that are showered upon favorites bv merely knowing em and being seen in their presence ; a common failing, by the Ly, of sapheads in general, who are conscious that the observa- in of the curious can be won by no other process. 6' Be rayon, of me familiarity wid Mr. Christie Kane," continue d Mr. Savor, after an impressive and significant pause; "I can ike understandingly, as Sir William Belthoven sa s, manihir Ireby, under the comprehension of -the fraymen ; a bootyi Agure 19pache. Mr. Kane is proud - of, his success' to-day, bekase he ongi to the poor divile (three vociferous' -cheers) who -give the )ility money to display their extravagance, as they-are doing this isid night in, yon castle, (scowling visages were, directed to the minated-building) an' enable Lord Rossmore to give us a'mag- eint- entertainment like a noble gentleman as he is. (Earl -Ross- re was loudly cheeredd) Yez -say its kind in the aristocracy to after letting' us enjoy a sight of steeple chases and balls, for Ay stomache don!t feel half so bad for several da s, bekase whin mind runs fernenst a jolly time, its arnazin' howy it takes one's ights from temporal affairs. Some discontinted devils thry to  us belave we are -human being$, and hiv rights, natural rights, I tul the Proudest nobleman in England. -But don't we all     ENGLISH SERFDOM know they are unrasonable spalpeens ? Jist look at Arthur Wel-. lington William Pitt Smithers, yonder, wid his knees through his pantaloons, thrying tul scrape acquaintance wid his elbows, which are in the same predicament, as yez will obsarve. Now will ony nian say that Mr. Smithers is a human baing to the same extint as Earl Rossmore P" "No! no !" and derisive laughter. "Of koorse not. Thin Arthur Wellington William Pitt Smith- ers must be thrated accordin. He can't expict onything but savare labor for thim as has more naturaller rights thin himself. If he was a human baing tul the same extint as thim blissid aristocracy up yonder, we would all work and toil and sweat for Smithers as charefully as we would for ony other superior baing." " How do you make it out that they are superior beings, Mr. Sa- vor V" asked a voice in the crowd. "How do I make it out ? There's an ignoramus for yez! Don't we labor and suffer, and don't they laugh and enjoy thimselves Ain't we ragged ? ain't they well clad ?  Ain't we hungry ? ain't they well fed ? Ain't they bootiful ? ain't we ugly as sin, especi- ally yezsilf . How do I make it out ?" quoted Phelim indignantly; "don't the blissid. prastes, whin they cancel ony little rascalities we hev committed, tell us obadience to the laws is the nixt thing in importance to paying the tithes ? Begorra, the gintilman who axed that question must be a heretic who has niver been blissid wid the pardonin' power of the prastes-long life tul thim and may they ba long spared to open the hivenly gates for poor divils to en- ter-or been favored with the illegant diskoorse of Sir William Belthoven. Didn't that distinguished parliamentary man tell the fraymen the day afther he was elected whin they coome to con- gratulate him, that obadience to the government was the best koorse for them tul pursue, and that they must not expict much from the government, bekase the government had all it could do tul take .care of itself, and that if they obayed the laws, paid the rint and the tithes, and all other taxes, and conducted thimselves as orderly citizens, the government would be satisfied, and would not molest thim, unless it wer nicessaty to hiv their sirvices in foreign parts, whin they would be fayvoored by a visit from the press-gang, whose praysadings would be very quiet and orderly. One ongrate- ful spilpeen said it wer his opinion that foreign parts claimed too much attintion, bekase the philanthropists were neglicting the poor white people here to send money tul the niggers, and the govern- ment wer stealin' white people to send off to Africa to prevent nig- gers baing stolen, and it seemed to him the niggers wer considered more of gintilmen than himsilf. By the holy St. Pathrick, but yez ought to hiv sane how they hustled him out, an ongrateful boogger as he manifisted himsilf. But-" "Mr. Savor, don't you think you had better let us drink your toast and conclude your speech afterwards. Eloquence has made us very dry, down here," said a voice from the lower end of the table. " I returns me thanks to the gintleman for the compliment," observed Mr. Savor, bowing. "Allow me to propose the health   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.                          7 and happiness of me employer, Mr. Christie Kane, who niver car- ries two faces under one hat." The sentiment was drank with all the honors, and by none with a deeper expression of regard, than by Mr. Phelim Savor himself who imbibed the grateful beverage so freely that his ideas became Father confused, and he did not feel altogether equal to the work of continuing his brilliant discourse. The company began to leave the castle, and soon with that un- accountable apprehension of being last-which is almost as much dreaded as being first--the gay throng bid adieu to their hospitable entertainers, and the castle was deserted, save by those guests who were to remain all night beneath its roof. Following the example of the aristocracy, that portion of the Earl's company who had been enjoying themselves whexe there was plenty of air, also withdrew; prompted, however, by the an- nunciation that the gates were to be closed, rather than by an ap- prehension of being last, which we are bound to admit would, in a considerable number of cases, have been deemed a consummation devoutly to be wished, in view of sundry bottles of liquor yet uncorked. The moon was hiding her roguish smile behind the trees; the stars were slily winking, and the gentle breeze was rustling the green foliage. Katharine Montague leaned from the casement. Her cheeks were still flushed with excitement, and her disheveled hair fell to her feet.  How much happier was the accomplished, beautiful, and idolized daughter of that illustrious house than those who made themselves miserable by envying her lot!" "We all have our troubles," she sighed, as she closed the case- ment. How many of the sorrowful and harassed pilgrims to the other world can repeat her language, as they toil along the dreary path- way of life, across which despondency would cast its dark shadow, if it was not dispelled by rays from the lighthouse of hope ? CHAPTER X. "Who dare confide in right or a just claim ?"-GozTHz.  IT was with a heart bursting with grief that Henry Kane re- turned from the meeting at Dexeter Hall. His hopes had been raised to such a height before he entered the edifice dedicated to the cause of foreign charities with loudly proclaimed asseverations of domestic piety and abstinence from all sinful desires-or gratifications, that now, when lie was convinced they would not stoop from-their exalted situation to his lowly condition, the reaction in his feelings made him very miserable. He could not eat the pittance his mo- ther had kept fir him, and he was glad of it, too, for both his mo- ther and Dolly looked as though they were very hungry. Buickt" you must eat, Henry, indeed you must, or you will be sick,"    ]ENGLIM SERFDOM O full here)' 7 and he clasped his throat with I cannot, man I am s his hands.   ick, Henry!" said Dolly, taking his hand- Do, oo feel s   nly I can't eat. Here, take the bread eat Not very, Dolly, 0 it yourself, Dolly-" "             -a it wistfully No, ise wont." But sh6 eye 4C yes"YOU must." No." But I dwet want it, Dolly-" Don'tj oo 1" No. 97 Pon zoo honor ill No," he said, smiling. Take half of it, then."   f bread, with great difficulty's and And she broke the hard piece o gave, hith the largest part. 4& Ma, why don't you, write to grandma, and tell her all about our c. condition 1" "I have. '!" he injured eagerly. And what did she say . ned from home by their landlord." That they had been tur "And could not help us." "No." He reflected a few moments. "Ma, I'll tell you what I must do he said, resolutely. "What VI Go and get employment in a weaving establishment-" it is impossible." At your tender age-1       ly little boys2 and. little girls, Oh no, it ain't ; there's ever so mar too, no bigger than I am, who workthere." "But what good would it do V "I heard lem say a smart, little boy coul,41 earn siic or seven u know, would buy us a loaf of bread; pence a day, and that, yo sure, I shall please them." and I will be so smart I am       11) responded Mrs. Kane, "And ruin your health at the same Ume, sadly.             it! 1 shall stand it bravely, for I "Better that than starve, ain't it -.vill make Dolly to eat the shall think all day long how happy broad I bring home to her at night." She pressed him silently it, her arms.     as that bad offi- "And if I do that nobody can call me a beggar) you will let meiry, wonit you, mu. clar did. (It Yes, you MaY try$ -,she laid ," Thank you, dear ma-to-morrow 1"        f having his There was brief struggle in her mind at the idea o    rk- tender form so soon tested by hard labor. lie observeaher wo ing countenance. y miserable and unhappy if you refuse.17 A4 I'shall he ver   go to-morrow-yes, to-morrow-? 96 Well, well, you "MY      s much pleasure, as if her con- His countenance lighted up with a care little people are in -the sent had exempteahim, from every  with a great deal of inge-P habit of thinking their parents concoct   AND AMERICAN, SLAVERY.            99 'nuity and no small amount of labor, for their particular and indi- Vidual annoyance.' At an early hour the next day, Henry Kane sallied forth with a clean face, an"d in the clothes that bad but one patch upon them, and that one neither upon the seat, nor paid for b the public as a judicial and, therefore, necessary expenditure. He sought no a& venture, like the worthy knight, Don Quixote; but bisstomach, poor boy, was as destitute of food as that redoubtable champion's head was of brains. No; the ]ad set forth with hopeful feelings in search of the practical, unromantic employment of a wheel-Spinnerg that he might contribute, in a small way, to the support othis, des- titute, family. What an example did he set to the youthwho live only for pleasure, without bestowing a tho-ught'upon those who are less fortunate, or pausing to raise their eyes for a moment to Heav en in thankfulness for every earthly blessing! Faint with hunger, he threaded the streets, only kept from sinking in despair upon the ground by a sense ef duty. He passed confectionery shops, where cakes and fruits were temptingly displayed; refectories from which issued the smell of beef and the aroma of coffee - into these he cast wistful, but momentary glances, and sped onwards. Passers, by noticed his pale cheeks ; -yet the sight was so common in London that they did not proclaim it a novelty by turning their heads. One boy, trimly dressed, and who had evidently been favored by some liberal person with an extravagant amount of pennies, judging from the artillery of rolls, the magazine of cakes, and the embankment of candies with which his person was fortified, spied Henry from afar off. ' As they approached each other, the stranger sidled away, not that he supposed the pale child was about to forage upon his possessions, but only to obtain a 'more accurate survey of his per- son. His jaws moved less and less rapidly as they neared one an--, other, until, as Henry was passing him, they altogether ceased mas- ticating the compound of cake, bread, and candies, with which his mouth was distended to 'Its greatest, not to say its most alarming capacity. Whether there was something in the emaciated appear- ance of the wan face that excited his compassion or whether the superabundance of good things with which he bad supplied himself, had enlarged his sympathies as they -had his stomach, and made him desirous of imparting something of the superabundance, as a new convert does that blessed religion which is more than enough for, his own bliss, will to" the latest time remain u-nex lined. Either the emaciated appearance of Henry, or the world-of good things which the stranger possessed, one orAhe other, or both, prompted birn to advance a step and make earnest gesticulations. Henq stood still, while his eyes followed the bread which the other was flourishing diligently in default of speech, for his mouth seemed to be hermetically sealed by the compound there imprisoned. Find- ing that the gesticulations did not have the effiect of expressing his charitable desires, he thrust the bread into Henry's hand., artieulat- ing -at the same time with manifest difficulty. Take it." The face of Henry was crimsoned in a moment- as he drew back. He had never taken alms.     too.         XNGLISH SERFDOM Do take it," said the other in a kind voice.  You look so, pale and thin. Come, I've got ever so much beside, and see all the pennies too." nry took the bread. am sure I am very much obliged to -you," he said, grate- fully.: "You're welcome. Here, take this roll too." Henry looked surprised at his generosity. 4.6 Oh, I've eaten enough myself, I couldn't swallow as much as would choke a mouse." The child thought of the hungry ones at home, and he put the roll in his pocket, and then he thanked the good boy again, and then he walked along more briskly than ever. The sun seemed t shine more brightly, and the faces of all the people he met looked more" cheerful, and he turned his head to catch one more glimpse of the kind stranger, Who was still watching him, with a pleasant consciousness that be had made him happier than be was before. Henry soon reached the large weaving establishment, and tim- idly entering the office, stood by the door, with his hat in his hand. One- of the partners was there, and seemed to be in consul- tation with a fore-man of the establishment, Henry modestly waited until their attention might be directed to him. A large black'Newfoundland dog, whose fa:t proportions spoke of good liv- ing and gentle treatment, regarded the child with sleepy eyes, and seemed to be in doubt whether he was, in fact, a veritable boy, or the huge form of the mastiff, that had been troubling his dreams. After a long examination, during which, judgingfrom. a growl, he had a reasonable-or rather an instinctive, conviction that the identical mastiff was then and there, present, and that too, in a most offensive position. When this impression had ripened into certainty, the baggy monster was not long in defining his position. Without attempting to disguise his purposes with gracious and complimentary notes, intended only to deceive, such as our re- nowned - diplomatists are accustomed to write to each other, the gallant Newfoundlander sprang to his feet, and without, any more formal declaration of hostilities than a bark, prepared to repulse the enemy from his territory. No sooner, however, had he thus pro- claimed his ultimatum, and that too with a dogmatical resolution to enforce it-an example which might be appropriately followed by certain crowned heads-than he was apprised of the futility of even- canine opinions. If his warlike preparations were unhesita- tingly made, no one, not even the Emperor ot. France, could ex- press more undisguised satisfaction, that peace could be preserved upon honorable terms. If one could not brook a continental war that would light the fires of a revolution, which must turn up the rotten foundations of despotic governments, because his sympathies were aroused for those who might fall in a conflict that must give freedom to Europe, the other could not visit that indignation upon a poor little boy, which might rightfully be poured out upon the head of an offending mastiff. So he walked up to Henry with a separate and distinct proclamation of neutrality in each wag of - his   AN AMERICAN SLAVEPty. tail, and the offer of an alliance offensive and defensive in every glance from his good-natured eyes. What do you want?" said, the partner, as he surveyed Henry wer his specwcles-those lighthouses standing out upon the nose, ts a disregarded warning that he was rapidly approaching the great )ort to which his sea-beaten craft had directed her , course for nore than half the brief period allotted for a passage trom, time to -Oternitv. Please, sir, I want employment." Em loymen-t! It seems to me all the brats in London come D me for employment." "Perhaps they can't find it anywhere else V1 "Hity, tity! and if they could, I suppose they would not come ere ; eh?" Henry was grieved to think he had made a disagreeable remark. id he was silent, not knowing what to say- Hey! is that it?" I don't know, Sir, only I didn't mean to offend you." Didn't you? Well, I should not think it would be w Iffle to do it, if you think of working for me! Hey, orth your No."                        y Hear that, you little spawn Yes sir. Well what can you do 1 don't know, but I am willing to do anything." And how much will you, give me to learn you to do something yourself?" Flenry was appalled, for a moment. 'Give     2   I've not got one single, penny in the world. I you, sir very poor." I do not see how you could well be more so ; do you, Dyke- n?" ' No.17 'You don't expect me to Day yow anything, do you?" he asked voice calculated to make4 enry believe that such expedtations -e little less criminal than t eft. lut despair was not -to be put down by looks, or words either. I must have money, sir." You must.; why?" Because if I don't, my little sister and - -little -brother, and her too, will starve!" The old story', Dykeman." Yes. 7) The -same." Yes. Poor people will persist in the foolish idea that if they eat they must, die Preposterous notion V' Monstrous!" Especially when bread is scarce." knd potatoes have the rot." low much do you expect a day?" said the commiserate Mr. sebean.99 for he was no less a personage than the President of     Uri         ENGLISH SERFDOM the Dexeter Hall Association, for the Arneliorat' n, &c., &e., -of the African Negroes, &e., &c., and the American Slave, &c., &c. "I hope seven pence a day will not be too much 1" said Henry, alarmed at the magnitude of the amount, as he mentioned it. Think of that, Dykeman!" Yes." Sevenpence a day!'" A day!" Ain't they coming to Fast!" "They have no consciences." Nor bowels, except for food." You may think yourself fortunate if I give you threog said the charitable Mr. Greasebeans, who had subscribed five hundred pounds at the recent meeting at lje'xeter Hall, to aid the cause of Emancipation in the United States. Then I can't work for you," said Henry sadly, as he put on his hat and moved towards the door. "Well, how little will you take V inquired Mr. Greasebeaus; "come, now, if we make your work light;" and he winked at Dykeman, a freedom tally at variance with the orderly and well- regulated features, such as the president of a renowned society might be supposed to possess. Henry recollected that his mother bad expressed her anxiety about his health, and he was grateful, therefore, to Mr.- Greasebeans for the intimation that hewould make his work light. He hesitated for a few moments, and then he thought be would, come down a penny, and that wgp a great deal to him. And he told hit? so. Sixpence! Doyou. hear that, Dykeiman V1 Yes." Did you ever hear such exorbitant demands 1" Never." The world is surely coming- to an end!" On fire now!" Where?" eitclaimed Greasebeans, in evident alarm. Deep down in the earth, so the geologers say." Pshaw!" ' Nonsense!" I'll give you fivepence, boy." Henry again moved towards the door, and the rich man, think- ing that he had chaffered long ibnough with human misery, not only to satisfy his partners of his business sagacity, but also to maintain his own reputation in tact, finally agreed to give Henry the liberal sum of sixpence a day, adding sternly But recollect, I have bought your time, youngster, from five O'clock in the morning until seven at night." "So many hours as that 1" asked the child falteringal se                        4;7 y Yes, every moment of it. For that time You are iold to me. If you come one minute too late it wilt be theK ; do you under- stand theft!" For a moment he thought of - giving up the place at once, but   AND AMERICANSLATERY. 103, then the images of his mother and Dolly and Frank       - before him.                     Tot rose up " Yes I will do it." I   1 'Very well, now you may go. Henry left the office, and, then he thought the time for receiving his wages had not been fixed, and he returned, honestly Wishing that there might be no mistake. "Please, Sir, you will pay me the sixpence every night, wont you?" "Do you hear that, Dykeman?" it Yes. 1) Is it not too outrageous 21) J told ou they would pe' rep y         rsist in not letting their stomachs grow UPI  lied Dykeman cynically. it Must I humor him?" suppose so., unless you can make him believe it is just as agreeable and quite as well in the long run, to fast for a month or through one quarter, as it is to eat. And I do not know why you should riot, for you accomplish things in a money-making way al- most as difficult." He! he! he!"shrieked the delighted Mr. Greasebeanx. The compliment of Dykeman had evidently expanded the heart of his patron, for that individual said with an expression of benevolence upon his features Yes, my little man, you shall receive the total amount of six- pence each day." Thank you, sir, 11 replied Henry, and he went home very hap- py to think he had obtained a situation where he could get sixpence day to sup ort, him family and p y the house ren't, and for which. I?         a he only had to task his strength fourteen hours a day, and that, too, in the service of a person who had Written his name UDOn the record of humanity in unmistakable characters by his liberality in the crusade of Abolition. crusade which sought to improve the condition of young negroes who, at the a e when Henry had sold 9 hiinself to work fourteen hours a day for sixpence, were scamper- Ing unchecked in t  playgrounds, or earning double-that suln by holding Massays  e. CHAPTER XI. To -whole with dark displeas ure Jove re lied: Base and side-shifting traitor I vex not meP H;re sitting, a uerulons; of all who dwell On the 01 - " ym ian height.%, thee most I hate. Contentious, whose delight is vrar alone. hwas a severe trial for Henry Kane to get up every morning four o'clock, for it took an -hour, to eat his breakfast, and get to 5 fa tory at five. An our was allowed at dinner, sa that- in Lking UP his compleme  of -fourteen hou'rs- he could not start, Is return until eight. A great many children were,-employed     ENGLISH SERFDOM in the same room with him, all of them engaged in the laborious taskof turning wheels. That it required ' too much exertion for their strength was proved by the deformed limbs, that had b6come misshapen unqer the ordeal. Crooked legs, uneven hipst arms'out of all proportion, round -shoulders, and bent heads, that presented upon their little bodies the most quaint, old fashioned, grotesque appearance. To see them at work, with their sad faces and bent forms, would make a person think he had been favored with one of those sights which were vouchsafed to Gulliver, and which he re- counts (after the manner of the present day)'with such apparent truth, in his "' personal recollections." He would come to the con- elusion that he was in the rightful territory of a nation of Lillipu- tians, and with all due speed would beat a retreat before " eachin- dividual hair" on his cranium was made to " stand" out by a peg. Mr. Dvkeman had the overseeing of this part of the establish.- ment, and to do that functionary justice, he was by nature and a thorough training sufficiently unfeeling to do credit to the discipline of "'Messrs Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co," the successors to the celebrated house of the "Snodgrass Brothers," who had them- selves succeeded the "Brothers Snodarass," business descendants of "Snodgrass and Son," the original founders of the establish- ment, and supposed, also, to have been the originator of the part- nership term of "Brothers Snodgrass," and also that of "Snod- grass Brothers," a phrase whose mellifluousness of tone and easy gracefulness of expression, finds much favor at the present day. Be that as it may, Hugh Dykernan had no more feeling for human suffering than might be supposed to emanate from a piece of leather that had'undergone the process of tanning for seven years. Hugh prided himself upon his stolidity ; so 'did Messrs. Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co. It suited him to annoy the poor creatures over whom he was set as guard, for he seemed to revel in human suffer- ing. If he could not, by taunts, wring tears from them, he sought an o opportunity. when overpowered nature took a few moments for rest, to steal softly up to the offender and dash his raw hide into his flesh, and then he would laugh gleefully, and rub his hands as the victim danced about the room. No galley slave ever dreaded the approach of his task-matter more than that band of helpless children did the presence of Dykeman. It was useless to com- plain to the proprietors, for lie at once exculpated himself to their efttire satisfaction by informing them that their interests would be advanced if he was allowed -to u-se the raw-hide freely. And so their lacerated forms continued to bear evidence that Dykeman still enjo,  his favorite amusement. H  ry had hitherto escaped the vengeance of this monster. This was probably owing to the fact that he was strong and reso- lute compared with those who had been. longer subjected to arduous labor. But after he bad performed his task a few days, his strength began to fail him. He required more nourishing food than bread, which was all that now passed his lips. Exhausted with fatiffue, he had'fallen asleep during the hour of rest, and failed to hear the bell which called them again to their work. Dykeman sa;w it, and stole 01i tip-toe with the rawhide stretched fo-rth. His companions   AND AMERICAN 9LAVERY.             106 would have aroused him, but for the ugly frown of the overseer. A smile was upon the face of the boy; he was happy, for he was dreaming that his father had returned, and that he once more sat upon his knee, and his mother clasped his'hand, and Dolly sat up- on the other knee, and Frank Tot was cooing, and unraveling whole bales of happiness with his busy little hands. In the dxcessof hisjoy he gently whispered, "Father,dear father." The only answer was the rawhide, as 't fell u on his quivering flesh. Henrv sprang to his feet, and rubbed his eyes. You struck me, sir," he said indignantly. Yes." I'll tell Mr. Greasebeans." D6, and then I'll strike you often." He went straig'64t 6 the offi'ce. Mr. Greasebeans and his part- b," - ft ners were indulling n the luxury of the best regalias. lease, sir, Mr. Dykeman struck met I dare say you deserved it," replied Mr. Greasebeans, as lie day removed the ashes; from the cigar, so that it might not s6iff his elegant shirt bosom. "Nobody ever struck me afore."' "Probably that is the very reason why the correction was proper now. Hey, Snodgrass?" "It would have been thought so in the days of Snodlograss Brothers And Brothers Snodgrass, too Yes." Hear that, you young scapegrace I'm not a scapegrace. sir, and I don't think the meeting in Dexter Hall, when you sat in'that, big chair, (for I know it was although you don't lbok half so good, and pious-like, as you did then,) thought it was, right to beat little boys ; that is, 31ack little boys, and 1,don't know0why white boys ain't as good'as black onjes. "Did you ever hear such impertinence, Snodgrass?" said Mr. Greasebeans, with as much horror imprinted upon his countenance as if a live negro, was in the act of being roasted; or, what would have been deemed still more revolting, his master had iust put his initials, in clear and legible characters, on his shoulder', with a red hot iron, as slaveholders are convicted of being" constant] in tht habit of doin  upon the unimpeachable testimony of Mr. Roor- back, a   gent eman whose veracity is undoubted in the United States! Where any one can vouch for the truthfulness of his state- ments, who is disposed to do so. "Impertinent,!" cried MY. Snodgrass, ferociously. "I do not know what you, in the well-known tenderness of your disposition may think of it, but I can tell you that the Brothers Snodgrass would have pronounced it Monstrous; yes, MON-strous V' "There, air, you hear what my partner, - Mr. 8  grass, a lineal and business descendant -of the founder of this es  en4 %inks of my humanity . 12 4C:Ain't I as good as a -ne o, V' gr 6     RFDOM ENGLISH SE 106 mstances--YOM-5 uP"P depends upon-eircu T`8 Hot it Ahem! That-that-     if the neLrro is a slave, you a umstances, youngster.                ins an '?  erings7 he olAa on Ciro        se, by Yirtue of Ills suff as good as he is, becau.            like unto'the dPOs- aTtyrs of old; yea, verily's n- like the m exaltatiO ious to obtain infor- tles, Yah!" ave ill asked Henry5 "If he is not 6, $1 mation- from his excellent Master-   50. If you are both indus- al ". That depends upon circumstances        I don't know without Murmurl"97. and bear chastisement w           dered as good trios,                m being consl why your skin should prevent you fro Hey, Snodgrass 1111          on the poll as a negro.              reflecting u agrees was silent,,' he was -13ut no         I    pared to endorse. the Proposi- and it was clear his mind was not pre full extent. " tion of his artneTt to its II  - ry positively. said Ren    elf in that way, for  Well, won't be beat,       yours ,press, tt I am sorry to hear you ey .         hich by break- nly interferes with our admirable difwiplinel, w . ude so well not o          vou for the -position of servit ing your spirit, prepares , . ion of -your ela&sj and so necessary fitted to the mental conformal       Of England, hut it sets to uphold the government and aristocracy  f all authority in the ' insubordination destructive o an example of wheel.-room-"                       k with "1 don't understand half what you say, for you don't tal father's straight-forwaTAI plain words ; but I won't be beat." "I'll speak to Dykeman about it." "And tell him not to strike me again ill "Yes."    Mr. Greasebeans, I will work ever so much "Thank you, that I will," said the child gratefully as he left harder for YOU the office.                     said the pious That lad's spirit must be broken, SnodgTass, Greasebeans, savagely. Crushed," said Dykemani laconically. Say you so!" replied Mr. Greasebeans. Yes.",      ter Kane will have an uc., time. But haTk Then I take it nias            )ly rebellious spirit you - us'n7t strike- himg that is, not yet; his Y(    m    -rod that is, not yet Will not brook the "It will shot Itlyl            ally. e7plied Dykeinan cynic wades must be in- You understand, I see : Dykeman, your  O     day on tile What do you suppose is the net profit per creased. labor of the sixty boys under 'your control "Don't' know. it Six pounds." NO 171 Eighteen hundred pounds a 'ear." Incredible ill My share six hun          I can easily give one hun- dreapounds; why, abolition fired' in the United dred Pou nds for the   se of lighting a it quite probably% owing to the -general States - and if (as I of food and the consequent suffering amo'nff the poor folks) scarcity                     up day next y6art we can reduce the wages of the boys to five pence a   AND AMERICAN SLAXERY.             107 I shall be able to add another fifty pounds to the general fun4 by way of a flourish, and as a climax to my generosity. Even now', there is, but one person in the kingd6oni who gives so liberally in the good causeVas myself, and that is old Ned Thoroughwort." "Him with the starving tenantry 1" "The same." "But what do you gain by all these gifts; for I presume a shrewd calculator like your-self does not make so large an invest- ment in charities without a corresponding return V Mr. Greasebeans winked at Dykeman-a proceeding which that individual, in the early days of their intercourse, supposed to be caused by a nervous affection of Mr. Gre-asebeans's eyesight, for lie could never brinn, himself to believe-so faithful an observer of the ten commandments as his patron had the credit of being, would be guilty of the levity which a voluntary contraction of the eyelid would indicate. But when their mutual qualities begat confidence, Dykeman discovered that both eyes indiscriminately were, made to express the sly humor which abounded'in the conformation of Sol- omon Greasebeans. It was, therefore, with a consciousness of something good coming froin the senior member of the establish- ment that Dykernan seated himself in a comfortable armchair. ' "I don't mi n-d telling you, Dykeman, because -your good qualities have almost made you one'of us, and will, when we increase the number of successorslo the celebrated house of Snodgrass Broth- ers Successors to Brothers Snodgrass," interposed Mr. Snodgrass, majestically. -"'Successors to Snodgrass and Son. If it ever does Happen, and it probably will, since iChas been promised every month for the last six years, I shall feel dul honored," observed Dykeman, with an imperturbable countenance. You must know there are two reasons, for this liberal expendi- ture. I have told you how important it is to advertise our goods. It is not enough that we have them to sell, the world must know it. Now half the manufacturers in the kingdom do not know the im- Portance of advertising. They have goods to sell, many of them better than ours, between ourselves, and yet they cannot imagine, stupid creatures, why the house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co. Successors to Bro  interrupted Snodgrass. Don't'interrupt. me, Mr. Snodgrass ; the whole world knows who our predecessors were. Why, as I was sayinz. the house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Company is amassing an immense for- tune, while they are doing nothing. Now the secret of the whole matter lies in a nut-shell ; buyers have found out that we have-% goods to sell. And how do you suppose they found it out? IT tell you. Whenever my name was announced as president of the Dexter If all Society, or as a patron of the- abolition cause, I man- aged to have added thereto, I senior member of the great house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co--' " "Successors to Brothers Snod    " interrupted Mr. Snodgrass. "' Mr. Snodgrass, if I am to relate' the modus operandi of our     108        ENGLISH SERFDOM system (and which, with all due respect for Brothers Snodgrass,  Snodgrass Brothers, or Snodgrass and Son, would never have been conceived if I had not become a member of the firm), you will please remain silent. I was going to say, Mr. Dykeman," continued Mr. Greasebeans, with his state-liest manner, "1 when I was inter- ruptedI- must be allowed to say, and will say, disrespectfully in- terrupted, that I always managed to have the name, style, and terrupted, that I alness-place of bnsines, you understand, Mr. Dykeman -the street, the number of the street where our establishment is A situated, inserted after my own name, so that it read something in this way, I'The meeting was called to order by,' or ' This munifi- P cent donation was made by Solomon Greasebeans, senior member of the celebrated house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co-' "Formerly Brothers Snod" "' Who have amassed an immense fortune in the manufacturing business at their enormous establishment at Nos. 20, 22, and 24, Street, London,"' concluded Mr. Greasebeans, only ac- knowledging the interruption of Mr. Snodgrass with an ominous frown. "These notices are easily procured by slipping a few crowns into the hands of reporters, or by making them good-natured with soft chairs and good opportunities for reporting. I have obtained the insertion of some capital advertisements, which have gone the round of the London press; without the London press knowing they were used, simply by talking kindly to the reporters, and giving them easy chairs. Lord, I knew the value of the position of presi- dent of that society, when I flattered all the pious old women, and treated all the religious old sots, who were supposed to have tny influence in the society. And I paid off no small amount of debts, too, for some who were the most clamorous in Dexeter Hall. But I have been doubly, trebly paid. I could afford to be liberal. ^Why, 1 would not lose the position for five thousand pounds a year; that is to say, not at present. I don't know how long it is beoming rather aconsid- ered reputable to advertise in that way, for it is becoming rather a common business. All the hatters, tailors, and small fry, have re- sorted to it. It won't do much longer, because they will make it decidedly vulgar, and then it will be beneath the notice of Grease- beans, Snodgrass & Co., and- "Successors to Brothers Snodgrasl" shouted Mr. Snodgrass, in a voice which indicated a determination to be heard. "Yes," replied Greasebeans, savagely. "Well," said Dykeman, " that is one good ind sufficient reason for bleeding so freely; what is the other a" "The one I have mentioned is of a private nature and inures to the benefit of our house, the other is of a public character, mainly, though it also will not be without its effect upon our pecuniary af- fairs. It will not do to have the truth proclaimed to the world, for there are thousands and millions in this country who fancy that a republican government is preferable to our own, and if they thought we hopefully contemplated the downfall of the only republic on earth worth the name, we should have a domestic opposition to the great work."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.           109o "Do you seriously intend to dissolve the American confede- racy?" asked Dykeman. Mr. Greasebeans winked expressively. It was a protracted wink, calculated to make a profound impression upon Dykeman. When ie had thus with a single ray of light opened a path to the convic- ions of the overseer, he proceeded in his own peculiar way. "We are satisfied with things as they are in England. We want no change. There is danger of a change while the government )f the United States remains intact. Their example is silently, )ut steadily undermining every representative monarchy in Europe. [t cannot be otherwise, for to the masses there is nothing so at- tractive as self-government. The Constitution of the United- States must be destroyed. But how? Not by a forcible pressure rom without; the combined despotisms of the whole earth could lot effect their purposes in that way. They must be made to de- troy it themselves." "Surely they are hardly so green as that?" "No doubt of it. Fanaticism has accomplished far greater riumphs. Did it not exhibit the folly of man in the crusades? Did t not proclaim its power in the expulsion of the Moors from Spain? Did it not water the streets of Paris with blood on the eve of St. Bartholomew? Has it not over and over again deluged 'Europe vith human gore? Did it not, too, exhibit its relentless power at he time of the Salem witchcraft? Tush, man! anything can be Accomplished under the leadership of fanaticism. We intend to estroy republican institutions under the specious banner of liberty " "Ha! ha!" "You may laugh, but I tell you that is the programme." "You intend to attack liberty under the banner of liberty. YVell, it is difficult to tell what you may not successfully accom-  lish." "It required very little sagacity to make out the programme. Ve shall strengthen the abolition party through the agency of lee- ures, newspapers, and tracts. Already they hold the balance of ower in the free States, and we advise them to demoralize and orrupt the two great parties by requiring them to make-onces- ions, in order to get their votes. Becoming familiar with a sale f principles, by frequently setting them up at auction, they will t length view anything like public faith with supreme contempt, ihen it stands in the path leading to political promotion. When bus thoroughly corrupted, they will yield an easy victory to the abolitionists. The whole north will be abolitionized, and then they 'ill force the southern states to emancipate their slaves, or fight. L fight is the consequence; and such a fight as civil wars only an exhibit. A dissolution of the Union takes place; a dozen con- 3deracies spring up, and anarchy and bloodshed is hourly wit- essed, where the beautiful constellation of states now revolves in xquisite harmony. All this will take years; the work may not e consummated during my life. It will be resisted by patriots,H north and south. The Union will several times be saved, but at;     "O          ENGLISH SERFDOM last their patience will be thoroughly exhausted, and the crash will come. "And you expect to accomplish all this, by the aid of those who ought to defend the constitution, if necessary, with their lives 1". Yes," replied Mr. Greasebeans, serenely. With what arguments? yoti, would hardly inform them that such was your neighborly designs." Of course not. W6 shall constantly proclaim ou'r abhorrence of slavery ; we sh all tell them how disgraceful it is to uphold in- voluntary bundai-e in a country where they profess to believe that all. men are born free and equal. We shall covertly arouse their jealousy and envy against their southern brethren, because they live without work. We shall say that to live in idleness is bring- ing down to too late a period the aristocratic habits of the cavaliers, who settled the southern states. We shall contrast their own in- dustrious habits with those of the gassy, starchy, aristocracy of the south, and we shall make them believe that it will be in strict ac- cordance with the genius of their institutions to require Southerners to labor, by stealing their slaves, or by forcing them to choose be- tween the dread realities of emancipation or insurrection. All this we shall accomplish under the banner of liberty." "Why, from this candid statement it would seem the American abolitionists are your tools, with which you work out their own de- struction." "Yes, and the most stupid, ignorant, demented tools that ever. man attempted to work with. It does not' require an amazing amount of cunning to lead them on to their destruction." Are all of them blind instruments of your will V' No it is shrewdly suspected that some of the ringleaders in the plot are working understandingly-for the destruction of their government. These traitors hope to gain something in the general crash. But to do the great mass of the abolitionists justice, they are thought to be honest in their belief." "Are you not fearful they' may question the purity of your mo- lives by making an examination into the horrible condition, of the poorer class in this country 1" T16 southern press have launched this argument against us, but it does not Possess a's mueb weight )as you would suppose. The abolitionists have not witnessed the 6iffering, among ourpop- ulation, and to hear about it, is one thing ; to see it, another." "Well, how is the house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass &Co. snored Mr. Snodgra, almost arousing SUC-Suc-suc-cess               Ss, himself ft m a deep sleep at the mention of the firm's name,-" to be benefits   all this?" persisted Mr. Dykeman. , "We want no hange ; we are satisfied with things as they are If a republic shou d be established, arf&there 'should be a more equal division of the real and ersonad estAte of the kiogdorn, do you sup- pose I could get boys to work fourtee.-I hours a day for sixpence 1" Mr. Greasebeans closed his right eye in a prolonged wink, cal- culated to impress Mr. DykemaD, not only with a proper respect for the world of far-reaching sagacity that was enclosed within the compressed lids, but also to cause a reasonable doubt in his mind as   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. to whether the lids aforesaid were not under the influence of an obstinate paralysis, a conclusion that was formed kv the ghastly smile that was drawn up into a knot at the corner of his mouth. And I am to put the youngster through a wholesome disci- pline?" 6 6Yes, break his obstinacy." If it breaks his constitution It matters very little, in this vast system of ours, Mr. Dyke- rnan, where a solitary individual is, no more than a grain of sand on the sea shore ; whether he dies under the operation of a healthy discipline, or lives to exemplify the excellence of our reorn nations. It will be all the same one hundred years henee," said Mr Grease- beans thoughtfully, for he was always sad when he reflected upon that terrible leveller-Death.               I 4 6That's some -consolation to the poor folks, Mr. Greasebeans; there will be very few of the distinctions of society in the grave. It is tnie that the rich may build tombs that will for a greater or less period shut out the worms that are not to the body born, yet the inherent corruption of the' human frame will ultimately destroy the I imbs we are so tender oE One by one they will rot away; the disgusting gangrene will visit the loveliest cheek - festering decay will prey upon the fairest bosoms; loathsome worms will crawl through sockets which were radiant with beauty, and teeth that coral lips were wont to reveal will grin a perpetual and gha'st- ly single at the triumphant revelry of corruption. This,- no tomb can prevent. I believe you are now buildingone with more than ordinary care, Mr. Greasebeans?"     I That gentleman's usually placid countenance had gradually paled  I'll thank you, to indulge in such remarks as 'rarely as possible, Mr. Dykeman. Can't a person put off the hour of his death u ntil it'comes, without dying every day in the week," he said petulantly. The preachers say that it is not a safe operation to do so. But probably you know best, whether they are right or not - only the costhest tomb won't keep the worms from eating you up, any more than the body of Jern Shoelocks'. I don't really know if they won't prefer a rich man, because his flesh must be tenderer than one whose sinews leave been indurated by hard labor." "That will do, 'I claimed in Mr. Greasebeans, nervously. "At all events, it will be the same in the eh'd, for I presume, un- less the millennium makes' its appearance within a century, very nearly all that remains of rich. and poor will be dust." ",The boys must require your attention, Mr. D Imman." y There is one. consolation, however," isaid, Mr. Dykeman, rising; that the rich man possesses. He his the consciousness' of know- Ing that his dust is kept safe from the contaminating t ch of the poor manis ashes ; and that,'I take it, will be no small satisfaction during the years upon *years it will remain imprisoned in the dark, silent receptacle for the dead. That is to say, unless the necessi- ties of a - fter ages may require the use of the sol't for more urgent purposes than to keep a few handffils of mother earth. Even in     ENGLISH SERFDOM elation; it is far more cheerful that case you will have one cons          ve the heat of without than within a tomb, for your ashes may recei - the sun and the showers of heaven, end watch the ever-ebanging seasons as they record the mutations of time, and the fiats of destiny-" CHAPTER X11. Existence may be bare, and the dee root Of life and Bufferance mAe itf3 firm a ode In bare and deBolate bosoms."-BYR014. "ORD MEL-VILLE, in the depth of his wrath, sought counsel es. It was his opinion that the female mind was gift- ElleDKnowl ed with a subtle ingenuity for the purposes of tormenting, that might in vain be looked for in the mental organization of his own sex. He was doubtless wrong, though he was wont to say be had satis- factory proof that such was the case. He occasionally remarked, also, that the consanguineous tie of cousin possessed the miraculous quality of exercising and bringing out the .most bitter and vindic- tive' hatred of which the human mind is gifted ; and as he thought there must be a great deal of satisfaction in hating scientifically, it was a subject of deep rqgret- to his lordship that he had not been favored with collateral relations in the fourth degree. To the in- terest which he took in this matter was Melville indebted for the knowledge that cousins were relateJ in the fourth degree; and he often essayed to enlighten the informed, uninformed, and misinform- ed-the relative proportions of which, in the human famil he often said, were about equal-by remarking that the degree o I relation- ship. was computed by counting up one degree to the father, oil more to the grandfather,. down one degree to the cousin's father, and one more to the cousin-four degrees in all. This was all the information to be found in Blackstone which his lordship thought worth possessing in order to qualify him for a seat in the House of Peers ; that body of respectable gentlemen whose most illustri- ous members are elevated from the commons ; often creating there- by a sparseness of talent in that branch of the government, which uiakes the appellation appropriate, when applied to them, of "Short Commons." Melville found Ellen 11".nowles an eager assistant. The triumph of Christie Kane in"the steeple-chase added strength to the determination she bad already formed of compassion heaven and earth to win his hand. She perceived that her desiorns could only be accomplished by humbling his native pride. The oppor- tunity now presented itself, and she entered into the schemes of Lord Melville with an ingenuity and an ardor that he claimed to be an illustration of his opinion of the craft of the sex, as well as an exemplify -cation of consanguineous hatred'. She welcomed him gra- ciously as he entered the parlor at the lodge. "This cousin of yo'urs, Miss Knowles; be is a constant source of annoyance to imelD.observed Melville) as lie seated'himselfwith   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. that eas`y carelessness which the cockney aristocracy know so well how to assume. Get rid of him, then." How 1" How 1 He your father's tenant, and in arrears, and youask me how! Your"lordship would be an adept at revenge, and yet you are as ignorant of the means as your great aunt was of some of the proprieties of life." Another allusion to that affair, madam, and you may work out your own revenge upon this boorish cousin," replied Melville, haughtily. The maiden bit her lip. It would not do to, quarrel with him yet; and she forced a laugh. Come, my lord, we cannot get along without each other. Let us be serious. You would humble the arrogant pretensions of Christie Kane; so would 1. For the means, then. You have them in your power, and I ani only astonished that you did not a*ail your- self of them before you were beaten in the steeplechase in the presence of the assembled nobility of England." Anangry flush spread over his features. But why did he not avail himself of his rights, and claim the hand of Lady Katharine at the ball 1"  "Because he fancied the conduct of the lady was contemptuous when she gave him the reward of his triumph. You do. not know Christie Kane." "I will though." 'I hope so." but how shall I take the most summary and terrible ven- geance VI Sell his property; eject him from his farm  throw him into prison," she coolly replied. "Cousins can hate,'can't they 4' When they have cause." "And Master Kane was imprudent enough not to perceive your beauty and accomplishments. Hey 1'7 The glance which the maiden cast at him made his lordship start. "I beg your pardon." "It is well that you do. Ellen Knowles, the granddaughter of a Duke, will not ally herself to the tenant ota nobleman whose pa- tent is not so old as that of her ancestor," she replied, scornfully. I did not mean to offend you," he said, depreciatingly. I hope not. The daughter of a colonel in her majesty's ser- 'vice need be under no apprehension of insult." "Calm yourself-calm yourself; our interests run too much to- getherfor us to quarrel about trifles." It 'is not a trifle to' insinuate that a lady has been jilted," shb replied, while her eyes still flashed. Have it as\ you will. If I pursue the plan you suggest, will the6spirit-of the fellow be crushed, aye, crushed,` he said, fiercely.' D dubtfal ; but you may taipe him." I'll try; won't I try Hark you, my Lord Melville; in all that you do, haves care     "         ENGLISH SERFDOM iat you mention not my name, either to Christie Kane or to his other. D'ye hear!" A gleam of triumph shot across the features of Lord Melville. t as much as said-"And so, Miss, I have you in my power, as tell as your cousin.' Not a word, upon the honor of a gentleman," was the audible response. "The programme is, to sell him out, turn him out, and lock him "Precisely so; you have expressed it laconically, and well." ," Immediately?" "At once." ' "Very well." "That satisfies you ." *' It does; so you do not falter." "Falter!" and he laughed sardonically. "He will be locked up in a week ." "In four days." "You will not relent?" "Never! why?" "Because weakness is a family failing. You know your great iunt in the matter of the footman-" "Hell and damnation! am I to be insulted thus. You shall pay for the taunt," and he dashed from the house. Ellen Knowles watched him from the window, with something like grim satisfaction, as he threw himself upon his horse and rode furiously away. An officer, accompanied by the steward of the Momlow estate, levied upon-the property of Christie Kane. He regretted the loss of all less than the sale of Surrey; though his grief was not so apparent as Phelim Savor's, who felt a simple, but earnest attach- ment for the horse. *"Sure yez will not be afther layding away bootiful Surrey, will yez ." \ "Surrey must be sold, unless you have the money to pay the arrearages with," replied the steward. Phelim thrust his hands where his pockets ought to be, but they were long since worn out by similar attempts, unavailing attempts, to find there some of the likenesses of her majesty stamped upon the coin of the realm. "Divil a ha'porth hiv I at all, at all; bad luck to me extrava- gant habits, that could not save up anough to kape this noble baste n the family." The extravagance of Mr. Savor consisted in spending the mat- ter of eleven pence half-penny, for tobacco; the total amount of his earning for the last eight months. "Have you the funds at hand!" asked the officer with a profes- sional leer, "No, nor at mouth, nayther, where yer honor kapes sich gintle- manly and witty remarks."    f "Better let Phelim alone," said the steward. "Ugh," grunted the officer.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.           115 Phelim seated himself upon a hen-coop, and eyed the officer as he took a list of the personal property belonging to Christie Kane. "I hope your honor won't forget anything," said Phelim. "If there is any probability, you will oblige us by mentioning it," responded the steward. "Yez honor may rayly upon me fedelity," said Mr. Savor, as, filled with the importance of the trust, he rose from the, hen-coop, and assumed a position more in accordance with his new responsi- bilities, upon the fence, where he scraped together his sandy hair in front, and set his crownless hat perpendicularly thereon. For it was the practice of Mr. Savor to plAce his dilapidated beaver up- his head in a slanting direction, so as to protect his cranium from the sun or rain, only when he felt like repining at the ills of for- tune. But when, as at the present moment, he felt called upon to exhibit all his importance as a responsible human being, he bid de- fiance to the scorching rays of the sun, which found an unobstructed passage to the red covering of his skull. The hat to which allu- sion has been made with a respect commensurate with its venera- ble age, was the sole article of the kind belonging to Phelim Sa- vor. In justice, however, to that gentleman, it is proper to add, that this fact was owing to the sparseness of her majesty's handsome likeness in the custody of Mr. Savor. Though, had he been more favored by fortune in that regard, it is doubtful whether he would have deemed it consistent with his principles to become the owner of two hats; for, in his estimation, nothing, could be more dishonorable than to carry two faces under one hat, a condition of things that he found it difficult to distinguish from one face under two hats. "Yer honor wont forget the speckled pig?" "No." "And the big rooster?." "No." The officer continued with his memorandum. "Perhaps yer honor can make something out of yon oold hen, for nayther I nor the rooster-." "You are becoming trouble-" interrupted the steward. "Not in the laist," interrupted Phelim. "I'm a gintleman now, and am intirely at yer disposal, fur yez hiv livied on ivery tool up- on the farm. -Divil a thing hiv yez left, excipt mesel, and yez had better take me, for the holy St. Pathrick only knows how I am to live now." "Why, if you are a gentleman, as you say, you can live without work."' "Without money!." "Yes; by your wits," said the officer. "Its meself is afeared the capital would not ba profitable, as yez have found the invistment yaldes small profits." "Ugh!" grunted her majesty's representative. "Yon is the billy-goat; his riverence, maister Scrimpton, the Apiscopalian minister, would giv yez the matter of one pound ten for that billy-goat." "What for?" "Tul make his riverence a wig, or a goaty one, for he niver   ENGLISH SERFDOM passes this way that he don't stop and cast invious eyes at that same billy-goat."         I 4i, What would you sell your wit for 1" asked theconstable. "If it was marketable yer honor ought to buy it." Why Bekase blissid Ireland ig not prayer of snakes thin yer honor is of that same." Ugh There's the skeleton of the old cow, as died laBt summer, in the lot beyant. It's in 'a good state of preservation ; perhaps yer ho- nor can make something crut of that; though -she niver was much 9         n of a milker in her life-time. Some people can raise the dead, they say. Perhaps yer honor is one of thim." NO ; but I'll tell yez (irreverently, imitating Phelitn's ' rich Irish brogue') what I can do. It's me'sell that can take every bit of skin from the back of yez," said the enraged officer. Mr. Savor placed the fence between the constable and himself. "Be virtue of yez office, inoney is raised, and I hope yez will not consider it offensiv6 whin I supposed the skeleton of' the old cow beyant might be raised likewise. As nothing is too low for yer honor to do, yez might try an experiment on the akeletonof the old cow; it might help you to make up arrays, ba reason of which 'the Duke of Sunderland - might not lose a hayperth of his rent. Shall I show yer honor where the rakeleton-  Phelim was not permitted to conclude the sentence, for the offi- cer, dropping his memorandum, sprang over the fence. Mr. Savor, conscious that his body would -suffer in the hands of the officer in his present mood, departed with great vivacity. They were both fleet of foot, and, consequently, made foot-prints rapidly across the potato patch, in the direction of the wheat field. Phelini's hat- crown gathered so much winding hike flight that it blew off. He had a partiality &r that hat, imperfect as it was, and he turned to pick it up; but the constable applied his foot to it with so much vigor that it sailed through the air with the addition of another hole in its already imperfect proportions. 1liv yez no reverence for a ipan's ba-vver V he cried, indignant- ly, as he confronted the officer. " Take that, and see," replied the constable, as he disrespect- fully punched Mr. Savor's ribs with his fist. Phelim acknowledged the blow with a grunt. Offended by such unwarrantable familiarities, and having an indistinct idea that the present proceeding of the constable was not fully authorized under the power to make a levy, and conscious of having aided justice linked of obstructing her mission, in so far as making suggestions as to ad- ditional articles to be levied upon, including the -skeleton, the pig, and ihe billy-'g'oat were concerned, he assumed-the reserved right of an English subject to defend himself. "It's a bootiful officer yez are not to know that a man is protict-' ed in his castle. And,'bad luck tull yez, don't yer say me hat is all the castle I hiv 1 Begorro, I'll tache yez yer duty ony how.7' Saying which, Phelim seized the hat of the constable, and, mut- tering that thim haythinish officers always have other castles ex-,   AND AMERIC-AN SLAVERY. "7 cept their bayvers," proceeded to jam the hat down over the eyes and ears of the constable, %there he held it with determined vigor. "Yez may tramp about as much as yer plaze, fur it"s yer own pratesyer spilling." Let go-let go!17 gasped the constable ) from within the hat. "Acting in -silf-defince. 7)                     - - . I "Let go, or I'll have you transported. Is ItIs transported I am already wid amusement at the capers yer bonor is cutting." The steward now advanced to the assistance of the officer. Phe. Jim waited until. be was within a few yards, and then giving the hat one more 'vigorous thrust downwards, made with renewed vi- vacity for the wheat field much strengthened and gratilled in the inner man by the infliction of justices after his own peculiar fashion, upon the executor of the law. Every thing belonging to Christie Kane was sold, and he eX"- pected every moment would witness his own arrest and the ejec- tion of his mother into the highway. Overwhelmed with anxiety, less on his own than her account, h6 welcomed the gentle and con- fiding Ellen Knowles asshe entered the little parlor, where he was reclining upon the sofa. - She looked at him with tearful eyes. You see, Ellen, fate is busy.17 I do, I do. But cannot its more fatal decrees be revoked flow  inquired Christie. By soliciting the Duke of' Sunderland to arrest these proceed. ings. I do not believe he is aware of what his son is doing." "I would not follow your advice if by doing so I could save my life) " said Cbristie, -stern] y I hope I have not offended you, Christie," she replied, sad] was only prompted to make the suggestion by the interest I feely in ypur welfare." "I arn -sure you were not, dear Ellen. Do not remember my rudeness ; I am not conscious of what I say.95 He took her hand and pressed it in his own.' A triumphant expression flashed across her'features; but in a moment the resumed a pensive cast. "What will you do, cousinChristie,"' she asked,- imploringly. "Meet the reverses of fortune with a- manly, bearing." il But how far can you be affected by the malevolence of Lord Melville?" "To the extentof being thrown into prison." He thought the beautiful girl shuddered as -she turned awa her bead. "What! in free, enlightened England, a man, actuated by the vilest motives, to control the liberty of a freeman; to make him tremble at his approach ; to thrust him into prison ; to keep him there so long as his vindictive passions remain unappeased; and "I because -a small matter of pounds, shillings, and pence-the dross of earth, the, root ofall evil-remains- unadjusted between     Ila          ENGLISH SERFDOM "    dear Ellen replied Christiet grateful for the words, Even so,                 s she spoke. d that mantled her cheek a and the warm bloo               my dear cousin7 into illthrust y0u7 YOul "Arid you think be, w jail 4; There is not a doubt of it."       V i3he inquired, while c,      "not foilhis malice by fleeing Why do you..              0 crossed her features. a peculiar expression e "Because'l am an Englishman and scorn fligh emed to breathe more easily. The maiden se      out Christie 7.11, "Can I do notfiing for ywas strange she did not ask if her or a moment it lie thought f iing, but he dismissed the thought as unworthy father could do note'     pathizing cousin. She rose to take of himself and his gentle sym herleave.                 she said, while tears filled I fear we may not meet again, soong licitude for his welfare, uched by her so her eyes. His heart was to     d oft hand resting upon his arm, and he walked by hei side, with her s as she Proceeded homeland. propitious for love. The light of day was grace- The hour was            of night, through the melting fully yielding its scepter to the sway            of the Upon the mellow air floated the song agency of twilig       f lovers, and upon the scene stole the nightingales that companion o Ce of melody and affection. soothing influen "                 hin the damp wal The O owing night Christie Kane slept wit of a prison.    ryland was still swayed by a firm, though a fe- The siceptre of Eng  flnued-to roll through space under the male hand ; the world con i x and these two facts, the most impor- of omnipotent Dowe guidance        &                    od- ation of the English aristocracy, that divine go tant in the estim still rendered them deaf alike to social wrongs and, ness could b0stow) ; so far, at least, as the humbler portion O the pop- political rights     . , was concerned. The earth will still ulafloti of the British empire 1     gland will still begoverned 1)y the strong arms and roll on, and En,             til the people, roused to a feeble minds of hereditary sovereigns, un sense of their-inberent flights assumed the prerogatives w le t e God of nature placed under their control. Till then labor in the ye benevolent aristocracy of the cause of fore' n phi anthropyt 19                  subjects of des- lid, slumbering' British Empire; until then, ye, sto potism, present your willing limbs to the iash of your task-mastersy until the scourge awakens you to a sense of your wrongs for nothing else will!   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. CHAPTER XIII. "O, gentle sound,-how sweetly did they fall In broken murmurs, like a melody  ,                I From lips, that waiting long on loving hearts, Had learned to murmur like them."--Simms. KATHARINE MONTAGUE proceeded at an early hour upon her ac- customed visit to her father's tenantry. The sky was cloudless, the air was balmy and fragrant, the'sun was only brightening the tree-tops with his golden rays, for he had not yet kissed away tke dew, those tear-drops shed by night for the loss of day. Her Spirits were light, for she felt a consciousness of doing good. It was one of the chief attractions of this beautiful girl that her heart thrilled with tenderness in the presence of suffering. ' She daily visited the old, infirm,'and unfortunate, and her presence was always greeted with exclamations of gratitude. She observed a person approaching, whom she recognized as the serving-man of Christie' Kane. Phelim removed- his crownless hat and observed with mechanical and characteristic fluency, ifi Long life tul yer ladyship, and may yez bless us for many a day wid yez booty and ebarities." Thank you, Mri.--Mr. Phelim Savor, if yez plaze," he replied, pulling his red top- knot, and favoring the gravelled road with a semicircular scrape with his right foot. Phelim Savor ; 'a pleasant name. And where are you, going, Mr. Savor?" "Its mesel' don't know that same' "Do'not kno* where you are going-II) "Indade it's the truth. I'm like a dismantled ship on her beam eends, widout compass, rudder, or pilot, as boatswain MeScudder used to say." Have, you left the' service of Christie Kane, for methinks you were his retainer "Master Christie, God bliss him, has no service now, and he is under a retainer himself." What do you mean?" He's in jail." I n i ail? What crime has he committed II' ff e as been tried and found guilty of the hainus offince of ba- in g  or. 7                            1 "u ard merr , Mr. Savor." y th I fear I shall niver be that again," he replied sadly. Who caused him to be imprisoned?" Lord Melville, of koorse," "Why of course?I' "Bekase it was wid his horse, yer ladyship bate his lordship in     S'ERFDOM ENGLISH 120                    i-riment in the lake fer- time he made a small exp the race, at the nenst the castle."      of that ill she asked quickly. Did Christie Kane. boast               jonina the ladyship's pardon for ment- -d begging yer              e, people at Divil. a wol,           was tould it by th popular gentleman. iname of'that un the, castle.11           will that Christie Kane has g1V- ly cause for ill "Was that the on                     sther 1P .                 idn't me ma e1i his lordsh    He Steeple chase,. D      uld hiv "Su-re Xez -liv7ent forgot t  d, whin Lord Melville wo p-rje from yiz bootiful han  ise," said Phelim, enthuslas- win the  Z       Uld anybody e died fur it, as,-indadej wo tically.   ntled Katharine, Montague's cheek at the warm lan- A, blush Ma e admirer.           qll guage of her humbl        is mother is living er ; I believe h And his moth     shels gone to her sister's7 Mrs. Knowles. ",Since heil son's arrest I  sin of Christie Kane's And is Ellen Knowles a cOu She, bes, that same-     ds of each other "'And I Suppose 'they are frien       d beg for she is very I don't know, but I should think they WOUI yersel."             thoughtfully- bootiful'as well aa        replied Katharine, f,6 Yes, she is very handsome," r  aster's house; at laist was yez say      . tantly at IDY In      17 "    she, is cons his-thrials and misfortinse a condolin wid, him upon        the mane of her horse with she replied tapPID9 Undoubtedly"        pple gray is  to be sold her riding whip.  And the, da "To-morrow-17 "What is to become of you, now -  uch how to get along in "1 don't know- live niver thought m  has always done nie -ay Master- Christie the world, for ye% s thinking-" "you have no home               living anyhow Impose the world owes me a "Niver a bit. But I f                ould come r I had no choice, whether Or at least it ought to ; fu     say I have, no choice, whether the blessed praists into it 0'rnO ; and  ill I will go out of it or no.     gold pieces from her purse. Katherine Montague took some  it of the Montague livery, and "Take this Money ; purchase a su             " the castle."           ladyship, said or me, at             Ss y0ff inquire f            forever ble May the Almighty POwers     on his knees, and pressed the y, as he fell up ferventl Phelim Savor7               Och! that iver I sho r riding-dress to his lips-  re the Bank of E4 nglandi, border of he      r ladyship will inju           his so blissid! Sure, ye-     lie be       ch enormous sums.  And Phelim gazed upo cial gr me si              fered with the finan V givio", b.1 1.  if its possession materially inter wealth as    the government.            f this, aAher arrangements Of        may I devote. the rist O      d If it plaze yer ladyship.,  at of Master Christie's debts, an 3uit) to the payme for it7s nothing,Wt very oor urellasing the F p                e                 e to buying him something to at  ing, in that same prison V bread and water he'll be after gett,     od, gentlemanly Ina' nfined. ,If you knew what a kind7 go not refuse-" he is co   wer tul me, lim sure ye% would ter lie alwaYs   AND AMERMAN SLAVERY. "Do w'th it as you, please," she replied, as she gave her horse the rein' Pbelim, watched her receding form with emotions of gratitude. It's the Missed praistes would think me devotion for that bo'6ti- ful creature belonged to thim, but may. the holy St. Pathrielf help me, for I niver expect to fale sich gratitude for mortal man, be he ten times a praise, as I feel for that young lady. But the divil a word will I mention about it, the next time I confess, to Father McQuodling. All this goold, too, besides taking me into her ser- vice. I'll be damned if Father McQuodling maNt expect a long time afore he'll make me reverence him tul the same extent as I do yon lady. Divil a bet the wiser will his reverence ba, though I dare say his riverence-beaven pardon me-do'nt ravale all his villanous thoughts to the Almighty ; and why should be expect poor devils to make a clean breast of it if the clergy do not. It's mesel wouldn't carry two faces under one hat, if I had--the right, tol the same extent, as the praistes-, to confess directly to the Supreme Being, and ask'blessings amadently from him, widdout the intervention of Father McQuodling." Reflecting upon the superior advantages of Father McQuodling, in the matter of a direct spiritual intercourse with Omnipotence, which, in his opinion, was denied to laymen, counting over and over again the gold pieces, and regretting the dilapidated condition of his pockets,now that, for the first time, during their existence, he was possessed of something, to make them 11 fale comfortable ;" and expressing the liveliest satisfaction, in broken soliloquies, at the generosity of Lady Katharine Montague, Phelim, Savor sought for one of those useful and, highly respectable individuals, known as drapers and- tailors. Christie Kane occupied a narrow'cell in the county jail. It was scarcely three steps in length, and' only wide enough for a foul berth, and room to stand. It was one of the tier of cells under ground-far under ground-being the third ti6r from the surface of the earth. The merciful law-makers thinking all persons who cannot pay their debts, no better than fossil remains,-whom to put out of sight were as much a duty as to bury the dead. It was not enough, in thiseharitable and wise estimation, to re- strain the debtor of his liberty - to withdraw him, as something that might contaminate society, from its pres Ience; to put him aside as a man would old furniture - to conceat'him from public ob- servation, as the hypocritical do their vices. All this would not -Suffice. He must be punished for his misfortunes ; for, what right had he to be poor?   tightness in the -money market resulted - 'in failure, the victim should have known what was to happen. If the wheat crop failed, lie should have sown rye ; if oats were blighted, be ought to have -planted more potatoes. Not being as wise aa omnipote 'nee, he must be well punished. As thoroughly, at 4east, as the most depraved villain in the 'land, because' thieves and black- legs -occupied adjoining cells. But there is one excuse forte cred- itor; he will obtain his money so much sooner by keeping the debt- or in prison! He call raise such quantities of grain from the pro- ductive soil of the stone floor ; his comm .ercial pursuits -will prove'     2Z           ENGLISH SERFDOM 80 profitable,.beneath the earth, because his ships can tack or run before the wind upon the 'Moisture of the walls ; and, laden with the wealth of the Indies, can sail through the channel of darkness which ,fills the aperture of the door. If the prisoner is a poet, the- vanities-of the *orld will not become a rivalto the spirit of song with which his soul must be inspired. He will unravel whole acres of harrowing poetry of the Byronic description, (or what 'is the same, in its effect, whole acres of poetry, the language of which has been narrowed with a painful disregard for the rules of Undlay Murray apd Noali Webster) which those persons who love to have their feelings wrought up to the most intense pitch of agony and de- spair, may siorh and weep over to their heart's content. The jailor turned the key and the ponderous door swung upon. its hinaes-not rusty hinges, as the architect of that renowned 6 6 solitary horseman" delights in having it, but plain, unpretending, unromantic hinges, that frequent use had kept free from rust, and a piece of mouldy bread and a mua of unsavory water, which the owner of one of Ham's descendants would think food too mean for a slave, were placed upon the floor. The jailor scowled at his prisoner as if be thought it a special exhibition of divine mercy that he was allowed to live. "Can't pay your debts, hey?" he said, in accents strongly em- phasized by disgust. Christie Kane made no reply. "Proud) t 0-0. I should jist like to know what a poor man has to do with pride V                  IV "You estimate the worth of a human being by the amount of money he possesses 11) Certainly ; by what other rule can he be weighed VI said the jailor, with a look of surprise. I am i norant enough to suppose that moral and intellectual 9 qualities may be entitled to some consideration." You are ignorant if you caii believe such folly. Wh n                       Y, mind will soon kick the beam in the scale with money," replied the man of keys, looking complacently at those instruments of power. ,Christie Kane felt'the force of his remark, and it lessened the value of human nature several degrees 'in his estimation. "Do you hear me 1" demanded the keeper savagely. "I do. 17 "Well, you will see the truth on't, afore you leave these walls. For the mind you boast of will rust, aVd your limbs will rot, here, here, unless you are liberated by money." At all events, as a slight compensation for the loss of liberty, -you ought to briDgmefood moreinviting than these crusts," said Christie, good humoredly.  "The crusts to-morrow shall be like rocks, and the water green, &rk green,if I can find it," replied the earthly St. Peter, shaking his keys.                   I You do not approve a free expression of opinions my worthy friend "Look ye, my precious cove, Herrick Hellkirk calls' no man friend who can't pay his debts,and for your imperdinence in calling   AND -AMERIOAlf SLAVERY me such, I shall shorten Your allowance Of food, and I'll begin by taking this away.17 , "You Will Only incur the risk Of -removal shall proclaim Your Villainy."       ) Mr. Hellkirk-, for I "Ha! ha I ha! Ho! ho! ho! That9s to' Who will believe y-             o goods by God! it is. tl       ou when I pronounce I it a lie, a damned wilful and malici6tis lie! Look-a-heah V1 he adde fierce y; "Who will be  ie wiser if I do not visit the cell f d or a weeks after r have knocked you down with this bunch of keys and gagged yon "Monster!" "It would not be the first time I've done its a'fid if you dare to look at nie thus, may I be eternally damne h6 said, in a low savage tone.      d if it -shall be the last," Christie Kane folded his arms and gazed'at the other with an overwhelming expression Of contempt upon his features. The jailor sprang r-u'pon him, with the fury of a demon. - The attack was V unexpected, and Kane was hurled to the ground by the herculean strength of the jailor. His head came violently in contact with the -stone floor, and he Jay there motionless. The faint moaris that es- caped hini did not penetrate to the outer air, and he was gagged and bound. The face of the jailor &amed with the fierceness of a tiger as lie twisted the rope which he had brou ht with him be- tween the teeth of his victim. 6 6Now, vagabond, let us see how long you w11l preserve your haughty bearing. The poor to threaten! Bah! Lord Meliville Will pay well for this.71 And kicking the unconscious body with his heavy boot, he withdrew from the cell and Joe - - - ked the door. Christie Kane remained a long time upon the damp floor, and when at last awakened to a cons -' clousness of his situation, the cold sweat stood "Pon his tuorehead, for the terrible,convic upon his mind that he was buried alive.       tion fias'hed With great diffic' ulty he rose from the :floor. His head swam--, round, and he staggered against the wall. At last he managed to roll into his berth7 where ch'e Jay overcome by the most-painful re-- fiections. The ropewas drawn so tightly across hi gave him, exces '                 8 mouth that it hind hin.,   sive paing and the cord which confined his arms be- cut into the flesh and stopped the circulation The designs of the ailor were apparel      n of his blood. He was to be thus Confined until so exhausted, by hunger and suffering, that his cries could not be heard, when the cords would be' removed and his death attributed to general debility, brought on b y air                         unwholesome I want of exercise, and the fretting of a proud -spirit at confine- ftient. There would, in the careless inquisition held Uponhis bodyg be no clue to murder most foul. lie looked upon the four walls as a that unheralded Nurial, which would  Iving tomb-the portalsof the young to die ; to      soon f0lJOW. It is terriblb- for future.       , yield the realities of earth for the unraveled ingenuity-But to die the most lingering and painful death that human could invent; to linger in the grasp of the fell destroyer as lie gradually y tightened his "gra-sp upon the suffering fiesh, with- Out the cheering presence of affection" y was too horrible! He was     l!4         ENGLISH SERFDO i unsustained by hope, and he prepared to meet death with what His mother had, for the last few week assued a s  a unforgiving manner towards him, which he attributed to a failure upon his part to comply with the request, which she had often made, to solicit the hand of Ellen Knowles in marriage. When he offered his hand at parting, Mrs. Kane obstinately declined to take it, scornfully asserting that he deserved his fate for refusing to return the love of one who adored him, and by whose assistance alone he could effect his release from prison.  ie ad no expect tion that his mother would interest herself so far in his fate as even to desire an interview, until he was sufficiently humbled i her estimation. Of Col. Knowl es he could expect nothing, for he had always disliked him. And Ellen, gentle, loving Ellen, what  could she accomplish3 He had, with the exception of Phelim and his brother Rob ert, (neither of whom could assist him,)no other friend among all the members of the human family, who would turn upon his heel to do him a favor. From the philanthro- pists, who direct their exertions exclusively to foreign sufferings, he had no hope. As an Englishman, he had claims upon them.      He was a neighbor, and charity ought to begin a home. But they could not withdraw their gaze from the United States. It was strange, too, for their conduct strikingly contrasted with that of many distinguished individuals, whose pretensions are pro- perlythat of m an  y d    that of the.. . senior partner of the  perlyvery high, an^BP             'micnlsm is greatest American publishing house, whose native American  so intensely patriot' that it can tolerate nothing foreign, except so intensely dp, works of English authors, for which he is sup- posed to have a parfiality so strong that his honesty has found it too powerful for successful resistance a slight, yet profitable, de- viatioop from the path of rectitude, which it is presumed he palliates upon the ground that a moderate amount of thieving, in that regard, is allowable -in consideration-of the fidelity with which he main- tains the balance of his native American principles (.) the sale of which don't pay.                      n Tho weary hours rolled on, uncounted by Christie Kane, for no ray of the sun ever penetrated his dark and silent abode. And there he lay, without fhe power of motion; the image of the Al- mighty, suffering the penalty of the law authorizing imprisonment for debt-a law that would have disgraced the statute-book of Draco, and which should be consigned to irretrievable oblivion by every legislative body on earth, whose members'aspire to a greater elevation in the scale of civilization than the Hottentots can boast. His sufferings became intolerable. The blood could not be thrown from his heart to the extremities of his arms, and his hands became cold as ice. He fancied so much of his body was dead, and he tried to esti- mate the time which'must elapse before the grim monster would move his freezing hand along his limbs, until his grasp was fast- ened upon his vitals. Misery proceeds at a slow pace, and days might have elapsed since he was aroused from insensibility, and he was fast sinking   AND AMElUAIN SLAVERY.           12 into a state of unconsciousness, when he thought a ray of light flashed upon the wall. He rallied his drooping spirits. Was there   . still hope? With eager gaze he watched the door. The key turned in the lock, the door rolled back, and the trem-   i bling form of the jailor entered the cell, ,followed by the stately figure of the Earl of Rossmore.                    - The nobleman folded his arms, and looked first at Christie Kane and then at the jailor; the one met his gaze with a look of grati- tude, and the other with the aspect of a craven-hearted coward. "And this is the reason why you interposed so many objections to showing me hither?" said the Earl sternly. The jailor did not reply, but his hands shook, as though they were in the grasp of dissolution. "Release him," said Lord Rossmore. Christie could not stand. "Rub his limbs." "Yes, your Lordship," and he servilely bent to the task. "Your lordship has saved me from death," said Christie, grate- fiully. "And this miscreant for transportation. Yield those keys; such a monster may not retain them an hour." "Can you walk now!" he asked of Christie. "I will try," and together they emerged from the bowels of the earth into the air. One victim of the disgraceful law authorizing imprisonment for debt, escaped the clutches of his persecutor, and walked the earth a freeman once more. CHAPTER XIV. "How hard we strove to save her, love Like ours alone can tell, And only those know what we lost Who've loved the lost as well."-EASTMAN. MRS. KANE sought employment with her needle, but the small  . compensation she received would not, with the pittance earned by Henry, buy food for them and pay the rent. Her landlord had already called twice, and the last time he threatened to turn her into the street, if the rent was not paid in one week. Some other plan must be adopted. She reflected long and painfully upon her prospects, and at last she could see no other way of keeping want4 from her fireside, but to wean her baby, and wet-nurse some other child. It was after many struggles that she brought her mind to sanction this painful alternative, but there was no other recourse. She made inquiries, and found a man whose wife had died, leaving him four children, the youngest of which was six months old. He consented to let Mrs. Kane take the child to her own house. And now commenced the disagreeable task--disagreeable to every mother who is fond of her offspring-of weaning the poor little  fellow whom necessity had forced to yield his natural sustenance    !     126          ENGLISH SERFDOM to a stranger. In uo way are the distinctions of society more vividly illustrated than by the career of two infants. One, a hale rosy-cheeked, girl, plainly but . neatly clad, is the joy of a lowly dwelling., The father thinks of her often during the long day, of told. Her bright face interposes itself between him and the fierce rays of the sun; it wards off the -rain ; her breath cools h4m in summer, and her eyes warm him in winter. She is the angel that stands between him and the bottle. She arrests his hand when it is raised in anger, and she soothes, and guides, and controls his passions. Well, necessity forces him to send her away; it is hard, very hard ; but they can get her wet nursed for half the money that his, wife can earn by nursing some other child. The little girl is sent among strangers, to encounter neglect, sickness, and death. Its mother, always under the eye of her foster 'child's parents, can- not, if she would, neglect her duties; and the boy thrives, and coos, and doubles up his chubby hands, as if he could successfully battle with life. And as-she bends over her new charge, the tears fall upon his cheek , he looks up wonderinaly, for he don't know that the price of his health and happiness is the cold, silent form that was locked up a few days before in the ground; Dever more- to, gladden the hearts of its parents by its winning smile, never more to lay its cheek but upon the bosom of its mother earth. Mary Kane proceeded to execute her plans, when they were once matured, with, as much resolution as she -could command. When the child tasted the bitter substance upon her bosom, he drew, at first, angrily away. It was his first taste of life's bitter experience. For hours be lay in the cradle with his large round black eyes riveted upon her countenance, as though his wee bit of a brain was trying to find some reason why his mother, always so kind before, now treated him so cruelly. - Wearied out at last, he fell into an uneasy slumber, from which lie often awoke, crying as if his heart would break. And his mother wept, too, burning tears, yet necessity still urged her on. At length lie turned his eyes with alook of disgust towards the sweetre'ned drink prepared for birn, and with a little groan, swallowed it. Frank Tot was weaned, aid now she took the motherless stranger to her bosom. She was kind to him, for she thought. of her own baby placed, as this help- less thing was, among strangers. No female but one who has known maternity, can feel that love for children which their lielp- less condition demands. All her sacridees proved unavailing; she could not pay the rent. An qffi6er was sent to remove her into the street. It was-a dark, cold day in Dece her when he came to perform,his duty. The wind, clothed in fog, thrust its cold grasp into the hands and faces of all who were exposed to its rude touch. Not content with such familiarities, it pulled aside the ragged garments of the poor as if it scoffed at their sufferings ; it seized hold of, their nerves, 'and went shrieking with laughter among the houses and along the streets, because they trembled in its grasp. Even the rich and -well clad shuddered at its approach, and hastening. home, seated themselves by the blazing fires.,. The sun was going down, and he, too, expressed his dissatisfaction at the rude assaults of the wifid   AND, AMERICAN SLAVERY. upon the city, for he cast an indignant glance upon the clouds from his flushed countenance. On such a night as this did -the officer, accompanied by Hurdy, enter the room where Mrs. Kane and two of her children-were, for Henry had not yet returned. The unhappy woman sank, overdo -me with terror, into her seat. I "'Prepared to liquidate, madam?" he inquired, glibly, as he cock- ed his hat on one side, and drew a lease from among a pvCbkage of papers. "You have not come to demand the rent now!" she asked, faintly.                i "I have, Mrs. Kane," he replied, in a voice intended to close all discussion. "Then we are Undone." "Doubtless I've frequently known it-- bureau-to be the case -bedstead "But the landlord told me I should not be molested for ten days when he was here last, and that was only three' days ago." "'Very likely-straw mattrass-lie ain't your landlord any loncr- er-cradle-" Not my landlord V No-table-" Who is, then 1" Tongs-Mr. Greasebeans-" "The manufacturer?" "Solomon-pa-Greasebeans-" "Oh, then, I implore vou to wait. Mr. Greasebeans i's rich; he is charitable ; and I know he will not turn me into the street, and sell this small stock of furniture Don't know-shovel-him, told me an hour acro not to let you -trunk-stay here-that's all-another night ".What shall I do? what shall I do VF'ex'claimed Mrs. Kane, wildly, "Can't say., 11 coolly replied the officer. "Mrs. Kane, I can furnish you with an apartment until you can find another," said Hurdy, with a minister expression upon his feat- ures. Monster! do you think Mar Kane is sunk 'so low -as to re- ceive a favor from the brute who kidnapped her Husband?" -said Mrs. Kane, indignantly. ".Oh, very well ; we shall see how long you will carry yourself so bravely, my pretty dame," said the Ogre, scornfully. At this moment Henry Kane entered the room.  His 'features were attenuated; his lips were blue, and his thin form trembled with the cold. But his strength seemed to return as he saw thib officer and Hurdy. Ma' that bad man has made you cry." Mrs. Kane only wept the more bitterly. Well, youngster, what have'you to say why your mother should not be ejected by Solomon Greasebeans, your landlord." Mr. Greasebeans!" Yes.     "A great deal to, say'. Mr. Greasebeans won't let yoft act so cruelly, for he is president of a charitable society." "Which will benefit you about as much as it will me. But, come,- can't dally here, so march out." Mr. Officer, we shall freeze to death in the streets to-night. If it was summer, we could all sleep under the tree near the park, for the leaves would keep off the dew. But now there are no leaves on the tree ; the limbs' are all covered with- icicles, and the cold wind makes the branches creak and groan. Poor Frank Tot woulddent live there till morning, Mr. Officer. Now pray think, if your boys and girls should be turned into the street tonight, what would you say!" "I would say it was a d---d rascally, unfeeling business," ex- claimed the officer, whose eyes had moistened during the appeal of Henry Kane. Better' think of what Mr. Greasebeans will -say," whispered Hurdy. "What can I do?" said the officer. "Let us remain here until'mornina, and I will then go and see Mr. Greasebeans," said Henry. Perform your duty, or I willl tell Mr. Greasebeans to-night," remarked Hurdy, with rage imprinted upon his countenance. You see I cannot let you remain, however much I may desire it) replied the officer, sheltering himself, 4s is customary with his class', under the mantle of delegated authority. "Will you let my mother stay here one hour 7" asked Henry, eagerly. "I don't see how the law will admit of delay," said the officer. "Certainly not," replied Hurdy, positively. "For one hour-; only for'one hour," sa'id the child, imploringly. The officer hesitated. Yes, I will do that much for you, my lad." Thank you." ' Henry put on his straw hat, and moved towards the door. "Henry, Henry, where are you going!" said him mother, anxiously. To see Mr. Greasebeans." But, my child, you will perish this cold night." Better for me to die, than all of us. But I shall not die. It is not more than ten blocks; I'll soon be, bome.') "Stay, then, let me tie this handkerchief about yonr ears.". She put Ianother around his neck, and buttoning his coat up to' his chin, kissed his cheek, and calling him her noble boy, bade him return soon. "Stop, Henry," she -said, as he was unclosing the door.  You have had no supper; let me give you some warm tea." 4f-,No, ma, we must not expect the law to walt for boys to eat. I'll be back soon, though;" and he went out into the cold, storrhy night. His teeth chattered, his blood receded to his heart, and his fingers became numb, as, the wind pierced his thin clothing,- and shook the rim of his straw hat, as if in derision at its unseasiDnable appearance; still he pr, essed onward. His, mind dwelt not upon   AND AMERICAN 'SLAVERY.           M the ciAting storm, as i defy seized him, and made his form siagger beneath its gra ,                              i BP.   only thought of his mother, Dolly, and 'Frank Tot, and"the Ht e stranger, too, who was Intrust6d 'to -their charge. In imagination, he saw her clasp the two babies to her bos(im, 1 and weepq because there was 'not sufficient warmth to keep their limbs from stitTening., There was a swelling in his, throat, and he hurried on'wards. shall be too latest know I shall be too late, he exclaimed, re-dou ing his speed. While he was hurrying in the direction' of Mr. Greasebeansi mansion-hou' se) we will introduce the reader within-, the w -11.9 of ,that building.                      a Mr. and Mrs. Solomon Greasebeans had yielded to the solicita- tions of their son and daughters and- had consented to give them a Indeed, as they sat by their cheerful'fire on the evening their content was announced, Mrs. G, suggested' to her Husband, that it was time, in her opinion, to make an exhibition of their furniture, and to give Seraphina an opportunity of displaying her diamonds. And Marciang toot required some relaxations for "       i. had become paler, she thougptg'than usual, the last week,   he paleness wa'                       Which s in fact attributable to the quantity of sweetmeats that remarkable individual was in the daily habit of con suing, com- bined, with the attractions of Mis-s' Dancy Dodds, a lanky sallow- skinned maiden, who favored him with loving glances'frow her bilious eyes, -twice a day, as they passed each other upon the street. No young man1c; susceptible stomach could Withstand such appeals, and Afarcian Greasebeans grew pale with love. Mr. Greasebeans did nQt know that the request of the dear Children was unreason- able. As for e'xhibiti ng the furniture, he could see no particular necessity for doing anything of the kind; for, like all men, he thought every responsibility was discharged when he ga*e, his check for it. It was the women alone, Who knew that then was the moment when the, responsibility of making a proper exhibition of the furniture commenced. So it was agreed that Seraphina and Martian should have ;L Party. And now the difficult task com- menced of deciding who should be invited, and whoshould be cut. For if the uninitiated think it is a pleasure to make out . list of our 6iends for the purpose of making them htppyv they are most Woefully mistaken. Does it not require the most intense dise nation to know whom to invite?               MU- If an invitation    nded to Mi-58 Jones, what will Miss Smith say?. if Mi    exte what will her                 .88 Brown. is out, - cousin Miss White say? And if she sends a regret because Miss 11rown is not I invited, will not the party be a aflure? 'Could a party'be ts a go"                I without the presence of Migs Had the tallow                      WM'te 1 I-chandler in the next street amassed sufficient money to make his daughter respect-able? They  uld try and WO come 'at it as nearly as possible, 'by getting a his, b                      ascertain what lance in bank was. Had Lawyer     ep acquired suffi-* nt notoriety at -the bar, to prerentDeople asking who Miss  cient Wee: was                       Lauka Ab- Had Dinctum. Do wdy withdrawn from the cotamercial House of Feejack and Dowdy (a house engaged extensively in the mature line)jong enough to make his daughter a-, proper ang ociate Z- A- i..-     ISO          ENGLISH SERFDOM for Miss Greasebeans? -There could be no doubt of it, if bit; for- tune was correctly stated at one hundred thousand pounds, and not twenty-five thousand, as it was sometimes put down. Seventy-, five, thousand pounds would make an enormous difference in the claim of Miss Dowdy for admission into genteel society. Would it do V) have the Dunlaps, who wew at the head of society-that ranch of society-one year ago, but who were now very consid- era ly reduced in circumstances, owing to -several -heavy losses? Di the Longs dress well enough?-Of their respectability there could be no doubt. Would the splendid diamonds of Mrs. Baxter obliterate th-arecollection of theslightfaux-pas that was associated with the name of Maj. Duke, in the life-time of the excellent but now defunct William Henry'Baxter? Oould saddlers, under any circumstances, be requested to come  Were merchant tailors admissible? If not, were tailleurs? Should retail merchants be considered presentable -and if so, would it do to invite wholesale grocers? Would it be possible to induce Lord Snizzle to 11 drop in" for a few minutes, just to give an air of fashion to the enter- tainment, and make the Durgins burst with envy? He had ogled Miss Greasebeans with impertinent condescension at Bath, for one whole eveni 'ng, when her dress was worn so low in tire neck as to make a liberal display of her really very fine bust. And twice he bad sweetly addressed her in the street, by raising his hat. But this was not all. He bad, at Brighton, so far stooped from his lofty position, as to magnetize her-bis lordship did sometimes condescend to magnetize plebeians, provided they were good-look- ing, and young'; for he had been heard to say, that, although he did occasionally favor ladies who had arrived at the matronly age of thirty, with a few sparks of magnetic fire, yet it was only in obedience to their imploring glances, and the benevolence of his heart, as he not only found, after they had arrived at the age of thirty, that their nerves were not so sensitive to the touch, but that in several in-stances he bad found them decidedly tough ; some few of them having. in addition thereto, favored him with ve'ry bad breath. A mo,4t unfeeling remark, which, having gained -credence, prevented any further annoyance from females who had numbered thirty years of age, especially whose breath-was not fragrant. It was supposed Lord Snizzle bad a preference for young and bloom- ing maidens, because it was a more pleasant operation to magnetize them ; and therefore, among the plans that were suggested for the purpose of inducing him to 11 drop in" for a few moments, on the night of the party, was to let him take a few " innocent liberties" with Seraphina, as that was known, in certain cases,to have a magical effect. Of course such a proceeding would alone be admissible in the case of a lord ; the social position of the party, thus to be favored, making all the difference imaginable. It was considered indispensable, also, to secure the attendance of Lady Madaline Flouncy, the natural daughter of the late Earl of Dumpy. It is true she was not born in wedlock, but what of that? Did not the blood of an earl flow in her'veins? And what offspring of matrimony, among the middle classes, could claim equality  with ber I The fame, of her mother was dishonored, but then her father   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. was a belted earl, and be-sides she was ENORMOUSLY rich, and that, of itself,was enough to elevate her to any conceivable height, above the. Jess favored, though decidedly more respectableg plebeians of the town. These and a hundred othe r considerations were perpetually sug- gesting themselves, not only to Marcian and Serap ina, but to Nlr. and Mrs. Solomon Greasebeans. At last every obstacle' was sur- mountedy'and their plans were' matured ; a consummaiion which was announced in the following letter ron) Seraphina to her bosom friend Henrietta Maria Flukins. W No. 10 Dumpy Court. Maria Flukins.  Dear Friend.         Darlingest Henrietta I intimated to you somewhat pierspi- cuously in my last, that. papa and mama had yielded to my and Marcian's entreaties to give us a blow-out, in honor of my twenti- eth birth-day. Seventeenth birth-day as we tell the world, bu't in confidence, it is the twentieth. - I told'ma it was the most unrea- sonablest thing in the world not to give me a party until- four years after I had completed my education, and she said -she thought so too. So we are to hev a 4)ow-out. It isto be a particular affair, very. We hev maid up our minds to cut all but the rich, and con- sequentially, -respectable, of our friends, because ma sa s the house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass &    Co. is looking  y UP. What do you thinks Henrietta Maria Plukins? I'll tell you. I'm all but positive Lord Snizzle will honor us with his presence!! 'Riem hateful Swithers said last week, after I had boasted that his lord-ship would drop in at our party, that Lord Snizz le wall not much thought of among the best society of London, lie wa's so-I forget the word, it was something like thern things that the farmer folks use when. they gather hay'Loh, I hev it-so rahish. I didn't know what that meant until I looked at the dieshonar  But ma said that is not considered an objection to- a lord. S y o I said last night, loud enough for the Smithers to hear me, I can tell y6u, that Lord Snizzleldloidn't bestow his attentions upon some people. They said it 16 was a fact, for he was not permitted by some per-sons to look at them when their veils were up.)t I replied e-Lord Snizzle and myself- despises common vulgar folks likewsorne I cou'I'd mention, and they said their 61 contempt -w ' as supremest for both me and Snizzle." Snizzle! Think ofcallin' him Snizzle! without the alliteration OfLord! Conternptfor8nizzle! Lord8nizzle! Eldestsonof the Dtike of Minkey. Won't he feel unhappy when he learns in what estimation he is held 6y the Sinithers? For I shall tell him every word theysaid about him, it will make him so rateful I know they are dying to get him into their house. We shall have a grand affair. -Pa says it will require several things to make people believe we are the cream of fashion, and the leaders of- quality. Fust, we must have at least twenty musicion- ers. - Second, it is'indispensabl v necessary to have Mr. Brown to, open the carriag-edoors and Whistle so that the servant may open the hall-door; for he says it absolutely requires Br-owns presence     ENGLISH SERFDOM 132 to Lrive the affair a distingee-as the French say-appearance, and withoutt him everybody will think us nobody. , I told pa I didn't see how .sich a fat, gTeasy-looking fellow could'make us fishiona- Brown opened the carriage-doors of the Spradlins, ble, but he said           hich you see was conclusive., and Spriggins, the Jimes, and Rimes, w by the quantity of bokays Third, the world.-judges of'your claims ou can muster, and so he has sent to all the florists in London and bokays they can make. Ma told him' the verpool for all the guests would think a great deal more of the party, and praise it ever so warmly if they had plenty of good things to eat, and that, too, without being crowded, for whenthey were crowded and jostled they got their brussels up, like hogs. So we are to have a table loaded down with every thing nice     'id he should bo, forced to give a little less to the abolition cause at the next meet- ing ; which he can safely do, for he has got his name tip for being liberal. He. thinks what he can save in that way, and by reducing the wages of his operatives, and being very severe upon his tenants here and, in the country he can afford to give what will be called a M ificent entertainment. ut you can judge for yourself, as you will not fail to be present. A  you must-excuse me for the liberty-dear Henrietta Maria Fl ins-get a splendid dress and wear all your diamonds. We have given out that it will be a grand affair, so that the ladies will dress superficially, and in good taste, for costly dresses go half way to make up a splendid party.- As ever thine, till death, and afterwards through my mortal existence Dear Henrietta Maria Flukins Thy friend Seraphina Greasebeans. P. S. Dearest Henrietta Maria, I shall ask Lord Snizzle if be will consent to be introduced to you,as my particular friend ; which I am sure he will, if you wear your dress modestly, invitingly low in the neck. Thine Seraph, G. N. B P. S. Don't hint anything about the low neck dresses to the Membertons if. you do, his lordship will be too permiskus, in his devotions. Till deith S. G. beans." After a world of anxiety and preparation,",the evening of the party arrived. Mrs. and Miss Greasebeans stood in the front par- for, near the door, looking quite fatigued, but receiving their guests as they poured, in, with the sweetest smiles imaginable, as if the ch individual was PrOseinted, con- particular period of time when ea stituted' by many thrills of pleasure, the happiest moments of their whole lives. Not that all were received with the same head of the neck, or welcomed with the same expressions. Still the conde- scansion whic4i was exhibited to one, and the fawnini sycophancy observed t another, seemed to give them equal joy. It was really   affecting to remark bow winning 'ly Serapbina displayed a obarming' regard for maternal example; for if Mrs. Greasebeans seized - the right hand of 4 new comer in both her own, as ifo'one could not ex- press the overflowinea'effusiohs 6f bertoo ardent'impulses, Seraphi- na  iled'herself of the aforesaid right band as soon as It was suffi ed  es'eape, when. 'it passed through another pressure, sig- nifi   f unbounded and irrepressible affection. If, odthe con- trary, A stately, yet patronizing reception only, was awarded by the mother, it was reiterated with as much precision by the daugh- ter as if she wa's merely that lady's shadow. And thus they continued bowing, and squeezing, and Smirking and smiling through two mortal hours, when the rooms were filled to an adaptable degree of suffocation - that is to say, acceptable to the Greatheans, who, like all hosts,'eare very little bow uncom- fortable their guests may be,provided they are well jammed.-' It is essentially necessary that they pass through that ordeal, if the party is to be stamped as 11 a go." There was one drawhack, bow- ever, to all this splendid exhibition of beauty, diamonds, and lacet and it caused Mrs: and Miss Greasebeans several unpleasant sen-- sations. The most distinguished of their friends, and those who they particularly desired should- be preseDt, absented themselves, as is invariably the case; while the common people, whoseabsence nobody would remark,were there in full force. This fact did not escape the notice of the anxious mother and daughter. Ma, -why don't the Tadpoles come V' whispered Seraphina, as she cast her eyes at the clock;  See,. it is half-past ten, and not a Tadpole here." "And the Rumpdings,- too!" As I live, yes. If the Beldens onl had stayed at home in- y ,                 i stead of the Kimpqings ;. but such good fortune never could be ex- Pected. "And Lord Snizzle has not made his appearance yet." "Don't I feel it, ma? but I hope my face does not proclaim my chagrin. There, that hypocritical minx, Henrietta Maria Flukin6, has asked me twice to-ni& if I was not going to introduce her to his lordship, and with such a demure countenance too. I am coll- fident'she knows he is not here. There, see her now, she is whis- pering to that oJeops Miss Twisdale, and smiling so maliciously, and she the friend 6f my bosom. Thank Reaven! Lord Snizile has come. And the happy maiden gave the noble man an exceedingly low courtesy, as he stood in the ball a few moments before -ascending to the drawing-room, superciliously examining the company with the single glass that be thrust into the socket of his right eye, re- taining it there by a contraction of the muscles theatre located in the neighborhood of the brow and the upper region of the cheek, that was fearful to contemplate, and giving to a 'Usually placid cofinte- nance a most malignant and sanguinary impression Miss Greasebeans was impaled upon any conceivable number of thornauntil he was seen descending the stair-case with that minc- Ing gait, presumed to be so a proppate in the son' of a -duke. ShiD had never imagined it possib e that half an hour ot precious time      184         ENGLISH SERFDOM could be fritteredaway in the dressing-room by even Lord Snizzle. She was not aware that his lordship, by a frequent reference to his repeater, was making a nice calculation as to the probable time which must elapse before the splendid supper-that was, to him, the most important item in the entertainment-would be announced. It was then, with patience whittled down to the merest point, that the young lady saw him reach the hall floor. Again the eye-glass was thrust into the socket, with a painful disregard of consequences, a decent respect for the feelings of spectators, and a reckless contempt for the sympathies which the extraordinary procedure could not fail of eliciting. It was alarming to think what a hor- rible corpse he would make if his face should freeze in that condi- tion; a dilemma, the mere apprehension of which will, no doubt, induce all who are in the habit of indulging in such fiendish gri- maces to abandon the practice forever. Miss Greasebeans lost sight of all her other guests, and seizing Lord Snizzle by the arm, walked back and forth between the ad- miring line of spectators, with as much certainty of monopolizing universal admiration, as Mr. and Mrs. Gimcrack did, while ihey were dancing the mazurka on the night of their wedding, in pursu- ance of the heraldic announcement that the company would yield a sufficient space, while Mr, and Mrs. Gimcrack, the bride and bride- groom, performed the dance aforesaid: a performance which the reader is assured did actually take place. The attention of Miss Greasebeans was absorbed by his lordship; and all the intimation she gave of there being any othgr person in the room was in side-long, spiteful glances at Henrietta Maria Flu kins. Not that his lordship indulged much in conversation, for the Cockney nobility are sometimes extremely taciturn, which those gifted with rare colloquial powers have maliciously attributed to a want of ideas: an. opinion that no doubt had its origin in the envy inspired by a consciousness of occupying a lower stratum in the social organization. Several times Henrietta Maria Flukins threw herself in the way of an introduction so significantly, that Seraphina was forced, to give a negative shake of the head, intimating thereby that Lord Snizzle might not wish to extend his list of acquaintances. But his iord- ship did not twist his face into diabolical contortions for nothing. The remarkably fine bust of Miss Flukins was " modestly, invit- ingly" displayed, in pursuance of Miss Greasebeans' suggestion; and every time the noble man passed her, the stare with which he honored her was materially prolonged. That young lady was at a loss to divine his intentions. At one moment she judged, from the shadows upon his convulsed physiognomy, that he was in the act of addressing her, like Niobe, with tears, for she had noticed simi- lar grimaces upon the face of her little brother, Sydenham, previ- ous to an explosion ; but while she was in the act of getting her handkerchief and her sympathies ready for the catastrophe, Vtie muscles seemed to contract, the face assumed a fierce expression, as if he contemplated a violent assault upon her person: a revul- sion partly attributable to the gas-light, and somewhat to a spas- modic effort necessary to retain the eye-glass in its position. As   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.   18   she was timidly watching the transition, the muscles of the brow and cheek suddenly collapsed, and the eye-glass fell to his waist- band. "Demmed foine queter that; who 's she?" "Your lordship is kind to ask about any of my company," replied Seraphina, simperingly, as she permitted more of her pre- cious weight to rest upon his arm-thus revealing, as a-counter- poise to the physical attraction of Henrietta Maria Flukins, what Sir Walter Scott thought right to call " faint glimpses of a breast of snow." The exhibition seemed, however, to fail of its intended and indeed its legitimate. effect, for his lordship's gaze was riveted upon the voluptuous form of the Flukins. "I think she'll do. Yeas-you may-I think you may present her." There was now no other alternative, for the request was made with a distinctness of tone which reached the ears of Miss Flukins. "Lord Snizzle, my most perticlerest friend, Miss Henrietta Maria Flukins."                A The noble nian vouchsafed one of his fiercest glances, as he set his eye-glass with an inclination more decidedly towards the nose than usual. Seraphina now found an opportunity of showing ordi- nary 'politeness to the rest of her guests, as the signs were favor- able to a monopoly by Miss Flukins of Timothy, Lord Snizzle. It was readily seen that Miss Flukins was elated to a degree which foreboded no permanent benefit to her nervous system. There was no evidence of that languor which is sometimes begotten of indifference; on the contrary, her motions indicated the vivifying elasticity of every nerve, muscle, and tendon of the body. She seemed to be set on any number of springs, every one of which had a violent proclivity for teetering, which strongly resembled St. Vitus's dance in its most aggravated form. Her gesticulations were absolutely spasmodic, when earnestly impressing some trifling matter upon his lordship's attention. If he deigned to interrupt her, the spasms ceased, except so far as they were made available in assisting her(, to keep step with his somewhat erratic strides. This difficult feat was accomplished-for it was a difficult feat, because Timothy, Lord Snizzle, considered it one of the preroga- tives, that rightly appertained to his superior rank, to take short or long steps, without regard either, to the convenience of his com- panion, or the length of her legs-by paying undivided attention to his motions, and taking enormous strides, or halting abruptly, as the exigency of the case required. From what has been said, it will not be inferred that any of Miss Flukins' everyday admirers were brought within the circle of her smiles. For aught that could be discovered in her demeanor, she might never have listened with blushing cheeks and beating heart to more humble swains than her present aristocratic companion ; and yet, there were not less than a dozen gentlemen present, made up of a promiscuous assortment of clerks, sub-lieutenants, bank-tellers, merchants in a small way, &c. &c., who had, each in his turn, been made happy, in believing that the dearest, sweetest smile, of the Flukins was lavished upon     126'         ENGLISH SERFDOM them. One of the number, a highly respectable merchant tailor, on the strength of sundry of those dearest, sweetest smile-9, that, not being more than forty-eight hours old, still played about his- heaxt, and emboldened, also, by the well-known dogma that the "tailor makes the man, 17 which he assumed mote particularly referred to Timothy, Lord Snizzle, and gentlemen of his calibre, walled deliberately up to MiSs Fluking, and hoped, as she was looking extremely well, she was enjoying herself correspond- in &IV stately swan ever bent its neck more haughtily, at the a  oach of a Vulgar goose, than did the queenly Flukins, at the station of its protot  Mr. Presswell, not entertaining the slightest doubt that he had spoken in too low a. key, reiterated his hopes. "Do ou. not see, SiT, that I am engagedparticularly engaged," replied' e beauty, decidedly. The features of Lord Snizzle became unusually convulsed, as be thrust the glass into the socket of 'his eye, and coming to a dead halt, critically examined Mr, Presswell from crown to toe. Who is the quieter, Miss' Fukins 1" Your lordship ought to know me, for there is a charge on my oks for that suit, and a dozen others," replied Presswell, with bo sturdy independence. I'm blistered i."tain't my deemed tail-or. Miss Greasebeans thought she should make a hole in the floor aboutAhe size of her body. I told you, ma, not to invite that oJeous mechanic, Is be, aw, one of your acquaintance, Miss Fukins!" Never saw the fellow before, my lord." If the supper ain't announced soon, I'll quit this howid place," said Snizzle. The supper was announced at that moment, and his. lordship, however much he might despise tailors, and particularly thosb at whose establishments his credit had arrived at a "I mature" age, was nevertheless fond of good isup ers, and be therefore waived an expression of his indignation,  being thus inveigled, by the Greasebeans, into such a'wixed assemblage, until he had par- taken of their hospitality, and thereby gained sufficient strength to denounce their meanness in fitting terms. ,As the lar  company were ascending to the supper-room to the music of  rittania rules the waves," Henry Kane rang the bell at the front door. It was opened by a. servant in 'white kids, who was in the act Of closing it -again, but there was something so ab- jectly miserable in the appearance of the boy, that lie hesitated, and at last suffered him to enter. A purple bue had overspread his emaciated features, his teeth chattered as if they were loose in-their, sockets, and his body shook as though it was in the grasp of disso lotion. He essayed to speak, but his tongue clove to the roof of his mouth; yet his countenance expressed the most intense anxiety ,and alarm. It was altogether-a picture of buman woe that melted the heart of the menial. The child pointed toward the receding party.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. Poor little fellow, be is hungry," said the servant, as he ran for some cake that was lying upon the silver waiter. Henry shook his head impatiently. "What can -the boy want 1 . Drink perhaps. Some wine, at all events, will not barm, him,: this bitter night." He could scarcely hold the glass in his trembling hand while be swallowed a few drops. The -wine and the 'Warmth oUthe room enabled him to speak.' "Mr. Grease-be-beans. Let me see Mr. Greasebeans," he gasped. To-night 1 it is impossible." No, no, no; don't say that. I must see him ; indeed I must." It is impossible. Can't you see there is a party here to-night II$ Henry came up'to the man and whispered in a low solemnvoice, If you don't let me see himthey will turn my mother and my lit- de sister and brother into the- street this cold, cold night." The servant'hesitated. - You won't let them freeze to death in the street, will yon?" By my soul, no ; not if I can help it." "Then you must call him quick, for I promised to be badk in an hour, but I lost my way coming here, and I am sure it, is more than an hour; much more than an hour, so you will call him quickly', won't you?" The w 'aiter ascended the staircase', and the wan child remained in the hall, with his straw bat in his hand, from which he had shaken off the snow and sleet that had fallen upon dt. Small par- tiles of ice still glistened upon- his rough garments, but they were fast thawing, likethe congealed blood in his veins, under the influ- ence of the warm, atmosphere. The strains of "Brittania rules the waves, 77 still rolled through the mansion", but his heart sickened at the sound, for he bad heard that Bkittania ruled the waves by means of the agon  nd'd6spair which the press-gang entailed upon every family with n whose circle a victim was seized. Mr. Greasebeans descended with strong marks of impatience upon'his countenances but these words faintly express the mingled emotions of surprise and rage that were visible there when he dis- covered in the person of the intruder, one othis, operatives, His brow contracted into a frown as he turned his glance from Henry to the waiter. James, is this guest here upon your invitation, or that of they cook The serving-man, bung. his head. Neither 'of them invited me here, *r. Greasebeans," said Hen. ry, earnestly.,. Then why areyou here?". he replied savagely. Because, sirlheywere going to turn MY mother into the street to-night-yes sir, to-night; and don't yott hear how the storm rages? fisten!11- "'And why were they going to do that?" She could not pay the rent." You expect, then, to live Without paying rent, perhaps?" said the- benevolent man, with a hard expression upon his features.     its          ENGLISH SERFDOM 16 Oh no, sir, we do not; if you won't let us stay until we can earn it, only say we may sleep there to-night. Just this one -night!" "Not one minute ; do you hear. Not one minute. I intend to make an example of you for the benefit of all dilatory and refrac- tory -tenants. James, shut that door; I would not have my guests shocked by a sight of this vagabond." What shall I do? what shall I do?" exclaimed the wretched child, in tones that pierced the heart of' the waiter. 6' Do'.! march out of my house. I can tell you what to do soon enou gh. But, Mr. Greasebeans," lie sobbed, falling on his knees  dear Mr. Greasebeans, if you turn us into the'street tonight, we shall freeze to death before morning. My dear, dear, kind, good mother will freeze to death. Dolly, gentle little Dolly will freeze to death. Frank, too, who is a little baby, and can't tell how cold he is, will freeze to death too ; and I shall freeze to death too; but I don't care for myself-" Out with you." Think how they will suffer; what a hard death it will be-" Won't you go out?" 1 Do, Mi. Greasebeans, pray do, for mer-" Then I'll throw you out." Opening the door, the benevolent and charitable -man seized -the child hy the neek and hurled him down the steps. He struggled to retain his feet, but the frozen rain had,made the marble slippery, and falling, his head came violently in contact with the curb-stone. A slight groan mingled with the strain of "Brittania rules the waves,91 as the philanthropic Solomon- Greasebeans closed the door. Now, sir, if'you adm-it another rafr-a-muffin, you'll lose your place." "You may attend the door yourself, hereafter," replied the man, taking off his gloves and dashing, them upon the floor. "How is that, sirrah?" I mean, sir, that's will not wear the livery of a brute." Oh! think better of it, James; at all events, for to-night," said Mr. Greasebeans, graciously, for he could not well dispense with his services until the party broke up. Not one solitary moment." Mr. Greasebeans considered it undignified to band words with a servant, and he therefore ordered another waiter to take his posi- tion by the-door, and he then entered the supper-room with as much happiness impressed upon his benevolent features, as if be had emaDeipated the whole negro race, or what he would regard quite as satisfactory, involved the United States of America in'the horrors of civil war. Upon him calm features was plainly written, "I am the liberal president of the Dexeter Hall Society for ameli- orating the condition of the blacks in Africa, and liberating the manacled slave in the United States."   ANID AMERICAN SLAVERY.            189 CHAPTER XV. Broad are these streanis-iny steed obeys, Plunges, and bears ine through the tide.11-BRy,&NT. "ORD ROSSMORE conducted Christie Katie from the jail to his carriage. As he tottered into it, with feeble steps, he saw Katha. rine Montague seated upon the back of Surrey. A faint smile ex. pressed the pleasure which the possession of the dapple-gray by the maiden gave 6im. She gazed upon his emaciated form and-.pale, attenuated face with painful interest. Her looks assu'red- him'there was one human being whose heart was touched by his sufferings. The earl motioned to the coachman, and they proceeded rapidly towards the castle of Montague. Lord Rossmore suffered hisglance to,rest occasionally upon tire countenance of the youno, man. "It is an infamous law which thus surrenders the body of the debtor to the creditor," he said, in a low, stern tone. "I thank you for your generous sympathy, my lord," said Chris. tie Kane. The earl did not reply. When they arrived at the point where the road turned 'in the di- rection oif the castle, Katharine Montague rode past them, bowing to her father with a smiling face, and suffering her eyes to rest upon his companion longer than a momentary glance. Instead of following her to the castle, the horses proceeded in the direction of Kane's former -residence. "Young man, nature destined you for a more elevated position in life than you have hitherto (ccupied," said the earl, am satisfied with it," replied Christie. Lord Rossmore proceeded without seeminig to heed his remarks. "Your rent has been paid - the lease is renewed, and for the present you can resume your farming operations. The future will unfold what is ' reservation for you." Wr Christie Kane was silent, but his looks expressed the depth his gratitude. The t-,arl spoke no more during the ride. A the carriage drew up at the door of - his house, Mrs. 'Kane walked out upon the portico. She expressed neitherjoy at his re- turn, nor sorrow at his emaciated appearance. Good morning," said Lord Rossmore, as the carriage departed. Good-bye, my' lord ; your kindness -shall never be forgotten." -The sound of the wheels -swallowed up the last words. I hope you have had a comfortable time of it," said Mrs. Kane, sarcastically. This, is my welcome home, and thereception a mother gives her    Very well, it's in keeping with the ways ofthe world     "O        ENGLISH SERFDOM "In the blues still?" "Tell Susan to come here, if you please. Ah! here she is." "Mony's the day sin' I was so shocked," exclaimed the girl, with unaffected astonishment. "Never mind it, my good lass; it is all over now, I hope. As- sist me to my room, and then get me some light food." "That I will-that I will. It is in the bonny hielands they would be ashamed to treat a human being so cruelly," replied Susan, as she assisted him to his room. Several days elapsed before he had recovered sufficient strength to leave the house, and when at length he did breathe the pure air of heaven, beneath the clear sky of autumn, it was with a profound sense of enjoyment. As soon as he could leave his room, Ellen Knowles called to see him. Her mild countenance expressed the utmost commiseration, as she took his hand, upon which a tear fell. "Do not weep, dear Ellen; I have suffered, but all is over now." "How can I help it when I reflect how unjustly you have been treated. How often I implored my father to intercede in your be- half; but, but--" "I am no favorite of his." "I would have done something myself if I had possessed the ability," she added, with a heart-broken sob. "Dearest Ellen," he said, tenderly, "do not distress yourself, I know very well you were powerless; but the will to aid me shall ever be taken as the deed, so think no more about it. You have endeared yourself to me by the anxiety you have suffered on my account."                    ;    ' "Yes, you can never repay her for the solicitude she has felt for you," said Mrs. Kane, ironically. "I know it, mother; and Ellen shall discover how sincere is my thankfulness." "Maister Christie, Maister Christie, it's mesel is delighted to say yez wonst more. I should hiv come amadintly, but I hiv been to town-to Lunnon," he added, setting his smart hat upon his left ear. "I am glad to see you, Phelim. And so, you are in service?" "Yez. Lady. Kathreen Montague honored me wid her fayvur whilst yez were eximplyfyin the booties of imprisonment for debt, bekaze the crops would fale."  "And how are you pleased with the service?" "No one can say the lovely smile and hear the sweet voice of her ladyship, widdout a loven her," "You think not, Mr. Savor," said Ellen Knowles, tartly. "Yez may well say that. But me remark is applicable to we own sex, though, for the invious of yez own, cannot admire booty in ony but themsels." "You will remain at the castle, of course," said Kane.  "Of koorse I will not! Desert yez, who have always been. so kind to me? Never! It shall not be said of Phelim Savors poor though he ba, that he is guilty of the fashonble vice of carryin' two faces under one hat."                ., Christie Kane pressed his hand..    AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.           141 "I shall not consent to have you sacrifice your fine prospects for me. I can manage the farm with other assistance; you must return to the castle." "Niver!" "Yes, I insist upon it." "It can't be done, Maister Christie. Yez say, whin Lady Kathreen towld ma this mornin to ride Surrey here, and return him to you"- "Did she say that?" asked Christie, quickly. "Yez; that she did. I tell yaz, Maister Christie," said Mr. Savor, in a confidential tone, " that lady niver has two faces under one hat, and it izzent bekase she haint got. booty enough, or aint married or koorted, ayther." "And she told you to deliver Surrey to me?" "Yez; and there he is; and looking, too, like there wazzent a horse his aquel in all the united kingdom of Great Britain, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and the Koonty Clare." "Surrey has been treated well, then?" "Thrated well? Ba the powers yez may well say that same. He was after being roobed down three times a day, as if he was Lord Snizzle's boots, and no one but her ladyship iver ixercised him." "Well, now, Phelim, you will ride Surrey to the castle, and present my thanks to Lady Katharine Montague, and say to her that I cannot accept the present she has so delicately offered me." "Spoken like a man of honor, as you are," said Ellen Knowles, enthusiastically. "Like a simpleton, as he is," responded Mrs. Kane, sarcasti- cally. "Yez know best what is right," said Phelim. "I will do your bidding, and then ax her bootiful and gracious ladyship to let me raysume me crownless hat, and quit her service for yez oon." "No, no, Phelim. I will not consent. You cannot shake my resolution upon this point. The advantages are altogether too much in your favor to justify me in withdrawing you from her ser- vice. You will therefore say to her ladyship, when you make known my refusal to accept Surrey, that I shall consider myself under additional obligations to her if she will retain you in her service."   : "If yez command me to do that same, I will," said Phelim, sadly. "I do." Without saying more, Phelim withdrew fr the house, and mounting Surrey, rode slowly in the direction of the'astle. Christie Kane accompanied his cousin home. Her manner was tender and subdued. The winning softness of Ellen Knowles had the effect of soothing his spirits.         o When he withdrew, her eyes flashed, and her nostrils dilated. "He is mine, he is mine! The victory for which I have strug- gled, oh, so long-! that has caused me to pass so many sleplss nights, ad days of agony, is now within my grasp, and I will 4ch it, clutch'it, with the remorseless determination oif a fiend.*'  ^  ,      "2          ENGLISH SERFDOM Before she could compose her features, Lord Melville,*was announced. Her temper was still tip, and she haughtily waved bim to a seat. His lordship did not seem to be in the mood to submit to her humor, for he threw himself at full length upon the sofa, and draw- ing forward a Chair to rest his opera boot upon, smoothed his whis- kers with the coolest air imaginable. She endeavored to annihilate him with several fierce glances, but lie seemed to be proof against their assault, as he continued to -survey her person with a steadfast, supercilious gaze. "Your lordship is rude." "Your ladyship is shrewish." "I could expect no better Manners from one who has not tact enough to control the liberty of a debtor once in his power." "Manners depend upon the ability of a man to play the tyrant and villain, eh  Miss Ellen Knowles, your code of morals ought to be generally established in fashionable society ; for since the days of Cain, tire first robber, it has guided the conduct of that respectable portion of the human family who live by rascality. Did it ever occur to yDu--what an admirable female Captain Kidd you would make, Miss Ellen Knowles?" "Insolence P' "Truth, madam-naked, unvarnished truth. By the way, how far have your designs UP01) Christie Kane been forwarded by his imprisonment, and to what extent will they be' embarrassed by his liberation, through the influence of Katharine Montague, V' "Did she liberate him?" gasped Ellen. O6 Sets the wind- so strongly in that quarter? I shall cause Mr. Kane to,- be informed of the interest that fair lady takes in his welfare." Nb! no! you will not. Say you will not do that?" I -shall, though. You may remember having made frequent and taunting allusions to roy great aunt." "It made you feel sore, did it?" replied Ellen, triumphantly. "Not half so sore as I will make you feel, my merry darnsel, before I let you up," said Melville, with a sneer. Do your worst, fool and coxcomb, as you are. Nothing can prevent Christie Kane from making a declaration  his love, and me from accepting him." Indeed!"'h'e said-showina hit teeth like an enraged wolf. No, sir-." Not if I tell him you instigated me to throw him' into prison?" She turned pale, and her form trembled. Ali ha! you are 'in my power, 4reyoa 1 Simpleton! did you suppose you co# safelv trifle with me-me, Lord Melville, who never for ave an insult 171 N'ay, my lord," she 'replied in supplicating tones  you will not, let me, implore you, inform'Chriatie Kane that I urged you to cast him into prison. If you only knew how much-1 have at stake, I am sure you would not." In the intensity of their passion, neither heard footsteps approach- ing the parlor - they were arrested at the conclusion of her appeal   AND'AMERWAN SLAVERY--             143 and then receded to the outer door, which closed upon them. It was Christie Kane, upon who-se ears fell the unwelcome intelligence of her heartf6ss conduct. You cannot shake my resolution,"coolly replied Melville. She raised her form to its full height, and --..asting upon him a look of intense hate, she said "You shall not tell him, "Shall not "No; if I am in your power, you are not less so in mine." "o your worst." "ave a care, iny lord. My worst will greatly exceed anything you can possibly imagine." "I doubt it.", "You do "I do." And you persist in your determination to injure me in the good opinion of my cousin V "As surely as I live long enough," he replied defiantly. "Then I am your stern and irreconcilable foe; a foe whom you cannot thwart or elude ; who will follow in your footsteps with the untiring ferocity of a tigress, until you are bereft of rank, fortune, every thing which ou. now enjo but to disgrace. Begone, sir." y      y Au revoir," he said, ki ing his hand to the maiden, as he walked to the door followed by her flashing eyes. 6 4Bewarel' she exclaimed, shaking her trembling finger at him. "Vive la Bagatelle." Christie Kane had never felt a more'tender sentiment for his cousin than gratitude.  In their childhood she had often a noyed firn by unkind allusions to the difference in their social con itions. t was only within the last twelve months that her bearing had changed ; qo suddenly, indeed, as to create distrust at first ; but that had gradually yielded to time and the tenderness of her man- ners. It is true he had sometimes doubted her sincerity, and now that he had accidentally become possessed of a knowledge of her agency in his imprisonment, she was thoroughly unmasked. In spite of the haughty mien of Katharine     ague, he could not think of her unmoved. At times, her eyes    welt upon him with an expression that causeA his heart to thrill with delight. But oftener, his,"'fee ings had indignantly resisted her contemptuous bearing. He could not divest Himself of the belief, presumptuous ars he often thought it, that despite the difference in their positions, she regarded him with greater interest than she would disclose. A union between them be knew was impossible, and he resolved to conceal within his own heart the emotions with which she had in- spired him. Katharine Montague, mounted -upon Surrey, for she rode no other steed now, and followed by Phelim Savor, availedherself of the fait days in October to visit th poor and prepare them for the severe weather of winter. The s ngest contrast in the character of the maiden was the tenderness of her manner to thehumbleo and 'the ha hty bearing she presented to the worldly and assUWTg.,. It gave er more pleasure to relieve the suTering than to r"eive     "A         ENGL1811 -RERFDOM the adulation of the high-born. How different from the fine lady, whost) mind cannot elevate itself above dress and the concomitants which make up the " fashionable" woman!       a She was returning from one of these excursions,followed by Pbelim Savor. She had been detained longer than-'she.,was aware by the bed-side of si6kness, and she gave Surrey the rein.. They swept rapidly across the open country that spread out some eight miles from the castle of Montague. She had observed a dark cloud passing over the head waters of a rapid Stream, as'they crossed it afew hours before. It was already swollen. by,,heavy rains and she thought the timethe bridge was too frail to resist the mountain torrent.' As they approached the stream 'sheheard the roaring of the waters as they tumbled down the hill-side- and rushed through the chasm across which the bridge was thrown. The road was one not much frequented, and due precautions had not been taken to reconstruct the bridge which was now weakened' by age. A portion of the framework erected in the middle of the ,stream had been carried away by a previous flood, and now. pre- sented a feeble barrier to the fury of the waters., As they reached the summit of the hill overlooking the river, she arrested the speed of her horse', and gazed with rapt delight, not un- mingled with awe, u on the scene. - The' flood, from the point where it curved over t e distant elevation, was one continuous sheet of foam. Fretted andangry, it tumbled onward, no* rushing against his bank,,and then against tha, As if it would force, a pas- sage through the rocky barrier. Checked in its caree;, it turned witir-renewed vigor upon the next obstruction, ag4nst which it fu- nously hurled itself. 'Logs- and. small trees were, borne -down the stream, and pas-sing under the bridge were swept away. "Look, look!" exclaimed Phelim eagerly-0 "Don't yez say yonbigtreel. Ifthateamestrikesthepierit'slittleo'f'thebridge will be left standing' at all, at all." True ; we must cross the stream before that tree reaches the bridge. . Now to your utmost speed,.Surrey." The generous horse sprang away ; Nut if his progress was rapid, that of -the descending treemas still more so. Surrey was within a few' ards, of the bridgre whein, by strong effort of his fair rider, he was - thrown back U"P'on his haunches. The'ptomptness with which she acted saved the- lives of both. The, next m4ment the descending tree struck the framework in the centre of the stream. Aloud .crash was heard the bridge Itrembled violently, and then sunk into the river. "That was a narrow escape, Phelim." "Yez may well say -that, yer ladyship "What is to be done  I think that chasm "is too wide even ftir Surrey to take." -Beggrra-barring your presence Nayther Surrey, nor me own, horse. could lape this stream widdout an especial dispeneashin from Aol St. Patrick, long life tulhi% blissed memory.?' a there no other way of crossing the stream 1"  of- mdes up, the ' ek, There- is a ford the -raatter- of 'a koople      riv that can ba forded almost any wither.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            145- In the autumn flood'.1" Yis, I have waded. across it even thin." Lead the way thither." If I mightassume the laibertyof suggesting what koorse should be pursued, itWould ba, to return to the wayside inn two miles back, or tul. proceed down the stream to the castle of Monlow The ford Aas been crossed in high water 1" Yis, ma-am." Then we will cross it now. Once upon the other side, it will be a short ride home. I must not cause the alarm my absence at the castle would produce unless it is absolutely necessary," The road which it was necessary for them now to pursue was little better than- a path, and their, progress was necessarily less rapid than before. To add to the difficulties that seemed to gather in her way, the clouds began to collect again, as if threatening a storm. . Daylight, - too,- would soon disappear. The, prospect was anything but agreeable, still she continued her way as fast as the nature of the ground would permit. "It's a coming ; what will your ladyship do?" said Phelim, -anxiously.  Hadn't we better go back to the. inn It is too-late now. How far is it to the ford Betterer an a mile.71 So far?I, The path was now open, and she again proceeded rapidly. The storm now burst upon them, The wind hailed' the rain into her face, and her clothes were soon saturated. For a fe w minutes she paused, unsh6ltered from the -storm, until the first blast had speDt its fury, and then she again proceeded. Ba the merciful powers ba thanked, here is the ford." Can we cross herei Pbelitn'.2" It looks scary like, but I summit believe it can bedone. I'll trroirvhow." "You think you incurno risk "I think not. The main channel is narrow, yez say, although the stream is wide, an' if the horses do happen, to swim, it -Will only for the matter of a few yards, which will be nothing, espe. cially to Surrey, that is a bootiful swimmer. Yez will praise take, notice which -koorse I go. There's no danger until yer 'it fornenst, the rock beyant. - Won't by that same, an4 -y,,z are sa "Lead the way. then, if you think there is no danger. Twilight is already setting inand this rain is anyth  but comfortable." Phelim' rode his horse into the stream.  ar the middle he w'a-s carried off his feet,' but he-was not borne down far when his feet again touched the bed of the river. Encouraged by the success of Phelim Saxor, Katharine gave Surrey, the reins. As she reached the channel a dark mass loomed through. the deepening gloom. The sagacity of the horse discovered the danger, and nobly did be -try to avoid. it. He saw be could not pass in front of it, and "'turning hit; head, up the strea M' he endeavored to regain the 'shore, which hebad left. The bridle became entangled in a branch of the tree. The harseshook his bead but could not extricate himself. They were borne down, the     ENGLISH SERFDOM  stream. Katharine Montague did not shriek; she did not even utter a cry, but she leaned forward to free the rein. Her efforts, also, were unsuccessful. A thought flashed upon her mind in that moment of extreme peril. She detached.the bridle and threw the reins over his head. With a glad neigh the animal rewarded the feat. They were now in the strongest part of the current, and were carried rapidly down the stream. The horse, instead of turning his head towards the bank, endeavored to stem the torrent. His efforts were unavailing, and Katharine shuddered as she heard the roar of the falls at the head of the rapids. She pressed her hands upon her eyes to shut out the fearful spectacle, when a firm grasp was laid upon her arm. " Trust to me," said a calm, manly voice. She slid from the back of the horse into the water in a state of insensibility. The stranger spoke no more, but struck boldly for that part of the shore which fringed the summit of the falls.  In this he acted wisely, for he did not exhaust his strength in a vain struggle against the current. Surrey with instinctive sagacity followed the lead of the stranger, but his powers were too much exhausted to reach the shore. As Christie Kane bore the unconscious maiden up the bank, the gallant steed was swept into the rapids, from which es- cape was impossible. Christie still held Katharine Montague in his arms, and a feeling of bliss pervaded his frame, as they were tightened upon her soft form in the effort to retain it there. A few rods from the shore was a deserted cabin, whose thatched roof kept out the storm, and into this hut he carried the maiden. He liad taken shelter here from the storm an hour before, and a cheerful fire blazed upon the hearth. Gently laying her down upon a bed of moss, in front of the fire, he rested her cold, pale cheek upon his bosom, while he rubbed her hands and arms for the purpose of aiding- her restoration from insensibility.  The blood returned to her lips, but as he bent'over her he did not pro- fane them with a kiss. She sighed, and turning towards him, placed one arm around his neck. His form trembled at the invol- untary caress. She opened her eyes, but at first she could not rally her ideas.  Her look was expressionless.  Christie did not move, but he could not withdraw his fascinated gaze from her face. At length consciousness resumed her throne; she recollected every thing; the perils with which she was surrounded ; the few, but cheering words of Christie Kane, whose features she now recog- nized. For a few moments she did not attempt to withdraw her- self from his arms, and a thrill of pleasure indescribable ran along his nerves as her full, lustrous eyes turned to his own with an ex- pression which revealed the depth of her gratitude and affection. For a moment only, was nature allowed to exhibit its powers, for she raised herself from his bosom, not hastily, like the timid dove, but proudly and collectedly, like the stately swan. " Where is Surrey ?" she asked. "Alas! I fear the noble animal is dead." "What! was he carried down the rapids ?" "Yes, the current was too strong for him; we barely escaped with our own lives."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.   147   The maiden shuddered. "Poor Surrey! where is Phelim I" "Here I am, and may St. Pathrick be praised for yez riscue, and by maister Christie, too," said the gratified fellow, as he pro- ceeded to cut several dozen pigeons'-wings to the music of his own. whistle and the rain that poured upon his head. "Come into the hut," said'the lady. "A saycond adation of Noah's deluge could not wet me a hay- porth more than I am at this present moment." "You can come and dxy yourself," said Christie Kane. " Not ontwil I hiv picked up some more turf.  Yon fire wants replenishing." "What is to be done now, Mr. Kane ?" asked Katharine Mon- tague. "I hardly know what to advise, unless you remain here until Phelim can ride to the castle, and return with a carriage and dry apparel for you." "How far is it to the castle ?" "Three miles." "And the road ?" "Is passable for i carriage." "Such a night as this"?" "I fear not until the moon rises, some two hours later. In the meantime I am apprehensive you will take cold." " I do not fear that. But can Phelim find his way to the castle until the moon rises'? to me it seems the darkness is impenetrable." Christie went into the gloom that walled up the light of the fire. " It is impenetrable ; he could not go a dozen rods without losing his way." "It is an awful night," sjie replied, as she listened to the roaring of the wind, the falling torrents, and the rushing stream'. "What will father and mother think ?" "They will undoubtedly be alarmed at your absence, but many hours shall not elapse before they are apprised of your safety." "This turf will make an illegant fire," said Phelim, as he piled up the logs of wood in the chimney. Christie adjusted a seat near the blazing fire for the maiden.   " "By what accident am I indebted for your aid at such a perilous moment ?" inquired Lady Katharine; for she could not withdraw her mind froqi the danger she had encountered. " I have been upon the heath to-day, in pursuit of game, as you may discover by glancing at the corner of the room. Returning, I saw the storm approaching, and took shelter in the cabin, which has often been 'my resting-place for the night, under similar cir- cumstances." " If I am indebted to the storm for wet garments and the loss of Surrey, poor fellow, I am also under obligations to it for your aid." " As several hours must elapse before you can leave this place, will you honor my culinary skill, unless terror has occasioned the loss of appetite ?"     B         ENGLISH SERFDOM "And do you number cooking among your accomplishments ." she inquired laughingly. " Of course; even the knights-errant did not think their educa- tion complete until they could prepare a meal; a result, indeed, which could not well be avoided, for in their warfare against real and imaginary enemies of fair ladies, they were often carried beyond the reach of that aid which is so generously afforded- by females who understand making up substantial fare as well as grateful delicacies." ".Well, let us see what proficiency my knight-errant has made in such an important vocation," replied Katharine Montague, who began to enjoy the scene, as the warmth of the fire diffused itself throughout the cabin. "Thank you.  Occupying this hut so often during this season of the year, I am not altogether destitute of some of the necessa- ries of life, and especially to-night, for the sky looked threatening when I left home this morning. Here Phelim, dress this pheasant; or is your ladyship more fond of grouse V'1 " Oh, grouse, by all means." " Dress both, but the grouse first." " Yez. I always did say," soliloquized Phelim, as he withdrew, "that me mistress is much more tasteful than 4he nobility in gin- eral, for yez say, they think nothing is so delightful as to live on the peasantry, and especially does his riverence, FaytherMcQuod- ling, whilst her blissed ladyship prayfars grouse, me own delight." Katharine Montague observed the motions of Christie Kane, as he prepareed the supper. The bright light that fell uppn his manly form, and the heat of the fire, suffused his cheeks with a ruddy hue. Occasionally his eyes met her own, when they were suddenly . withdrawn; but the glance deepened the color in his cheeks. He took a tea-pot and tin pail, which shonezlike silver, from a shelf in the corner of the hut, and went to the river, where they were thoroughly rinsed. He then placed the pail upon the coals so that the water could not be smoked. Some potatoes were covered in the ashsa, and from the portmanteau that he always carried on his shouldt,'upon his hunting excursions, he took bread, salt, cheese, and butter. These he placed upon a table with two legs, which he leaned against the wall. The maiden was very much amused at the scene, and could not repress her laughter as she witnessed his operations. "I am glad you are in such fine spirits," he said, with a smile of open pleasure. ."I was never more delighted. This is a scene to be long remembered." " I hope so," he replied with an expressive glance. The lhdy blushed, and was silent. Phelim now brought in the grouse and pheasant, and Christie, adjusting the former upon a crooked stick, requested Mr. Savor to hold it suspended over the coals. The pheasant was arranged in the same manner; and Phelim, taking that also, sat in front of the fire-his face red and cheerful: the very impersonation of com- fort and good humor.     AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.                      149 "You would make an excellent quarter-master, Mr. Kane," said the maiden. " Do you think so ? I have some thoughts of joining the army, and would do so, if I could, like some of the younger sons of our nobility, purchase promotion, when they have not been fortunate enough to merit it. But will you suffer me to turn your seat to our humble board ?"                              .y "Gladly; for I must confess to a most craving appetite. I ought, perhaps, to blush for it, because it mars the romance of my adventure." "Which 1 will pardon, for the joy which your cheerfulness gives me." Exercise and exposure gave a relish to the food, of which she partook with a sharpened appetite. After Phelim had eaten, he was despatched to the castle, with. directions to return with a carriage, and he was enjoined by Katharine Montague to assure her mother that she was safe and happy. The last word gave Christie Kane indescribable pleasure, and in that seductive hour he forgot the distance which separated him from -the being who had so completely fascinated him. He was vain enough to suppose that he possessed all the manly qualities which, stamped upon the image of God, rendered him one of nature's favorites. He forgot, for the hour, that, with all his mental and personal gifts, he was still one of the substratum  upon whose shoulders rested the feet of the patented noble. ' "You have not a high opinion of the class of society to which I belong ?" said the maiden, interrogatively. "The feeling with which your father, and, may I add, yourself have inspired me, will not justify me in saying that." Katharine shaded her face with a lace handkerchief. She did not reply, and he continued- "There is a portion of the English nobility whose conduct awakens the respect of the most ardent republican." " And do you belong to that small section of our population ?" " Can you doubt it ? Believe me, Lady Katharine, there is an imposing minority in numbers, if not in influence, who would gladly exchange a state of social and political bondage, quite as degrading as that of the African slave, for a-state of freedom and independence." He spoke earnestly, and she did not fail to observe that his fine eyes lighted with enthusiasm. "Of what do you complain ?" "Can you ask me . Of everything to which human nature can be subjected. Oppression, contempt, contumely.  Our services required, our health ruined, and our misfortunes punished as crimes. One law, which disgraces the statute-book, is enough to justify a revolution." "And that?" "Is the law authorizing imprisonment for debt. It not only inflicts punishment upon the unfortunate, as revolting as that with      ENGLISH SERFDOM which you seek to arrest crime, but it increases the number of offences upon the criminal calendar." "In what way ?" "By teaching the vicious and depraved that it is no worse to be wicked than to be unfortunate-for both are punished with equal severity." The maiden was impressed with the remark, but said- "It is an evil which the noble may suffer as well as the plantt" The words, falling from her lips, grated harshly. upon his ears. But.he controlled his feelings. " Pardon me. In our case"-and he dwelt bitterly upon the word-" it is involuntary; and we are made to suffer for results over which we cannot exercise the slightest control. With the aristocracy it is generally courted by voluntary indulgence in extravagance and folly." She was still silent. "And what makes the law ridiculous as well as unjust, is the fact that the government, which so mercilessly crushes the spirit of the debtor, is itself hopelessly and irremediably insolvent. An insolvency from which there is no expectation or desire to escape." " No wish to pay off the national debt ?" " Not the slightest." "And why not ?" she asked with a look of surprise. "Because the national debt is the strongest pillar that sustains the fabric of British despotism; more powerful even than a hered- itary nobility, or the Church of England." "I cannot conceive how that is possible." "I will explain. The government is indebted to its subjects. The interest, which is annually paid upon this indebtedness, is the income of the subject. Do you not perceive that every creditor of the government would rally to its defence, were it in danger of being overthrown'? for the reason, that their capital would be involved in the general crash, were the debtor ruined." "Ah ! I understand.  There is much force in your reasoning," replied the maiden, as she rested her elbow upon the mossy bed he had prepared for her before the fire, and placed her cheek upon her hand. The storm had passed, and not a cloud could be seen along the vast expanse of the sky. The moon was rising above the adjacent hill, and casting her mild beams across the turbulent river. Chris- tie Kane re-entered the cabin, from which he had emerged a short time before.                           A, "I can hear the sound of wheels; the carriage must be approaching." "That is welcome intelligence."                  $ The reply was natural, yet Christie did not like it. He seemed hard to please. "Kate, my darling, I am glad to see you-and looking so fresh and blooming too, as though %othing had happened,"-said the Earl of Rossmore. " But there has, though."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.   "Anything more than a worse ducking than the one you gave Lord Melville ?" "Yes, I have lost Surrey." "How ?" "He went over the rapids." "Never mind, you shall have another." "There is no other Surrev." "There are as good fish in the sea as were ever taken out of it." "An adage that may possibly apply to the finny tribe, but not to horses." " have it as you will. But where is your preserver? Ah, here he is," and the earl grasped Christie Kane by the hand.  "You have saved the life of my child, and you have made me your friend," he said, frankly. "My lord, you saved my life.  I could do no less than save that of vour daughter, if I wanted a motive stronger than a sense of duty." "But to Kate, not to me, are you indebted for a release from jail," said the earl. " Hush ! father," she said, placing her hand upon his mouth. "I am certain the obligation I am under will never be consid- ered less," he replied. " To her all the credit is due." She shook her head at him imperiously. "Then I shall more than ever thank fortune for leading me to this spot to-night." " And so will I. But come, Kate. Drive the carriage this way, Donald," said the earl, from without the door. Katharine paused before following her father. "You will come with us, won't you ?" she said to Christie. The invitation was strongly seconded by her eyes. Christie hesitated for a moment, and then said, " I thank you, no.  I shall remain here to-night." " Does it possess so many attractions ?" she inquired, archly, as she cast a glance around the rough walls of the hut. " Never so many before; but now I will often make pilgrimages hither, and with as much devotion as ever Mohammedan visited Mecca." " Good-bye, then," she said, hurriedly, as she extended her hand. He held it for a moment, while his speaking glance sought her own, and then he bent his head and'pressed his lips upon it. Was he mistaken ?  lie thought the soft, white, little hand trembled. He assisted her into the carriage, and declining the invitation of the earl to return with them, hi re-entered the hut as they drove away.  His heart beat tumultuously, and hope awakened new aspi- rations in his proud heart-Hope, that often creates, that despair may destroy.    ENGLIS"SERFDOM CHAPTER XVI. What constitutes inan's chief enjoyniietit here?' What forms his greatest antidote to sorrow? IsIt wealth? Wealth can at last but gild his bier, Pr buy the pall that poverty must borrow.",-CLASON. A LONG, anxious hour passed, and still Henry, did, not return. The wind swept through the streets, and made the old building shake as with the tremulousness of age. There came gusts Of rain pattering against the glass, and that was followed by the rattling sou 'nd of sleet. The night was black and piercing I cold. Mrs. Kane pressed the two infants in her arms, and' O y rested her cheek, wet with tears, upon her mother's knee. The two men contemplated her misery ;, the officer'with emotions that a famili- arity, with suffering -could not altogether deaden, and Hurdy with a savage expression of triumph upon his repulsive countenance. Why don't he come back? he will die in the street, I know he will," said Mary Kane, as the hail beat against the window. You'll be there soon yourself, only fifteen minutes ot the hour now remain," said Hurdy. She made no reply, but moved backward and forward in her chair, moaning piteously. The 6our-has expired, do your dut Can't they remain here to-night,  rdy?" Let them, at your peril." "It's an awful Dight." And Mr. Greasebeans' business is worth something. The officer had a large family to support, and necessity will not admit of either kindness or generosity in the estimation of some persons. "If I must, I must, but it is hard. You hear what he says, madam." I do. There is no hope for me. I would go to little Wil- liam's father, but alas! he is absent from Lonuon, and Philip Hogan too. I do not know where he lives now." You will go out quietly!" Nis useless to resist ; my hour has-come. . Better perhaps, to die now, than to suffer longer," she're lied calmly. V Is                         Meer., I am 19orrv for you; upon MY soul am," isaidthe o "My huFjb'an'd is torn from me. My little boy, dear,'tioble, little Henry, is frozen to death. We have nothing to live for. I am willing to die." With despair riveted upon her countenance,ahe took a child upon each arm, and with Dolly clinging to her dress, descended the staircase, and walked out into the night. Ma, what you take me out this dark night for? I'm cold, and   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. the rain hurts my face. Let us go back, ma, and walk to-morrow, when it's warm and light." Wec'an never go there again, my child." Then where shall we sleep  It's time for me to go' to. bed now. Im' so sleepy and 'Cold. Frank Tot wants to go home too; hear how he cries." The rain fell fast, and its icy drops pierced through their slight covering. She wrapped the clothing around them, as well as she could,.to protect their tender bodies from the storm, and in doinm -so exposed herself to its fury. But a mother's devotion kept her warm. Turning down an alley she sought shelter from an over- hangin roof, which protected her from the rain. Clasping all three of the children in her arms, she tried to keep them warm with the heat from her own body. Benumbed with the cold, they all slept. Hurdy stealthily followed her footsteps, after separating from them officer. He aroused her from the torpor into which she was fast sinking. He seated himself beside her and took her hand in his own. She shrank from his touch as from an'.adder's. "Monster! whv do you pursue me?" Because you are too handsome- for my peace." Let go my hand, or I will scream for assistance." You'll get none. It is not a night the police love to he out in. "For mercy sake leave me-leave me to die in peace. "Not yet, not quite yet, sweetest," replied the brute as-he en- circl'ed her waist, and pressed his vulgar mouth to her owner, She shrieked, but be pressed one hand. upon her throat; in the struggle thehelpless, infants fell upon the frozen earth, and their cries mingled with the imprecations of Hurdy, the faint m-oans of the wretched woman, and the howling of the storm. Robert! Robert! Robert!" But her husband could not defend her. His services were -re- quired to enable Britannia to " rule the waves." She struggled until her strength was completely exhausted, and at last overcome, she fell 6pon the ground and blood gashed in tor- rentsfromhermouth. Shehadruptureda-bloodvessel. Butthe purposes of the fiend were not arrested. She remained insensible for some time after the monsterstole away. At length recalled to consciousness by the cries -of her children she rose from the ground. She felt that death was laying his icy grasp upon her. ".1 have to other recourse now but to die. I -may never see- Robert again on earth. But oh! God of Justice! let me meet him in heaven She em.-Dloved her remaining strength in taking off her outside garments and in wrapping the children carefully up in them. - She arailed tranquilly as 8he felt their- warm limbs and saw them sleep. ing calmly ; and then with a prayer for their safety, she reclined upoil the pavement until her flickering light should go out. The hemorrhagecontinued ; she- became weaker and- weaker; her limbis seemed turned to ice.     Robert-1-1-19ve-I-yoti-oh-so-so much. Meet-me- in--heav      A fresh gush of blood choked her utterance, and her heart ceased to beat. The sleet and rain turned to snow. as if to make a winding sheet worthy of the spotless purity and devotion of her character. The children slumbered, and the snow fell, lightly, as if it would not disturb their rest, but only spread over them a white mantle, to keep put the cold. Henry Jay some time upon the ground befi)re recovering from the effects of the blow. When he regained his feet, it was with a confused idea of what brought him out that stormy night; but when lie looked up to the blaze of light that burst from the win- dows, as if it was ambitious of dispelling the darkness that hovered upon its outposts, he remembered everythiiigv-the reason why he was in the street, his mission to Mr. Greasebeans and its results, The forms of dancers, decked with all the ex travagant ornaments thit Wealth could purchase, or that vulgar taste coveted, were seen within, moving to the voluptuous notes of the Redowa;,without, the storm howled through the street, as if in anger at the presence of enjoyment. Henry, now very nearly exhausted, for the want of food and rest, dragged his weary limbs towards home - no,-towards the lace that was one -e his home, for now he was houseless and home- as. The buildings seemed to reel as if they were on a s ree, and the creaking of blinds resembled the sound of maniacal laugh- ter. Still he toiled onward, braving the wind and breathing the snow, that now descended in large flakes, after the manner of the "devil 'Whipping his wife." He thought he heard the wailing of a child; yet it came soindistinetly to his' ears 'that he was left in doubt. He listened anxiously. Perhaps it was Frank Tot. Again he heard it - it was the cry of a child, and down that alley, With the quickness of thought he flew onwards. A small drift of snow was lying under the projecting eaves of a house. In the centre of it was Dolly. "Ma! ma! Oh, Ise so cold. I Why do'nt you wake up 11' "Dolly, dear Dolly, how came you here?" It's Henry! it's Henry!!"And the child wept afresh-but from JOY9 now, Where is mother? I do'nt see her, Dolly." She is laying there asleep, under the -snow  and she won't wake up, for I've tried ever so hard to make her. Henry turned in the direction that she pointed. A white hand was all he could see. It was stretched forth as'if imploring that 'd which the supplant might never receive. With. a cry of anguish, he knelt beside it. It answered not to his touch : it was cold -as marble. He brushed away the snow. The face of his mother which had dwelt so tenderly upon him, at the. moment of their separation, when sihe wrapped the handkerchief around his neck, and kissed his cheek-was now white-white as its winding sheet. He called, softly at first, so as not to rouse her too sud- denly. No voice answered, no smile played upon her lips.' Ile   AND AMRRICA14 SLAVERY. laid his hand upon her faceand a shudder passed through his frarne; for the touch 'chilled his-blood. "No! Oh no, not that; 1br God's sake, not that-not dead! Dead  Why', she will never kiss me again ; never ki' Frank Tot, nor Dolly, if she is dead. Never talk to us, pray for, us. Come maj wake up; say you are very cold, but that fire will warm you. Won't you, dear ma?"He laid his cifeek to her'mouth ; he placed his hand upon her heart; all was still as the grave. "Then she is dead, and we have no parents, no, protectors-alonej all alone!"He threw himself upon the body, and clasping it in his- arms,'wept as if his heart would break. Voices were heard approaching. "It was down here." No, not in that alley' it was further down the street." Hark! Yes, it is down there." Philip Hogan and his companion stood by the snowdrift. Their strong natures were subdued by the spectacle. Silently they lifted the child from his mother's corpse. He did not resist, because, overcome b long-sustained toil and anxiety, he had fainted. "Frank Tot and Wiffiam's here, too," said Dolly. Where, m child?" In the snow., to keep 'em warm. The snow Icept me warm, while, I lay quietly. But now the wind hurts me. Won't you take us to the fire? That I will, 71 said Hogan. They raised the two infants from the snowdrift. The stranger, little William,'was'cold ; death had claimed him as a victim. Frank yet breathed ; his extremities were chilled, but the pulsations of his heart, like the signal given at sea, spoke of life and hope. They wrapped the clothing round those who " still lived," and Hogan threw, off his thick coat and added it to what already pro- tected them from the storm., "Now let us-carry Robert's children to my house. His wife and the baby can remain for the present; no one will molest them now." Hogan's good wife manifested all the interest of a mother for the sufferets. She placed them in bed and gave them warna drink to stimulate vitality, and in a few minutes she had-the satis- faction of witnessing a change in their appearance. The warm blood revisited their purple lips, and the palo--hue'of their cheeks receded before the tide- of life that was now upon its flood. Frank Tot opened his eves and smiled, unconscious of the irre. parable loss he had sustained. Where is my ma  asked Dolly. They're gone to bring her here replied Mrs. Hogan sadly. Oh! I'm so glad, I shall see my, ma again; and she'll talk to me now, won't she?" The kind woman turned away her hea'd, and a groan burst from Ifenrv's bosom. What -ails oo, Henry? Why don't oo be happy? They're, goin' to bring ma here, where she Vvil.1 be --nice and warm. I told     166          ENGLISH SERFDOM her not to go out walking such a dark, cold night. She won't do so any more, will she?" "Alas! no, poor child." "But what makesoo look so"? Don't oo, want my ma to come here. Isn't there nuff fire to keep us all warm?" Not enough to warm her again," said Mrs, Hogan, as the big tears rolled down her cheeks. Then let me put some more coal on, for ma will be very cold, I know she will, for her hand was just as hard as ice. My pa will pa yousome day." nd Dolly got out of the bed and put some coal in the grate with her little hands. Mrs. Hogan did not know how to undeceive her as to the fate of her mother, and she waited for circumstances to do it. "Don't oo think it looks more cheerful now?" "Yes.19 "Will ma think so too? Oh! here she comes! here ishe-" Dolly paused abruptly when she saw her mother brought in, pale and cold as when she last saw her. They laid the corpse upon a bed in the inner room.- Henry and his sister stood beside it. The bpy gazed steadfastly through his'tears upon the face of the dead, wringing his hands, but uttering no sound except occasionally an agonizing sob, that expressed the desolation of his heart. Dolly was at first awed by the solemn appearance of the corpse; it could not be that mother whose face always wore a loving expression. She surveyed the features critically, and to solve her doubts she pushed a chair to the side of the bed, and getting upon it, tried, with mantle touch, to raise the lids of the eyes. The orb that met her view was her mother's, but so fixed and glassy, it appalled her. She looked long and anxiously upon the corpse ; she traced each line, examined -each feature ; she pressed her lips upon the cold cheek, and perceiving no motion, receiving no caress, her lips quiv- ered, and then the foundation of her grief gave way. She threw her arins around her brothers neck, and together they mourned over the pulseless form of the unsympathizing dead. Preparations were being made for the humb16 funeral. A plain, J. -COffin was all that could be afforded, and into thafthe body was placed, clothed in the scanty livery of th'e tomb. England required the .services of her husband to make heroes' with, whom she could, worship in their life-time and embalm with her tears after death. Heroes, who would strengthen her power, and visitwith injustice and contempt, the country of their birth. England, overburthened *ith philanthropic love for the human race, claimed the services of Robert Kane, but she neither cared for his helpless wife while liv- ing, nor buried her remains after death. How coald it be expected, in the great struggle for national supremacy and renown, that the happiness of Aer own people should arrest the attention, of the gov- eminent. The eyes of her statesmen were raised to such a height in order to ascertain what particular corner of the world most needed the delicate and persuasive diplomacy of their cannon, that it would really be asking too much to require them to listen to the hopes and Is fears o6the vulgar instruments of their wills. What had they to   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. do with the feelings of the common herd I Was it not enough that they were io be offered up as a sacrifice Upon the altar of British ambition? Did not their Lotting carcasses and bleached'bones in- crease the reno'wn of their country? What happier fate could ambi-' tion, desire? And so onward rolled the government like a vast Jug- gernaut, crushing and mangling the helpless victiuas of 4ts power. Still forward it rolled through domestic altars, across sacred hearth-stones; the fell precursor of ruined hopes, blasted happiness, sic, Ss, suffering and death. e hour bad arrived when the body was to be consigned to its final restinu-place. "Henry. must they put ma in the ground P' "Yes, bolly." "In the frozen ground Yes. Won't she be cold there!" No. Why. not? I should be." Not if you were dead, Dolly." Can't people feel when they are dead No. How long will ma stay there, Henry For a long, long time ; after you -and I grow up and die', long after that. Dolly sadly reflected upon his words. "But won't ma be hungry in-  -No, she can't if she don't feel. Poor ma, she'll nev 0 er take me on her knee again, never put me asleep, never kiss me, never pet me any more. Dolly got no ma now. Dolly wants to die too." They gently forced the child. frantic with grief, from the coffin. The lid was closed, the screws driven home, and the' body was borne away. i"Father! father I why don't you come and keep them from c9r- rying ma away. Come quick, or we shall never see her again I never see her again!" shrieked the child as she caught a last glimpse of the coffin. Henry's grief was more subdued, but it was not less intense. For several davs he could not leave the house, and remained in the corner a picture of mute despair. He began, however, to rally his energies, for he felt that greater responsibilities now rested upon him. His sister and brother had no other protector, and with the impulses of a noble boy be prepared to discharge what he. be- lieved to be his duty to them. Mrs. Hogan insisted that they -should remain with her, although they could not well afford to make an addition to their fami y. One week'aftek the funeral Henry asked Mr. Hogan what'he should do. Do, my young, friend? Why remain here with Dolly and Frank Tot. "Can't remain here in idleness; I should not be happy, Mr. Rogan. f7 Then why don't you return to your post at Mr. Greasebean's     ENGLISH SERFDOM "         -never put my foot within the walls of his Never, sir! I will factory again." Then we must see what else can be thought of, if you insist' " upon doing somet 9- "Thank you,  . Hogan; if you please. I know I shall be happier if I can work for Dolly and Frank Tot, for they have no one to do it now." A situation was obtained in another manufacturinLrestablishment, where, for the same Dumber of hours' labor, he obtained the same compensation which he 'had received from Mr. Greasebeans. Faithfully did Henry perform his task. His head often ached'and his limbs throbbed with pain, but true to his purposes he was at his wheel every morning at five o'clock. It was necessary, in order to do that, to rise from his bed long before daylight, now the days were so short. ' Frank Tot wits not awake when he left in the morning, and he was nicely tucked up i' bed before he returned at night, -so that Henry could only pet him on Sundays. But Dolly never would go to bed until he returned ; because she, wanted to kiss him 'and thank him for all he was doing for her. On his way to the factory he passed by a toy shop, and he often paused for a moment to look at a nice little. doll that was hanging invitingly at the window, to excite the slumbering desires for ma- ternity in the bosoms of all little girls, who passed that way. Henry thought how happy the possession of that doll would make his sister, and once he walked into the store and asked the price. "W6 and sixpence.," His heart sunk at the mAornitude of the sum. The fruits of three days' labor could not be. spared from the necessities of life ; still, as he walked by the shop the doll flung temptingly there. Dolly had nothing to amuse her all day, she must be so lonely without him. He reflected upon the subject long and painfully. What would Mr. Hogan say, if, while indebted to his roof for shelter, he should be guilty of such extravagance. And yet it would make Dolly so ha py, the possession of that doll. The temptation was too great, an he finally entered the shop, The doll had been sold. Now that it was beyond his reach,'he was certain the purchase would have been altogether right, and he was very sorry it was sold. The woman observing his chagrin, isaid. she could make him another just like it. , Was she sure it would be exactly like it? She answered in the affirmative. And then he timidly asked her if she would receive installments of one penny a day. The honest face of the boy interested her, and she replied that she would. As evidence of his sincerity, and to bind the bar- gain, he paid'down the first installment of one penny. Every night as he returned home he -deposited a like sum. He worked more cheerfully at his task after the bargain was made, for he. thought of the happiness the present would give Dolly. At length the six- teen installment we're all " paid in," and the doll was deliV6red to him. Have you no brother 1" asked the wromaD. Oh yes, a dear little fellow i' "Don't you want to btiv this horse and wagon for him P7   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. I should like to very much if I had money to spare," he re. plied, with a wistful countenance. The price is one stilling, but You are such a good. boy you may have it fdr eight pence." "How it would amuse Frank Tot," thought Henry. "You may take it now, and pay me one penny a-day'for it." The temptation was too much, for his prudence, and 11e. bought it. It was Saturday night, and taking his gifts home he laid them, carefully away until morning, so he might witness the pleasure with which they were received. After'breakfast he gave the doll to his sister. And he was compensated for all his toil by the joy with which sile received it. Alternately throwing her arms around his neck'and pressing the doll to her bosom, she gave way to lively demonstrations of plea- sure. When the first emotions of delight were over she looked from Henry to Frank Tot, as if she thought he too ought to have a present. Frank's lips becran to quiver, for him young ideas man- aged to give shape to a charge of 'artiality. When Henry placed upon the floor the horse and wagon, Frank Tot looked first at the wagon, and then at Henry, and then at Dolly, with a half-wise, half-pleased expression upon his features, as if the judgment he was making up upon the merits of the horse and wagon was in- compatible wine anything like merriment. But when he had ar- rived at his own diminutive conclusions upon the articles in ques. tion, he proclaimed his satisfaction by vociferous cooking and energetic clapping of hands. It was apparent to Mr. Hogan and his wife that Henry Kane was overtaking his strength. His form was emaciated ; his cheeks became pale and his eyes Sunken., while there was a listlessness in his movements which betokened great physical lassitude. He would not listen to 'their persuasions to discontinue his daily task, until his strength entirely gave way. One morning, he essayed to rise from his bed - but his head swam round, and he could not stand. Three- times he made the attempt in the belief that it was only im- aginatio n; finally he was oblicred to ykjd, and daylight found him still in bed. A long and wasting disease now preyed upon his frame, and at last there seemed to be no hope of his recovery. To, Hogan this was a severe blow, as it required the greatest industry ,.and economy to provide for his own family. When he began to despair of Henry's life, the thought occurred ta-him. that Mr. Grease- beans, whose philanthropic efforts in the cause of foreign missions was the theme of universal praise, might not think the helpless children of Robert Kane altogether beneath his charities. He -had been told it was necessary for such good men as Mr. Greasebeans, in order to behold suffering and oppression in far ofT countries,- to elevate their eyes at an angle which carried their vision altogether above the lowly mendicant at their own doors. Nevertheless, -he was not Without hopes of being able, by a fervent -appeal to thq sympathies of that gentleman, to induce him to withdraw his gaze- from foreign amelioration and emancipation long enough to Observe M the distressing situation of the motherless children. To accomplish,     ENGLISH SERFDOM that object he started for the countinghouse of Greasebeans, Snod- grass & Co. Mr. Greasebeans was engaged in conversation with the Rev. Ebenezer Rumfelt, an(f Hogan seated himself in the corner until the conference was over. As usual they were devisinameansfor carrying on a vigorous assault against oppression in all its strong- holds, provided it was entrenched upon any portion of the globe except that from whence their charities is-stied.. According to their definition of charity, it did not apply, in the remotest degree, to the subjects of Great Britain, It was enough t eat they could boast "I am an E nglishman," and it m. ade not the slightest difference whether ihe annunciation came from a full stomach, or was the scarcely perceptible echo of famine in its appeal for bread- It could not be expected that Charity, English charity, would grapple with facts, stern, unyielding facts, vulgar facts of every day occur-' rence, when there was so much pleasure to be obtained in a free indulgence in the romance of imagination, and, what it would be so unchristianly to overlook, somuch notoriety also.. It was apparent that the discourse of the Rev. Ebenezer Ruin- felt had been more than ordinarily unctuous, for the sympathetic face of Mr. Greasebeans was very perceptibly elongated. The earners of the mouth were piously drawn down, while the eyes were sanctimoniously elevated. The senior member of the well known house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co. was seldom more aroused, than by the information communicated hy Parson Rumfelt. "Do you say they actually -roasted-" "Baked," "Baked a victim, under the very drippings of the Lord's sanc- tuary'l" "Verily, in the presence of the servant of the Lord ; and, not satisfied with such an awful exhibition of profanity, they asked him, wouldn't he-the Rev. Nicodemus Straitjacket-take a slice!" Of the victim',% bodv 1" Cut from the loins, which they assured him, with significant gesticulations, was considered a tit bit." Well, what of it?" said Dykeman, who fiad just entered. Don't you partake of the body of the Sador a dozen times a year and not only that, but drink of his blood, and pretty deeply, too, some of you, when it is of good qnafity? Why, you are worse can- nibals than the Hottentots; for you pretend to eat and drink of that which, in fact, you never touch, while they I go the'entire swine,' with the utmost simplicity, and an entire absence, of any thing like deception or humbug. "Mr. Dykeman, you leave such stronger thoughts," observed ' Mr. Greasebeans, with strong marks, of'coininiseration upon his pious countenance. The Rev. Ebenezer Rumfelt shot a glance of indignation at the blasphemer, which was intended to overcome him as effectually, though not after the manner, that Goliath was vanquished by David. But ykeman was proof against the assaults of'Mr, Rumfelt's florid countenance; much more so, indeed, than the latter was sjaspectod. of being in the matter of either rum, brandy, or gin. This opinions   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. however, was based more upon the hue of his complexion, than upon any facts admitted by the reverend gentleman, or elicited in the "course, of human events :" a condition of affairs, - neverthe- less, that warranted one of the clergy in hinting to Mr. Rumfelt that, 'if he had not been justly accused in regard to complexions he had better take in hi's sign. A solemn joke, which severed, for all time, the amicable relations which had existed between the two reverend ambassadors. "And they persisted in their disgusting repast, notwithstanding the protestations of the clerzvman?" asked Mr. Greasebeans. It Not only that, but by, divers flourishes they manifested the greatest satisfaction, during the operation, and even went so far, by way of showing their appreciation of the person of Mr. Strain. jacket, as to signify that they had dined on fat less acceptable car- casses than his own would make, if it was duly cooked, and pro- perly seasoned." "Profanation  What! boil a sacred ambassador, like a saddle of mutton -1 Mr. Rumfelt, they would find you in such excellent condition that you could be done without the aid of brandy sauce, even. I'm not sure but they'd flud you well pickled now," said Dykeman, most unfeelingly.            I , Mr. Dykeman, H wish yo"o understand that I'consider your remarks personal-vulaarly so, sir" exclaimed Mr. Rumfelt. as Readjusted his wig after the approved mode, though rather more fiercely than was altogether consistent with the divine sanctity which he scrupulously affected. This wig deserves a pas-sing notice., It was not a wig of a decided character, with -straight hair, and unmistakable part, which says "I am a wig, and'I don't care who knows it." On the contrary, it was one of those wigs that are intended to deceive the unsuspecting, by its air of negli- gence ; strongly resembling an uncombed head,which the owner had forgotten to adjust before leaving his room, and was, therefore, compelled ever and anon to push up and down, to puff out and in, as a proper regard for appearances seemed to justify., In short, it ig that mialit have been indicted and found guilty, under the code of morals which condernas false pretences. "If such frightful crimes are perpetrated, it is evident our exer- tions must be redoubled in the glorious cause of humanity," observed 'Mr. Gmasebeans.  A greater supply of money should be dispatched at an eaity'day. "I have now on -hand fifteen hundred pounds for such- purposes, besides a special fund ofninetee'n hundred pounds, for the abolition of slavery in the United States. Do you learn, Mr. Rum'felt,that there have been any, recent atrocities in the slaveholding states calculated to arouse the indignation of the virtuous, and make'them contribute liberally  You know all such cases should be duly pro- claimed, so- that the good movement may not be arrested," Recent advices from th6 unimpeachable Mr. Roorback, state that four cases havo come to his knowledge, where the owners of slaves, in the heat of passion,actuilly buried them alive." Horrible! That intelligence, if we make what we ought out     162          ENGLISH SERFDOM of it, cannot fail 'of adding two thousand pounds to the special fund "if it is properly advertised, by fitting wood-cuts, with coffins, hammer and nails, &c. &c. &c., I think you might reasonably count upon two thousand pounds, and that 'Bum will ena e you to set apart quite an item for incidental expenses," said Dy eman. Mr. Rumfelt answered this opinion by casting a furtive glance at Mr. D kernan before he continued his remarks. Mr. Roorback also informs us, that one week before he wrote, two children were starved to death by their unfeeling masters.", Come now, that is really too frightful," ejaculated Mr. Greasebeans, with strong marks of indignation upon his usually benign features. "A fate that is constantly witnessed in Ireland, in the mining districts of -England, and in London, too," replied Dykeman. "But that's nothina, for it has been demonstrated, not only by anatomists, but by the society which has the honor, Mr. Greasebeans, of claim- ing you as its president, that it is much more painful for a negro to die of starvation than for a white man ; which may be accounted for upon the hypothesis that the Wave, being ordinarily well fed, finds it a more disagreeable operation to have his food suddenly stop. ped, than the free-born Englishman, who, from -subsisting, any number of years, upon just enough to keep body and soul from dis- solving- partnership, gets accustomed' to his fate by the time the supply ceases altogether. And this I assume to be much more consistent with the Christian religion, than the barbarous practices of our? transatlantic brethren." The onl response vouchsafed by Mr. Rumfelt was a look of withering contempt, designed to make Dykeman understand that he, Dykeman, occupied at that moment a position infinitely beneath the notice ofEbenezer Rumfelt. . Does Mr. Roorback make mention of any cash transactions in Human flesh V asked Mr. Greasebeans, without indicating whether he did or did not coiiii,-ide in opinion with his reverend visitor, as to the precise locality then and there occupied by Mr. D keman, in his estimation.- "He informs me that -sales frequently take place by which rela- tions are separated ftom each other." An example we are daily setting them by the operations of our press-gangs with this slight difference, that with them those who are taken away, and those who- remain, are well fed and clothed. while with us the family of the victim, -as in the case of Robert'Kane, are delivered over to suffering and death. These things, however, can all be reconciled by the aforesaid hypothesis', that white folks can and ought to suffer more than black." 4 6He states further," continued Mr. Rumfelt, without even deigning a, glance at Mr. Dykeman, 11 that these sales,: in separating man from wife, and resulting in second marriages, beget a disregard for the nu tial tie, and consequently a corruption of morals, the bare- contemplation of which is truly appalling." Dreadful!" uttered Mr. Greasebeans, There 'is," observeaMr. Dykeman, vpho would take part -in the   AND AMERICAN SLAX-ERY.            168 conversation, notwithstanding the evident disgust with which his remarks were ftstehed to by Ebenezer RuinfeOlt, 41 a manifest rea- -son ;vhy Englishmen should be permitted to indulge in the severest animadversions upon the absence of nuptial fidelity among -the 'rest- of mankind ;' a license which we have purchased by the correct- ness of our own deportment in that regard, as a nation and as indi- Viduals. It is true, some of our monarchs have not been shining lights for the guidance of the faithful. It was -shrewdly suspected that the wife of Richard'the Second was no better than she should be. The consort of one of the Edwards was also accused of being rather too unmanageable and hard to satisfy. Queen Bess, too, was not above suspicion, and George the Fourth, the most accom- plislied, gentleman in all England, did not render that fealty to the matrinionial tie which is indispensably necessary in order to enable every well-regulated -family to enjoy the full fruition of connubial bliss. It- has also been intimated that licentiousness and debauch- erv prevailed, to an extent unparalleled in the history of any other nation on earth, during the reign of Charles the Second, but that was only the natural efferveseenc6 which might reasonably have been expected after the round-headed, crop-haired rule of Oliver Cromwell. Arid even now, the fashionables of England do not set a very commendable example, in the matter of coniaLrat fidelity, if we are to credit the portraiture (so much lauded by the press o Londonj drawn by G. W. X. Y. Z. Reynolds. On the other haad, we can boast of one str'zhing example of loyalty to the mar- riage knot. Henry the Eighth will, for all time, stand bat promi- nently as the exponent of 'connubial faithfulness, in this, that he adhered to one wife until he had murdered her, before he would yield his royal hand to another. Probably the world will never know another such a beast as, he proved himself in connection with his half dozen wives. We can pardon him, though; of course we 15 can, because he was sometimes deceived, and also because he was the head and front of the reformation in England. In consideration of those facts, we can overlook a world of rascality. We also have this additional consolation, for which I trust we shall be duly grate- ful. - It is not half so wicked for white people to indulge 'issue h sinfulness, (which I regret to say has been too prevalent ever since David cast liquorice eyes upon Uriah's wife,) as it is for negroes ; an"exemption from- culpability which must be traced to the fact, that, being the descendents of Ham, they aTo the especial fav, oriten of the Almighty." "And he finally says," inquired the 'impenetrable Ebenezer Rumfelt, 44 that the planters are turning their attention to the raise- ing of children for the slave market. As they would cattle 1". remarked the senior member of the house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass and Company, with his sancti- monious face great y elongated. "Precisely -so." "Which. I assume to be an excellent improvement; for to-pro- pagate, the human species faster than the old f' laws'of nature would permit, cannot be otherwise than an amen  ofit highl go,& ceptable to the divine founder of those laws," o6se ed Mr, ke     164          ENGLISH SERFDOM man.  We bad better introduce the system into Great Britain, if it has" not been patented in the United States, for the. purpose of increasing our own population - as the amazing numbers, who, strange to say, prefer barbarous, half-civilized, slavery-accursied America to their native 'country, is sadly interfering with the' popu. nation' of the British Empire. There is one powerful argument 'in favor of this valuable' amendment of the laws of nature, as applied to this country, Mr. Greasebeans, which Will not fail to present itself to you in a business point of view. The wealth of th6 house of Greasebeans., Snodgrass, and Co., will be increased in proportion to Ahe decrease of the wages of labor, caused by O, surplus of operatives. Do you take, Mr. Greasebeans! It is true that result will multiply the distress among the poor, but we are not supposed to be affected by such consideration, provided the distress and sufrering- only exists in Great Britain." Mr. Grea'sebeans, it isuseless to conclude the interesting state- ment made by Mr. Roorback this morning," said Mr. Rumfelt.  I will avail myself of another op ortunity when we shall not be subjected to impertinent intei-ru tion." And adjusting his wig with a delicate tQueh, Mr. Rum It left the office with a atateli- ness of bearing, that indicated an ability to sustain all the reli- gion and morals of the United' Kingdom upon his own shoulders. "Mr. Greasebeans," said Hogan timidly, "I called thi's morning io, see if you would contribute something for -the support of the children of Robert Kane, who was seized a few months ago by the press-gang ,Aeally now, Mr. ;- what's your name?" ogan.' ?gan, I don't see in what way I can assist you." His wife perished on the nightyou turned her from your house Allow me to interrupt you, Mr. Hogan," said Mr. Greasebeans, as he smoothed his white neck-elo'th  on the niaht she was ejIected 'by virtue of legal process. You should pay a proper regard'to terms, Mr. Hogan." "At all events, -she was turned into the street that fatal night, notwithstanding the earnest supplications of her son." You could not, of course, expect me to attend to business on the night a party was given, at my house." Not if it'was to save the life of a human being?" Of course not. The house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co. have -established certain inflexible rules, which are not departed from under any circumstances. The senior member ofthat house, discovering how admirably they worked, adopted similar- rules for the government of his household." Well, Mrs. Kane died that -night-" You have mentioned that fact once before," remarked the im- perturbable Mr. Greasebeans. "And her three young and helpless children are now' -at my house continued Hogan. I trust you take excellent care of them, Mr. Hogan".'   AND &NIERICAN SLAVERY.            165 C6 1 do, to the extent of my ability ; but having a large family'of my own to support, I find it impossible to do justice to them all.?' Ah!" I hope, t6refore, you will give a small portion of the large sum vou are devoting to the abolition cause, for the temporary sup- port of those poor orphans." "Mr. Hogan are you. aware of what you aA?" replied Mr. Greasebeatis, with unusual vivacity. "Do youi know that that fund is to be sacredly devoted to the righteous cause 1'Or which it was raised, and that it would be worse than profanity to divert it to any other purpose? Get thee behind me, tempti3r  I'am proof against your seductions." "I am sorr if I have made an improper request, Mr. Grease. beans. You ought to be, for there i's no higher crime- known to morals than seeking to undermine the charitable resolves of the virtuous and good." Mr. Greasebeans wiped the tears from his spectacles, which the consciousness of an assault upon his rectitude had gathered there ; for his feelings were very much hurt. Hogan did riot exactly com- preherid the offence he had committed, but he had no doubt it was of a very heinous character, or it would not have drawn tears from Mr. Greasebeans' spectacles. Still the condition of the helpless children was uppermost in his mind, and he ventured hesitatingly to remark- Perhaps you may not consider it wrong to contribute something -Ut of your pri vate funds for those unfortunate orphans, who-" Mr. Hogan, you will please excuse me froin listening further to your requests. My nerves have really been so much shocked by your unfeeling, I may say, cruel assault, upon my virtue, that I am quite incapacitated from attending to any business to-day. You will expuse me, Mr. Hogan, I know you will, after having so un-? kindly assailed i4y nervous. system. Good mt')rning, Mr. Hogani Dykernan, show the gentleman the door." You see," observed, Dykeman, as be bowedHogan into the street, " all the philanthropy of Mr. Greasebeans is awakened, by foreign missions. , It cannot be expected, therefore, that be should interest himself in the cause of domestic suffering. Yoti will appreciate the purity of his motives Mr. Hogan, and m ake mention "ty. Good'morning, of it wheresoever you may have an opportune Mr. Hogan; I hope you may have a nice time with Robert Kanps children." Hogan turned gloomily away, for he had a half-fQrmedidea that unutterable meanness was at the bottom of these hypocritical pro. testations.     166,         E NGL1S11,$ERFDOM CHAPTER XV11. I t1i'luk of thee ;-thftt eye of flame, Those tresses fallilig bright and free, I             .1 That brow. where, I Beauty writes her name . I think of thee-1 thiiillc of thee."-plam-mon. ELLIM K rioWLICs, confident that she had entrapped the affections of her cousin, impatiently awaited the hour when he should make a declaration of love. She was apprehensive that Lord Melville might disclose the, part she had taken in his arrest; and, therefore, sh6 often threw herself in the waV of Christie, to give him oppor- tunities of declaring his passion. Vor that purpose she walked over to her aunt's several days after he rescued, Lady"Katharine from the river. Her heart beat triumphantly when she isaw him seated in the cozy little parlor before a cozy fire. The aspect of the room spoke of love and marriage. And rww. she thought, was the favor- able hour for a disclosure of his passion, Ah, Ellen, you are welcome. Take this chair by the fire; the keen air has given your cheeks a rosy hue, which, by the way, is not a stranger to them." Are you so observing 1 1 was not aware you ever noted such trifles. I thought, so far as you are concerned, a lady might be white, green, or blue, without attracting attentions "It would not be considered a matter of very great importance provided her heart was not black, cousin Ellen." The girl winced. And do you estimate the moral qualities so highly 11 Far above either personal beauty, rank, or wealth." She paused. Coul it be possible he had obtained a knowledge of her character. If so, her aspirations were hopeless, and her -scheming vain. But no, her dissimulation had been too profound. I am 6xceedingly happy, cousin Christie, that our opinions agree upon this subject, for I prize purity of thought and purpose above all other gifts." These sentiments do you honor." Yes. Although I have worldly expectations something more than moderate, in prospective wealth to be derived from. my father, still that is the least of the attractions which, I trust, I possess. I speak to you thus frankly, Christie, because I have felt for you the affection-6f a sister For the last twelve months What do you mean.   AND AMERICAN SLA:VERY.            167 That your conduct towards me before that time savored more of contempt then affection." "Ali, Christie, believe me, it was the beari -ng of a petted, way- ward child, who took that way of showing, her regard." I am glad to hear it, because appearances pointed 'in another direction, cousin Ellen." Thank you, Christie, for your generous confidence in my pro- testations-" "And you have always entertained for ine sentiments of the kindest regard?" "Always; how can yomask the question 1'9 --she said, fixing her large, brilliant eyes upon him for a moment, with something very like brazen effrontery, and then they melted into a look of love and devotion. There could be no mistaking their appeal. But Christie gene r- ously resolved not to unmask her. Voices were now heard in the yard in loud conversation. They both recognized the imperious tone of Lord Melville. Christie started to his pt. "Do not go out; you mtwt not, indeed you must not," said Ellen, with passionate earnestness. Before he could release himself, Melville stalked into the hall. "You thought to escape me, did you, fool that you're. Why, Satan ay as well attempt to fly ftom damnation." W at want you here, my lord?" Your body-aye, your bodY. You have noclaim, upon me." A' Have I not? Did not yourself and mother become security for a neighbor, Richard Burnham, some fourteen months ago?" Yes." Has the debt been paid I do not know." Well, I do. It has not I have purchased it, and ain your- creditor again, aye, and of that old woman who dared to threaten, my mother a few weeks ago," "I did not threaten her without a cause, braggart. Beware, sir replied Mrs. Kane, fiercely. Fool! fool! to think of aweing, me thus." Scoundrel! dare you use such language to my mother," ex- claimed Christie Kane, as he violently seized N"elvi'lle by the throat, and shook him until hewas black in the face. The officers rescued the nobleman froin the grasp of his assail- ant, when he staggered to a seat. "Won't yousuffer for this?" "Doubtless; but not longer than you'will remember it." "Officer, arrest both those persons. They', were both seized. And now I have a word to say about you, my fair but treach- erous dame," hesaid, addressing Ellen Knowles. ForGod's sake! spare me," she said, imploringly. Did you spare my great aunt 11' Oh, forget that-forget that."     168-         EN4LISH SERFDOM "What do you" mean by such conduct, Ellen!" asked Mrs. Kane. She is afraid I will tell--" "Don't, for mercy's sake, don't tell it.17 How urgently she requested me to cast her affectionate cousin, Mr. Christie Kane, into prison." Ellen staggered to a chair. "It's a lie-a base, malicious lie," she screamed. No, Ellen, your conduct is evidence of its truth," said Christie. calmly. And you believe the accusation I do." Ah! ha! my young lass, your hopes are destroyed, and kv me, by me, Lord Melville,!" ",Lord Melville no longer!" said Mrs. Kane, in a deep, hollow voice.. All eyes were turned upon her. They were appalled by the ghastly paleness of -her countenance, and the diabolical expression which was -stamped upon every alinement of her face. ", What do you mean, woman?" said Melville, with a look of awe mean- Don't, aunty ; there may yet be hope," said Ellen imploringly. Mrs. Kane paused ; she was ' evidently deeply troubled,- for there was a gargling in her throat, that sounded like the death- rattle. The spectators were motionless, as they observed her working countenance. At length, with a violent effort, she spoke. No, Ellen, there is no hope. Our expectations have been de stroyed by this brute. He has availed himself of his position, not only to thwart the hope that I have cherished for more than twenty years, but he has been guiltv of the most fiendish cruelty to o'ne whohas always treated me with kindness, notwithstanding my ne- glect and abuse." "What does all ihis mean, old woman?" exclaimed Melville, Who had rallied from the: stupor into which he had been thrown by her language and manner. " I'll tell you what it rnea'ns,",she cried fiercely.  It means that ou are not Lord Melville! It means that you are my son! It y means that Christie Kane is Lord Melville, the son of the Duchess of Sunderland, and the heir to a dukedom!" I The bystanders heard the annunciation with -amazement. The officers released their hold upon Christie' Kane as'though the infor- mation had invested his person with a sanctity not hitherto pos- sessed. Melville sank back in his chair. His jaw dropped, and his face was as pale as if stamped by the ineffaceable characters of death. "b Gentlemen, I hAve spoken'the truth," said Mrs. Kane, address- ing the officers.  It- shall all be explained before the, propei tri- I buna), but I will remark' hwe ihat a f6ind of mine was wet-nur'se to that youngman," pointing to- 'Christie Kane, 11 whowas' of - ihe same age as my own son, and she nodded to Lord Melv'I'lle. "The infants- were exchanged. The Duches's was not the wiser, for she   AND -AMERICAN SLAVERT. never visited the nursery. My object was to procure a marriage between Ellen Knowles and the heir of a dukedom; 'Unless my son proved to be, a man who would adorn the position which he oc- cupied. in- that case, 1, resolved to let the, secret die with me. But I learned at an early day, that he would disgrace the rank ' into which he had been foisted, by his unsufferable bearing and inhuman conduct. I then resolved to carry out my original scheme. But iny designs have- been thwarted ; thwarted, too, by the agency of my own son ; and it is, therefore, without one throb of pity that I consign him to the position for which he was destined by na- ture. 71 "What proof have- ybu of your assertion, bold, bad woman?" said Melville,-;-who rallied again. Proof that is overwhelmingly conclusive. The evidence of the wet nurse who is still living, and of the attending physician." As for the wet-nurse I fancy her testimony .will be considered of little value, having been, as you admit, a party to the crime. And as for the physician, it would be a difficult thing for him to swear that in the robust fo 'rm. of yonder boor could be traced the features of the babe of twenty-two years arro. Bah! you must exercise your ingenuity with greater skill to manufacture a respect- able falsehood." "Christie Kane, have you a mole upon your arm half the size of ablackberry?" asked Mrs. Katie. "I have." "Will, you let us see, it?" "Certainly." He removed his coat, and rolling up bis'sleeve disclosed's mark upon the arm near the shoulder, resembling the half of a black- berry. 4 &That mark will explain all, for it was commented upon at the bour of his, birth by the physician, the monthly nurse, and the Duke of Sunderland himself' What say you now, sirrah?" Melville' rose from I;is seat pale as a corp se, and left the house. "I always thought he was a flunkey," said one of the officers. "Yeas, it wer always apparent lie didn't belong to o'Ur class, he was so denied vulgarr" replied the other, as he indulged in the refined habit of picking his nose. "Gentlemen, you may withdraw," said Mrp.. Kane. pointing to the door. spose we may," said the officer hesitatingly. Go!" said Christie'sternly. Certainly, my lord, if you desire it," said the, officer obse- quiously. Your lord does desire it," said the young man contemptuous- lY, accidnting the word And nowi" said Christie, taking, Mrs. Kane by the hand, and con    her to the sofa, 11 all I require of you, as a slight return for the yea-re of'wrong you have made me suffer, is to keep secret for ten days the knowledge of my birth." will," replied Mrs. Ka he. thank you and, now let me assure vou 'that for' the man- y     170          ENGLISH SERFDOM acts of kindness I have received at your hands, I shall always ba grateful, and it shall be manifested in a 'more substantial manner than by woods,'merely Christie Kane retired to his chamber, an6 reflected long upon the intelligence he had received. Could it be possible that he, the humble farmer, was heir to the wide domains of the Duke of Sun- derland? WasthehauglityDuctiessliisrnother? Wasthatproud Dukehisfather? How-wouldtheyreceivetheiritelligenceI -All these questions forced themselves u 'on him, until his brain whirled with excitement. It was stepping pinto a new world. To leave the bunible dwelling where he thought be was born, for the castle of Mornlow, and the splendid residence in town. To control the destinies of men, instead of having his controlled bythem. . To be elevated to the level of that class he had so often and so freely de- nounced. It is pot strange that to have his existence, thus changed should produce a state of strong and irrepressible excitement. And what were his plans for the future? lie could not arrange them in that moment of agitation, but one important step he resolved to take at once, and that was, to solicit the hand of Katharine Mon- tague in marriage. It was a bold step, and one which, if it failed, would cause him much unhappiness. A less scrupulous lovew would have waited until his suit was sustained by the pow-erful a4xiliary of rank. , Not so Christie'Kane. He could not accept as the noble what would be denied. as a man. There wa s some- thing in the hearing of the maiden which bade him hope, notwith- standing the heredTitary pride of the family. But did he not hope rashly, to suppose the daughter of that illustrious house could stoop from her lofty position and ally herself wine a peasant I He re- solved to incur the risk, and as there was no time to be lost, he started at once for the castle of Montague. Arriving there, lie in- formed the liveried waiting-man that he canie to inquire of Lady- Katharine Montague's health. The servant, less mannerly than most of the Earl's retainers, ave him a supercilious glance that measured his dimensions from head to foot. Do you hear me. sirrah 1 Yeas, but I doubt if -her ladyship will feel Herself honored by inquiries from such as you." "Insolence Ah! Master Christie, it's mesell is glad to say yez. Come in, Her ladyship left orders for yez io be admitted, if yez called." With a throbbing beart. Christie Katie followed Phelim Savor into the drawing room. "Mr. Christie Kane," he announced at the door. Katharine Montague was seated upon a luxurious sofa near the fire. She arose as he entered. "1 am glad to -see you, Mr. Kane. You have delayed a long time) before calling to ascertain whether my health suffered front that niLrlit of exposure." lie thought her voice trembled as-she spoke, and lie knew thi color deepened upon her cheek.   AND A MERICAN SLAVERY. "If I had supposed my absence would be noted, I certainly should have paid my respects earlier," he replied, as he pressed the hand she had 'extended towards him. "Pray take "a seat;" and she made room for him beside her, by removing the piece of embroidery that Jay upon the sofa. '.So you see you are of more consideration than you thought," And the 'assurance makes me the happiest of men  he responded warmly. "As happy as if it came from your fair cousin Ellen  she said archly. Far more so-oh, indeed far more so. If you only knew, Lady Katharine," be continued impetuously, "how often my mind has dwelt upon your person, since the first hour I saw you beneath the oak; with what fondness memory has lingered upon the few words of interest that have fallen from your lips ; with what anguish I bave heard the slighting taunt, and witnessed the look of contempt, you would 'partly comprehend the absorbing, overwhelming love with which ou have inspired me Mr. 'Kane!" -she exclaimed, starting up; but meeting an appealing glance from his eloquent eyes, she sank upon. theotto- man again. I knew the distance which -separates us, for it has often appal- led me. I have tried to control my affections-with what intensity nights of silent anguish could prove. It was unavailing; and now, impelled by a resistless impulse, I came to lay my affiectio n-s at your feet. I pledge to you. the pure and unalterable affections of a man who would not, if he could, boast of higher rank than that to which., every man of honor may claim. Reject me-tram- ple upon the sacred impulses of that heart which beats only for you. and it will stIll, like the bruised flower, yield its purest offier- ing to thee." Mr. 'llCane, I may not listen to you," she said-while the hand he had taken, trembled, but was not withdrawn.  I appre- ciate the offer you have made me. I will even, confess it has gratified my feelings; but I cannot-nay, I must not accept it." "And 'I am rejected because I Am a, peasant?" he said, as he rose to his feet. "No, no-H-yes; I will frankly tell yoa, that if my feel- inas were permitted to decide, I might-that is-oh! what shall I say 1" "You love me, then-say, dearest Lady Katharine, that you love me," said Christie, as he encircled her waist with his arm, and pressed his lips to her own, in a long, lingering kiss, while- her head rested upon his, -shoulder, during a moment of fond abandon- ment. This interview must end. You leave 'no right to wring MY- heart with anguish," said the maiden, as she released herself from his arms. And I am hopelessly rejected  It is well; I have been justly punished, for darin to hope that a parvenue might ally himself,  the daughter of an illustrious -house."     ENGLISH SERFDOM Do not let uspart ip an&er. B        ej ut for the pr dicess of casite, Imightperbit,-rewardyourdevgtion. Icannotsaymore." "And yQu, Lady Katharine Mohta'gue, with 'our brilliant intel- y lee add Just contempt far the hollow distinctions of--societyJ- yi d to its prejudices'. Then-farewell, forever; your affection is not worth the seeking." "Go, air," she replied indignantly, as she -pointed to the door. You do not know what is due to a lady of rank." With a low bow. he withdrew. Thus ends my boastful opinion of the power of love. Wealth and rank are henceforth 'nothing to me but instruments with which to relieve that class of society, in whose cause my feelings' will always be interested," muttered Christie Kane, as he turned his back upon the castle of Montague. As he emerged into the bigh-, way, he met Phelim Savor. Phelim,. you expressed an anxious desire to return to my ser- vice a -short time since 7" "Yez." Are you still desirous of doing so?" -Yez may well say that same, Ma- ister Christie. Lady Katha- rine is an illegant and well-spoken lady, and I'm grateful for hef kindness, but I love no one as well as yersel', Maister Christie. in' dade I do not," be said earnestly. Well, in a week I will take you into my service a   71 "I'm thankful to yez. I've no objection to the Montague living, or to any other, bekazet we are servants, and it's an honorable badge of servitude. Yez say, I'm not like to some pwr devils, who perform the work of servants, but object to wearing the emblem. Now that's what I calls a carrying two faces under one hat-a most riprehinsible prosading "Very well, Phelim, call at Mornlow Castle in a week, and inquire for me."' "Yez. At Mornlow Castle," repeated Phelim, wonderingly. The duchess was seated in an elegant arm-chair. Breakfast was over, and she was yawning through the London daily papers; becausee she thought the wife of a duke ought, at least, to have a superficial knowledge of passing events-at least of all the mur- ders and other heinous offences ; which her grace loved to dwell upon, as they exemplified the rascalities of the substratum. She bad gone through the intellectual column headed "Crimes and Cas- ualties," when Katharine Montague was announced. My dear Kate, I have been dying, to see you; indeed, my anxiety bad risen to such a heights that but for the damp atmos- phere, I should have gone over to the castle. Do tell me all about your escape. Were you not shocked at having the vulgar arm of that plebeian around you?  Any one can tell he 'is a fellow df low blood by his features. How different from the aristocratic linea- ments of Lord- Melville ; upon every feature of which is stamped the evidence of noble birth. It, is the easiest thing in, the world, Kite, to point out the cream of our aristocracy. No one could doubt for a moment that Melville belongs to that exclusive class."   Presume even your grace would have thought little of vulgar arms, at such a moment," -said Katharine, with a smile. Oh! my dear Kate, you can't comprehend [the unutterable loathing with. which regard the horrid creatures., I really believe I. should rather die, if it was not for having the nasty water in my eyes and nose. Water, too, that is mixed with dirt ; faugh "And then to be covered tip with dirt after your death." "No, Kate, no ; nothing but the purest Italian marble-, carved at dear delightful Florenee, will hold the remains' of Ade'laide, Duchess of Sunderland." "One looks so 'disagreeable after being drowned," remarked Katharine Montague, gravely. Yes I do not know, upon reflection, but I should have pre- ferr6d a rescue by even -such a low bred fellow as-as-what is his name VI "'Kane, Christie Kane," replied the maiden, with a blush. "The one who had the impertinence,'to contend with my son for' the prize at the steeple-chase P' And had the audacity to win it," replied Katharine, as her eyes flashed. "May I ask your Grace what is tfie news in London." "Her Majesty has returned from the Highlands." "Then we shaJ1 soon depart for London'," "We, go the beginning of n,-,xt w 'eek. " "Who are to be the libna of the season?91 "A charming negro girl from the United States will be one of them. A negro girl!, your Grace is inerry. Not at all. We have found it necessary to elevate-the negro standard, in order'to accomplish our designs upon American 191'a- very. With all their devotion'to the cause of the, negro,'the trans-, atlantic abolitionists doAnot regard him as their equal, and it is, true, as Charles Dickens says in his 'Household words,' that the slaves, are prevented"from escaping in greater' numbers, because their condition n-, when free, in the Northern States, is inore degrading than in a state of bondagee" "And you, the celebrated and- accomplished Duchess o(-.Su n- - derland, the favorite of her' Majesty, intend to patronize, a. negress. st Of course I do.  All that is necessary to- elevate'the'negroes in- the Vnited States, is to patronize, them '.here.  Once let the Xmericans see' the English nobility and the London aristocracy patronizing a, negro wench, and believe me, two months will not elapse before those servile imitators .will 'Conceive 'a wonderful respect for their sable brethren "And has she no claims upon your attention 'except her color ill "Yes! she sings well' and that is the reason we assign forman- ife-sting, so much interest in her. -The effect, however, will'be, the ,same in the United States."' What is the cause of the intense interest which you. take, in the affairs of the' great republic,!" To witness its overthrow'       destroy  the fruitful cause ot rebellion and anarchy in Europe.",-,     "4         ENGLISH SERFDOM I supposed it could not be traced to charitable impulsefsfor there are objects enough in Great Britain to'waken its slumbering energies."' No doubt of it, my- dear Kate, and the only apprehension we have is that the American abolitionists, stupid creatures, will dirld. cover Voices were now heard in loud altercation at the door. I tell you J will see her." Indeed vou cannot, 1 have received positive orders to exclude you. A sound that resembled very much a boxed ear, was succeeded by the noise of a bodv falling upon the floor, and the next moment the exquisitely dressed body servant of the Duchess of Sunderland rushed into the room, withthe blood streaming from his nose. Close upon his footsteps strode the tall figure of Mrs. Kane. "Here is that horrid creature again and I'll be blessed if she has not hurt Frederick Augustus." "Yes, and I'll hurt your feelings, if I do not you body, before I leave this room." "Frederic Augustus, call the porter, this woman's presence -is disagreeable." "Stay ; I have but a brief -explanation to make. Adelaide, Duchess of Sunderland, you must bear it." The solemnity of her manner, awed the Duchess. "Two months ago, H1, Margaret Kane, prostrated myself at your feet,; I "Implored you to save me from want, and suffering. You spurned me from your presence! You! Aye, you, 'Who thought yourself beyond the reach of unhappiness; you, who are bending all the energies of your feeble intellect to bring revolutions wretchedness and woe upon a people who have committed no other crime but to save andprotect English subjects, whom English philanthropy surrenders to the tender mercies of starvation. I told you then, that I would humble your pride, and I'll do it even at the, hazard of 'ruin to myself. Duchess of Sunderland 1. you have a son whom you idolize, notwithstinding his faults . I have, 1 have; what danger threatens him!" exclaimed the Duchess, in an agony of apprehension. Upon-wlmm rests the hopes of your house 1" "Woman, why do you harrow my feelings? Tell me, Oh! tell me, Melville is not dead, and I will grant all you ask." And the proud woman clasped her hands in mortal fear. - "Ah! ha! you love him then?'Now will I wring your heart- strincrs, as you have wrung mine." y G             woman od, Kate, what does the ean!" That Lord Charles Melville is not your son. The Duchess sprang to her feet. Her limbs were 'rigid, the blood -receded from her cheeks', and her lips were drawn back from her teeth. "Now the iron enters your soul. Ha! ha! ha  Now, woman, you are mortal! He is not your son .1 He is mine, the son of the poor thing whose prayers, you scorned - and your son your son is-is-the poor despised plebeian, Christie Kane!"   AND AMERICANSLAVERY. Christie Kane?" said you Christie Kane 141 demanded Katha- rine, eagerly. "I did, but that annunciation carries with - it woo to you, also imperious 'maiftn. You rejected the offer of Christie Kane; do not flatter yourself that they will be renewed by Charlesq Lord- Melville. Scowling upon her victims, the savage woman stalked from the room. With a low moan the Duchess sank upon the floor. He who supposes that unalloyed happiness finds a resting place in the abode of rank and wealth, has never witnessed the splendid misery that interposes itself as remorselessly between the favored classes and uninterrupted felicity, as between the humble 'laborer and domestic bliss. CHAPTER XVIIf,- The constitution of this country has always been in a moving state, either gaining or losing something."-LoRD MANSFIELD. THE truth of Mrs. Kane's assertion was verified by the, family physician and the Duke of Sunderland. From that hour nothing was seen or heard of Mrs. Kane's son. It was supposed his pride could not brook the taunts he would besu'bjected to from those whose ill-will had been aroused 6y insufferable insolence, a-nd that he had left the kingdom; but whither he had fled no one could con- jecture. Christie Kane, or Lord Melville, as he will now be desig- nated, took up his abode at Mornlow Castle. He was graciously received by the Dulce'and the Duchess confessed to Katharine Montage that his face, now that she minutely examined it, had an aristocratic, rather than a plebeian cast. Indeed -she thought 'it blended the features'of the Duke and herself; an expression of Opinion which was intended, to be highly complimentary. to the young man. Lady Katharine suggested that her grace might not hesitate to be saved from a watery grave by his 11 vulgar arm." The Duchess shook her head reprovingly as though she suspected there was a little bit of malice in the allusion. "If you do not feel such an aversion for-him as you did for Charles-poor boy, I love him yet-I should still cherish the hope that our houses might be united by a marriage between you." Lad Katharine's face was crimsoned in a-moment. Lord Melville did not exhibit any decided marks of affection for his parents. ' The character of neither were to his liking. They were too selfish, too fond of notoriety. Besides, that want of care during his infancy which courted his unhappy fatet was not calculated to awaken any lively manifestation of filial attachment. To both his bearing was respectful and courteous ; nothing more. It was soon apparent -to the Duke that his son was quite as deter.*' mined in ca     out his Pu'rposes as the real Christie Kane- 9                        9 thoughthee or oftheformerweremainlydireetedtoathelioratin'g'     Au          'ENGLIS"SERFDOM the condition of Ws tenants, instead of tormenting them His quiet energy and scrupulous justice soon'rnade itself feltand the Duke surrendered the management of his estate almost entirely to him. Its-vast concerns took him ftom the castle nearly all day, and he returned at night with ihe consciousness of having performed hit; duty. In two days the establishment would break up, and the fatnilv would return to town; still Melville had not called at the Castle.' of Montague. So cirefully;bad he avoided the usual haunts, of Katharine, that be bad not even seen her since the fatal occa.- Won that witnessed the destruction of his hopes. The day pre- ceding their departure, Lord Rossmore and his family were to dine at Mornlow. For the first 'time Katharine was to meet her lover as Lord Melville. As she stood before the mirror she examined her face and figure with a judgment more than us'tially critical. She thought the mercury gave back]an 'image of unsurpassed loveliness. She was examining the paintings and statuary in the gallery at Mornlow Castle when she heard foot-steps approaching. Her form wasconcealed by a marble figure, and without being, observed she saw Lord Melville enter the gallery. A melancholy expression was stamped upon his features, and lie examined the family por- traits 'with a listless air. At le n-gth his attention was arrested by the portrait of his great-grandfather, the founder of hi's house. The artist had succeeded in delineating the stern and energetic linea- ments of the first Duke of Sunderland, who, scorning the humble avocation of a shoemaker, had abandoned it for the more congenial occupation of a soldier. "'There was a man," soliloquised Melville, " worth half the effe- minate nobility of the present day. A man whose'vigorous intel- lect and determined -courage made him the artificer of his 'own fortune. And his descendants, the further they are removed from 4im, will boast more and more extravagantlyof along line of illus- trious ancestors, all, all sprung from a highly respectable shoe- maker! Rank! what art thou worth!" and he laughed -bitterlY Katharine wished to escape unobserved from the gallery, but she could not. He paused before the portrait of his grandfather. And'this man, who' but for the' resolute ,daring of his father, would have been a shoemaker, as well as the son of a shoemaker, could not so far degrade himself as to marry the accomplished daughter of a baronet, whose affections he had won, notwithatand- ing he saw her slinking into the grave brokenhearted. Rank! what aKt-thou worth 1" and again the bitter laugh rang through the gallery. cold sweat gathered upon the forehead of the maiden. Ah!' here is a noble, true-hearted Englishman ; my, great-un- cle,. Sir Marmaduke Drakeman, whose fascinating manners, and splendid person made him-a universal favorite. But he -uld not, ,no, he would not marry the haughty damsel who had rejected his hand before he was knighted! Old fell w, yqu possess that true pride which is worthy, of admiration, an I honor ou fr it,,9, and he affectionately tapped the cheek of the baronet w th, the gold fiead"of hiwcane-   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. Turning to the opposite siae of the. gallery, he beheld the form of KatharineMontague. She resethb-led, in the paleness of her complexion 'and tM 11"gidity of her form, one of the -statues b which -she was surrounded. Raising his hat he bowed profourfdlyy and withdrew Without uttering a word., As they were -seated at the dining-table, the chairs were all occupied but obe. - Melville did not return to Mortilow until the Earl of Rossmore and his party had left Montague castle. The following day both Montague and Mornlow castles were de'- serted by their occupants, with the exception of'Melville, who re- niained at Mornlow for several weeks to protect the tenants upon the estate as much as possible from the severity of winter. He retained only the housekeeper, a chambermaid, and Phe'lim Savor. When the weather, would permit, he'rode over the wide domain of the Mornlow estate,'accompanied by Phelim. The former Steward had been discharged, and one with a rhoderate amount of soul was engaged. When the weather was stormy, Melville caused a fire to be bailt in the library, where thousands of bookswere piled upbn each other, covered with dust almost as old as themselves. lie was seated there, pouring over oneof Gibbons' pompous and ie. sounding pages, and listening to the pattering rain, when Phelim Savor entered the library. "If yez lordship places, Sir William Belthoven is in the draw. ing-room, and says he would like to set-, yez." Sir William Belthoven, the politician o, yer lordship, the member of Parliament." he words are synonymous." I know that, yer lordship; and he is such an intil igent gintle. man, who niver carries two faces tinder one hat. Hell tel yier fordship'all about the sacred rights of the fra men.  Shall tell Sir William er will coome down Do you think I shall be entertaified Be entertained is it? Why the bayrnnet is the most illigent apaker in all this part of England. He manages, to plaze ivery body, and that shows'a great da'le of ability, don't yez think it d Oes?1 Tact, Phelim, nothing more." Well, of koorse that means the same thing. Conduct Sir William Belthoven hither." Yez."-- Sir William Belthoven, you are welcome to Mornlow." That Gentleman responded -with a soft and winning smile.' It was charged by his enemies, that Sir William had ttiumphe'd in no less than eight canvasses by the assistance pf that smile. In fact, they w&e so unkind as to insist upon it, that that-smile, his lo*, confidential tone, deferential manners, and'uhaurpassed abilities ai a listener, had been the foundation of hi's'    h   hill cofa- popul t4ents. ' His most unfalter'ing oponent, Sir 'i y erti9:a'xXeFJa raux had been -often heard to declare- -that he shoult,  *Wd Sir William three times out'of -the -five -canvaiteit against him for- parliament, if U had "not been -t6r th6.-., with which that accomplished - politician'could listen 10.eyetydling     lie          ENGLISH SERFDOM that was said' to him. He had been'known to sit upon a very hard board for no less than two hours,-while, a poor voter poured a mel- anch,61y'l tale of suffering into his ear, which found an appropriate- response in the long and sympathetic countenance of Sir William; a correct representation of which'said countenance would have immortalized Hogarth. His features had air elasticity which any politician might envy, for upon divers occasional Sir ertinax Me Flummux had, with spiteful eyes, seen him mounted upon a sharp rock, which Sir Pertinax bad no doubt was hurting him, considers., ly, while he listened with smiling visage to the dull wit of a horse- -jockey,'who was known to possess considerable influe-n'ce with the blacksmith         Sir Pertinax was wont to exclaim Damn it! who can expect to triumph in a canvass against an opponent who can listen to everybody and everything." Sir Petinax McFlummux was right, for popularity won by a good listener will maintain ta power when principles lose their hold, upon the masse's. I am fortunate in catching you at home. This is the second time I have eallea, but I never have laid eyes upon you since your splendid success as a horseman against the -supposed heir of Sun- derland. Having, by the favor of the Duke, your father, been honoredwith a seat in parliament for many years, I deem it my duty, as it certainly is my pleasure, to cultivate the good opinion, and obey the wishes, of himself andso". 19 And the baronet gave a popularity-seeking bow. Sir Williara made the sa'mb speech at least three hundred and sixty-five times -a year to at least three hundred and sixty-five dif- ferent individuals, whose position ranged from the Duke of Sunder- land,. the most illustrious of his constituents, to the humblest squire ;'indeed, he had been heard to intimate something very much like it, to his country tailor ; for Sir William had two tailors, one for the city and one for the country, in the same way that Solomon Greassebeans had two consciences, one for American slavery, and the other for English serfdom. "You honor me by your deference to our house. 4c It is only a justcomptiment to those' upon whom rests the dig- nity and power of England. For. what are the opinions of the adum of the earth, who delve in its bosom, worth, compared to the wishes of our aristocracy "A compliment I must place to the credit of Lord Melville, at the expense of Christie Kane," said the young man sarcastically. "Oh no," said the baronet, with an unmoved countenance ; " any one could have seen upon the occasion of your triumph at the steeple-chase, that in your veins flowed the blood of the gentry, if not of the noble." It is strange that no one ever intimated as much to me." Pardon me, no. It would have been an unauthorized interfer. ence in, your affairs. But pray, are.- you much of a student since our restoration, if I may so term it; for I presume in'your more #inhere you had not much time to- devote to literature 1" saidthe baronet,anxious to change a subject which was becoming ib  notwithstanding his tact. disagree le   AND AMERMAN SLaVERr.             ITO managed to obtain a knowledge of stan' as well as Ifetitious.77           dard works, his torica) And what do You think of the writers of the nineteenth tury for we have a double interest in our own times 111 enth cen- I "I think'most of them are as much inflated with vanity, as thei talents are overrated by the public. In the estimation or,80   r our authors7 the world ne                  me of the privilege of Wor i ver produced -such geniuses a$ we leave -sit ping, in their persons; and they require us to mourn over the dearth which their conceptions and productions inflicted upon exhausted nature." Ha! Va 1 good, upon my word; but bilious, though. Well the world does flatter tire "So it does; arid we are bound to admire, as the creati' a                              on of IM(st superhuman power, James' I ' Bulwer's solitzary horseman, resounding periods7 Seott's rhyrries, and Dickens"ghf By the Virtues of our amiable queen, but you wield)stas. trenchant blade. I w 'mind notlike toliaveyou lbr-acoiDpetitorina-can-vass.1" Have no fears of that good Sir William. As long as bribery and corruption, trike  and meanness are the I. . . turn elections; while arliarnent but'echoes the wPilsnhcelsp(II le'vers to ernment and the will of the queen,; so Joel a      of the gov- s representation is a mockery, so 'long wjlj I scorn a seat in the Parliament of'Great B ri tai n. Tite baronet smiled complacently-. "A little experience in these matters. would smooth down'your prejudices aulazingly. Familiarity with such matters destroys their repulsiveness." ",Precisely so, and that is the reason why i apprehended ; f                      he elec- or it undermines and destroys thetpiusristyo omrute'li to be tive, franchise, and courts fervor with the crown, b - loyalty to the people-11             Y practicing dig- Disloyalty to the people? Is not that a new phrase,' mv lord, for one of the hereditary nobility, to utter?" Undoubtedly, Sir William; but I trust that with my accession to these poor honors, I have Dot lost my right to call things bv their proper 'names.  Yes, sir, disloyalty to the  eople  By wh ' P        at authority do we make one half the population of England peiforna the duties of slaves? Who 6onstitute'd us their masters 171 "Wily, they have the right to leave'bur service if theywill sal'd the baronet. The mendacious argument that has been used-to hurnhug and deceive- for the last one hundred years.' An argument true itwform but false in sub-stance, and known to be, such b  those    I y    who shelter themselves beneath it. They have the right to leave our service say, you ; but can they That's the question! Are we destitute of coachmen  Do we black our own boots?   Do we perform, me- nial servile as degrading as that rendered by the'darkestson bf Africa? Cast our eyes over-, the landed estates rated proprietors, and tell me,'if yo'U do not - Of 61ir M-ust-cele- and death!  Walk through our manu      see- diseasethuty-ger, ficturing establishMentsi-and deny, if you can, that . e'rtasked frames, are hurrying rapidly'.tothe tomb.' Traverse the ovin, w es, awl note, t4ie terrible suffering Of t4ose     -ENGLISII SFRFDOU 180                              01- ce in the light of day -  e not that theY whose hearts never rejoi -  . n alone! and tell m 9 instigated by starvation     Lh6y I That, I repeat, her riotSs    leave our service, but can 1, in the affirmativeg have the right to        can answer is the question; and until You       it service. A subter- ore of their right to leave our  i-r, it is unworth-V rate to fee no in  sir William Beltlioven I S.        W re like that from     ith that glorious land of -refuge, the, fug   Do YOU supme-1 Wwith'its genial climate, fertile soils of you.  tes -before therd ;       estate between it and would h ,         I , United Sta,         they           i No sir, -an government    ties of early 9ravC8 It and republic     he dread reali      erty t1l, t they can- want, servitude, and t                a educed them to such abject poV      of phy- no* We have r        flessly robbed them of money, We have merci        fear but that a sufficient 3ca e. not ef  mental energy ; and there is no       It servant'59 signal a will always remain in bondage, tO suPP1Y Ufj W ,Apmber ur eoffers-".         91 ,aid the baronet, half se- and fill O language Is pointed, my lord, 6s your              Cup of oppression, and I fiel CS riously.   I have tasted the bitter   used in discussing i "Because   of truth should alone be be popular with your that the language our opinions would not am f                      o be obtained class.11  ea-re I for the good will Of MY Clais, if it ill indebted to 6s What                           gni- convictions 1 a sacrifice of honest ,     r education, but for a reco by   s 1 Not for supports not fO  on them-" My clas.      en it was forced up  iy lord, they will make tion of my rank wh eak less cautiouslY7 " ", if you do not BPI)               will only de- yot, o-ut areptIblican..  he replied, sternly  they if they do,         -,probe too deeply, or it ea-re not      -,y had best not        sthat clare the truth truth th(  understanding of the ma,se asla upon the awakened u        only by sufferancel may fl       exercised by her majesty    od gave thems queenly powers are     ssume the rights which G er of all semblance hey have only to a     o divest " and that t er withdraw ft to tilis 11ourl t and has nev                       8 of the of authority.  my Lord Melville, that the prerogativ6 onstitu- et,           and unchangeable, c You fo'g ronteed by th8 - glorious queen aye 9"a                  hoven, that, for an and-"           liam, Belt tion of Engl      to say, Sir Wil     frequently than You must allow me, slator7 you confound terms more    Ahat your enh    legi          you ought to know ghtened suPP08ed it possible.   e. Let me show You what could have r       t nehangeabl          res with on is n          of il or judg glorious constitute   profoundly in1bud MansftelJ, the most       able constitut,10n Lord   ledges said ofyour unchange     the bOO-k-Case all now           and took from legal Iville rose from his seatq Me  ooking volume.    Uislied jurist saidin 17669 filed eentu- King John ,by the ti Here is what that d"sting as forced ftom       ended after the Magna-Charta. W     illiam and Uary as ries        any years after W    mited'the poWer of the ]English Baxonsi       nobilitY had li the throne, and. long after the             a moviag "its, present sphere.      ,Iwoys been in 'to      of that$ throne            oulitry hall The constitution   Lr something. eidwt     or losin State $   AND AMEXICAN SLAVERY. The constitution is nothing more than a -combination of laws, which can be diminished, enlarged, or repealed, like any- other statute, as -the ea-prices- of parliament and the humor of the sove- reign may dictate."' "You are better versed, my Lord, in the scieneeof government than I supposed. You will be my most influential constituent; if I can -do anything for you, command services, either in or out of parliament." Thank you, Sir William. Phelim, show this gentleman the door." 6'And now Phelim," lie said, after that individual had returned, the clouds have disappeared, order our horses,-and we will visit some of the tenants." Yez." And Mr. Savor disappeared with becoming -alacrity. In a few minutes they were mounted, and riding through the lofty, gate that spanned the entrance to the private grounds, of Mornlow. Did yez not find Sir William Belthoven an illegent gentleman, as I told yez?" said Phelim, confidentially, as he smoothed down his top-knot. Do you think him such?" How can your lordship ax the question?" Because I have some doubts myself upon that -subject." Phelim wa's silent, whi!e the pretensions of Sir William passed under a thorough revision; for if there was any one thing of which Mr. Savor was proud, it was-that his master bad the right to think for him. They jozgged on in silence for some time, but it was apparent to Melvidi'that Phelim was laboring in the production of an idea. He twisted himself around in the saddle until his weight rested upon one thigh, and opening his mouth, proceeded to scratch that portion of his face contiguous thereto, wMe the neighboring eye was modestly closed, as if it was unwilling to observe the satis- faction with which the cheek enjoyed the operation-very much after the manner we have seen a dog scrapinghis neck with his bind foot, while seated on the ground, with his head turned st* 'Oy his mouth drawn upon one side, and his eye shut. it Ain't yez considered much more respectable, ndw ypz N- a lord?" he at length managed to ejaculate.- "Perhaps so, by somepersons." "And it's mesel' thinks thatsime; for ba ma sow], whats fine clOthes worth, if they do'nt make you more ov a gentleman.1" "Would you place a higher estimate upon your claim to that title if I should give you a suit of my clothes?" Thry ma, and say. Hoot ma lord, do - yez think I'd be after koorling Suzy McGowrie ony more if yez made maa gentleman I 'in that- wa 2" y It will n'ot be well for you, Phelim, if ever I find you guilty of any rascality. And sure yez woulddent call it iascalit f I wer to'become a lZintleman, and shoulddent kape ony more unday evenings wid 1z                        e eleiiated, hy the nobility do that -same, when 1hey ar W. a  WOU ba i bold"manpwho'd call them unjintlerninly.     ENGLISH SERFDOM Phelim. Savor, your opinions are all - wrong. is it possible you think 'rank makes a man honorable or respected?" Yez. I Ain't yez a .lord  And would yez hev that heavenly a, until yez wer better than common men "Man! man! how degraded have you become, to be controlled a phrase, and awed bv a title. Phelim, you suppose a lord must be . something more' than human, because he possesses a heavenly title!" Yez."                     is derived from "Now let me undeceive you. The word lord 'o SaXon words, half-loqf2 and ford-to stand therefore he Ls styled a bread-giver. He was originally a miller, or a eha6- If the former, Dick Sykes, who grinds wheat for Ie person.        f the latter the class have strangely e neighborhood, is a lord ; i  number at the present day could generated, and I fear but a, small       tiantity of bread ophtfully Claim the title, if it depended upon the q ty give. "Ba ma sowl, no. Especially yez predecessor, for bee the holy aint Pathr;ck, he wanted to take bread out of our mouths, instead F giving it tul. us-" "Square the conduct of the English nobility with that charity nd good. fellowship which originally gave the title, and there O         ith whom to disho- iust be, few, very few, in th British empire w or our heavenly father, by prefixing a divine appellation to the iame-of a human being. Berrorra! I niver thong t of that. If the giving ov bread ght to be mifflity entitles ous to be called lords, it's yez and myself ou ing lords; for little we ate, sometimeal- when we had to give all D the stewart, at the castle beyant, to pay the rint. Bad luck tul, Weill vindicate our right-will the poor devils ;he nobility. I Scotland, and Ireland  the title of lords, ;hrouahout Amaland,            -to          I P%    O            e's from us  Be the holy beka, alithe bread that's given coom Saint -Pathrick, it will not sound so bad nayther. Lord Phelim Begorra Savor; Lord Dick, Sykes -, Lord Simon Spew. hich Melville dismounted before a small cabin, the door of w cited by a tall and venerable-looking old man. His white ir,-s hoping form, and tremulous voice, betokened great age. He exten ed his shrivelled hand and welcomed Melville with a glad smile.                   e not much longer to My lord, I looked for you to-&-y. I hav           d, live, and I knew you would make me Happy as often as you coul with your presence." Thank von, 11        Hlow do yon, feel to-dayl" Much the same. Aly constitution -has been too much shat- tered in the service of your fattier and grandfather for me to pass- a day without-pain. But, thank God, it will soon he over, for every time I look in the glass I title iny liair is becoming white and the wrinkles upon myforehead a-re deepening." You have seen hard times, my poo'r old'friend." "'You may W    that he replied, nodding WS head. a favorite ot" yet what bopes, I had when a young man  was   A14D AMERICAN SLAXERY.            188 grandfather's steward, and held the farm now occupied by Hender- son. I had won the affections of neighbor's daughter, a guile less, beautiful girl. We were married; five years of wedded b1i'58 and two boys and a girl rewarded' oar' union. The evil times came. The steward died: he Was succeeded by a villain, who sought to corrupt the -fidelity- of my wife, and being indignantly re- pulsed told yourgrandfather I was exciting disloyalty among his --tenantis. Our crop was unfortunately cut off that year. We co4d not pay the rent. He made the Duke believe I could pay it, but would not. We were turned from ourhomd. I sought dm- ployment elsewhere ; and in my absence the steward-my God I why didst thou suffer it? visited the hovel where my wife was, and by force, brute force, accomplished her ruin." The tears trickled down the cheeks of the oldman; his bosom heaved, and he struggled violently for breath. Melville spran -to his side for he thoaaht the moinent of death had arrived. B t he rallied, and continued his story ill a low, tremulous voice. She died that night upon my bosom, and we buried her -upon the 'slope of the hill yonder. Fifty years leave elapsed since they heaped the earth upon her bosom, but the anguish I now feel for her loss is as keen as it was then. So lovely. so pare, so affee-' tionate, and to be murdered by a brute!" Deep sobs burst from the bosom of the old man. Melville did not interrupt his grief. Broken-hearted, I had nothing to strugoie for, to, hope for - but my children cried for bread. Lono, years of suffering, ensued. n   -      *15 Money and food was required by the government to subsidize the,', enemies of the tyrant Napoleon, and to feed our soldiers who were endeavoring to arrest his blood-thirsty career. Food was scarce; one-of my sons died froin starvation. I saw him dwindling away, but I could not help it, for toil as I did for fifteen hours a-day I could not obtain sufficient food to keep them all alive. To save them, I eat se a-rcely half enough ruysel f. All would not do. He died in my arms, and I never shall forget that Hast terrible struLy. gle with' the fell monster. His starting, eyeballs,- his limbs raqk;d with agony, his loud, piereinfr shrieks', becoming fainter and fainter until. he expired. with a faint moan. Oh! how I rejoiced when I laid his unconscious form upon the mattrasa, and knew he was b6- yond the reach of suffering. I had tfie satisfaction of knowing during the long years that succeeded, that our sufferings purchased the liberty of Europe, for Bouaparte was overthrown." How'have you been, deceived by a crafty government." said Melville, in a low ton'e, as to the destans' of the Republican Em. ppror My children never married because they would not bring inno cent beings into a world of woe and misery, and so iffe--ha-ve lived together until we are all old people." Why did you not apply to my grandfather V' I did, but he, always referred me to his steward. After the death of that wicked man I went 'to' hirn again, but he told me he was too old to listen to the complaints of his tenanW. Ife- too, p;d shortly after, ani. then we isufflered more than ever'.'     184          ENGLISH SERFDOM From my father 7" 'Yes, he was young and extravagant, and required more money than his father. Rents were increased, and you may well believe the were collected. When he had sown his wild oats, his son, or y the -person every one supposed was his son, tyrannized over us most shamefully, and our condition was wretched indeed." But why did you not emigrate to the United States?" Ah! that is what we often hoped for, and prayed for, but we could- not- raise-sufficient money to pay the passage. You must, think my dear Lord Melville, how destitute we were. No friends who had the ability to aid us, and every penny we could earn was only enough to keep us from huncrer." "I know, I know." "Some of our -friends would occasionally receive a fiew pounds enough to pay their passage to that land of promise  How happy they were, and how we envied their blessed lot. My son said if he c6uld once get to America, he would earn money and send it to me and Sarah, but he was never able W go." "Would you like to go now; if so, I will pay the passage of all three T Will vou?" said tire ()Id man eagerly. Yes." He paused in deep thought If an one but vou wereOUTmaster, I would so gladly accept your offer. But now I am satisfied to remain, for I wish my bod to repose beside that of my wife. After I am gone will you assist John and Sarah to reach 'the United States-?" I will., if they wish to go." "They are as happy here as they could desire, and if your coun- sels were always to prevail, they would rather live and die here. But life is uncertain, and I should quit this world much happier if I knew they had the power to leave England if they desired." "To place the matter beyond doubt, here is a hundred pound note, which you may keep, for-thern." Many, many thanks for your kindness, my dear young sir the Lord will bless you for your kindness to us, and all your father's tenants. If you "'only knew, Lord Melville, how widely 4iffer. ent is the condition of affairs now and before you were sent to bleas us! Then, nothing was heard from one end of the estate to the other but lamentations and curses. Now, smiling faces are every- where seen, and the praises of their young Iord,'are heard upcn every lip." "I am very glad, to hear my father's tenants are happy. It shall always be my duty, as it is my pleasti re, to make them so, for the have'as much right to et)joy the. happiness which this poor wo can beatow.'as the Duke of Sunderland." "May heaven shower its richest blessings upon your head for those %words. Not because I shall live long, enough to witness your kindness, but I have seen so much unhappiness in my long life, that I am overjoyed -to think there are better days in store for those who are younger than myself."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY late "Good bye, my venerable friend. I believe you have made me as happy as you are yourself." And with a countenance beaming, with satisfaction, Lord Mel. ville mounted his horse'a'nd returned to Mornlow. CHAPTER XIX. Bright flag at yonder tapering mast, Fling out your field of azure blue; Let star and stripe be westward cast, And point as Freedom's eagle flew I Strait bome I O lithe and Point home my cou   quivering spars i latry's nag of stars i77WLLjj8. ROBERT KANE: was taken on board a government vessel, anchored in -the Thames, and heavily ironed, a precaution that, for the hour, was unnecessary. The blows that he had received on his head, in th6 struggle with the kidnappers, produced insensibility, and he Jay for a long time unconscious of his fate, as he was of the manacles upon his limbs. At length reason recovered her thrones and he awoke to a full knowledge of his situation. His wounds were painful, especially the one that had scarcely heated, and was now cut still deeper than before. Raising his he-ad with great difficulty, he glanced around the hold, which was faintly lighted by a lamp that obstinately refused to give out its rays upon such a dismal scene with any degree of cheerfulness. Now and then itflashed' up, but it was more in spite than a settled determination to discharge the functions of a serviceable lamp. By the aid'of its dim light, Robert Kane counted thirteen men inanacled like him-self. Ttley all belonged to the lower classes, a fact that in no small de ree il- lustrated the shrewdness of the English government. In the first plate, their forms were inured, to toile and to short rations like wise and in case of a paucity of stores, they could be taught to fast, as the Dutchman made his horse, with the it                  -soothing observation that he would tink noting of it when hes got used toot."  And, in the second place, it was) found much easier to kidnap a poor man,- who had no friends, than one wh-o'-se disappearance would cause at leasi a temporary excitement. The argunaent w-as decidedly in favor of the poor man, and, therefore, the government claimed his services. A difference which was, no doubt, exceedingly orratifying to that chosen class.  It must not be inferred that all who occupied that small  hol were as deserving of a better fate as Robert, Kane. Some of them' had drunk deeply, of what, in polite circles, would be called " dissi- pa:tionfll but which, in the present case, coul' d. b; termed nothing less than a fondne -Bs for the meanest kind of Scotch whiskey, and an exceptionable quantity of black strap. Their -features were bloated as m. uch from the excessive Consumption of bad liquor, as from the blows that had bee-n freelv dealt about their eare,. for -the Purpose of beating it into their dp"11 comp ernment was desirous of bestowing upo  rehension that'the go-jr,". 9*   n   -them thehonorable rank.     ENGLISH SEk-FDOM of high private in the regular service; a distinguished mark of fa- vor which it was supposed they would acknowledge by at least three years servicel,'provided the balance-sheet of life was not struck during, that time ;., and provided, farther, that their -services were no Innger required. There were others who bore their' sufferings with far less indif- ference. Upon1their -gloomy countenance-% was set the unmistaka- ble seal -of despair, which spoke, of severed domestic ties and ruined hopes. While Kane was contemplating this spectacle of horrible -suffer- ing, another victim was rudely thrust into the hold. Ha! ha! here comes another unwolltintary'pathreot to defined his koontry and make her' an hexemple for all ambitious nations. It's mesell that hopes he'll hev a nice time for the next tree years." A groan was the only response of the new comer. Robert turned his head and encountered the half-averted eyes of Riley. The eyes of the villain could not meet those of the man whom he had so grievously wronged, and he cowed before his gaze with the sneaking look of a person conscious of his immeasurable rascality. Day, shorn of its brightness-, found its way into the hold, and soon after, one of the subordinate'officers entering, removed the fetteri from the hinbs of the prisoners, with the exception-of the handcuffs. They were then ordered upon deck. If they had just emerged from, the dust and smoke- of' battle they could not have presented a more wretched appearance. Their heads were terri- bly cut; their clothes were nearly all torn off, revealing broken arms, And bodies awfully brulisedind lacerated. They were wounds that are more frequently given by enemies than by friends. But -who can take such liberties with our persons if our friends cannot 1 To the deck, then, staggered these wretched creatures. The offi- cer in command inspected them. This lot is rather badly braised, Hurdy how comes that?" Why, you see, they are obstinate devils- Hou! No swearing on the quarter-deck." Beg pardon, but they fought like mad. They will make all the better soldiers when they get broken in, though." A process which, it seems, you undertook yourself, if we may judge from the number of broken heads visible this morning." "W-6-11, as I told you, they were more than ordinarily pugnacious. -One -fellow will make a capital sailor or soldier, for, he is as strong as-a lion, and as quick in his motions as a cat." "Which one?" That one with the sullen countenance," he -said, pointing to Robert Kane. Step forward, fellow." Robert moved with ' reat difficulty in front of his companions. "What are you best fitted for, sailor, marine, infantry, cavalry, or--artittery-2." Neither," replied Robert, firmly. "Your modesty is worthy of the highest commendation, and It ehall..,be- rewarded," saw the -officer.' You either do not, or wUl not understand me," ea"id Katie   AND'AMPRIC,&N SLAVERY 187 What may your meaning bep'then, my fi ne ypntletnan V1 T6t I Milf neither act as a sailor or marines or serve in the inhntryg cavalry, or artillery." T'he officer winked at his companion, and a, coarse laugh was 6eard from, the main-deck. di YOU won't -said the officer. No. And what may be your reason for so sapient a c nelusion?" I have never received a solitary favor from t 0 except the privilege of contributing iny aid t 1 'he government, O     O support its extrava- gances. I have been torn from my family, who " tiOn- I will not assist that government to ' ' are left to starva. tion, or redden any hands w-       gratify an insane ambi. ,94           ith the blood Of its victims.", , He has the ring of good metal, and will prove a valuable acqui. sition. In his case you have earned your bounty." "But can you conquer him" asked a Gentleman who seemed from the cut of his dress, white neckeloth, and nasal pronunciation, tO be]0110, to the clerical fraternity. If you doubt it, you scarcely comprehend the efficient training the service has adopted for Ahe proper discipline of such c eks. We don't exaft the national character for them, and thuestom- erate disobedience of orders, when we think proper to claim their grateful acknowledgments." No; that would be expecting too MCI, forbearance the benign and merciful government of Great Britai  from even the clergyman.                   nt responded "W ell irrah are we. to expect a mutinous sp- irit in you 21, A mutinous spirit can only be shown by one who ha-99 in sonae way, admitted the right of the-service to control his actions."      dt Upon my word, a special leader. A parliament could not, have defined the su                 er ,Pposedrights of an Engliry' shman 'th greater precision. 71                    WI 6' He7s a terrible obstinate fellow  interposed R'ley, " and has often threatened meg her majesty's         I St,               most----" Silence!11 thundered the officer. Yes sir replied Riley, shrinking into h' nificance.                  Is accustomed insig. I have your answer?"' You have." Datswainq bring the 'eat. "'Aye, aye, sirg" replied Ithe boatswain, in as cheerful a voice as if he was about to perform the most grateful duty that could be ask6d of a sympathizing mortal. It'was a brawn arni he di 'closed as Kane's hands were y     s               elevated above his head. The old salts looked on wit h   stoical indiffer ene ; the officers as if they duly appreciated the tific results of the lash - the cle  '          Be en r9YM1n with a devout'convi some disci line was truly beneficial in controlling the lasts 6r'-thq fieshp and also with a distinct idea that the government a Bfitaingwhose power it-was necessary theeontumaDi0u8'Q 'reat should tustaing'upheld the Chureh Of 'England. The-  dividual- "6d huMaD bGi4P witnessed the propiritiout wit  k"Ot 0"     ENGLISH SERFDOV na. Riley rubbed his hands gleefully. Some regarded the re- itance of Kane as worse than foolish, and othe-rs sought to learn his fate the result of obstinacy-, Now, boatswain, see what effect fifty lashes will have upon this rson. The brawny arm of the boatswain swung round his head, and wn fell the cat upon the quivering flesh of Robert Kane. Nine d stripes were left upon the back of the victim. Again and again e ,merciless cat descended, until ninety stripes had furrowed his oulders and'Joins. Now, Boatswain, rest a few minutes, and give him a chance to fleet while his back smarts. I have known miraculous changes opinion under such circumstances." Robert's countenance was a shade paler, but the same determi- tion was still stamped upon his forehead. "You can proceed, Boatswain ; our Merciful intentions are not ,ly appreciated." "Rebellious fresh deserveth chastisement, yea, verily, for its own, od," ejaculated -the divine. The blood now followed each sweep of the lash, and the suffer- D- flesh was grooved into waves. The blows fell downwards, on -upwards, and then crosswise, as the ingenuity of the boat- rain prompted their direction. Cold drops of sweat stood out on the forehead of the wretched man, and from the reopened )und upon his brow the dark blood slowly trickled away. The iscles of the lower part of hi's face trembled, but resolution still shed front his eyes. "Your arm is wearer than usual, boatswain," observed the icer', sarcastically.  "The rod well administered chastiseth the disobedient, said a clergyman, who saw in the obstinacy of the victim an assault on the stability of the government, and consequently upon the urch of England. "You, wouldn't think -'so, if the application was made to your in back," replied the boatswain, who nevertheless redoubled his ertions as he dashed the cat into the quivering body of the poor JOW. Fifty!" shouted the boatswain, as he separated the cats, with fingers. They were cemented with blood. It can never be sufficiently deplored that our slave4QIding, athren in America have not thesame excuse for using the'lash," id the clergyman mournfully. I must confess an inability to diaco*er the difference," replied )-offiber.  The lash in e her case is only required to enforce' audience." "'But here the application is made by the supreme power." "Upon the bodies of free-born Britons, who boast of the crend via of merry England," said the officer; " while in - the 10nite A atesthe lash- is wielded by those who derive the right from the institution, the au - eme law of the land." But herem' consists the. difference," said the clergyman. -"t-b-, say the Englishuian-if-"   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            ISO Which lucid explanation means2 when rightly understood, that the slave is black, and the Enklishinan is whelte, a consideration of no small importance at a time when the descendents of Hani, that especial favorite of the Lord, are VViDtliDg the sympathies and se, during the affections of half the beautiful aristocracy of Englands' with their ebon shins and irresistible attractions. Boatswain, put Double irons upon that fellow; place him in solitary confinement, tnd feed him upon bread and water. till to-morrow morning. If he s still obstinate he. shall receive fifty lashes more. lpegone, sir." Kane withdrew from the deck with great difficulty. "And now who else refuses to obey orders?" he exclaimed, iereely. No rebellious glance met his own; they had been subdued b be terrible punishment inflicted upon Robert Kane.       Y It is well"' said the officer you know what to expect if you display mutinous disposition. BoatswaiD, let the bandcuffs"'re- ain upon these fellows for the present." Robert Kane maintained a firm, unflinching countenance until he as alone, and then' the big tears that anguish forced from him cursed down his manly cheeks. It was not physical -suffering that iook his frame and made his heart throb alrhost to bursting. Not could endure that without a murmur. But the deep humiliation having the lash applied to his back. His back. The husband Mary Kane, the father of three lovely children, all, all di-shonor- by the awful scour ing he had received. A -free-bo' English- 9               !rn Ln, with rights, apparently, as sacred as those which -auarded person of a belted earl, publicly to receive fifty lashes wand far other offence than a determination not to recognize t e right to Lg him from the bosom of a helpless family, who ha n.,) other -they protector but himself. H's feelings were crushed, and he ked upon himself as the most abject of human beings  Still he I one duty to perform, from which 'disgrace could PiDt release i. He must return to his family or perish in the attempt. He Id not endure the thought that those dear creatures-dear to i in spite- of his dishonor-should stiffer for the want of bread. vas determination to avail himself of every opportunity es- 8, that lead induced him to set at defiance the authority of the iapprs', for a performance of duty, he supposed, 'would be r' led as'a recognition of their ri ht to claim his servicesf6r aen 9 finite period - of time : -and conseau f ent y the power to arrest as a deserter should he, succeed, in effectihg his-escape. B -t d he endure the terrible punishment they-would certainlyin- u upon him  He would rely upon God -and his own resolution. ne:kt morning he was again brought foxth ; again refused -to I ; and again the scourge was applied to his lacerated back. i*dunds of yesteNday, from which the blood was stiltoozing, reopened by the remorse] ess cat. The pain was intolerable, orm of the au re ffe I:r quivered at e blow, and from the man- od, (only a   white  rT flesh the Wo'        man s   blood, however,)  n In ma to his 'feet.' Before the'fitti-1ashes were inflicted Robort fainted. He'was borne'to the-p'140e of solitary'con-finewea#p "'with a -supply of bread and wat6t.     ENOl[r iSIX SEnF001\r-   R     )2         ENGLISH SERFDOM n" is summarily as Jonah was disposed of in 'the whale's belly. Aw'arning that the cash-box and acquisitiveness of Bradbrook were quite equal to the capacity of the fish that took such a fancy to Jonah's person; with this material difference, however, that where- as the whale conidientiously 11 gave up" Jonah, after reflecting f6r three days upon the gross impropriety of bis conduct; a strict re- gard for justice and the roprieties bf life which Bradbrook& never thought of imitating.    condition of things that might have been expected in a house where losses and gains meant losses by the custom6r and gains by Bradbrooks. It was upon the night of such a day as this, that Kane resolved to stake his hopes of freedom. He was anxiously counting the hours, when he saw the officer in command enter that part of the ship, followed by Riley., The officer east a momentary glance at Robert, and was passing on, when Riley said in a fawning tone " If your honor pleases,.is it not time for that person to be ironed again? I think lie intends to escape." 64 Who VI Him," pointing at Kane. Pooh ! he can scarcely walk." He's aLroingr to give you the slip, I'm sure on't." The officer ca-st a searching look upon' Robert Kane. Well, WI the boatswain to iron him before he turns in to-night." Couldn't he do it now, to - prevent accidents?" No, he is on shore."      P I think I could do it myself," said the considerate individual. Could you 1 Will you be kind enough to inform me who corn- mands this vessel, you or me 1" Riley cast his eyes to the floor. " Have the goodness to withdraw, for I think I never saw so mean a looking person as yourself." Riley slunk away ; but before he mounted the ladder, he scow)ed upon Robert and shook hisfinger at - him menacingly. To add to the dangers that gathered round him, he heard the officer issue or- ders for the vessel to be got under weigh for the Downs that night. .Dayfi lit-if that could be.called light which was merely the haze of a ondon atmosphel-e-had disappeared, and darkness shut in, like an impenetrable wall. The clock. -struck nine-ten-eleven. Still Riley hung, like an evil genius, about that part of the vessel occupied by Kane. Robert was unable to conceal his uneasiness. Riley observed it, and it afforded him intense satisfaction. I know you want to escape, but you shan't," he said, approach- ing Kane and scowling into his face. " Why do you annoy me with your presence    Have you not alrea y persecuted me enough 1" said the other, imploringly. No 10 I'll stick to you like a leech. The boatswain will soon be here; I think I hear him coming now. Until he placesthe handcuffs upon you', I shall favor you with my company"' replied' Riley with a ferocious grin. The clock struck twelve. The sound of oars was heard a-D- preaching; it was the' boatswain. Riley 'laughed sardonicaui. There was - something insufferably - aggravating in his looks.   J WS Robert Kane suddenly sprang upon him.                        cream I                                He attempted to s       I but Katie 8 hand grasped his throat with such violence that his tongue protruded from his morth. "Now, what'Drevents m`e fr(m slaying you like a Idog 2. But he did nol. Cramming a handkerchief into Riley's mouth, he bound his hands behind him, and then pitching him into a corner, he sprang up the hatchway, and cautiously approached one of the port-holes.  It was die wrong part of the ship   The boatswain was mounting the side, and his lantern flashed full upon Kane's Person.  Fortunately, lie was riot observed and concealing him- self beneath the- cannon, he waited until, his 2movements could not be observed. Then darting to the other side lie dro ped into the Tbames.   The cold water chilled his blood, and    thought lie should sink. But the recollection of his wife and e-hileldren nerved his arin, and gave new vifyor to'his frame. Striking boldly out for the shore, lie soon placed several rods betweith hits air and pursuit. Hope'arew brighter, when he heard.the voice of Riley proclaim his esca e.. Lights were visible in the shi                    Ming P                                  P.  Orders were rapidly green, and several boats started in pursuit. , Turning down the -stream, lie Managed to elude the- party sent towards that shore which lie was endeavoring to gain. HO now slowly approached the vast forest of masts that lined the bank. His strength was fasidesert- ing him. For every yard he advanced he was borne down two. Yet manfully he straggled on. Voices were heard descending the river; they approached nearer and nearer. Then lights danced uponthe water, and played, as if in mockery of his suffering, al- most upon His person, vherj he glided behind the stern 'of a mer. Chantinan. The boat swept past, and for the mombht he was safe. Making his tedious way between the vessels that lined the shore, lie at length Poached the wharf. And now the difficult task re- mained of ascending to the street. Thrice he,.attempted it with- out success. Aware that he was only exhausting his powers, be nerved his limbs for one vigorous trial. His bands clutched the top of the dock, but it wa's covered %vith ice ; desperately be be'ld to it; his fingers yielded, and lie sunk with a taint cry into the water. He had scarcely reached it, when the powerful forth of a sailor plunged in. The exhausted suXerer was seized as he sank, and borne to the side of' A ship. A voice an-swpred the call of the deliverer, and they were both raised to the-deck of the vessel. liobert could not stand, and they laid him in a hammock. He ex- pressed his gratitude by pressing the hand of' the sailor. ' " I'll' be darned tew damnation if I woulddent eneemost ump intew the Connecticut, when it war half friz over, if a teller bein' was'a trien so alfired hard tew keep his smelters above high-water mark, as you war. I guess yeou'd'fbel a leelle more comfortable if them Clothes of yourn were off. Here's a sweet, as-the Kennucks say, when they want more'n one room in a tavern, They're mine Ezekiel Belknap, at our service-yeou can hev them jist as'long as yeou please; allers, if yeou Jike.',' Robert Kane said he would avail himself of the offer. That's jist exactly riah t. Let me help you off with you r'n. But ou lare wet yourself," said Robert faintly.     f I   194   ENGQLISHE SERFDOM6   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.   195   A sailor is accustomed to that. I guess yeou giv somebody the slip to-night.", Robert did not know whether to confide in the sailor or not. The latter observed his hesitation, You needdent be afeard I'll blab. We Yankees event the almightiest love for your government, any way you can fix it. The pesky critters are a conjuring a- nd a tryin' all the hull thvne to upset us. They do'nt want us now put on the jacket-to get no more site, when the hull world knows we can't giv hums to them as haz- zent any here, and never can liev, unless we set our stakes over agin. We must hev Mexico; and them Canadas of hern won't be worth a curbs, until we hev 'ern, which we're bound to dew.-Now slip on my shoes.-So yeou may tell rne the whole story. It was so grateful to his feelings to meet one human being who was not his foe, aad that person Hot an. Englishman! And he con- fided his-story to the sailor. I'll be crucifled heels upw.  on a tamarack or moo'semissy, either one or t'other, if that ain't eneemost tire hardest case I ever herne tell of. Btit you diddent list, though "No, I would leave died first." "That's the rioht grit. Neow I can tell yeou the best thing to be 'done. DooO your wife know what has become of yeou.' "I think she does." "Wall, this abip-the Nancy Ann-sails forNew York in one week. 8 he won't carry many passengers. Yeou must bring yeour family on board the night afore." A thousand thanks, my kind friend, but'the kidnappers robbed me of the last penny I 'had on earth." Wall, want of money sha'nt prevent yeou from reaching a land of liberty, anyhow yeou can fix it. I'll pay your passage' myself fust. But no fear ofthat. Captain Chauncey Smith goes the hull hog wheat his dander's- riz. Besides, there's scarcity of hands, and bein' a stout chap, you can work your passage, after you get more strength." And so it was arranged that 1ane should bring his family on board the "Nancy Ann" the evening before she sailed. To avoid the danger of being seized arrain, it was agreed that Ezekiel Bel- knap should communicate the joyful intelligence u the wife of Kane on the followin(y day. Their plans being all arranged, Robert partook of a warm supper, prepared by his new friend, and. then, with a heart overflowing with happiness, lie fell asleep, to dre.3m ofthe rescue of his wife and his little ones from worse than African bondage. The next morning Ezekliel Belknap started for the home of Robert Kano. His heart was light, for he was conscious of doing a- ]find act ;. and, regardless of the attention lie attracted, lie whistled yankee doodle witir-the utmost victor, now and then accompanying it with a rub-a-dub upon air imaginary drum.   CHAPTER XX. I did but prompt the agge to quit their cl 'BY the known rules otancient liberty, Og"3' When straighta barbarous noise eii-virons me, Of owls aud cuckoos, asses, apes, aiid dogs.17-MLTON. LoP D MELVILLE was seated in the dressing room of his mother, at the paternal mansion, in London. He had been in the city only a week, and the D uchess availed Herself of the, earliest opportunity to make some suggestions as to his conduct for the sea'o' I. That estimable female did not regard it as indispensable to spr[esetibe a plan of operations for more than one season. "Charles," she soft1V Uttered. "Madam." "Don't be so formal, Charles. I can hardly reconcile -t to my painfully severe sense bf propriety, to admit a person Tinto my dressing-roorn whom but a few weeks ago I regarded as a stranger. I can never hear the duke approach this secluded apartment with. out a thrill of fear, unless you take more pains to make me feel he is your father, and that Ia'm your mother.!' Melville smiled. Charles, you are in a new world; and it cannot be supposed you are familiar with its regulations ; you will, therefore, listen to one whe has seen much of ' He bowed.        society. You will prepare yourself for all sorts of advances, from all kinds of people. The Jeremy Diddlers will have designs upoll your purse ; the politicians upon your influence ; and 1' ammas, who have marriageable daughters, upon your person. You will, of courses disregard them all. The Diddlers always ; the, politi- cians until you enter parliament, and the mammals for this season. You are too young to, marry. Early marriages have a tendency to destroy thosd' remarkably fine proportions fbr which the nobility 6re celebrated. ' Besides, you will require one season to make a choice.  Now there is Kate, Montague, a remarkably fine girl I -on] she is too charitable. She was good enough for the young man thought my son (poor fellow, I wonder where lie is).' "Sh I P, is good enough for the best man, in all England," said Melville. enthusiastically.  "I will not deny that she is in excellent girl. Her form is ex- quisite', as I leave reason to know ; her healt is perfect, though she was rather pale when I  saw her last -  ut she is not the daughter of a peer of the highest rank, nor does the blood of roy- alty flow iii her veit-ts. She will do, if nothing better can be accom- plishe ; you understand, Charles." '6 1 do,"   f     ENGLISH SERFDOM " Now for this season you must. only study the chances, notwith- standing the attentions with which you, will be favored. Do not suffer your affections to be entrapped. I must impress this matter upon your attention with greater pertinacity, because young men who have not been accustomed to the language of flattery, yield a wi'lincr ear to its seductions. And especially beware of beautiful, but poor girls, whose only attractions are fine complexions, beauti- ful, eyes, and well-developed busts, which they disclose with great liberality. You must have a wealthy bride, for- the revenues of our estate are scarcely sufficient for our own wants ; and although you are not so extravagant as that young man was, still you expend more in charities, wind I do not know which is the most reprehen- sible. You must marry a wealthy giii; and here I wish to impress a fact upon your mind so forcibly that you will never forgetit. I know twenty youno, ladies who can not only boast of fino'com- plexions, beef U-tiful eves, and well-developed busts, which, by the way, they do not disclose, but -of enormous wealth and high rank." b 4If they do not disclose their busts, am I to ascertain whether they are well-developed, or made up of cotton after the plan adopted by Lord Macdonald in the case of Lady Templeton V 4' How was that?" 44 By thrusting a pin into the cotton, its full length, without. caus- incr pain." " Fie,,!, for shame, Charles; he slandered Lady Templeton." " Perhaps so."        I IV " I believe I have said all I desired," replied her grace, leaning back in her chair, very much exhausted by her speech, and exces- sively thankful that her maternal- duties were discharged. Am I to understand that my too susceptible affections are to be overpowered by none other than a1ady who possesses wealth, rank, health, and beauty ?" " Of course," replied the duchess, languidly. " Will my conduct be considers reprehensible if I fall in love with a rpaiden who does not possess rank " Can you doubt it, my son 1" " What does this'thing called rank amount to V` " Every thing, except health, beauty, and wealth." " Now let tis see if it is not the most worthless trifle that ever decided poor, weak human nature. The baronet is proud, yet he is inferior in rank to the earl ; the earl is haughty, yet he looks up ko the marquis' ; the marqui's bears himself loftily, still he must yield precedence to the duke ; the duke looks down upon the earl, yet bows most humbly'to royalty. And what is royalty but frail, perish- able humanity, that trembles at the 'approach of death, and -whose spirit will be awed in the presence of angels ! , Travel along the avenue of social life until you reach that class, who, destitute of rank, make an idol of fashion. What do all their heart-burnings and- struggles. for pre-eminence amount to   In the effort to out- shine each other (for at- best it is but a show of tinsel) in the pur- chase of gaudy equipages, and flashy dresses and furniture, fortunes as well as reputations are often squandered. An energetic woman forces her way along the bigh road of fashion (fashion! how have   they disgraced you !), yearly dropping off the least fashionable, as she designates those who are often -the most respectable ol her ae- quaintances; and whom, by the waylshe fawned upon and begged to return her calls one year ago. At last -she sees but two sets ahead of her - the Jimses, who are avowedly at- the head of Lon. don fashion, and the Prowties, who take position next W them. She strives-desperately to eclipse th e Jimses and the Prowties, but unavailingly. And who are the J' imses, who stand, like Banquo's ghost, in her path    Some thirteen years ago they disgraced them- selves by harrassing the dying moments of their father, in, order to make him disinherit a brother and e                                  sister that their own coffer's might be replenished. They propped the old man up in bed, with a board in -front and pillows behind, while the son-in-law I took a race with death, I as it was judicially termed, for the purpose of see- ing Whether the grim monster could enfold the dying man in his grasp before lie could prepare a will which was to put money in his pockets, and, those of other leaders of fashionable society, by the cheating process of swindling the blood relations of the poor, har- rassed, and dying old man ! Then, too, was presented the painful spectacle of the lawyer 6 running up the steps ;1 not to alleviate pain-not to prolong life, but to have the 'unconscious -signature' of the dying man affixed to the fraudulent instrument : thus disgrac- ina, while it put money in the pockets of the leaders of fashionable society.? Thenwa4therapidreadinoofthatsamein-strurnentmore rapidly concluded when the conscien'73ious law er saw that the fea- tures of the victim were distorted with pain .1 YThen the death-rattle mingled with Smothered exultations, when that deed of unmitigated rascality was consummated, which dishonored while it enriched' the ]leaders of fashionable, society ! Notwithstanding the ineffaceable stamp of infamy was affixed by that transactions" to the characters of the Jimses, still the ambitious Mrs. Woodle is dying of envy because she cannot rival them. What a pitiful ambition-!" My  dear son," interrupted  the-Ducliess with  a  yawn, "  what can tempt you, to devote so much ti-infie to trades-peoDle,,retired gro- cers, and the descendants of coopers and shoemakers ? What have I to, do with such scurf The most fas hionable-fashionable fuel !-among them are not the equals socially of our cornmon- est baronets. Don't suffer your thoughts to'dwell uipon the SC- U_'M of earth. Their claim to preeminence is illust'za - ted 1ky an anec- dote, which is related of the wife of a retired tradesman. Her mind had been absorbed by religious subjects for fifteen years, when her daughter was old enough to I bring out,' as they call it. She issued cards for a large party and placed them in the hands of 'a fellow named Brown, who, I have been told, buried dead people and uiakes the reputations of the living; that is, among the common people. The next day this fellow Brown, returned-l'the cards wine the remark that more than half the' persons she wanted him to in- vite were dead and buried a dozen years before, and that he ought to know, as rying, people was in his Jine of business. Think only of an alliance) with the noblest in the landi my dear Charles." High or low, rich or poor, it is all vanity and vexation of - , 't, spirl    198          ENGLISH SERFDOM for as Sir Charles Coldstream is made to say, there's nothing in it.' Mv determination is immovable. I shall never marry." Wait till Katharine Montague has brought, her fascinatione to bear upon you, before' you express yourself too confidently." Melville shrugged his shoulders. "Youdon'tknowher. Sliehaisrejected'halfthedesirablebeaux in, London." The servant here announced Sir William Belthoven. "You must entertain him, Charles; he is only a member of par- liament, -but he is a politician. Beware of him." Never fear but I will be upon my guard." Melville welcomed Sir William with something more than his usual cordiality. Perhaps it was owing, to the flict that the Baronet had more of the countryman. in his appearance than he had seen since his arrival in the metropolis. I called with the hope that you are disencraged to-night," said the Baronet. I am at your service." Well, I have secured seats at St. James' theatre." I will gladly accompany you." Then -we will proceed at once. My carriage is at the door." If it is not too far, I should prefer walkinor." No, we can arrive there in time." And deseending, into the street, Sir William ordered his coach- man to meet him at the theatre at the termination of the perform- ance, and the two gentlemen proceeded thither, The streets were brilliantly lighted, and Melville observed the shops and the crowd with much interest. At length leis attention was arrested by an individual who stalked before them.  His weather-beaten hat had received all We polish of which it was capable, but owing to divers bruises it had manifestly encountered in the, course of a protracted existence, it hung down with a dis- consolate chur'lishness. To obviate this defect, it was cocked jaunt- ily upon one side of his head, so that a person, inclined to scruti- nize that once respectable beaver, would be at a loss to determine whether the crown occupied a horizontal position, or whether the rim was made to assume at attitude at once fierce, and facetious. His brown coat had apparently done its owner "' some service," for the warp and filling could be easily seen by the gaslight, while the obtrusive elbows had succeeded'in obtaining, at first, faint glimpses of surrounding objects-as a school-girl peeps through her lattice- and 'then an uninterrupted view of all sublunary things. 'A white collar, that had the appearance of sustaining his ears was confined to his neck by a somewhat faded plaid handkerchief ;, but it is with sincere regret we a-re forced to express the opinion that said col- lar had no connection whatever with either cotton or linen, as the double-breasted vest was buttoned with scrupulous care from him waist to his chin. The blue pants had hitherto resisted, every at, tempt made by his enterprising. knees to acquire a more familiar knowledge of the outerworld. He had recently'examined that portion of his nether garments with an anxious eye, and the truth I'lashed'upon him, with an unpleasant disti'netneem, that the conflict   AND AMERWAIN SLAVERY. between, cloth and bone, would soon disastrous] terminate. Iffe had formerly indulged in the I -        Y uxury of straps to his they had been thrown    the m '        pantaloon6p but oment the idea occurred to his mind that they increased the friction upon'bis knees, and quently would accelerate the'               - 'Con-se- catastrophe which he so Mitch dread- ed. The walk of Mr. Theophilus RuXton-for by that name was this individual known-was stately and self-possessed. He con- sidered it eminently Undignified to hasten alongthe street with the speed of a lawyer or a shop-keeper. It pleased I i teous glances at the aristocratic beauties W11(, JIM to cast cour. street, and if a carriage of Moro than ordinary. splendor dashed along, lie surveyed the establishment with a criticalv Yet patro ' ' look. , One hand rested contentedly in a pocket o  '    nizing r iiis coat, white the other wars gloved with'Icid, the original color of which could only, by a violent resort to supposition, be determined. Thus at- tired, Mr Theophilus Ruxton sl(wly preceded- Melville and his companion. The nobleman called Sir William's attention to the sinorular fi ure, wh' ose movements -never failed to produce a upon the features of the mo.                -smile st gloomy. Mr. Ruxton arrested his steps in front of St. James' theatre) and drawing thrth a hand-glass, the highlY-Polished brass rims of which were made to resemble gold, lie proceeded to examine the bill, cast. ilify, at the same times side-long glances at each tered the theatre. Melville - and the Baronet reftiained upon the' side-walk, scrutinizing the appearance of the str anger. Mr. Rux- too observed them, -and raising his beaver he owed gracefully as he advanced towards th" ",         em. A charm ng bill W-flight, Gentlemen the benefit of an'exce'l- lent manager and a worthy gentleman no small degree to our amusement. 71 ; one who is contributing in The gentlemen advanced towards the door. Am I deceived in supposirla you extended to m self' an in. O 17        y     vita- ion to witness the performance? said Mr. HuXtOn, wine a bland Ha! ha! He is an original, Melville. I am not .aware that any Invitation of the kind was extended, If you are desirous# how- rer, of witnessing- the play, here are two silillifiLrs. )a have no objection to entering the family circle'  I preiuxn'e "I have a most decided objection" said Mt. JilixtolIqlWith an rended air.   never make illy appearance anywhere 61se than the dress circle ;9 and lie surveyed hiswell-brushed coat with 3,lance of the ut' Most complacency. Oh, verywell, here is a crown ; you shall not be disappointed. Thank you, sir. I will accept the loan of this -sum, because re no -small bills with me ; b6t with the distinct understanding ,t it must be returned. I cann(A receive it upon any other con- Certainly, 'M "Theopholus Ruxton, I still consider it a f %ve my card                  avor if you will -butreally-1 am so unfortunate as not to havd with ine-singular-but I hope -YOU Wi excuse rne 77f 'Those little mistakes will occur with the most aris toorat     ERFDOM 260          ENGLISH 8 f a, gentle- "Ah, I see you can appreciate the embarrassment o man, Mr.-Mr.-" "Sir William Belthoven Have I the inexpressible felicity of Addressing that illustrious gentlemann ;Abay more, the happiness to receive- a tein orary loan 9 from him. Theopholtis Ruxton, yiou are more than or inarily for. tunate! Sir William, if I can assist you, either in your contest' before the people, or in carrying any favorite measure through the Miuse, I trust vou Will not hesitate to cornmand mysempes."r I shall avail m 'yself of your generous offer with- the' warmest gratitude." replied the baronet. Sir William Belthoven, good inight." Good night, Mr. Ruxton." And that individual succeeded, with some difficulty, in raising his beaver without betraying its dilapidated condition. The good opinion of a docr is preferable to his ill-will, you know, 91 observed Sir William Belthoven,'as he conducted Lord Melville into the theatre. The proceeds were for the 11 benefit of the manager. 15 The propriety of which annunciation cannot be easily discovered, as the net proceeds generally find their way into his pockets, though 'it was rather more consistent with common sense than the bills of a juggler, the sole performer at his entertainments, which invited the community to attend his bene-fit. St. James's Theatre was crowded to excess. There were many representatives of the Enalish nobility present, and as the baronet directed the' attention of his companion to them Melville was fain to'admit that his mother had not over-estimated the physical at- tractions of the aristocracy. "'In the box to the extreme left sits George of Cambridge, who aspired to the hand of her Majesty, until her affections were won s the by the portly figure of -the German prince. - By his side i relict of Earl Moncton. You perceive, by her frisky actions, that she has not been a widow long enough to feel comfortable. In the adjoining box is the Duke of Bornford, renowned for his magnificent He believes that the intellect and so-' paAies and-nothing els'e. cial standing of a person are measured by the length of'his mous- tache.1' "Then th'e keeper of a gambling-house I met'to-day ought to be prodigy of wisdom and fashion, for he wore the' lowest mous- tache I ever saw,') said Lord Melville. Ah! yonder is an acquaintance of ours." Where 1" In the box opposite to the one, occupied by George of Cam- brid e. lville's glance followed the direction indicated by the baronet, and his eyes met Katharine Montague. Her look was frigid, as they exchanged formal bows, while Ker recognition of the' baronet was exceedingly gracious. There now is the niost fascinating lady in the English -peer- age. Witty, well-informed, lovely, and charitable. With a wife like -that would dery competition Upon the hustings."   ANJE) AUERICAN SLAVERY.            20i Why do you not make the attempt to win her  asked Mel- ville in a hoarse voice. "The truth, is, I am not a marrying man!" The truth was, he had been rejected by the maiden twice. The young Duke of Gildermear entered the box where Katha- rine Montatrue was seated. He was received b the lady with n                   y marked affability. Melville could not withdraw his glance from her animated countenance. She saw his eyes were riveted upon her, and she'redoubled her efforts to fascinate the Duke. She evi- dently succeeded, for he did not leave the box during the perform- ance. When the curtain fell upon the list scene, Melville and the baronet emerged, from the theatre into the vestibule. They encountered there Katharine Montague and the Duke of Gilder- mear, who was still bv her side. "Sir William Belthoven, I am. glad to see you," she said, cor- dial] extending her hand.  What news do you bring from the country 1" Lamentations at your absence," said the baronet. "Always prepared with a delicate comRliment." "Only when some extraordinary occasion like the present in- spires it. But, I beg your pardon, you do not recognize an old acquaintance ;" and ste '  aside, Melville and the lady stood face to face. No passing'emotion was observable on the countenance of the maiden, as she said- "Lord Melville, late Christie Kane, I believe; I think I have met your lordship before?" she said, taking the Duke's arm. "Madam, I am highly flattered by the unexpected and unsought recognition of a lady celebrated as you are reputed to befor refined manners, candor, and truth." With a haughty inclination of his head, Lord Melville mingled with the crowd w7ho were leaving the theatre. The adieus of Bel- thoven were spoken with his accustomed blandness, and then they entered the, baronet's carriage. As the door closed, Belthoven saw an acquaintance approaching.' My Lord, you must let me introduce that person to you. He is an American member of congress. You will like him." Gentlemen, you must sup with me tonight," said Melville, after he was introduced to the American. They protested it was too late. "Both politicians, and make that answer," said Melville. "As you will. To the residence of the Duchess of Sunder'land, James." "Yes, sir." After they had supped, they entered the library. "suppose you smoke, Mr. Jones; Sir William, I know, does. 1) "Yes, in the city," said the baronet. "And why not in the country!" 6'Policyforbids. Someo'f'myinfluentialconstituentsdonotlike it. They say it is a wasteful extravagance; and one of them 10     202          ENGLISH SERFDOM hinted that my, principle might evaporate as easily as the smoke of my 6ear, if had no more regard for public than I had for pri- vate ecoiowy." What is to be th'e"' prominent question before parliament this winter  asked Mr. Jones. We hope to make the subject of American slavery the great question." "What folly." How so 1" You od-Lyht, to direct your attention to the wants of your, own people first. And desert the cause of the poor slavel" Gentlemen, as it is only midnight," said Lord Melville, let us devote a few minutes to the absorbing question of American slavery. It would give'me much pleasure to hear the opinions of an American senator upon the subject." "There is a great deal said about the horrible condition of Amer- ican slaves," replied Mr. Jones.  Evils that are necessarily con- nected with slavery, here and in the United States, must be exam- ined by comparison. Applying to- them that test, let us see if there are not strong grounds for palliating African slavery, if we cannot justify it, notwithstanding the anathemas that are launched against the institution'by the liberty-loving aristocracy of the Bri- tish empire. Now then for the comparison ; for I repeat it is by this rule, Alone, that the relative merits and demerjts of the two systems cim be ascertained. There are no people so clamorous in the cause of the slaves as yourselves, and I shall compare their condition -with that of your peasantry. I believe the facts will ' sus- tain we in the assertion, that the former are -happier than an equal number of the latter-e-specially your parish apprentices." You are surely jesting," said Belthoven. I was nevermore serious. The African adapts himself with greater readiness to circumstances than the white man ; is naturally more cheerful ; and you ma      his happiness is traceable to those causes-and it is so to a certain degree-but it is also attri- butable to an abundant supply of wholesome f6od, the absence of care, and an easy life." An easy life! C ome now, I like that,' replied the baronet. I know it is difficult for an Englishman, accustomed to witness suffering in 'its most revolting, aspects, to believe that slaves are, a happy and contented race. It is not necessary to examine their condition to be assured of the face. -Indeed, 'it is demonstrated in Dickens' Household Words." "In Charles Dickens' Household Words!" exclaimed Sir William. Precisely so; and I presume you will hardly accuse bim' of being a defender of slavery. Here is what he s4id, among other things, in an elaborate review of the slavery question, in a num- ber of that interesting periodical, which I have in my pocket. "I It is pleasanter to think of slay-es in Cuba flying, before blood- bounds, than to know that the slaves of North America learn to identify themselves with their masters, and to lie down contented   IT AND AMERIOAN SLAVERY. 20.1 with their place among farm animals, -because they are well fed; and that in the year 1850, Out of three million- slaves only a thou- 3and fle away in search of liberty ; the greater part even of that thousand Seeking not liberty for its own -sake but as ' ' a means of escape from the punishments incurred by theft aInd other crime.' "He also state's in the review that there were in the parish of St. James "' Ten or fifteen negroes who had laid by more than enough tp purchase freedom, but who would not purchase it. One of them when questioned on the subject, answered : I am well-treated and' not over-worked ; if I am sick, I am attended to. If my wife bring me a child they rear it. When I become old, I shall be allowed to rest-and would you have me quit all this for an uncer- tain future.' Further on, he says: ' It is the greatest horror of the slave system to our minds, when me'n C'an live contented under so complete an abnegation of their manhood. Born,to the s stem, bred to " -  tem .- de y       We SYS by being set to labor in sight of a whip, like brutes ' 'so w on a motive against which a well-bred brute comes to"rebel sands of negroes are content to be well fed and housed, occasionally patted on the head or played with, and when their rn-ster finds it needful, to reduce his stock, part, with a mere transitory brutish pang, from a contented wife in Maryland, perhaps, to lie down Coll- tent, with a new wife, in a anew stall, in Tennessee., One more paragraph, and I have done with Dickens' article. "' In truth, it must be -acknowledged that the free Americans, the very abolitionists themselves, aref1tout supporters of the slave system, in act- whatever they may be in theory, In the free states of America, the nearo is no less forced down out of his'just posi- tion as a man than where he works under the later's whip. p Even in an English drawing-room, the American who meets by chance a guest with n6gro blood marked in his forehead, feels like a cat upon whose domain some strange dog has intruded, and is not easily restrained, by  the rules of English court rom spitting.' "Now, 8ir William, from the, facts here stated by Dickens, I shall draw some conclusions, and Fir-st. That the condition of a free negro is quite as degraded as that of a slave, because he is 'forced down out of his jus"i position as a man,' which I assume t'o be about as cutting an allusion to abolition hypocrisy as the English language is capable of expressing. The fair inference can he drawn from this statement, that the American abolitionists must elevate the negro so far in the social scale as to ' spit,   meet hirn in a   drawing-roorn without feeling inclined to Second. That they would not, in the cases mentioned b him) ptirchasotheir liberty, although they possessed the power; conclu- sive evidence ihat they prefer bondage to the state of social out- lawry which they are required- to submit to in the free states Pkird. That they are so' well isatisfied with their condition, not-     204         'tNGLISH StRFDOM withstanding the quantity of tears-crocadile as well as pearly which are shed over it annually; that out of the one thousand who effected their escape in 1850, the 'greater part' sought liberty not for its own sake,' but as a ' means of escape from the punish- ment incurred by theft and other crimes.' Fourth. He is so well satisfied with'-slavery, that he parts with a mere transitory, 6rutish pang, from a contented wife in Maryland, perhaps, to lie down content with a new wife, in a new stall in Ten- nessee. An unanswerable refutation of the popular fallacy, that those. sep- arations, occasion grief and despair, for it seems that the wife is it contented" with & separation, and the husband is " content" with a new wife ; so they are both satisfied. There is nothing in the antecedents of the slave at all inconsistent with this statement of Dickens; for in Africa he is a cannibal, and in the northern states his presence creates an irresistible desire to spit. it Fifth. That out of three millions slaves only one thousand fled in 1850 ; not in search of 'liberty for its own -sake, but as a ineans of escape from the punishments incurred by theft and other crimes Now then, if the greaterpart of the one thousand made their escape to avoid the      due to crime, there were ver P                    Y few who fled in search of 'liberty, for its own sake.' ' What a commentary upon the sickly philanthropy of abolition- ism O.' Nearly a thousand slaves running away to avoid the punish- ment of their offences. The road along which theyfied still open, and the remainder of the three millions yet in bondage  It- must be exceedingly gratifying to abolitionists who have seen expending their sympathy upon runaway slaves, to be assured that they have mingled their tears with those of burglars, thievery, and murderers! - One thousand scamps could hardly supply the sympathetic demand. The country sprinkled over by that'intermeddling and officious class known as abolitionists, extends from Maine to Oregon- It is true they are found in darker clusters i   e localities than in, others If each spot favored with their presence is to be blessed by a run- away thief, the supply must be largely increased. "Take another cigar, Belthoven," said Melville, as he readjusted his person' upon the sofa. "I repeat," continued Mr. Jones, 11 the road open to the fugitive from justice is not closed to the fugitive from labor, and I appeal to common sense where I ask, if the yoke upon the slave is so heavy as it is represented by the abolitionists, would the greater 'part of those who escape, flee from justice insteadof'from insupportable cruelties. Dickens assails the American abolitionists because the free black I is not less forced down outof his just position as a man than when he works under the planter's whip.' He has not stated the case with sufficient force. In every essential character- istic which elevates the negro above the brute, the slave is the su. period of the free black. In the south it is amusing to witness the efforts of the slave to imitate the chivalrous bearing of his master. They have constantly presented for their imitation the manly con- duct of southern gentlemen; they are associated with them from infancy to old age ; irr childhood,upon the play-ground, and by a   AND'AMERICAN SLAVERY.            205 daily contact amid the' business and pleasures of manhood. Thus, they acquire a moral tone   ft  whic' is rarely seen among the negroes of the north. ' They despise a mean action, and when ' ' dence in C'ourt' their truthfulness is the theme of    a'-' tion. They                   universe  drnira- must radically chaDge the political and social condition of the free black population i they must extend universal suffrage, instead of having a property qualification of two hundrerd-and fifty dollars, as they have in what they call the Empire State; they Inustsuffier them to occupy seats beside them in the'house of God, whq re there should, if anywhere, be equality; they must be allowed to take front sofas at the opera ; they must have places assiLyned therrilwith white guests, at 'the, dining-table, in warm weather as well -as cold ; the3r must admit them to social and political equality without feeling inclined ' to spite' before they can compare they mental condition of the free black with that of' the slave.7; "But the sinfulness of holding human beings in bondage! - To buy and sell, the immortal mind! Why, Mr. Jones, the bare con- templatioh of the monstrous wrong is enough to make a sensitive man shudder!" Especially if his sensibilities -have been softened by political manceuvering for twenty-five years said Lord Melville. The American continued- This affectation of horror sits quite' as ungraceful] upon you, Sir William, as it does upon the mawkish Society of Dexeter Hall, whose sympathies are exclusive] enlisted in foreign missions.1) really cannot reconcile it t y       e3 O My conscience to palliate slavery,' said the Baronet, as fie gave utterance to a pi  igh. "There are man  individuals at the prosentldoauyslsl said Mr. Jones it who are wi   Y                        1 se above what it written. They affect greater sanc- tity than the Almighty ever required.  Let us see how t e protes- tations of these Pharisees compare with the word of -God. In the olden times slavery was no .t only t tuition' was expre'        operated, but the I peculiar insti- s8l established. The thirteenth and fourteenth y verses of the twentieth chapter of Deuteronomy reads thus- "' 13. And when the Lord thy God hath delivered it into thine hands, thou shalt smite every male thereof with the edge of the sword. ". But the women, and the little ones and the cattl I      e, and all 'fiat is in the citv) even all the spoil thereof, -shalt thou take unto ;hyself; and tho-u shalt eat the spoils of thine' -enemies which the ord thy God hath 4iven thee. 7 &  6                          -           I ? Now here is not only a divine recognition U the popular doc- Irine that I to the victor belongs the spoils,' but there is an intima. a that women are store desirabto captives than men, for they were to be retained, while the sterner sex were to taste the edge f the sword., What would your abolition friends think of such Lnguinary and wholesale slaughter at the present day "Again slavery is authorized in the 25th chapter of Leviticus ". Both thy bondmen, and thy bondmaids which thou shalt ve shall be,'of the heathen that are round about you ; of them all ye buy bondnaen and bond' aids. '45. Moreover, of the children of the strangers that do sojourn     SERFDOM 206          ENGLISH of'them shall ye buy, and of their families that are, among you, with you, which they begat in your land: and they shall be your possession. "6. And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your chil-- dren after you, to inherit them for a poss e ssion', they shall be your bondmen forever: but over your brethren, the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with rigor.' Suerh were some of the commandments of the Almighty. But modern sanctity, is shocked at. the idea of buying and selling human beings, when Omnipotence placed the bondsman and cattle ofthe Israelites upon the same footing-" "That was under the law of Moses," said Belthoven, promptly. Very well, was God not quite as incapable of committing sin then as now? or is he a changeable being, advising iniquity and oppression during one century and condemning it in another, Are his precepts of to-day worthy of obediences. And was the morality of the morning of our earth too barbarous for the enlightened un- derstandings of modern philanthropists 1 Are they purer now than God was then 1 Has Omnipotence been gradually undergoing a transition until he is almost as holy as modern abolitionism?" '6 You are too severe. We claim that a more charitable system was proclaimed by our Savior." "So the Almighty is not an unchangeable Godz Proceeding from frail mortality, and applied to Jehovah, it is modest asser- tion. Bat I will not suffer you thus to assail the conduct and mo- tives of Jehovah. I'deny that either Christ or his apostles ever uttered one solitary word against the institution of slavery - and yet they were surrounded by bondmen and bondmaids." But did he not issue the command to I Do unto -others as ve would that they should do unto you?' 6' Yes; but was that any thing more than a general precept which was 'not intended to abrogate the, fall force of a positive 'in- junction? What were the positive requirements of the apostles! Here, are some of them. The First General EpistleL of Peter, chapter 2 : , ' 18. Servants, be subject to your masters with all feaT ; not only to the good and genth), but also to the forward.' First Epistlv of Paul the Apostle to Timothy, chapter 6 1. Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.' e. And they that have believing, masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren ; but rather do -them services, be, cause they are faithful and beloved partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort., - i't Here are express commands, which cannot be affected by gen- eral principles. But there is a case which will illustrate this point - A rich young man once came to the Redeemer to inquire what e should do'to gain eternal life. Jesus replied: give to the poor, and come and follow Go sell all thou hast, and me.1 "The term, 4 all thou hast,' undoubtedly included slaves, for all   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             207 rich men of flnat day owned them. The command, then, was not to free his slaves, but to sell all he possessed. Not only was slav- ery recognized in this way, but St. Paul sent back a runaway slave to his master; a proceeding in striking contrast with the foraging propensities of abolitionism. Sir William, you are, or to speak more correctly, you would have us believe you are too good' much holier than Jesus professed or taught. You Should abandon the- pious and purifying schemes of a politiciatj,.and -seek, some portion of the earth where a more charitable religion is taught than that expounded by our Savior." "I can only repeat," replied Belthoven, with unmoved counte- nance, " that I arn satisfied with the heavenly mandate, I Dounto others as ye would that they should do unto you."' "Which I have shown -was announced as a general principle, arid not intended to conflict with positive requirements. But if th'at is the only argument you can adduce to justify a crusade against Slavery, let ine show you how it can be obeyed 'in letter and spirit." "How?" asked the baronet. "Bv doinry to your starving peasantry as you would that they should do unto you ; and as our slaves are as much ours as your horses zre yours, do not steal them from us, unless you would have us do unto you likewise by, committing a foray upon your posses- sions. You are fond of quoting that portion of scripture, -and y'et you are Dot willing to 'Make it the rule for the government of your own actions. Suppose you were "a slaveholder, and all you pos- sessed on earth consisted of slaves which you had derived by will from your father-a species of property that you were justified in holding by the laws of God and the constitution of your country, would it please you to have them stolen by a set of thieving, mous- ing abolitionists 1 Do you think they would be doing unto others as -they would that others should do unto them, when they pirati- cally engaged in the nefarious business of running your negroes into Canada 1" The baronet moved uneasily in his chair. "I have been interested by your facts'and arguments," said Lord Melville ; " will you favor us with an enumeration of the evils that prevail. here, which you were desirous of comparing with the ob- jectionable features of African slavery?" "Really, my lord, it is too late." "It is never too late to learn." "Briefly, then," said, the senator, "I will draw the comparison between your slaves and our own. We have seen, according to the admission of Mr. Dickens, that very few slaves ese'ape from labor per se. ' How is i't with the subjects of Great Britain? Not only are we yearly deriving large accessions to our numbers% from Englatid and Scotland, but the stampede from Ireland is so great, that it threatens to depopulate that portion of the English empire. Now, sir, what causes the emigrant to abandon home, friends, re- lations, and the groves of his ancestors? Suffering-suffering unto death. Starvation constantly assails him, enters his misera- ble dwelling, and seizes upon his miserable wife and helpfiass chil- dren, and that, too, under the eyes of his unfeeling landlord. I have     208         ENGLISH SERFDOM examined the condition of your peasantry, and I can conceive of nothing more horrible than their condition. I have the report of a commissioner who was appointed to examine into the condition of hand-loom weavers, made to the parliament of Great Britain in 1840. With your. permission I will read an extract from it, to prove that the slave is never reduced to such a horrible state :- 'Children of seven years old can begin to turn the wheel to spin flax,- which is very hardework, and they are kept at work from five in the morning till nine at night.' "Now, operatives and mechanics in New York city have adopt- ed a rule (which very generally prevails elsewhere,) not to work more than ten hours a-day, and yet a child of seven years of age is kept at hard work sixteen hours! Your parliament receive a report stating that fact, and then, with sanctimonious countenances, lament that their ' cousins across the ocean' can be so sinful as to hold human beings in bondage! Why, sir, a negro slave, long af- ter he is seven years old, is master of his own time, and labors not at all. English pauperism in 1840 was too horrible, yet it was not improved in 1846, if we may judge by the following article in the Liverpool Times:- "In many places there are no potatoes left: in none will the perishing root be found after May. . . Even at Turlough many families are at this moment, we learn, without food, and the wretched sufferers are in vain endeavoring to get provision in time, that their children may not die.' "Still there is no diminution of extravagance among the aristoc- racy. You may travel throughout the southern states and you will find nothing that approaches in the remotest degree these frightful pictures of destitution." "But then," said Belthoven, " families of negroes are sometimes forcably separated.' "I admit it," responded the senator, "but not so frequently as your own countrymen are sundered by a necessity quite as irre-, sistible. If starvation threatens them, how long will they refuse to divide families in order to preserve life? This is no mere suppo- sition. That it is a stern reality is proved by the destitution which is visible around your manufactories in your cities, and even in the agricultural districts. It is demonstrated by the thousands who throng to our shores, as to a place of refuge. It is illustrated by the presence of disease, when men and children are not supplied with 'proper nourishment.' It is exemplified as death advances towards the spot where famine has long rioted. As painful as it may be for the slave to be torn from his relations, it is not so frightful as that mental and physical agony which forces its victim to rejoice at the death of tiher offspring, or compels the strong man to watch his wasting energies, his fleshless limbs, his feeble pulse, -to note the departure of strength-to count the hours that must elapse before he will stand upon the verge of the grave-to wrestle with death, again and again, and still know that the destroyer will soon obtain the victory! And in the midst of his own agony, to   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. 209 turn his aching eyes upon his patient wife-his weeping babes-to observe their emaciated forms, pale cheeks, and sunken eyes! He knows, too, that of the wealthboundless wealth, which s wrung from the poor only to be thoughtlessly squandered, such a small portion would save those quivering frame   s from torture and  ma I do think," co'tne tarie       froS-m toture and death! do think," continued the American rising, and speaking with more than his accustomed energy, "that when Great Britain looks at this picture, and then assumes, with the cant of a hypocrite, to lecture us about the sinfulness of holding mankind in'bondage, she deserves the execrations of men and the vengeance of heaven." A pause ensued. The baronet's countenance was thoughtful. Jones took half a-dozen turns through the room, and lighting an- other cigar, threw himself again upon the sofa. His features had acquired their usual tranquillity, and he resumed the conversation in a tone of voice more than ordinarily low and musical. "Now turn from that picture, and examine the condition of the slave. His childhood is devoted to recreation; in manhood his powers are not overtasked: and in old age he is provided with a home. In sickness he is tenderly nursed, from the hour that his ielpless form occupies the cradle, until he is gathered to the grave. I may hereafter show that whatever debasement is exhib- ted by the, black is owing to race not servitude. The fact is now Lll I have to do with."hi Belthoven turned uneasily in his chair. "You made rather a severe allusion to my country, a moment go. You surely would not charge the imperial government with he suffering that is produced by famine?" "At all events the imperial government should not assume the uty of a censor, while its own subjects are dying for want of food. ro should take o      ,Jctso ? '  are dyilngfor want of food .  ou should take the beam out of your own eye, before ou try to eramove the mote from your neighbor's. But .1 do distinct charge i negro-lovi government     t of the British empire with the crime of *lfly murdering her people. What reduces them to starvation  is primogeniture, the national debt, her system of rents, and the 'retched policy of enclosing vasttracts of fertile land in parks. The tional debt was incurred to gratify an officious inclination to engage continental wars. The lower classes are crushed to the earth, for ie purpose of gratifying the vanity and strengthening-the authority 'their oppressors. A beautiful system, is it not Not satisfied ith leaving taxes for national purposes, they authorize the nobility divide up the kingdom, and then subdivide it among their ten- itry. The nobility will, of course, sustain a government that yes them such extraordinary privileges; and in order to surround with that splendor which i u... ,..sron I supposed to dazzle the vulgar, they ust have money, and they wring it from the scanty earnings of e lower classes. Whatever suffering it may produce, the rent ist be paid! If it takes the last morsel of bread from the hand infancy, the rent must be paid! The rent must be paid, because, tout it, the nobleman could not arrest the attention of foreign urts. The rent must be paid, or the gigantic system: of fraud ich, enables the British aristocracy to trample on the life-blood the masses, would be overthrown. Not satisfied with extorting 10'     210        FENGLISH SERFDOM                 money from the. lower classes, to pander to the ambition of the government, and feed the vanity of the nobility, you have crowded your ragge  d population in to farms that are not large enough .for an American grave-yard. The nobles have    in the power to underletto their possessions to knights and squires, who   in turn underlet' to farmers, who underlet to ,the serfs. They are all interested in pressing down the latter class, because upon their shoulders rests the vast fabric of British despotism. Not only must they be daz- zled by an exhibition of splendor,  but, as if to confound them by theexercise of useless power, whole tracts of country are devoted to the chase. Each nobusle man must have his park, his trained t  d the ef               n   to 'rseak rthe  pack, and neighing steeds. The fairest porti on of God's earth, which might yield food for a starving people, ministers to the pride of your aristocracy."  "But what can- we do V." inquired Belthoven. "What can you do '. Atone for your sins, before you lecture tus What can ou do  Diminish your taxes. Reduce the sala- ies of your officers. Do not be guilty of the 'folly of bestowing tieepleasts of  th r officer. Curtani the abeltfieve of    millions  on military chieftains. Curtail the benefices of your clergy. Cut up your parks into farms.    ; eand  ur e peo instead of stag-hounds. Reduce your rents, and consider a pom- pous exhbition of spend or of less importance than the lives of your lower carssesand finally emancipate your parish apprentices. "Yould are altogether tooug reat a levelle," said Lord Melville, bito; the  ofact is they were desti- ned for hewers of wood and drawers of water. You can't imagine how they like it, and how obedient they are. A kind word, a gen- tle pat on the  shoulder, satisfies them for a world of labor. One thing is certain, they will not bear prosperity. We address them as imperiously as a southerner does his slave. If we admit- ted them to equality of rights, they would'soon become free. No, sir, they require hard treatment. It is necesary to break their stubborn spirits. When that is done, it only requires an occasional ano w and then, and a fair once a year, to give them something to talk about, a       You have "I am glad you are frank enough to admit the truth.  broken the stubborn spirit of the English peasantry. That spirit w hich, inspired by Wat Tyler, threatened the British throne-that spirit which brought the head of Charles the First to the block, and elevated one of the people -to supreme authority. It is as effect- ually broken as the most violent enemy of the chartist demonstra- tion could wish it, after its failure to march on London. The spirit of the slave is not more crushed than that which feebly. throbs in the breasts of the  English peasantry. And yet Charles Dickens mourns over th e loss of spirit in the slave! Believe me, gentle- men," said the American, rising to take his leave, "you are guilty of injustice, in warring upon our institutions. Your blood flows in our veins; we speak the same language; we seek not to assail your rights. Both nations have a common interest; and surely when we are annually affording an asylum for thousands of your paupers, who weald starve under your present system, it is unkind to bring the power of wealth--wealth wrung   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.           2" our institutions, for the purpose of destroying them. If you must intermeddle in the affairs of others, turn your strength upon Rus- sian despotism. Relieve your own continent from tyranny and misrule before you cross the ocean, to make war upon your best friends." CHAPTER XXI. "Agaill thy winds are pealing in mine ears! Again thy waves are flashing in my sight! Thy memory-haunting tone again I hear, As through the spray our vessel wings her flight."--SABGENT. EZEKIEL BELKNAP, with a cheerful countenance, threaded the streets of London in search of Kane's family. There was an easy self-possession in his awkward gait, while he soliloquized--"I'm a sovereign, bona-fide, of the everlastin and etarnal United States ov Amariky, and I calkerlate that's a leetle ahead of the nobility any how you can fix it. How them nobles dew put it on! and taint cause they've any right tew, for the whole world knows they ain't the upper crust, any how you can fix it. They're no better than second-rate furniter. It's the Americans who're the rael simon- pure. And the best of the hull thing, they don't know their infe- raority. Now jist twig that aer feller. He's one on lem ; I can tell by his walk, which says it as plainly as all outer doors. Jist twig him, neow. Haw! haw! haw!" roared Ezekiel, as the head of the individual whose motions he was watching, came rudely in contact with the hod of a mortar-earrier. The concussion not only shook the body of the gentleman, but left a plentiful supply of mortar uponC his elegant coat. "Haw! haw! I guess you won't be gazin' at the next pair of pooty legs, if they are only kivered by nice white stockings. Skin me alive if they ain't pooty though ; they're as taperin' as the masts of the Nancy Ann. An' don't she show 'eni kinder modest-like, as if she only thought how she should git over the mud without lettih a mossel of dirt sile her petticoats. I'll be etarnally exflunctified if she dooze hev any idee that a sin- gle pair of men's eyes is admirin them pooty legs of hern. Though I dare say she would calkerlate that the mud wasn't half so deep if them thar war spindle-shanks. Come neow, Ezekiel Belknap, yeou hey little to dew tew make sich earned observations when yeou are out on the sarvice of a friend. Yankee doodle come tew town, Tew buy a stick of candy-" The rest of the stanzas was never to be heard by that part of London, for Ezekiel's attention was attracted by two persons, who stood upon the corner of a cross-street. One of them beckoned to an omnibus driver to "hold up." It was evident they were en- gaged in that branch of trade known as the itinerant tinning busi- ness, for they bore in their hands a soldering-iron, some lead, and D. pail of rosin. One of them was very filthy; he was evidently w s     212         'ENGLISH SERFDOM the junior, and, therefore, the working member of the firm. 'The dress of the other was plentifully smeared with grease and rosin, and he smelt strongly of his occupation. The latter personage called, in a tone of voice intended to impress upon the driver the vast difference in the relative claims to respectability of self and partner- "Driver, let this fellow get up there with you ;" saying whicli lie ensconced himself in the stage with an air that -a cockney noble- man might have envied. - "Dew look at that skunk! Wall, its jist exactly like the hull proceeding in this country. There's nary ragamuffin in this beetle island-woouldn't make a respectable koenty in York state-but fancies himself a damnation sight better than some other ragamuffin. Why -I wouldn't squat deown here if they'd make me noble by ever so many patients. En passent, as the Frenchmen say. I never could tell heow they can patent a teller so as to make him a no- bleman. Rut-I spose, as necessity is the. mother of invention, they've kinder found out some way. They must be an all-fired mean set of skunks, to require a payment to make them noble, fur in America we are all. noblemen by nature's patent; which I take to be e'en about as good as ary -paytent her majesty can git up, though they tell she dooze manufacture children fast, and pooty good ones at that." Ezekiel Belknap now proceeded with all due activity to the house where Kane resided. He enquirer for Mrs. Kane. The occupants of the two lower stories% never heard of such a person. "Wall, I kinder think they don't cozzin much hereabouts, any way you can fix it. I guess if aunt Jerusha lived in this old rook- ery, there would be precious few men, women and children, whose hull history she couldn't repeat, from the moment of thar birth, in- cludin the midwives, and the doctors' fees. Say, can yeow tell whether ary person by the name of Mary Kane lives hereabouts 1" No," gruffly replied a humpbacked, ond eyed man. Wal, yeou needn't be so tarnation sassy it' yeou don't. I cal- kerlate -politeness must be a dear article in these parts, Judgin from the stingy way yeou deal it out.71 The sailor continued'to mount the staircase.  They're stock in around here jist as thick as pismires. We must liev the hull of Mexico, and them Canadas tew, or we can never giv hums to all these critters. An it must be done before you can say Jack Rob- inson, for they'll swarm arter a while wus, than uncle Solomon's bees. Can yeou tell whether or no Mary KAne, relief of Robert Kane, defunct, is a livin in this bui ding?" With wonderful sagacity, Mr. . elknap declined admitting the mortal existence of his' friend, for fear he might jeopardize his safety thereby. I think there wasa, person of that narne, living in this room a -few months arro." "Peers tew me yeou ain7t overly neighborly in London." Our miseries will not let us." "Then yon'd better 'emigrate to Ameriky. " America, where's that 11'   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. tiJerusalem! whatignorance! Don'tknowthealmightiesteoun- tryon airth? Look-a-heahstranareryeou otter die;yeou, otter. We've been- a kicking and a pounding of John Bull's carcass enough tew make him allers recollect his younger brother Jonathan. any way you can fix it. Dooze Mary Kane stay here neow?" NO. I guess yeou otter know where she is." I don't though; nor I don't care!" It's no wonder yeou can't keep up with the smartest nationon airth. I wouldn't give a continental dam for as many spews as yeou are as I could stack on uncle Solomon's turnip-patch. Not know America! Old Pittis has forgot more than yeou ever knew, and lie never was allowed to be half-witted." "Did you ask for Mary Kane?" inquired a boy some dozen years of age. "Wal, I did. She's dead Dead! impossible." I seed here put in the ground My God! that is tew hard; tew hard Are you her brother?" No, but-if I was, I couldn't feel wus. Poor Kane." She froze to death in the street." Boy, I believe 'you're 1Yin'. No I aint. 17 "In the streets of London? Why what in tarnation did she leave her hum'fur?" "She was turned into the street by -the direction of her land-' I ord. A prolonged whistle was the immediate res onse to this intelli- gence.                         4' "Wall, if I didn't kinder hope, for the sake of relationship, that the charitable people of this country war sometimes slandered, but neow I believe the hull truth was never told on e'en. May the pesky critters callers live Under a monarchy, and never know the blessings of a fr'ee government, fur they don't deserve it, and tliats the wust punishment I can- wish the unfeelin skunks' "Would you like to see Mr. Kane's children "Whar are thev?" "At Philip Hogan's." Well?" No, they expect his oldest son will die." "Yeou needn't tell me any more. My Heart is already too heavy. I'm sorry some other person can't tell this news tew Ro- bert Kane. Good bye." And the honest fellow started upon his return. Yankee doodle came tew town, Tew    It's no kinder use-; I  can't sing; I can't even whistle. My feeling are rael bad ; yes, any way you can fix it With a heavy heart Ezekiel Belknap returned to the "Nancy     71 E NGLISII SERFDOM Ann." Robert saw in a moment that some great misfortune had stood awkwardly twisting his hat. occurred, as the sailor 96 You bring bad news "1 dew, and Ilmsorry forlt-71 Kane's face became paler.       painful, effort. "Tell me the worst," he, said, with a P The sailor hesitated.   blickly whipped can bear anything," "A man who has been u said Robert, and his lip qui ered. "1Vs, very bad ; I'm so sorry to say it7s very bad.71 My wife is ill V She is dead , and neow vou know the wust," replied the 'ailor as he precipitately left that part of the ships for he could not witness the burst of grief that he was certain would follow the announce- ment.               eemed frozen. For several mi- The form of the unhappy man s         without speaking to nutes remained. stationary, and then rising, w anyone, he left the ship.., a       f another assault from the kidnap- He was not        o         . htway went to the iot even think of them, but strata Pers ; he did i                in        9 house where he left his family. He was told they were at Hogan S. With uncertain steps he entered the room. His features were -so haggard that Mrs. Hogan did not at first recognize him. "She is gone, yes) kind, faithful, gentle Mary is not here ; she is dead."  ather," uttered a weak voice. He turned to the little bed in the corner of the room. A thin, emaciated arm was extended towards him, from which the bones Protruded through the skin'. "My God! can this be Henry'.'" "Yes, father, it's me." f the sufferer, the muscles of his face Gazing upon the form o                  1 contracted, and their the tears started to his eyes, while deep con- vulsive sobs escaped from his bosom. Don't weept dear father,; it's better I should die. I've suf- I want to be with mother in heaven, where fered so much, a4  - " there 'is no pain. It Have I deserved this Q." said Kane,.as be knelt by the bed- side, and kissed the wan cheek again and again. ,a Pa, is it 00 . said a little voice at his side. Dolly, at least you are spared to me 1.11 he exclaimed, clasping her in his arms. "And herb's Frank Tot, too. Don't oo want to see Frank Tot V                    I He took Frank upon his knee. The child looked at him earn- estly for a moment and screamed,.' My own -child don't know me!"                it Oo looks so strange pa. What makes oo so pale 1 Haven oo had enough to-eat, Pa He'Pressed her silealy to his bosom. "4 Say, pa, is oo hungry; if zoo are, Mrs. Hogan will give oo something weat, for she is a good ooman."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            2M She is a good woman, and heaven will reward her." Do not think of it,'Mr. Kane. I have done no more than Mrs. Kane would if she had been" tiViDg! But she is not, and I shall never see her again. Ne'rer more hear her gentle voice, never more see her sweet smile. All is over. She was, too, such an affectionate wife, such a de- voted mother. Ah me! ah me!" "And poor wa froze to death," said Henry faintly. "What is- tha't P1 exclaimed K ne, -starting to his feet. Henr was awed by his manne Mrs. Hogan did not speak. "What did he say,'Mrs. Hogan: Mary frozen to death "Alas! it is too true." "How 11' he 'inquired with terrible distinctness. "Shewas driven into the street, with her children, by Solomon Greasebeans. And that bad man, Hurdy," said Henry. Monster! Vengeance will yet be appeased. It is too much for human endurance." The strong man was prostrated by grief. He rallied again, and all that night he watched over Henry. The time for taking nour- ishment was passed. He could only moisten his lips occarsionafly with water. Father!"' What, my child You must not mourn for me after I am dead." You must not die, Henry." He shook his head mournfully." "1,can't live many hours. father. See, the bones are already through the skin. I shall die, but I shall be happy, far happier in heaven."' A groan was the only reply. And it will be better for you, father. Two children are as many as you can take, care of, and I had rather die than see Dolly and Frank Tot suffer. But you must"promise me one thing, fa- ther." Anything you may ask, Henry." T4ke Dolly and brother with you to America. Don't, keep them here where they steal fathers and leave their wives and chil- dren to starve.." - And leave forever the grave of your mother?" We shan't always be separated, dear father. We shall all meet again in heaven if we die happy; and I am certain we shall, for we have nothing to make us wicked." "Yes, Henry, we shall meet in heaven." "But you will promise to take Dolly and Frank Tot to America, won't You 1"  6 6 will, if God spares my life." Thank you, father; j shall now die a great deal happier. I want you all to have a home that nobody can turn you away from, where kidnappers never knock people down and beat them."', Kane startled as though an adder had stung him.     1") 1 6        ENGLISH SERFDOM It was evident Mnry was fast sinking. His breathing was more rapid, and tire clammy sweat of death stood upon his forehead. His limbs were rigid, and his fingers were pressed into the palms of his hands. A calm smile lit up his features as his eyes turned to his father's face. Their language was expressive though voice- less. "You see how bravely I can meet death," be whispered. But -death was not a foe to be encountered without dread, and the emaciated form shook convulsively; the body struggled long for life, but at length the throes became less and less violent, the muscles of the mouth relaxed, a shudder ran through the frame, and the spirit of the noble boy was taking its flight Uwardsheaven'. With a cry of anguish the father pressed the soulless clay to his bosom. No smile, no motion responded to the caress, and with a thrill of agony he laid upon the bed all of mortality that remained of the first-born child, who had been watched witfi so much fond- ness by the dating father from the hour he was first placed, a very little thing,'in his arms. The body was committed to its mother earth. Two days must elapse, and then the "Nancy Ann" would sail for the New World-a new world to all who have never tasted the sweets of liberty and tire Blessings that flow from the principle of equality-a new world to the victim whose spirit has been broken, and whose body has been lacerated by the rod of tyranny-a new world to the humbled subjects who flee with horror and dismay from the hypocritical, festering, and savage governments of the old -the' new world of hope, and freedom. and happiness for the mil- lions of human beings whose hearts never before throbbed but with a consciousness of suffering wrongs; wrongs that a despotic power not only thinks itself justified in committing, but without the aid of which its infamous usurpation of inalienable prerogatives would 'be summarily avenged. To this new world Robert Kane now di- rected his attention ; not, it is true, with the same hopefulness as when his wife was to have been the partner of his flight. Still his promise to Henry, and a 'desire to place his surviving children where they would not be subjected to the brutalities that had been inflicted upon their parents, stimulated him to take efficient meas- ures for their escape. He had no doubt but that the press-gang would seize his person again if they had an opportunity. The dan- ger was also to be apprehended that search would be instituted by the officer in command of the ship for his arrest as a deserter. Thus surrounded by perils, he had to'act with the'utmost prudence. Fortunately, Hurdy was not apprised of his place of concealment at Hogan's. It, therefore, only remained for him to exercise proper caution in getting his children aDd his little store on board the Nancy Ann," to warrant the conclusion that his escape would be effected. His friends assisted him with all the cheerfulness that his un- happy situation commanded. They were fearful the strong arm of power would arrest him before he went on board the "Nancy Ann ;" and even when once there, he nece-3sarfly incurred the hazard of running the gauntlet of the English fleet, which not only   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            217 clouded the Atlantic Ocean with its canvass, but, hovering around the channel, guarded the prerogatives of the British throne, with the sleepless vigilance of Juno's Argus. At a late'hour on tire night pr6ceding the day the "Nancy Ann" was to sail, Robert Kane, in spite of thi remonstrances of Houan, started to bid a last adieu, to the graves of his wife and child. The cold wind swept through the streets of London. Theelouds hung upon the city, and the tops of the houses, appeared to be blended with their dark outlines. The police, wrapped in the livery of         A authority , gloomily " beat their rounds," benevolently cursibg their fate because there was nothing else to beat. Robert Kane silently threaded his way, intent only upon his mission of grief; for there are moments when the mind is so oc-cupied with its own suffering, that it has no thought for aught else. A few persons were still abroad, but they passed unnoticed as he sped onwards. One man cast a searchiDglook at ih'e bent and hum" bled form of Kane, and turning, with exultation gleaming upon his savage features, dogged the steps of the mourner. Hurdy followed him with the stealthy fidelity of a cat even intd the sacred resting-plac'e, of the dead. With the fell determination and disgusting appetite of the hyeana, he would have preyed upon the form no longer animated by vitality. Robert knelt by the grave of his *ife."The frozen earth was melted by his tears. The human fiend, who stood with folded arms, smiled scornfully. it Faithful, devoted Mary ; I thought we might, together, enjoy the blessings of a happier home. But fate has decreed otherwise. And now I must part with all that remains of your dear form, Mary. An oceaDwill soon roll between us. Never more may I kissthe earth that covers you; and, until the archangel's trump awakens the slumbering dead, may it rest lightly upon your bosom. Farewell, dear Mary; farewell, dear HeDry-we shall meet in heaven.' Ha! ha I a pathetic seemed Monster! dare you pollute this sacred spot with your pre- 3ence You see I am here. Then begone, and leave one who has so much cause for lifting rou, alo-e W'ith the dead." He! be! be!" laughed the other gleefully.  You want to ,et rid -of me, now, do'nt you 2 But you wah't, though, until 1,have placed you -in a situation to receive unishment as a deserter. Ava p s a deserter; do you bear 2" If you will not go, I must bid adieu. to her grave." With eyes riveted to the mound of earth, Robert Kane was lowly, leaving the spot. "Not so fast, my good fellow; you will please accept my com- iny"-and Hurdy laid his powerful grasp upon Kane's shoulder..1 Hurdy, You have placed yourself in the path of a desperate fall. I would not take the life God gave, notwithstanding the avocation you have given me; but I warn you to beware! Take your hand from my shoulder."     218          ENGLISH SERFDOM Boy ; for you - are nothing but a boy in my grasp, even if you, had not been weakened by the cat--" He -did not finish the sentence, for he was startled for a moment7 by theiiance of fire that shot from the eyes of Kane. It was for a momffit however, and then he shook the form of his prisoner with the utmost violence. Robert saw by the aid of the faint gas- light that penetrated to the spot, that there was no hope of a rescue, even had it been prudent to claim it. "Mr. -Hurdy,before you interfered with my happiness, I was a hard-working, honest' man, the husband of a' lovely and affectionate wife, and the father of three beautiful ebildren7 whom I managed to support, with considerable difficulty it is true-but still, with rigid 'economy, and by denying myself every luxury, I did support them. Without any provocation upon, rrv part, except Doverty, you, seized my person; you saw me brutally scourged-yes, bru- tally scourged  17 I'did, I did interrupted Hurdy, rubbing his hands. You assisted in turning my wife into the street, from whence she never returned alive. "I did, I did," said the monster, still joyously. "And you brought my noble Henry to that gloomy spot-II did, I did.91 Now, do you not think there is enough for your soul to answer for,' if you. let me, go, heart-broken as I am, to the only asylum for a defencelessi mortal, on earth V Not half, not half. I expect to see you whipped to death to see both your children starve-starve!" Abandoned villain! What provoked such fiendish hate I'll tell you," he replied, hissing the words into Kane's ears. "Your wife preferred you to me. But I have beeh terribly revenged. In addition to all the accusations you have cast upon me, there is one more you might add to the rest." "What is it 1 I thought you had exhausted the catalogue of human atrocities." "'Oh dear, no! Let me tell you.9' And again his words were hissed forth, as if by the tongue of a serpent.  I kidnapped you, because I could not otherwise accomplish my designs upon your wife  17 Hold! 17 shouted. Kane. On the night she was turned into the street I forced her-aye, forced her to submit to my embraces. Ha! ha! ha!" Then, villain, you shall die." The struaLde was long and desperate. The one contended for life-for IGdy'saw gleams of insanity in the eyes of Kene.-the other for vengeance. They were both men of powerful -frames. Robert's, it is true, was weakened by sickness, but it wks -now ne- rved by the wildest fury. Hurdy would have shouted f6r- assist- ance but the hands- of the assailant were clutched upon his throat. They reeled backwards oveT graves and against tomb-stones, in' that Aerce conflict. Twice they fell upon the frozen ground, and each time they rose-Kane still hung to the throat of his foe, with the remorseless hold of a   r. Hurdy exerted all the   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            219 powers of his vast strength to shale him off, but unsuccessfu ly, and at length he grew black under the e'es, his tongue protru Q y from between teeth that grinned like a fleshless skull. Reeling to the earth, he fell upon the gra e of Mary Kane. Not there-you shall not die there, remorseless villain," shouted Kane, as he fiercely hurled'the body away.  urdy recov- ered his breath ; he gasped faintly, and tried to regain his feet. Kane witnessed his exertions, and again that terrible gleam shot-, from hi's eyes, Hurdy saw it. "Mercy"-he faintly articulated. "Mercy! Have you ever shown it  No-it is an act of mercy to rid the world of such a monster. Prepare to die." O' ne hour-only, one hour!" Not one minute." Do not-oh! as you hope' for mercy hereafter, do not kill me.19 "Have mercy!" seemed to come from Mary's grave. Robert started; was it reality, or the false-whispering of his brain. "No,. no-it is the warning of some fiend, who would save the life of this monster, for the service he "will render in the cause of Satan. "Have me r-cy!" the soft voice seemed to say. "Gentle Mary, I will obey you. Wretch, begone! But hark you: i ever you cross my path again, you shall die. Away!" Hurdy staggered from the spot, feeling his throat as he went, and turning his head first to one side and then to the other, to see if it was not dislocated. He did not proceed far, however; but having ascertained that his neck was all right, with the exception of 461 considerably bruised and feeling decidedly uncomfortable) 'd the he ha te I behind a pretentious tomb-stone, which announce important fact that the dust slumbering -beneath it was much more honorable than the a-shes'that re osed under the adjoining mounds. p     I Protected from observation, Hurdy watched the movements of Kane. A scowl of ungratified malice wrinkled his savage features. "Won't I be revenged!" he- muttered between his gnashing teeth. Robert Kane arose from the grave of his wife and slowly left the spot. Hurdy followed him as steadfastly asBatan tracks the footsteps of the sinner. Arriving at Hogan's, Robert entered the house, while Hurdy hastened with all possible speed to collect'his band. Time pressed: the small hours of the morning ere rapidly in- creasing, when Kane, accompanied by Ho an, J[ all and Frank 9    WI rot, stajod far the "Na 'ney Ann." Dolly's eyes op"einQ with tu'W'd sur - iae,",4t first, and then observing her father with the ba-by in his arms,' he, nestled to the bosom o Hogan, and soothed by the mo. tion, ffil a-sleep.  Frank cried  en the cold night-air penetrated his lungs, but he, too, was soon pacified by the gentle words ot his father-.' -' Kane cast eazer glances up and down each street, but no one pursued them. 'fhO. river, was not far distant; he thou g-ht'he Could see the tapering spus of the Nancy Ann."  He breathed     I      10 220          ENGLISH SERFDOM more freely ; already be tasted the sweets of liberty - his heart bounded with a strange, happy delight. What is that?" he inquired. Fbi&ns," rejoined Hogan. AAR' pursuit. Faster! faster!" They 'increased their pace to a run. The pursuers were unin- cumbered, and rapidly gained upon them. Now I have you," exclaimed Hurdy, exultingly, as, accompan- ied by three confederates, lie rushed upon the fagitives. Off! off!" shouted Kane. By the eternal God, no  replied Hurdy, as his grasp was once more laid upon Kane's shoulder. Then take the death that is a thousand times too merciful for such a monster." Thought is not quicker than the long blade of Kane's knife pierced the heart of his foe. With curses upon his lips, Hurdy fedl. to the earth. They were still three to one. Robert had thrown away his knife; be would not shed more blood. They were overpowered, for the motions of each were embarrassed by a child. Suddenly another combatant appeared. "I kinder guess three to tew ain't the clean thing, no heow yeou can fix it, so yeou may see beow that are feels in - your paunch - " Saying which, Ezekiel Belknap sent a tremendous blow into the abdomen of the most powerful of the kidnappers, and as it was an upward blow,'his head struck the pavement first. "I calkerlate yeou never tasted a ginewine Varmont Sockdola- ger afore.' Well neow my hand. 'is in, I might jist as well spite the profiles of the hull crobboodle-, so' here's at yeou jist as slick as flap-jacks buttered bn` both -sides. tasted on a airish morning The Englishman squared himself after the most approved method of the ring. "You don't calkerlate, I gues, to come it over Ezekiel Belknap with that are slighter-hand business, dew yeou 1 Wall, I'll give yeou. the allfiredest hug yeou ever had, unless you've been quizzed by a grizzly bar. " In a moment the sailor-was within the, guard of the other, and encircling him in his arms, pressed him with such violence that lie screamed with pain. "I knowed it; I Jist knowed it. Whenever a teller begins to dance about like like a pea in a hot skillet, a flourishing his fists thlis way and that way, yeou may be sure he'll flummux. 111 gin yeou one more jist by way of a clincher. He! oh! he!" TheWnapper groaned with agony. 't-persume you'll stay tew hum another night, instead of sky- larkiti, e6ut. Pesky critters, leave They did not require a second invitation, but moved hastily But althou  they bad escaped these foes, the police were aroused. Rattles were heard in everi direction. The 'light of day having appeared, the gas was turned off in- the streets. As they freed   AND'AMERICAN. SLAVERY.            221 themselves from the kidnappers, however, a thick focr shut down upon them. Follow me, said the -sailor. They clustered',     nd hur- ried towards the ship. Their movements were area      dozen rattles in front. This wa  whispered the' sailor. Having once departed from a direct line, it was diffieult to strike the right course again. The fog became still more dense, bu -t while it prevented the police from seeing them,'italso rendered tht v attempt to find the ship exceedingly dangerous. Thrice had the- turned their course without success. The -police, as if aware they y had enclosed them, now narrowed their circle. Turning in that di- rection which seemed the least guarded, they found themselves at the point anxiously sought forl"J With the exception of Hogan, who had succeeded in effecting, his escape, the fugitives entered the 3hip, and were secreted in toehold by Ezekiel. No sooner had he accomplished that feat, than he returned to the deck, and reclining against a mast aTected to be' asleep. The fog now lifted, and through his half-closed eyes, Mr. Belknap saw a -group of police officers approaching the ", Nanc ipon the deck.         y Ann."  Two of them  stepped Who commands here," said one of them. I swoWq if I ban't been caught a napping " said Ezekiel, rubbing ds eyes.  Captain Smith commands the Nancy Ann." Have any persons entered, the ship during the last -fifteen min- tes?" Nary livin critter, I'm sartain, for I'm dreadful wakeful." So it would seem, replied the other sarcastically. Sartain ; when it's necessary. " -Bill, you were mistaken, they can't have entered here." Perhaps I was; let's look further and then return here if we are unsuccessful elsewhere." As they left the ship Ezeliiel's fingers cut certain fantastical flourishes, in front of his" nose, which, to the well informed in such matters, is understood to express the idea that the operator enter- ins the liveliest contempt for the individual who has elicited the bresaid digital flourishes.' Orders were now issued to cast off the fastenings that secured e ship to the dock. With more than ordinary speed the "Nancy nn was extricated from the shipping, that surrounded her and )od out into the Thames. It was an anxious moment for Robert ane, for, to be' seized now, when he had incurred so many diffi- Ities, would be doubly painful. The police having prosecuted their search without effect were, w returning to examine the "Nanev Ann." When they reach- her berth she was in the middle of the stream. With earnest stimulation they beckoned for her to 11 heave to." Their orders ire answered by a -second edition of those digital flourishes, Leted b Ezekiel Belknap, which, judging by the effect' reduced y                        P )n the -police, had a language that the conservators of the peace re not wholly unfamiliar with, though it. is tiov to be supposed     '222'         ENGLISH SERFDOM they ever required their own fingers to perform such fanciful con- volutions and spasmodic jerks. A C  station seemed to be held by the police.. Apparently they 1,       a pursuit, for two of them entered a boat and pulled      towards the receding ship. So rapid, however, was the mot on of the "Nancy Ann," as she was driven down the river by the wind and tide, that unless they obtained more speed, t4p pursuit would be hopeless. They seemed to be assured of the fleet, for they pulled in the direction of a revenue cutter. Robert Kane stepped upon the deck to watch his pursuers. By the tirw. the cutter was 11 under weigh" the "Nancy Ann" was a mile ahead, and going through the water at a rapid rate of speed. A t length Kane lost sight of his pursuers altogether. While- the good ship was passing the English fleet Kane involun- tarily trembled. He was still within the grasp Iof remorseless power. Each moment the "Nancy Ann" glided away from those bristling cannon he breathed -more freely, and when at, length he was, beyond their reach he uttered an involuntary shout of glad- ness. After a long rest the good ship snuTed the breezes of the Atlan- tic,- as she laved her sides in the green waves, or plunged her prow into the rolling Ulows. Laden with the hopes of liberty, she started for the shores of America, the 11 land of the free and the home of the brave." CHAPTER XXIL "For all the rest They'll take suggeations as a catPlaps milk They'll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour."-SHAKESPEARE.' MRS. SOLOMON GREASEBEANS, although she would- doubtless scorn the imputation, was a. spon(re. She could have been indicted and found guilty as such. any week day of the whole year. And it was intimated upon the strenorth of opinions, known to have been entertained by her most intimate ftie'nds, that she was not entirely guiltless' of the charge on that day more particularly set apart for divine service. And yet' strange to sav, some of her friends ra- ther liked the operation of being sponged, as it was performed by Mrs. Solomon Greasebeans. She did not assail them as though all their good nature, as well as their favors, were to be absorbed. She had too'muoh tact to be guilty of such coarseness. It was accomplished by a delicate process so well urJerstood by the saga- cious sponge. Thereputation of Mrs. Greasebeans, nevertheless, was that of a lickspitile and toady, though her- most devoted friends, only, took the liberty of saying that such was the fact. And herein consisted the superior adroitness of Mrs. Greasebeans' tactics. She never was known to make a direct application for favors, like. Mrs. Yurnlace, for instance, who was guilty of the bad taste  urging   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY. 228 specific requests ; as  May I have our carriage to make calls f        y in ; I have such a horrid dread of the small-pox whenever I enter a hackney-coach." Or, "Will you lend me live pounds, ,pntil my husband arrIves," or, 64 Can I wear your elegant scarf, u  88 YOU intend to w-ear it for the third time thissea-son." M    beans, (for she was recognized by the different a' ellationseof Grease- pp beans, G. beans, and Grease b.) . was never known, to be guilty of such flagrant indiscretions. The principal weapon employed by the lady for the purpose of accomplishing her objpet was flattery;, thou-ah as a formidable auxiliary thereto, she most effectuall SUB- J tainted the character of a newsmonger, a very desirable character, indeed, if you wish to imuse a portion of the feminine gender ; what proportion of that indispensable sex shall be left for them to Decide. If Mrs. 'Greasebeans did not anticipate a ver comfortable hnner at bome, owing to a scarcity of game at herymarket; or, causee she sent too late, or did not take the trouble to send at a 1, is reasonable supposition that Mrs. Greasebeans intended to dine somewhere, else. Where, can she pay for a good dinner with battery and news? Why at Mrs. Flukins, to be sure. Flukins always sets a good table. Flukins' parlors are elegantly furnish- ed and Mrs.- Flukins is never tired of hearing them praised. There ere two subjects of conversation which Mrs. Flukins could dwell pon froin morning till night, without the slightest evidence of fa- aue They were as inexhaustible as that unusual theme, the weather, is to a bashful man or a saphead. Her parlors and Hen- etta Maria Plukins. In her mind's eye, Mrs. Greasebeans saw e complacent features of Mrs. Flukins, while she, Mrs. G'beans, is Pointing out the beauty 'of the rosewoQd furniture, the gorgeous- ss of the carpet-roast goose and boiled turkey just placed upon E) table-the magnificence of the statuary-baked duck, her favor- dish-the splendor of the mirrors-grouse-the richness of the rtains-champagne, Heidsick, at that. If all this failed to elicit invitation to dine, the grace, bearing, and accomplishments of r charming young friend, Henrietta Maria, freely dwelt upon, was -tain to procure for the goose, turkey, grouse, and baked-duck- oecially the baked duck-the honor of being consumed by Mrs. lomon Greasebeans, consort of Mr. Solomon Greasebeans,..senior Mber of the great house of Greasebeans, Snodgrass & Co. An tor raArely conferred upon dead animals. In t e parlor of Mrs. ikins, and the beauty of Miss Flukins, Mrs,., G' ea'ns' saw dinners ,n 'finitum, and he always thought there was no more appropri- time than the present for enjoying one of them. She could not :1-et upon the subject with placid indifference, or without-a cer- nervousness in the region of the stomach, and she therefore the bell. Bridget, what's for dinner 2"           & The, remains of last-wee]k's ham." That ham is getting quite -too ancient; it possesses ais 'few actions, calculated to tempt one's appetite, as Mr. Greasebeans since he turned groy, and wears appetacles. What else 3owecorued bedf shall not dine at home to-day.  I  thinkk' a the weather is     ,24         ENGLISH S'ER VDO Nl gloomy, Mrs. Flukin-s would like, to be'entertained. Get my -second bat. " Mrs. Flukins not being, an admirer of light or B'ubstantial litera- O lure, and possessing no -taste for needlework-which, in her estima- tion, poor people, made decidedly vulgar-was yawning away the hours until dinner; refining, because the weather, was not pleasant enough for her to sho , or to make calls. It was a matter of per- fect indifference to  rs. Flukins if James could not get along without the aid of his "Solitary Horsemani"Dickens without his ghosts ; Thackeray, without proving himself a greater snob than he could delineate. So far as she was concerned, the " solitary horseman" might have been kept upon his steed- until both had pet- rified, or 11 purifiedd" as Mrs. Partington would have jt. Dickens might have written himself out a dozen times instead of twice, 3 nd Thackeray might have proved himself a- more finished -snob than he has ever described. The door-bell summoned Sally. She escorted an itinerant merchant into the parlor. Probably his net receipts were not large, for his dress had a decidedly Jeremy Diddler appearance. With an air calculated to propitiate'the rich lady, he displayed his wares.                           I Mrs. Flukins examined him through her eye-glass (she used an eye-glass instead of spectacles, so that people might attribute it to shortness of vision, instead of age,) for a few moments, and then said languidly Go away, dirty man; you make me nervous." I beg your pardon, madam, but I assure you my poverty is not in the slightest degree of my own choosing." "What a horrid creature. Dirty man do go away." 17 "Is there nothing I can show you .1 persisted the travelling merchant, with characteristic importunity. Nothing." Thread 1" Never sew-vulgar." Lace 1" No 7" Silks V Sall I "     V 'Y. Handkerchiefs!" "Show this man to the door." Gloves 1" Sally, call the police." Yes, mem, going; another time I hope Dirty man---" Gone!" Mrs. Flukins applied her perfumbd. handkerchief to her cultiva- ted nose, while' she cast a'look of disgust at the spot recently occu- pied by the merchant. She then rose from her luxurious chairs and, with -studied grace, walked to the mirror. Grace-languid grace, was Mrs. Flukins'interesting weakness. She could not spend more time attitudinizing, if sh"- peeled to become a model for Hiram Powers, in the concept     of another Greek Slave.   A ND AMERICAN SL,&-Vj&p,y. Every Position the lia ' n form could be made to as fully2 was known   ma              ,.91 to Mrs. Flukins.          ime grace- She devoted at least one'hour each day to " mirror practices" as she facetio ly called it- * She rested-the weight of her form upon one footluasnd then' upon the mother and contrasted the effect produced by each position. She confessed to a partial ity for the 64 left leg position tt s she styled , a it, in the privacy of er own 'parlor. Though she was not posi- tively certain, but that the other was almost as much admired'by the men. Her -lovely, hand-for even Mrs. Flukins' rivals were forced to admit:ihalher hands did stand aae remarkably well gracefully rested uD' on her-forehead, With tPe thumb placed upon thetempletand the&Rrjgerssh'ghtly bentisQastodi laytheircury- ing outlines. An-other favorite attitude of Mrs. Flu ins-and what she did to perfection--was to rest her elbow upon the'ba'ck of a chair, with the fore-finger of her left hand-because that hand was the smallest-resting u p-on her cheek, within easy-travell ng dis- tance from her mouth whither her little finger Mae i 9                 frequent excursions, for the benefit of its health. Lip dew being considered, in the estimation of many ladies, an admirable- medicine for sick fincrers, which any one can discover, by observinfr how dten 4p li- cations are made theretoespecially by thaidens'who have be'autt. ful hands, red lips, and pearly teeth ; it being a curious fact, that the lingers of all such are much oftener indisposed than these who 4ave big hands, thin, pale lips, and sc raggy teeth. Mrs. Flukins would then run the extremities of her- laper fingers through the mass of curls (carefully dyed, for Mrs. Flukins, a anticipation of the final end of all flesh, considered it her du to lye twice a week-'at least, by way of famil' herself with the iarizing grim monster) that clustered upon her cheek- But that attraction, 7hich Mrs. Flulcins most prided herself upon, was the skillful Management of her large black eyes. They were made to roll in very conceivable manner, from the devotional.,gaze at the ceiling, rhich was the chef-dcauvre, to the side-long, half-timidl half-fur-, ve glance, that could not brook the thorough examination she A as conscious of eliciting; the full and melting lustre that be. ayed the whole ocean of trusting confidence wigth which'she was spared, were all displayed with a matchless art, that awakened 9 liveliest enthusiasm in the bosom of the-no longer youthful uniford Flukins. Again Sally was summoned. What o'clock is1t V9 said Mrs; Flukins, with an attitude, for she Pn practiced on the waiter. Three. 'One hour before dinner. I wish somebody would call; even t dear, agreeable sponge, Sol. Greasebeans' wife would 66 a d-send. LThat's her ring,- now; I can tell it, for it's a hun Well, she can earn a  dinner in        Tell- er an hour any day. M -at homet Sally. How different she is frorn some of M- rids, who, most inconsid. ely, drop' in as, the dinner is bei-Y led. I  would not care if did not eat so much as to bee4aie' dd, thereby depriving me-o the scandal which 9             is my due'afthr ing them. I -must change my dinne'r-hour ocems.."     SERFDOM ZXGLISH U to call such Ab      mrs. Greasebeans' how kind of yo , my dear  so glad to see your?        i and dear ILBasty daye I am        you are well, I hope. Think, YOU, Mrs. Flukins. alialD             though bow she, can Henrietta M      rover Dickens' last, 1641 She is still poring  twaddle 1 never could telly unless it laugh and cry over his endless   d water-wheel at m-Y fatherls on, like the 01      Clause over them, is because be clatters    gh, you know, to I in the Country. les, well enou  'have, read his wOr'ka. But the, $use it's fashionable to say you  perusal. Well, w1lat's the bee           sure in their          e, heard a foiiqk child, takes, plea     4. I -know you hav news  I haves been razy, to see y  . e you dined here day be... world of pleasant scandal to tell me sine, -fdre yesterday-"    urged in a small deprecatory laugh- uld not Mrs. Greasebeans ind to welcome me so cordially- Isho "It is too kind of YOU ot for your agreeable manners) and to eall bere so often if it were n  etta Mariav as well as to take of c                     suffi- enjoy a sight   harming Henri     whiph I can never another peep at your elegant furniture, ciently admire."   had made this speech at least forty times i-aest Mrs.. Greasebeans     the abifiV Of Mrs. Flukinfa to largely TEIP0 but she counted - , throughout the, year. it twice a week   O  f Mrs. Flukins cast- a gratified glancE, The large black eyes 0 around the.,parlor.       tell you." "I have a little bit of news 'to' e        I "1 ku W it.,77  ot Lord Snizzle,!" YOU raa'y recolle       tafltly since the night of YO1" Ah, es ; he calls here cons s dying f0r Henrietta 14ria." O tell you the truth, he i    his tailorla bills!" "party.            He don't PaY "She is too good for him. "Is it possible V'            ible as the non-pay- ia-as think nothing so repreliens- - Rich plebe       $4            ect of havin mentor bills-  13shard trusted bini uptil the prosp "Yes. Mr, Pre ted became gloomy ; and at length he to his accounts liquid iiis dues. The officer'found Lord Snizzle. in legal Steps to obtain      aid, the officer, 4 has suffered these JPJ 8 f      Your lordsh' ,lo ty mood.  e     until, in the aggre atef hey amount to SrAall items'tO accumulate,       WO d consider it a great a -very considerable sum. Mr.. Presshar     eck for the afore- ip will favor him with Yuu'r c'b favor if 'Your lordsh   ounds, nineteen shillings -eleven pence maid sum Of sixty-seven p balf-penny. I  I           izing his Pen and a blank Certai411) replied its lordship) Be ineet, the check " check.               s in bapk to 6 ]But has your Jorship au',           ina disposi- at I am aware of ; but beingl0f aver  1y e ught for 4 Not th   ow but 01M YOU could find what hav SO non, I did not ku I                     'he contraot- ia vain                wt answer t i Come uow, Lord Snizsles, this wo Cannot hav-0 thO money     11  ulated 'his lordship, thOstr' 6 E"e im the- -slave whO PsYll - ejA'   AND'AMERICAN SLAVERY. Lord Snizzle  I must inform your lordship that a knowledge of Shakespeare won't save you the next time I call. - Good morn- ing our lordship 9      P. " r. Presshard has not received the. amount of his bill, to this day. Scandalous! Bat he dresses well." For the ver best reason in the world; he never pays -for -his, clothes. I should like to know if a person under such circuna-stan. ces ought not to dress well  The truth is, his lordship is no better than a genteel ' Jerem      and avowedly so, to6, for he does not hesitate to ask his     patronize such and such establish- ments, because, to bring' customers to them is all the compensation he ever expects to make. It is so even at watering-plac6s. Be is a favorite with landlords, because hegets up hops, and supper- parties, and balls, all of which help to swell the profits of the hotel- keepers. They can afford to board him for nothing, as be inakes others pay his bills ten times over. His own being settled after the manner of Wilkins Micawher. Such I understand to be the prominent trait in his lordship's character." This is all news to me. I never knew before why Lord Snizzle happened in so often about dinner-time. The mystery is now ex- plained. He is a regul-ar-sponge. Mrs. Gre a-s'ebeans cast a quick glance at her friend to see if there was a sarcasm in her meaning, personal to herself. The counte- nance of Mrs. FlAins was impassive. The dinner bell rung. "That's for your dinner. I will bid you izood morning,71 and Mrs. Greasebeans rose apparently to take tier leave, without intend- ing to do anything of the kind. "Oh no ; dine with us." "Not to-day, dear Mm. Flukins. I have some amusing things to te I you, but they will keo --Iftntit I can call again." can't hear of a refusal. Come, Henrietta Maria will be of- fended if you go before dining." The mention of that'dear name proves too powerful for my resolution. (She had seen the baked ducli go up. For this once I will acce p This was at Heast the five hundredth time the inflexible resolution of Mrs. Greasebeans had been overcome's the same manner. in fact the resolution of that estimable lady inelted away like wax. be- fore heat, in thepresence of a good dinner. All the time' she was protesting so decide 'dly against dining, she was just as certain of beifig, helped to a leg and thigh, (and eating, it, too) her favorite part, of that baked duck, as if it was then and there invitingly re. declining upon her plate. Mrs. Flukins so understood it, fok the sol-- emn protestation of Mrs. Greasebeans. that she bad iti -excellent dinner at home-a fabulous - statement-or 'that Mr. Greasebe-ans could not dine without her, never ended by' a reservation of her ap- petite for the-supposed'dino'er, or in enabling Mr. Gre"ebeans td dine that day. She was invariably found at-the close of the-dining- hour comfortably seated in the biek 'arlor of Mrs. FlAins',-red with a satisfied. appetite and plenty of -eharapagne, and quite awre-'     228          ENGL1SH SE gardless of the excellent dinner at home as she was indifferent to th(i unfilled stomach of Mr. Solomon Greasebeans. It-was impos- sible to conceive a more grateful person than Mrs. Greasebeans, when she had dined heartily, especially on baked duck; and that she had dined well on the da'y in question, was verified by an en- tire skeleton of that animal, which was lying upon and around her plate at the time preparations were made for the fifth course. For half an hour, therefore, Mrs, Greasebeans continued to re- tail the news which had accumulated on her hands, much to her ih- convenience, during the last two days. -The mottos of Mrs. Greasebeans, in the news line, were, 11 quick sales'.' and a " rapid turning over of my stock in trade." This she was in the habit of designating as a comfortable arrangement for herself, and doing justice to the community at large. This manifestation of a dispo- sition to 11 keep the thing wyinall was uly appreciated by all the parties interested : and, consequently, rs. Greasebeans was en- a'bled to sleep with a conscience which is only vouchsafed to those who are blessed with a realizing sense of having performed their duty to themselves and to society. After Mrs. Greasebeans had eased her mind in that regard, she felt so much better that she concluded an airing in the elegant car- riage. (damask lining) of Mrs. Flu'kins would not be in'urious to her health. She had a penchant for that carriage-had rs. Grease- beans, it was so stylish; and the horses were so beautiful, and the driver and footman looked so aristocratic and distingu&like. Mrs. Greasebeans entertained not the slightest doubt that an ailing in such an establishment was more conducive to satisfactory ditres- tion, than one of less Pretensions could- possibly afford. Hence slie, was often seen in fashionable - thoroughfares with Mrs. Flukins, whenever the nobility were out in force. Upon such occasions Mrs. Greasebeans only recognized her most distinguished acquaint- ances, which she did with a marked flourish, in some cases extend. ing out of the window, when it was bestowed upon a person enor- mously rich, or who had an centre to the saloons of the minor no- bility : those friends who rode their legs, not being observed upon such occasions. After they had returned, Mrs. Greasebeans men- tally discussed the propriety of going home before tea. Mrs. Flu- kins was noted for delightful teas; and she seemed in such excel- lent spirits, that Mrs. Greasebeans thought there was no danger ot boring her: a result which she had sufficient tact to foresee would occasion the loss of any number of valuable dinners. Nev- ertheless, the ham and corned-beef would give Mr. Solomon Grease. beans an excellent appetite for a substantial tea. After weighing the matter, she thought it was worth the risk, and she issued the six hundred and fifty-ninth edition of her eulogies upon the splendid furniture of the parlor, and the fascinating accomplishments of Miss R60rietta Maria Flukins, which met with a ready demand. The cogVwais very trifling, because the conscience of Mrs. Greasebeans *u a merchantable article; and the trOuble was a matter of quite as little consideration, for she had long since stereotyped the states. An she expected, Mr. Solomon Greasebeans was announced, and simultaneously with his - arrival, entered Mumford Flinkins, Esq.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY,             229 The greeting between the two gentlemen was cordial ; but the mental reservation of Mumford Flukins, Esq., was any' thing but complimentary to his visitor, being nothing less thdn a voiceless opinion that"' them Greasebeans are the damdest sponges in her majesty's dominions :` a highly reprehensible suggestion, which it is not to be supposed Mr. Solomon Greasebeans or his estimable sleeping'partner had the slightest notion could be 6ntertai 'ned 4y the smiling Flukins-an instance of misplaced confidence, which undoubtedly has its parallel in more cases than a confiding public would cheerfidly admit.- Well, Mr. Greasebeans 17 said the insinuating voice of Mr. Flukins, how goes on the glorious work of emancipation in America "Much better than we expected. The American abolitionists are failing into the trap we set for them, with a stupidity which is amazing in a people so shrewd upon all other questions." I have often thought," replied Mr. Flukins, adjusting his ele- gant cravat," that they must be demented not to discover the trans- parent object we have in view while we are stimulating their fana- ticism, which we know, if they do not,'must end in the dissolution of their boasted confederacy." Yes; and what renders the whole subject a matter of bewilder- ment to me, is the fact that they are so very dull of comprehension as not even to suspect our motive. If fanaticism had not blinded the reason of the ignorant asses, they would perceive that the mo- tives ofthe Duchess of Sunderland and her associates cannot be prompted by a passion for liberty,- for the suffering and despotism that exist upon their estates, never 'were equalled upon the plAntk- tions of the'southern states." Mr. Greasebeans carefully adjusted his wig'after this conscien- tious admission, and smiled complacently upon his wife and Mrs. Flukins, its influence even extending to Henrietta Maria, who had just entered the room. There is another consideration, that ought to awaken their sus- pieions. If we are so absorbed with the grand idea of abolishing slavery, why not-I speak it, of course, ironically, and with all def- erence for her majesty-establish a republic here ; oi, at all events, raise the masses from the worse than African bondage that prevails under the plea-sing rule of a limited monarchy 1 which, I take it, means a monarchy whose favors are limited to half its subjects," And Mr. Flukins indulged in a sly smile. "-1 have had occasion, as you well know, Mr. Flukins," observed Mr. Greasebeans, confidentially, " as the president of the associa- tion for the abolition of slavery in the United States, to weigh carefully "every act of our society, so as not to awaken distrust in the minds of our American co-ilaborers, for it is only through theyn that we - can accomplish any thing,- as George Thompson) M, found to his cost. I have been the more particular in the man-ag mentor our affairs, because!-'assume it to be ihe uty of the hum bleat of her majesty's subjects to contribute his aid for the minute nance of the present order of things." Mr. Greasebean's,- after this annunciation, thought it would not be     ENGLISH SERFDOM unbecoming to indulge in a small and npodest cachinnation, which he proceeded to do. After having refreshed himself in this innocent way, he proceeded: " I have not only dreaded that their suspicions might be aroused in the matter to which you have, with so much sagacity, alluded (Mr. Greasebeans was unconscious of praising himself.) but I have also apprehended that they might in some unlucky moment think of the way we are treating Ireland-perfectly justifiable of course, though difficult of explanation-and also question the purity of our motives in laying waste the garden of Asia with fire and sword. A proceeding also excusable upon the authority of the Bible, and the rules of international law, though quite as difficult to explain. And finally, I have been in constant dread that they might inquire the reason why we overlook the abject condition, not only of our own people, but more particularly the awful spectacle presented by Russia, where even the semblance of liberty is ex- cluded, where the white man's life is at the disposal of his master; where there is no law but his untrammelled will; where they are bought and sold with the soil; where despotism has no check and justice no balance; where the knout, the halter, and the knife are wielded at pleasure ;. and where the subject has no choice between the joys of his fireside, the snows of Siberia, and death. 'A condi- tion of things a hundred times worse than has ever been pictured by even Mr. Roorback. Why do we desert our own continent to meddle with the affairs of another ? Why are not our sympathies aroused for Russian serfs as well as for African slaves ? Why do we pass by a greater, in order to lament over a lesser evil ? Why are we so mute when observing the terrible condition of the poor Russian, who is protected by no law, and sheltered by no public opinion 2 and so clamorous while pitying the slave over whose master both law and public opinion exercise a legitimate control ? If I was an American I should propound these questions to her grace the Duchess of Sunderland, and to every abolition society in England.. And what reply, my dear Mr. Flukins, would truth force from us ? Why, that we have every thing to hope, and nothing to fear, from the example of Russia, while we have every- thing to fear, and nothing to hope, from the example of the great western Republic! Do you not think the American abolition- ists ought to reflect upon these things ." " Indeed I do," replied Mr. Flukins, with increased respect for the acumen of Mr. Solomon Greasebeans. " So do I, but they -don't though," said Mr. Greasebeans, rub- bing his hands. "They are our tools, our blind, idiotic tools, who only have sufficient sense to do our bidding, and madly destroy the only model (between us) government on earth. We have com- pletely hoodwinked them; they are as blind as bats, as stupid as apes, and as full of malignant hatred towards their glorious consti- tution as the most inveterate monarchists could wish." " You have hopes of dissolving the union ?" " Not a doubt of it; how could it be otherwise with a band of abolitionists, now swelled into the imposing appearance of a power- ful faction, whose support the unscrupulous will always try to win   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.   281   by making concessions to their peculiar opinions ? .A faction that already possesses sufficient influence to corrupt and disorganize the old parties.  Dissolve the union .  Why it is as good as dis- solved already, and only requires a few more years of silent assault by British philanthropists to be utterly and irremediably over- thrown." CH1APTER XXIII. "A woman moved is like a fountain troubled, Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty; And, while it is so, none so dry or thirsty, Will deign, to dip or touch one drop of it."-SHAKESPEARZ. THE attentions that were now  bestowed upon Lord Me  lle would have turned the head of a man less scornful of protestat ons. He did not fail to observe that the most decided exhibitions ofSpar- tiality came from  mothers who had daughters to dispose of/and younger sons, who were engaged in the interesting occupation of "raising the wind."- The former invited him to their houses and the latter invited him to the gambling-table.  The first he disposed of by informing them he was not a marrying man, and the last by loaning them divers sums varying from ten to one hundred pounds, according to the position they occupied in society. He turned with loathing and disgust from flattery and dissipation, while his heart bled at the misery which prevailed among the poor, that fash- ionable extravagance might receive no check. The season was at its height. Parties, balls, theatres, operas, and concerts, succeeded each other in rapid succession, as if those who so eagerly run after pleasure were exempt from the inexora- ble doom which cut others down at their side, and shut them out for ever from the bright earth which they worshipped. They were blind to the sword suspended over their heads by a single hair. Others died, were buried beneath the cold, damp earth, to fester and to rot; no more to hear the voice of affection, never again to meet the look of love; chained to one gloomy spot, with no fellow- ship but corruption, no touch, but its remorseless grasp; no voice but the rattling coffin, as it and the remnant of mortality crumbled into dust. Still onward pressed the thoughtless crowd,, as if they, they were never to die !  The Duchess of Sunderland was the sagacious counseUl^oif her son, as the opinion of the world goes. She suffered his health and his morals to take care of themselves, while she watched over his settlement in life.  It was more important, in her opinion, that Melville should marry-well, than to live long, or conduct himself as a man of honor. The anxiety of her grace was by no means sin-    282.         ENGLISH SERFDOM igular. Society rather likes it than otherwise ; it finds favor with most ambitious mothers, and what mother is not ambitious for her son 1 The Duche 'ss ascertained that Melville did iiot fall in love with the first pretty face that had a sr:ile for him ; pn the contrary, she, imagined he was, more than ordinarily averse to anything like a closer union than a daily intercourse with his female acquaintances. She threw'him. constantly in the way of 11 good matches," but some bow or other, with the -obstinacy of a bad " lucifer," lie would not take." (Upon reflection, a diabolical pun.) He often met Sir William Belthoven, who amused him by his frank admission of the humbug which was practiced by politicians and fashionables. He often called at the residence of he Duke of Sunderland, and took Melville in his carriage to places he thought would interest him. -As the young nobleman was seated -in - the library, a few weeks after thev attended the theatre together, Belthoven was announced. He desir-ed the company of Lord Melville for a few hours I do not promise you much -pleasure during this call.' Then why do you take me there 1 77 askeo Melville. To make you acquainted with some fiadies, who are Highly gratified at being called blues; an with others, who are so much dissatisfied with the sphere in whic society requires them to move, that they wishto encroach upon ours." Shall we meet an advocate of woman's rights 1" inquired Mel- ville, with a degree of interest that surprised Belthoven. Yes, one of the most formidable of their lecturers." What manner of woman is she?" She is not only a stout supporter of -what she calls the " right") of her sex to practice law and medicine, but she is supposed to leave a decided predilection for certain garments that have hitherto belonged to the male sex." "What can induce them to put forth such %extraordinary preten- sions 1" - "Some persons are ungracious enough to declare that it is owing to the hermaphroditish nature of those individuals ; and they even go so far as to insist, that, from their proclivities, and the mascu- line direction of their thoughts,- they 'are Dot proper associates for the female sex, but should he required to organize a community ;Lpart from those whose oneness is unmistakable." f  shrewd idea," sa'id Melville, as lie e ecte the stump of a Jo ,cigar from the window. to' Indeed, so confident are they of the correctness, of their opinions, that they do not hesitate to assign reasons therefore, the most cogent of which are the coarseness of feature, strength of form, roughness of manner, and absence of that sensitiveness and ,delicacy which characterize a lady, and distinguish her from an hermaphrodite and a man." Very possible, said the'noblema'n, sOntentiously. Not satisfied -with Ws ' charge against persons whom they accuse -of having mixed natures, -they specify the causes which pro. duce' this vehement desire for woman's rights. They say it is   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.            283 attributable' to the vulgar natures and peculiar temperament tsof the different individuals, and to the want of attention, not to say admiration, with which- the sterner se. never fail to honor beauty, especially when it is adorned with MO   .11             I "But the 'lecturer-does she grit  th6 . hu-stings, VI asked, Melville.                      I "I cannot say I admire her ; she has a disagreeable expression about the mouth when she speaks-what a young laa called a floppy expression, when saying she always felt incline to strike the said mouth with the back of her hand, whenever that feature was more than ordinarily loquacious. This she declared to be a great temptation, even in the social circle. But when its contor- tions were brought into full play, upon the hustings, the impulse became almost irresistible, and would positively, require gratifica- tion, but for a decent respect for the feelings of -the auditory, arid "a proper regard for the gar 'ments of the hateful individual." "Personal ugliness is certainly a decided objection in a-declaimer. But this Mis.-Mrs.-" Mrs. Duke." This Mrs. Duke iinerates, I prestimef for the purpose of gra- tuitously instructing her sex?" Not at a.1, my dear fellow ; she charges as much for an admis- sion to her lectures as they are worth." Then, her efforts are not entirely disinterested.". Come, now, Melville, do not be guilty of injustice. There is very little disinterested philanthropy manifested in this world by men or women. I believe not. Mrs. Duke does not despise money, and she is fond of applause." "There are a sufficient number of slang allusions interspersed throughout her lectures to enable the hi! hi! boys to express their approbation. But-this is the house." A dozen persons were assembled in the' drawing-room when Belt- hoven and his companion entered, and beside the sagacious -counte- nances of some elderly ladies, they beheld the sweet faces of sev- eral'maidens. They imagined that being-,"en 'in the' company of literary females would induce the belief that theis own hours were surrendered to the acquisition of claspic-10're. Belthoven remem- bered that they had resorted to several other expedients to obtain husbands. These, he presume .ed, had provedabortive', as they were stakinz their last chance upon blue stockingism. MelviHe engaged a beautiful girl in conversation. , She had just stopped from childhood into sQc' -t and her charming naivete amused him exibeedingly. ,    T 6L I Belthoven was not so fortunate. ,He had almost succeeded in passing the knot of blues, who, with a consciousness of possessing masculine qualities, boldly occupied the centre of the room,1-when the veritable Mrs. Duke addressed him- What did you think -of- my last'lecture, Sir Williaml.." I had a strong inclination during its delivery, to propound cer. tain interrogatories."     234         ENGLISH SERFDOM "Let me hear them now," replied Mrs. Duke, as, she squared herself, like a boxer; though with both toes turned in, and form erect. When she had thus assumed position, and cast a triumphant glance around the room, she inclined her head with an affectation of modesty a little upon one side, while her somewhat extensive foot caressed the carpet. The Baronet looked about him as though he, would gladly effect a retreat; 'but all eyes were riveted upon them. Cursing the folly which prompted him to rush into a discussion, he raised his eyes to the countenance of his formidable opponent. Hers were fixed with a remorseless and taunting expression upon him, and the floppy movement of her lips became more than ordinarily disagreeable as she inquired- "Shall we not be favored with your inquiries now, Sir William?" "Yes, Madame, to your heart's content," he mentally exclaimed, as, with a powerful exertion, he controlled his rage and contempt. "I felt strongly tempted to ask you, Mrs. Duke, why you inflicted upon your audience such vague generalities and unmeaning words, when you were pretending to communicate information, and incul- cate new ideas?" For a few moments Mrs. Duke was confounded by the audacity of the Baronet. "I was not aware, sir, that my language was either vague or ob- scure." "Then, madam, while you are not only asserting the rights of your sex, but assuming the position of a teacher, you have failed to arrange your ideas, or to acquire a terse, compact, or even intelli- gible style." A flush of indignation overspread the countenance of Mrs. Duke as she replied-"Your criticism is frank, to use no harsher phrase." "It can be understood, at all events. If, following your advice, the softer sex throw themselves into the busy scenes of life, they will be fortunate enough if they receive no rougher treatment than is implied in the word frankness. But to convince you that I am not guilty of injustice, I have merely to say that I passed several knots of your auditors, who differed in opinion as to the points you were endeavoring to establish. Now it has been the aim of all men who have sought renown as writers or orators, to make them- selves understood. It was the terse, pointed, compact language of Junius and Calhoun, that gave them a world-wide celebrity-a ce- lebrity that could never have been obtained by stringing together unmeaning words and thoughtless phrases, which tickle the fancy without approaching the judgment." "Am I to infer from your language that you think me disqualified for the duties of a lecturer?" inquired Mrs. Duke with a supercil- ious look. "Far be it from me to take upon myself the character of a judge-" "I thought it would be rather presumptuous!" exclaimed Mrs. Duke, who was evidently moved. "I will remark, however, since I have been dragged into this discussion, that the most celebrated orators and reformers studied,   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.           285 with a painful devotion, the best models. The structure of lan- guage, the arrangement of thought, the modes of expression, were examined, and compared for months and years before an attempt was made to enlighten others. They were never guilty of the ar- rogance of becoming teachers before they were themselves in- formed." Mrs. Duke was petrified at such boldness; and yielding the prom- inent position which she had hitherto occupied, she seated herself upon a sofa, and glared at him as if she would learn the extent of his presumption. "Although your language was obscure, I think you intended to be understood as claiming for your sex the right to practice law, to vote, to heal the sick, and to mingle more freely with men in the transactions of life." Mrs. Duke bowed. "And you assign as a reason for demanding such an extraordi- nary enlargement of your sphere, that the tender natures of women will mitigate the cruelties of which men are guilty, by acquiring more influences with, and obtaining greater power over our sex, than you now exercise?" Mrs. Duke bowed again. "Now, madam, the reverse of these propositions 'I will take up- on myself to maintain." "Impossible." "I assure you my opinions are capable of demonstration. If your programme is adopted, the result will be, first, the loss of that tenderness, sensibility, and modesty, which constitute the foundation of your power; and second, shorn of these attractions, you can .no longer fascinate and control us by the magical influence of love and admiration." "I shall consider you a wonderful reasoner, if you can satisfy me of the truth of your assertions," said Mrs. Duke, sarcastically. "If I can, it will relieve you from the trouble of redressing the supposed wrongs of half the human race. I would be called a cruel, not to say wicked man, if, having the power, I should obsti- nately refuse to exercise it, for the purpose of removing from your path this mighty responsibility. In making the effort, my remarks shall be intelligible. "First-The career which you propose for the adoption of your sex, would occasion the loss of that tenderness, sensibility, and modesty which constitute the foundation of your power. "I need not remind you how inexpressibly dear to infancy is fe- male tenderness. It soothes the wounded spirit, banishes weari- ness, alleviates pain, guides the tottering steps, and encourages the lisping voice. As childhood struggles up into manhood, female sen4 sibilities are its strongest support-with whatever opinions others may regard our emotions, welfare certain to find sympathizers in mothers and sisters. Their hearts beat responsively to our own, and while turning aside the lheaviest blows of fortune, we are ever cheered on by their approbation. They become at onde our coun- sellors and our friends, and to them we confide hopes and fears that are proudly withheld from the sterner sex.     ENGLISH SERFDOM' 'And whin man seeks a helpmate, he remembers that 'modesty' is the highest quality which adorns a woman: and, passing by the female who, assuming a brazen face, demands the admiration of men, he seeks one whose aspirations, like the fragrance of a delicate flower, lingers around its own beautiful form; revealing her power, as. it does its sweetness, within the sacred precincts of home. " If these arrest affection and elicit love, what must be the influ- ence of adverse qualities ?  Fatal, indeed ! " I believe it is not denied that woman can reach a lower depth of mental degradation than man. If this is a correct assumption, it may be interesting to examine the causes which precipitate her from the realm of purity and virtue, where she commands our re- spect, to the slough of infamy, where contempt cannot reach her. Their downward tendency is accelerated by the manners of the age -by local conventionalities-or by the folly of classes. During the reigns of Charles the Second of England and Louis the Fif- teenth of France, there was a frightful prostitution of morals, and virtue unavailingly resisted the progress of corruption.  Sometimes the moral blight was confined to localities, and elsewhere goodness maintained its power. The vices of Paris were unknown in the Provinces, and they only were liable to imbibe. the venomous exha- lations from  a diseased society, who came within its influence. That one class may become noted for a shameless disregard of the proprieties of life, is proved by the description given of Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, who made her appearance at the cham- bers of' Lord Mansfield, before he was elevated to the bench. "'  I could not make out, sir, who she was,1 said the clerk, ' for she would not tell me her name; but she swore so dreadfully that she must have been a lady of quality.' " The conversation was hushed throughout the room, and the com- pany listened to the remarks of Sir William. "You have described the influence of tenderness, sensibility, and modesty as elements in the female character," said Melville; " I should be pleased to hear your reasons for supposing that the career assigned them by the advocates of woman's rights, would destroy or impair those estimable qualities." "Yes, that is precisely what we are anxious to hear," said Mrs. Duke, as she rewarded Melville with a gracious smile. " And that is precisely what I am ready to communicate. I an- nounce, as a proposition which cannot be denied, that character is essentially moulded by prevailing customs. "To illustrate :-Cannibals serve up human beings with as much nonchalance as an American housewife would a pig. Indians tor- ture their prisoners. A Pagan bows to his idol; Mahommedans be- lieve in one God, and one Prophet; Catholics reverence the -Pope; while Protestants ridicule his pretensions. A nun shrinks from the gaze of the world; an Amazon mounts her steed and goes forth to battle. The man of God teaches mercy; the warrior im- molates his foe. The modest girl keeps her person covered; the belle traverses the muddy street to reveal it. A sensitive woman robes -her form; a ballet-dancer studies how much she may dis- close. The conscious blood mounts to the cheek of a modest fe-   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.   male, at an indelicate allusion; habit causes her to applaud vul- garity when it does- not even possess the poor merit of a double en- tendre.  " Now, madam, if the human mind is so flexible, what must be the result, if woman assumes the hardening, nay, corrupting duties of our sex?  If she practices Jaw, how long will the impatient blood mantle her cheek, as vulgar testimony is given to the jury ? When will the shrinking modesty which lights up her countenance like a ray from heaven yield to brazen effrontery ?  If she studies physic and surgery, how soon will she acquire that insensibility to suffering which enables the practitioner to amputate a limb with cool indifference, or to witness dying throes without emotion I  If she mounts the hustings, how indispensable will become the " hi ! hi! hi !" of the populace. All these things will produce a roughness of manner, an obtuseness of feeling, a violence of temper, totally inconsistent with our opinions of female excellence. If such must be the effect of your system, women will be rendered incompetent to perform the duties which you are anxious to assign them." " How is that possible ?" asked Mrs. Duke, in a querulous tone. "She cannot temper the passions of men with justice, because her own do not slumber; she becomes indifferent to the sufferings of others, for her sensibilities are destroyed; she cannot} uphold the barrier which mercy has erected to stay the wickedness of men, because that which a benign Providence gave her for her own pro- tection- is broken down and destroyed." "I should like to hear something else beside mere assertion," said Mrs. Duke, tartly. "You have studied history to little purpose, madam, if illustra- tion is necessary. Nay, you are chargeable with positive indiscre- tion, in assuming the right to lecture others, without having been impressed with these facts, while observing the ordinary transac- tions of life." " Indeed !" exclaimed Mrs. Duke, as she vigorously fanned her- self. "Unquestionably.  You would have women exercise the func- tion of men, for the purpose of softening their natures V Well, some of your sex have been intrusted with power. Catharine, Empress of Russia, was celebrated alike for her unpitying cruelty and unblushing profligacy. Maria Theresa exulted over the car- nage of battle-fields. Elizabeth was an unfeeling monarch, whose jealousy compelled her to sacrifice friends and foes. Cleopatra possessed beauty and fascination, but they were at the services of the lover who could bid the highest for them. Lady Macbeth con- templated murder without remorse. Isabella obtained a notoriety quite as infamous as her favorite Mortimer, by the terrible death of Edward the Second. Mary Queen of Scots, by uniting herself to the murderer of her husband, justified the chargethat she con- nived at his assassination. And 'bloody Mary,' the most vindic- tive and remorseless tyrant who ever disgraced the throne of Eng- land, was followed to the 'portals of the tomb,' by the execrations of outraged humanity.  The disgraceful conduct of these women fiends, illustrates the fact that an habitual contemplation of suffer-      238          ENGLISH SERFDOM ing and crime, instead of sharpening our sensibilities, as you be- -lieve, hao the effect of first paralyzing and then destroying them." "It is singular you did not mention the name of Queen Anne," said Mrs. Duke, tauntingly. "I did not allude- to Queen Anne because her memory is below criticism. You have aot forgotten the reply of Lady Churchill when accused of employing supernatural influences, in her inter- view with the Queen, that she controlled her Majesty not by witch- craft, but by the magic of superior intellect. Look at the French, Scotch, Irish, German ; aye, and American women, too, who labor beneath roofs, or, what is still worse, in the field. What has toil and exposure effected 1 It has deadened their sensibilities, bronzed their complexions, wrinkled , their foreheads, bent their forms, soured their tempers, and placed them beyond the influence of ro- mance." "But we do not intend to labor," exclaimed Mrs. Duke. "Why then do you. claim the privilege, if you do not expect to perform the duties of men-! If you would become merchants, you must visit the docks. If you practice laW, the drudgery of the office and the court room cannot b& transferred to another. One whose office it is to heal the sick, must not shrink from exposure to cold and heat. If your ambition points to the cultivation of the earth, your field operations will require unremitting attention. Ab- sorbed by -such . duties, what time will you have for the adornment of your person or the cultivation and refinement of your intellect 1 Your I rights' are acknowledged, but in, the loss of tenderness, Ben- sibility, and modesty, your legitimate control over our sex is gone for ever. That which we cheerfully accorded to graceful weak. ness, we withhold when claimed by coat and boots. In ceasing to rel upon our protection, you forfeit that watchful care which is your surest and safest defence." "There is another decided objection to the doctrine advocated by Mrs. Duke. We have duties at home which nobody else cari or will perform," said a lady, whose son bad that day astonished the court and jury by a brilliant forensic effort. "1,was about to allude- to that subject," replied Belthoven, as h& gracefully bowed to the matron. "Look at our weekly bills of mortality! How many of those who are daily deposited- in their silent homes, have not passed the boundaries' of childhood 1 What is the cause of this fearful mortality  It must be traced to igno- rance or neglect. And what excuse is there for such culpability, ,not to say, wickedness  If the mother suffers, her offspring to pe- rish because she is unacquainted with her duties, she ought to qua- lify herself to sav6 the being entrusted to her charge instead of clamoring for woman's rights! If she wilfully neglects the help- less infant and suffers its little form to struggle unavailingly with diseases, until the feeble body can no longer resist the embrace of death, she should implore divine mer'9y to, sharpen her moral per- eeptions, instead of - engaging in a conflict for woman's rights 1 With, the attention bestowed, even now, to the nursery, thousands are cut off in childhood; but if yon obtain additional cares a;nd new   AND AMERMAN SLAVERY responsibilities, there will be a serious interference with the popu- lation of the earth." You think, then, that worsen are- fitted for drud ry alone, and that they should be satisfiedd with rocking cradles making shirts, and sewing on buttons!". said Mrs. Duke, scornfully. "If such conclusions are drawn from my argument I have spoken to little purpose. No, madam; I would relieve her from drudgery, by entrusting to man's stronger frame and sterner will, the rougher duties of life. The sphere retained by woman is large enough. Society has claims upon her which'she cannot meet, if her time is devoted to the realities of the outer world. She must quality herself to become the companion and counsellor of her husband, and the moulder of destinies, which Providence, in giving her children, has committed to her charge. There is no cause for the restlessness which pervades your little circle. The female sex are almost unanimous in their approval of our social regulation. They do not demand an extension of their privileges or their responsibilities, and I. venture the assertion, that the pop- ular movement which places the estate of the wife at her own dis- posal, can be, traced to the j u stice and, affection of our sex, and not to the clamor of yours. "And why should they not be 'satisfied?  Have not the men whose deeds occupy the largest space in the compilation of the historian, admitted that the foundation of their fortunes was laid by female hands  Are not the praises of your children constantly elevating a monument more enduring than the baseless fabrie'of a vision, upon which you would rest your hopes? Cannot theehiv- alrous tenderness and Gallantry with which you are treated satisfy ';:II you. cast a-side that conAdence in our "sex yopr ambition  Or WI which has rarely been betrayed-throw off that gentleness which' is your safest protection-disrobe yourself of that modesty which the basis of your power, and thus shorn of your strength, com- ,ence a warfare upon public opinion, to be succeeded, if that prove unavailing, by the sterner conflict of irms V' As Belthoven concluded, decided marks 'of approbation were heard throughout the room. "I thank you, on behalf of my sex, for the ability which you have displayed in assailing sorne of the fallacies of, the present day, said the lady who had once befora'addrossed him4 I must apologize for occupying so much time, but that was partly owing to an imprudent denial that the lecture of my fair an- tagonist was the perfection of oratory. I shall be more cautious in future." Refreshments were now brought in, and the conversation became general. 'Aer Belthoven, who are those persons occupying the sofayon While listening to you they were, nevertheless, strongly attracted towards each other." I *ill tell you, Melville. , The man belongs to,,that  class of persons who are so intensely desirous of morning Ifor somebody, that they occasionally- put crape, upon . their, hats when their rela- tions are all in the enjoyment of lamentably good health. The     40 240          ENGLISH SERFDOM female belongs to another class, who wish to compromise with the Almighty by inducing him to pardon their insatiable avarice, as a reward for ostentatious charity. The individual who has joined theba, is known as the person who carries two faces under one hat. They are a charming- trio." "' Ah! ah! you are?the mood for criticism to-night," isaid Melville, as he resumed his seat b the side of the girlwho had captivated his fancy. With what eagerness these men of the world turn aside from, the current, down which fashionable women are crowding and jost- ling each other, in the struggle for admiration, to' the tranquil bay, in whose untroubled waters the barge of innocence is still moored, while 'Its happy owner is gathering flowers upon the bank, or re- posing beneath the foliage whose blossomsperfume the air. The saloons of the Countess of Memberton were crowded by the rank, beauty, fashion, and intellect of London. It was the party of the season. 'Not only were all the lions of English society pre. sent, but foreign countries were represented by diplomatisti and per- sons occupying high public stations ; for wealth, alone, found much difficulty in foisting its possessor into the exclusive circles of London. Lord Melville entered with Sir William Belthoven. Both were graciously received b the Countess-the first for his rank, and y the last f6r his agreeable manners. They passed through the rooms. Yonder stands the French Ambassador, decked out in a court dress which indicates the fondness of his nation for gaudy trap- ings  said Belthoven. 64 Still further on is the American minister " "The one with the tall form, venerable appearance, and plain attire Vv "The same." "The Americans may well be proud of such a. representation. What are his antecedents 1" "Minister to Russia, An American Senator, Seeretary of State, and an aspirant for -the office of President of the United States." Unsuccessful, of course, or he would not be here 1" Yes, he was too well known." Surely, that was not considered an objection." Undoubtedly , during his long political career he has made too many enemies, awakened the envy of too many rivals. Egad! Lord- Memberton has presented,Lady Katharine Montague to him. With what a complaisant air he inclines his-head upon one side. She is evidently pleased with the conversation of the old bachelor." Let us proceed," said Melville. 6'Ah! Sizzle, how are you  said the baronet, unctiously. Well's could be expected. Rooms too demm'd quowded." Your lordship is jostled." Yes, by quitters who have not, been noble more than ten or fif. teen years."   AND AMERICAN SILAVERY.            241 Did it ever occur-to your lordship, that there are some human beings who have not been ennobled by the decrees either of nature or royalty?" said Melville. "No! are they 1 I thought majesty could make any person a noblemaD," replied Timothy, Lord Snizzle. Majesty can confer the title, but your lordship is a standing, illustration of the'fact, that nature is the only skillful artificer of true nobility of soul." Lord Siiizzle pondered upon these words after Melville and the baronet had resugped their walk. I'm dernmed if Iiis, laDguage wasn't insulting. I'll call him out, dem me if I don't; that is, if Sir Pertinax MeFlummux advises it, muttered Snizzle, as he thrust his glass into the socket of his eye, and proceeded to inspect the company with the orb thus forti- fied, while the other maintained a vague expression, as if the responsibility of a faithful performance of duties, that 'usually devolved upon both, now rested upon the glassed one alone. Who is that splendid-looking woman, who manages to retain a circle of admiring gentlemen around her?" That is the Mareliioness of Berkley, widow of the late Mar- quis of Berkley." "What! the hady who created so great a sensation in Parif last winter V' "Yes. She laid aside her grief and her weeds at the same time, and it was remarkable coincidence that the auspicious event occurred at the commencement of the fashionable season. I have often observed, that grief, which appeared to every one inconsold- ble, miraculously takes its departure jutt before a ball at Windsor Castle, or a ma' nificent soiree at Almacks." Was there not -a little bit of scandal connected with the illus- trious name of the inarebioneras, before she was called upon to mourn the death ofher husband." Oh yes ; just enough to gratify her dearest friends. No -posi- tive proofs'were discovered; you know there never are, unless the inj ured party applies for a divorce. You see the malicious, who are probably no purer themselves, like to turn over frailty, and hence it is generally better to hush, up any little foibles. Besides the exposure m4es the relations feel so uncomfortable.", Who was the gay Lothario?" It has never been deemed safe to mention his name, as royal blood flows in his veins." She is a magnificent-looking creature." Not twenty-five, yet, either. She classes you among her admirers," said Belthoven, as he, returned the graceful bow of the marchioness. "'How so? I have never spoken to her." But your eyes have expressed your admiration. Come, will you be presented 1" A negative response was upon his lips, when lie saw Katharine Montague pass, leaning upon the arm of the Younz Duke of Gilder- mier, and listening to his low voice, As if she was fascinated, by his words.'     241          EN GLISH SERFDOM "Certainly." The knot of gentlemen who surrounded the marchioness gave way, as the baron'e't and Lord Melville advanced. The formerexchanged salutations with the lady. Will you allow me to present to -             ticular your ladyship my par friend, Lord Melville 1" "Willingly," said the marchioness '9, frankly extending her hand, and su'fferinv it to remain a few moments within his own. I have long desired an introduction to the son of roy dearest friend." I thank your ladyship for such flattering words." And how is your mother Quite well. I thank you." Is she here to-ni'lit?" I saw her in yonder saloon a few moments ago Come; I am sure you will conduct me to tier. Bowing to the circle that yet surrounded her, the marchioness confidingly took Melville's arm. It was doubtless by the merest accident that she proceeded in the opposite direction to the one indicated by him as the spot where the Duchess of Sunderland was to be found. Tle pressure of lace, brocades, and diamonds increased, as they proceeded ; and the soft, warm, form of the lovely marchioness -rested against his own, as if she felt the mosttrusting cohfi- dence. in his willingness to protect her from a contact with any one else. Heard of your singular history while I was in Paris," she re- marked. ". Turning the heads of half the Parisian courtiers," he replied gayly. "Ah my lord, I have been unjustly accused," she observed, sadly.  Entering society for the purpose of. allayinar, the grief oc- casioned by the loss of an excellent husband, I 'could not avoid at- tention without positive rudeness. ThQse attentions were construed into admiration; for you know, Lord Melville, how the world is given to exaggeration."            I Her voice was low and!musical ; her fragrant breath played upon his cheek, and the bust of dazzling whiteness wais temptingly re- vealed, as she bent towards him, so that her words could not be heard by others. ", Your ladyship speaks truly," said Melville. "Amid all my engagements," she continued, flatteringly return- ing to his early history, "I was absorbed by the account of vour hard fa:te, prior to the discovery of your birth." And yet it was no worse than what thousands of our Peasantry are constantly suffering." "Alas! your words are too true. I have always mourned over the melancholy condition of the laboring crassest" Her voice trembled as she spoke,. Can this be acting, thought Melville. I am delighted to breathe the fresh air. Those rooms are so crowded. How balmy is the atmosphere. It seems like spring."   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             243 They walked to the further end of the balcony, and the Marebion- ess seated herself upon the steps leading to the Conservatoire. The music floated upon the night air with soothing sweetness. The mild rays of the moon lit up the fair complexion of the lady, as half reclining, she assumed a posture calculated to jnake an im- pression upon the young and inexperienced-though of this she seemed to be unconscio'us--as it was only in their prese-n6e that she ventured to indulge in graceful abandonment. It is a dangerous. path you have to tread, and one calculated to test the experience of a gentleman so young and confiding, 17 ob- served the Marchioness, as her lustrous eyes met his own. wily so Young, titled, rich, and-a:nd-ma I add-without transcend- y ing the modesty of my sex-gifted with a person and an address that will make an impression upon the female heart. Can you ask me 6 why so?"' Voices in low conversation fell upon the ear of Lord Melville, and -turning his glance upward to the casement which overlooked the balcony, he met the riveted glance of Katharine Montague. When she observed that-bis eyes were fixed upon her, she turned away, and with her companion, the Duke of Gildermie      eeded to the more thronged saloons. An hour later, Melvill      aun- tering through the rooms devoted to the fine arts. But fe'7--,qccu pied them, and he examined, at his leisure, the gems with i-":ich the walls of several apartments were ornamented. He had a- I d through all the rooms but one, and into this he now entered.' NTO other guest was there. His attention was arrested by a painting of the Madonna. Never had the lineaments of the mother of Christ been more 'exquisitely drawn u on canvas, He was ab- sorbed by the artist's skill, when lie heard a sigh. Turning his'r head he saw an alcove connected with the apartme t. He could not be mistaken ; it was the figure of Katharine Mo tague, -seated upon a sofa, with her eyes fixed, but with a vague look, upon a painting. He folded his arms and contemplated the maiden. She sighed again, and pressed her, forehead with her ungloved hand, and then rising, encountered the glance of the young 'nobleman. Lord Melville,?" she said, faintly. Yes, Lord! Melville," he replied with intense scorn. Do you come here to insult me?" she exclaimed, raising her form to its full height. "I was ignorant of your presence in that alcove. I supposed you were more agreeably occupied with his Grace, the Duke of Gil dermier. Her eyes were fixed sorrowfully upon him," "Lord Melville; nay, Ch?-Istie Kane, how have you altered since the hour you p6r- iled your life to rescue me from death! Why, ph why, have you -so strangely changed?" said the maiden passionately, as her grace- ful form inclined towards him. Dear Katharine-for dear you will ever be to me until this 'heart ceases to beat-from the moment I first beheld you, I have lived only in your presence. God only knows what I have suffered. I dared to hope-rash fool that I was-a peasant, upon whose brow     244          ENGLISH SERFDOM the Almighty had stamped his image-but -still a peasant; whose heart never throbbed but with honorable emotions-but a peasant still. I was riahtly served. I was ignominiously rejected." n-  Christie, you cannot, you must not say that," "Not no  o! she said eagerly. If your decision had been otherwise, I could have worked for you, suffered for you, died for you. How bright was the future!" he continued, sadly.  With what a halo of joy was every object gilded by hope. How I pTayed that your love might be won ; and when - ho e was utterly destroy ed, what ni' hts of sleepless agony I suffered. You had no. right, dear, dear Lady Katharine, to crush the feelings of one whose love for you bordered on idolatry-" The maiden could not restrain her tears, as she observed the seal of woe which was stamped upon every lineament of his working countenant-,e. I will explain all to him," she said vehemently.  Christie, dear Christie, I loved you then, and I love you still. Can I say more 6' Why, then, did you announce our separation forever?" he re- plied sternly. A union between 'as was then impossible. My father would have refused his consent-the prejudices of class wouldhave for- bidden it. But now -1) "Now it is too late!" replied Lord Melville, gloomily.  You refused the man ; you may not wed his title." "But surely you- understand the decrees of society." "I understand that Lord Melville is not as worthy of your love as was Christie Kane, and yet you rejected the latter, and'would ac- cept the former! ' What a deformed thief this 'fashion' is?No! Lady Katharine Montague, the dream is over. I have loved you passionately, madly. I shall do sh until my pulseless form finds its ]alit resting-place. There is nothing how to hope for-to live for-and a hearthroken man, I shall only find peace at the thresh- hold of the tomb. Farewell, Lady Katharine, we shall never meet again but as strangers." Lord Melville reached the door, and turned his head to obtain one last look of the maiden. She stood in the po4tion she occupied when he turned from her. Her hands clasped upon her bosom, her eyes eagerly watched his movements, and scalding tears cour ed each other down her cheeks. "Dear Katharine P' Pear Chr'stie!" 'And they were locked in each other's arras.   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             24t A CHAPTER XXIV. Afar from thee I the morning breaks, But morning brings no joy to me; Alas I my sylrl't only wakes To kDOw am afar froin thee."-BETRUNE. ROBERTKANIC felt like another being as the "Nancy Ann" glid- ed through the channel fleet, and bounded over the blue waves of the Atlantic Ocean. If the vessel was not " searched" before she landed in New York his escape-was certain. How he longed for the moment to arrive when 6is feet would press freedom's soil! and, beneath the stars and stripes, he could walk the earth the- slave of oppression no more! If he should again fall under the jurisdic- tion of'that power, from whose'grasp he fondly hoped he had for- ever escaped! "I kinder guess yer glad tew see them are pocket pieces of the queen grow smaller and smaller in the distance 1" said']$zekiel Belknap. "You say truly, my friend ; I never wish to see them again'!" "They wanted tew make yew serve a apprenticeship at that are bigness V'l Yes;. but, thank God! who made you my friend, I have est caped them." "Neow, dew, yeow know, the tarnal critters would jist as soon pick yeow up for a desarter as they'd eat a piece of roast-beef." But I never enlisted." Law! what do they keer about that? Diddent they enlist for yer? Why, the -greedy skunks say that an Englishman once, always an Englishman ;'and -that a -man -with a red head might as well expect it to turn black, as for a Britisher to expatriate him- self. They'll lie, tew, like Sam Hyde, about it." "But your constitution gives -me the privilege of acquiring the rights of a citizen by naturalization I cannot serve two masters." "The very question that's bound tew kick up the algredest r'um- pus some of these ere times ever yeow seed. When John Bull and Brother Jon'than makes up their minds tew claim the services of one critters yeow may expect some profiles to be spilled on both 'des, for the'il- hurt each other considerable ; but if the old gentle- man thinks we will flummax when we've made up our minds tew dew the clean thing by any of his cast-off folks, he'll bark-up the wrong tree any way you can fix it." But your government may not protect her adopted citizens 1" Ezekiel Belknap did not reply verbally for several minutes ; but     246          ENGLISH SERFDOM removing his tarpaulin from his head, he tendered it for Kane's ac. acceptance. Not content, however, with this response to what he regarded as'a monstrous proposition, he 'Said, "I calkerlate yeow don't intend lbat for a -sassy speech, dew yeow 1" "Of course not." "Wall, I spose so; but it's enough to raise the Ebeenezer of them as are not very gritty, any heow yeow can fix it  What give up a man arter we've presented on him a patent, a makin on him one of nater's noblemen 1 1 calkerlate yeow don't understand the feelings of the rael Simon Pare republican. Let Britannia ri!o our tempers a small smidgen, -and se6 if we'll cave in V' "Would you risk a war first?" Mr. Belknap placed his tarpaulin on one side of his head, changed his tobacco from his left to his right cheek, walked to the side of the "Nancy Ann," and squirted a quantity of juice into the sea that would have excited the indignation of William Moon, who was'so devoted to the weed, and s o excessively'econotnical, that he always swallowed the tobacco, juice and all." He then proceeded to roll up his sleeves, displaying thereby 'an arm of the most formidable proportions. Thar are them among us, Mr. Kane, who think we -shall spile for the want of a fight unless we have it soon. Why, there was, skersely a day -while ' Nance' - the familiar name of the ship - was lying in the harbor of New York that we- diddent see sich-. a mustering of soldiers in the streets." . was not aware that you had a large. standing army in the United States." Haven't! They wer citizen soldiers a goin out to praelyse, on thar own hook ; and I swan if their targets, diddent callers come in perfectly riddled. Some on em, tew, we're byes skersely in their teens. No, sir, we must have a fight soon, if we can find a reasoner' able excuse, or we shall spile." "Many citizen soldiers in New York city "Corner an our whole standing army. Yes, we're itching fur a fight 'With somebody; we don't keer whether it's with England, or Spain, or Mexico. If with the first, we shall relieve her of all further trouble about Canada. Them French Canadians don't hanker after the English government any way you can fix iL If we have to lick Spain, we shall annex Cuba; and if them Mexi- cans rile us agin, we shan't leave them a patch of airth large enough for a buryin-yard. We otter kept the hull country when weAuk 'it afore, by good rights." And no you have universal suffrage in the United States?" I spose it could hardly be called sich," replied the sailor, as he deposited 'a formidable piece of tobacco between. his teeth. Ii46 Dissivate V lie inquired, tendering the knife and plug to Robert Katic. No, I thank VOU." Not ben able'to indulge in such luxuries. Them tarnal skunks, I sposet, thought all the nice delicacies were intended for their own gazzles. Wall, I guess, it's a fine thing in- Ameriky, whar a man   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.             247 can chew as much tobacco as he wants tew, and squirt the amber all about the -sile of freedom! No, I can't say as how we have universal suffrage in Am'erica; for, yousee, the sla*es, bein no bettered than cattle, ain't allowed to vote - and the free niggers in the Empire State, bein human only to a partial extent, arn't suf- fered to vote neither, unless they have proved their humanity by scraping together two hundred and fifty dollars." "Does that qualify them 1" "It dooze. You see the niggers are a raggarnuffin set. It's doubtful whether they are entirely human beins, anyway you can fix it and they only prove themselves sich, b ' a haggling and a scraping , until they are enemost tucker6d out, in getting them two hundred and fifty dollars." "All the white'population are considered capable of self-govern- ment, I suppose 7" Mr. Belknap's' bosom heated with smothered indignation at the question, but pity for the ignorance of the other controlled his feelings. I can pardon sich questions in a furrenner, cause they ain't spo- sed to understand our system, Mr. Kane. But in America, we coulddent overlook in-su                I ,Its implied in such, interreaator'es, Dooze any American ever ask if Queen Victor 'ia abundantly fulfills the requirements of scripture, to multiply and replenish the earth I You mav jist as well inquire if free-born white inen are capable of self-government. Ax them that question, and see what they'll Bay. "It's a glorious system," said Kane, thoughtfully.  And I see no reason why it should not work well, if the representative obeys the will of his constituents. Tell me, Mr. Belknap, do your public officers never violate pledges given before election 1" The sailor removed his tarpaulin. "Why yoa see, Mr. Kane, 'there is'some skun'lis, that have the meanness tew set up fur theirsels, arter election is over. Their as perlite as a basket of chips while they are asking the people for their votes ; but, once elected, and the horse is another color. Now, there -is the president; be don't let on much during the con- test, when everybody else is a ripping and tearing the hull time 1k      ce is amazing' discreet, for he says jist nothing, calker- I ated to spile the exertions of his friends, and his own -chances. When he gits elected, he holds his head jist as high as ary king in all Christendom. He takes the executive bit atween his teeth, and goes it rough-sbod straight over democrats, whigs,'abolition- ists, secessionists, and the whole cobboodle, until the people git riled, and then they jerk him back upon his haunches in a little leas than no time. - They are amazing' good-natured, are the Americans, when they have their own way, but once get their dander up,- by a tryin'tew dew. as yer please, and they will yank yer up, stand- ing, in a brace of -shakes. Tain't no use tew try to ride them,- folks -booted -and spurred, no how you can fix itlip It ain't to be did. They think no more of leading an unrulypresident out of 'the -while house by the ears, and a kicking' on him all the way'down flennavl- vany Aieny, as &r as the De Pot, than they would of patching -i n4o     248          ENGLIS"SERYDOU a skunk, that Was a ciferin about a lien-roost. There was John Tyler, a good enough president-in fact, a fust-rate man----for he did enebeout rialit in a vetoeing, them bank bills ; for I guess'they deserved no better than to toe the mark, and the people woulddent a ,cared if he hadkicked them as try'd so pesky hard to force 'ern through. But because they thought they bad a right tew' call him a whig, they spose'd he was bound to approbate-the hull set of whig measures; that is, them as was whigmeasures, then. And when Captain Tyler wan't to be druv, and was bound to -set up furhis- self, they commenced abusing' on him, and a cussen on him, until arter awhile no one thought it was respectable to speak well of Captain. Tyler." But that was a case where principle was involved, Mr. Bel- knap," said Kane. - Not -a smidaen ; dew you spose the  would pass one of the measures they abused. Captain Tyler for vetoing ten years ago pressure so." Not a darned one on 'em. You see they raufied the passage of theuirneasures to save the country from ruin ; but the country escaped ruin without thiem, so now they ain't any use, no how you can fix it. 'I But the President must have a great many, difficulties to encounter." "He dooze: A pesky, sight on 'ern. His temper is continually riled by them office-seekers, who, with great patriotism, insist that their services are indispensable; thatthe wheels of government are bound to'grow rusty unless they grease them. Why the skunks are the most brazen-faced critters in- the unevarse. Tough, tew. And unfeelin'. They killed two presidents. rherns as the British, Injins, and Mexicans coulddent -hold a candle tew, the office-seekers cut right down, like grass afore the scythe of the young man whose Untimely fate is recorded as having transpyr'ed on Springfield moun- tain, when the pysen serpent bit him on the heel. The truth is, Mr. Kane, the profession of office7seeking is eneabeout the most skulduddery bisness on airth ; not halfso' respectable as IA life on the ocean 'ave."' Have you followed the sea from boyhood 1" asked Robert Kane. I "' Only a dozen years. Afore that, I made a small experiment. at in-door -service, in the city 'of Bosting. But it diddent suit my turn of mind, any how -you could fix. I They'axed me tew dew ever so many nasty things, which turned my free-born stomach. I went to 'service ; so I thought I would tucker it eout. But I coulddent dew it,'no how you could fix it. The hull thino', -went right straight agin my notions of equal rights and no moonopoly. The hull cansarn was a monopoly from A to gizzard. The best things went up sulairs, and skersely the least mos-sel. came down except- the bones. They done nothing, and we did everything, from rockinir the cradle to blacking boots. One day the cook said we wer tew haive about the finest turkey as ever gobbled. Thenews made a flustrification ; what could a got into 'em up stairs 1 The   AND AMERICAN SLAXERY.            2,49 turkey was put down tew roast, until it was done-was that turkey. But'we diskivered he was done,afore-! 'The fact was that gobbler had decreased so many days anterior tew the period when he was tew haive the honor of bein' gobbled by us, that a skunk wa-9 a nosegay compared tew his dead body. All our dancers was riz, and we were enemest up to the bilPn heat, when the chambermaid, an impertinent h ssey, (in love out of the house, tewJ came down, and told me to b ack my master's boots. That was the cap-sheaf. Yeou swingecat,' said 1, I I'll ha1v yeou to Understand that I'm a free-born native American citizen, and the servant of no man, except as a matter of courtesy at the end of a letter. And I'll have yeou tew understand, tew, that it was a darned mean trick tew send a dead gobbler here, who's been defunct, I'll bet my gizzard O11%, not a minit less than five days-and the weather warmish,at that I You had better shut up, Mr. Belknap,' said she, ' for I heard master say vou was the most impertinent servant he had.' Servant! I exclaimed. A free born native American citizen, a servant 41 Take them ar boots back- tew your master, and tell him I guess they'll spile afore Ezekiel Belknap blacks em. Master indeed  Servant, indeed I I jist walkedoT, and I've never bin ii - sarvice since. For a week the Nancy Ann encountered strong head winds. In- stead of abating, the storm increased in violenc-e. Robert Kane saw, from the anxious face of the captain, and the Serious, bearing of the crew, that danger was apprehended. He was told the ship had sprung a leak, that site must soon go down. They had but one serviceable boat, and that could not live in such, a sea. The hold7 began to fill with water; all hands were called to the Umps; it gained upon them  slowly in spite of their exertions.  he storm ,ibated, but it was impossible to close the aperture in the keel of the ship. ' Kane pressed his children to his heart. , Death stared them in the face. Rope was in the act of expiring when a joyful shout was heard at the masthead of the Nancy Ann. A ship had been signaled. She was bearing down towards them. She was an Encrfish merchantman. Even that was better than sudden death. A few hours of terrible suspense, and the passengers' and --crew were taken on board the "English Queen," bound from Liv- erpool to Quebec.  In an hour the Nanp - . y Ann" careened upon ,one side and went down.. There was a eomimny of British Grenadiers on boaT the "Eng- lish Queen." Kane4wasonce more within the g asp of his direst toes. He involuntarily trembled as each one of t em pamed him. It was horrible to stand in such dread of human beings, but ho could not help it. What was this power of England, that it hemmed him in dn every side, and from whose grasp it appeared almost impos- Bible to escape? He could ardly repress his feelings, so irritating were the bondman's -chains' t at 'encompassed his limbs. The commander the grenadiers frequently examined. the mauly figure 'of Robert Kand with a profmional eye; But he had no au- thority to steal him, and he was no aware that he had been in the -clutches of the Press-gang. 12 4 -:J     ENGLISH SERFDOM Favorable winds now wafted them rapidly towards Quebeec Hope again revived in the heart of the fugitive. If he could suc- ceed in reaching the open country beyond Montreal, lie might pass unobserved among the crowd of emigrants, to the United States. Ezekiel Belknap promised to accompany him through Canada, and to do all he could to assist him. Between the two men a strong affection had been awakened-in the heart of Kane by a sense of deep obligations to the sailor; and in that of the latter by a con- sciousness of having conferred them. Little Dolly, too, loved the sailor, and often sat upon his knee, watching his countenance, and listening to his yarns. "It's amazin strange, when these lords and ladies of your'n so pertiklerly interests theirsels abeout the southern niggers, that they don't shed a tear neow and then at the misfortinsof their own poor folks." ", 1 have often thought of that, Mr. Belknap. Perhaps they want to draw attention from our condition by riveting it upon the slaves." "I spose so. Not a bad idee nuther, for it's fust rate tew make people talk abeout our neighbors instead of oursels. I heered them say in Lundon that they are a goin to send over a special agint tew excite the abolitionists. It won't dew no good no heow yeou can fix it. They made Mr. Thompscn, M. P. exercise shankes' mare in Bosting a few years since, and that city ain't overly fond of sla- very nuther. Why can't them pesky critters mind their own biz- ness.. We don't stick our fingers in their roast beef. I'll be darned tew darnation if they hadn't better let us alone, or we'll pitch intew Ireland with a few thousand short boys." "Short boys 1 what are they ." "A set of scamps, who don't know when they're whipped. It will be a doin the community a sarvace to git them killed off. We are a spilin for an opportunity to make use on em, and if Great Britain don't keep her eyes skinned, we'll giv her such a lambastin as she never had. The hypocritical old sinner! She opposes ev- erything-but her own interests. She's a preaching all the hull time agin slavery, when her own subjects are any number of times wuss off than our niggers. She kicks up a rumpus every time we take a slice of territory from our neighbors, jist tew straighten out our legs on, while she is a rollin over and a turnin over herself, un- til she's got the better part of Ashee. Don't she boast that the sun never sets upon her possessions? and that the tap of her drums follows the light of day. as the sun. crosses each degree of longi- tude I Arter a while she'll exhaust our patience, and then look out for squalls." The "English Queen," beat up the St. Lawrence, and at length anchored beneath the frowning walls of Quebec. There the crew of the "Nancy Ann" separated, and Kane, after expressing his gratitude to Captain Smith, started with his children and Ezekiel Belknap for Montreal, thankful for his safe exit from the "Gibral- tar of America." Crossing the St. Lawrence at Montreal, they -commenced their journey on foot for the Canada line, bearing the children in sacks upon their shoulders. Here again they were   AND AMERICAN SLAVEAY.           Sol doomed to disappoiin*ent and delay. Frank Tot took a violent cold: and they were forced to remain for several weeks in the French country, until his recovery. The sailor would not desert his friends, and after a long delay, they again started together for the United States. Robert Kane's hopes beat high as each league of Canadian territory was traversed. The sailor enlivened the way with anecdotes of land and sea. "Yer can't tell heow tender the home governments of her Can. ada subjects. They touch them as gently as if they were wax figures. The French tuk it inter their heads a-few years ago, to set up fur themselves. But the English population stuck to the hum government, and the rebellion was crushed, Arterwards, the hum government thought they'd conciliate the French, and so they refunded the money lost by the rebels in a quarrel they had pro- voked themselves. The English and American tories were awfully riled; and they fell tew cussin and a swearin, and neow they would jump at the chance of annexation. So would the French tew, for that matter, and the Queen knows it, and hence her gracious and affable treatment of them. You see the example of Brother Jon- athan is sposed to have a wonderful effect on them Canadians. But I calkerlate if-" "My God! we are lost," exclaimed Kane. "What on airth is the matter ." "My evil genius," replied Kane, pointing at the slight figure and fiendish countenance of Riley. "Fool, to think, you could escape me!" exclaimed the mis- creant, shaking his clenched hand at Kane. Placing Frank Tot in the arms of the sailor, Robert sprang towards Riley. Leaping - over the fence, the latter disappeared in the grove of dark timber which fringed the road. In a few minutes Kane returned from the pursuit pale and agitated. "Wall, may I flummux tetotally in the face of an inemy, if I un- derstand what this all means," said Ezekiel Belknap. "I will tell you. That villain is my irreconcilable enemy. iHe  was impressed at the same time I was, and has made his escape or been placed upon my track,. In either case he will compass hea- ven and earth to ensure my Capture." "Whew! Wall, we musent let the grass grow under our feet now, any way you can fix it. There is a custom-house officer and a sheriff in the next village who would jist as soon lay their paws on yeow, as if yeow were smuggled goods, or personal property not exempt from execution sale. We mast tek tew the  o-ods. Here, follow me on this are hard-pan for awhile,v sayingwhich, the sailor stepped upon that portion of the road where the clay had been trodden to almost the consistency of a rock. They proceeded in this. way until they came to a bend in the road.         - "Neow let us divarge upon them are rocks. Tuther side of . them woods is another road leading to the Varmount line. Unless he gets the sheriff to raise a posse come-it-at-us. as the lawyers  , say, it'll be hard if we can't escape. I wouldn't be at all surprised if he should dew it, for the darnied skunk teks purticular pleasure in a showin his zeal for the queen since his appointment."     ENGLISH SERFDOM As the sun approached the western horizon, they arrived upon the bank of a river, the outlet of Lake Mempfiremagog. Hore we will camp for the night," said the sailor. WbereMr. Belknap, I don't see any house?" said Dolly. I spose you will jir3t exactly think arter a while, my little dar- )ing, that Illfix yeou eneabeout the nicest place tew sleep in ever yeou seed." In the dark woods I Won't the bears come and eat up you, and -me, and pa, and Frank Tot?" "I rather guess not. Ketch them putting their noses again them pistilis and this are knife." - Saying- which, Ezekiel Belknap took a formidable'brace of pis- tols and a long, dangerous-looking knife, from his bosom.  The sailor verified his word. He drove two poles into the earth, and placing a cross piece in the forks, and two more extending Rantingly from that to the ground, -proceeded to attach poles to the rafters thus constituted. These he covered with sprucehemlock, and cedar boughs to a sufficient depth to shed rain.. Then making a thick bed out of hemlock bows, he declared the tent fit for a princess. "It's a fortunit circumstance that I laid in plenty of provender this morning, as we should have found it cold.- comfort bein here without a mossel to eat. Bread, cheese, butter, salt, cold ham-1 guess it will dew ",Never fea but we shall find it a feast. Mwny is the time I have, had food not half so good to eat." I B ut this is not all. - We'll help ourselves to some of her Majes- ty's fish." I don't see any," said Do] 'ly. Jist come down to the bank and I'll show yeou." The air was balmy for it was now the month of June. The light of, day softly Wed away, leaving an unclouded 6k . A gentle breeze agitated the foliage and signed through the leaves of a tall e which erected its towering form upon the bank of the strearn. e air was laden with forest odors, the sweetest of all perfumes. Here and there a twinkling star, no longer rivalled by the'sun, sent its rays of light into the forest, where they peeped through the, trees or danced in the stream. Arranging his hook and line and attaching them to a long pole which he cut from a thicket of larches, the sailor walked out upon a moss,-covered log that spanned the river. It was at the foot of the ra   and the mater there formed an eddy. Into that he cast his 1i   he hook bad scarcely descended a foot beneath;the surface of the stream when the line 'was straightened. The rod bent in the hand of the sailor as he raised it, the water was agitated for a. few moments, and then a larg6 trout dangled in the air. They returned ,to the camp in half an hour with a plentiful supply of fish. A fire was -kindled in front of the camp, and upon the coals Ezekiel Belknap broiled his trout. Dolly watched Ahe sparks as they soared upward, a'nd tried how many, she could count before tfiey went out. Some - were lost.   A15D AMERICAN SLAVERY.            to$ among the tree tops, and she wondered if they helped to make up the " starry host" that now gathered in the sky. Frank Tot sat upon his father's knee -with his round black eyes fixed upon the sailor as he broiled the fish. After he had eaten his supper he looked at the light and at the darkness -as he nestled in Robert Kane's bosom, and wondered himself to slee They 411 laid their wear 'limbs upon the grateful d at an earl y                   y hour. After breakfast the next morning they started on their journey again, and soon emerged from the intricacies of the forest into the road. "Yonder is the outlet of Magog Lake. And see, the Mountain Maid is aboutistarting. If we can get on that are craft we shall be in Varmount in less than two h6urs." Heaven grant that we may," said Robert Kane, as his glance ranged along the shore of the beautiful sheet of water. I'll be darned tew damnation if that are pesky critter ain't after us with a sharp stick." Where?" 'Inquired Kane, anxiously. In other road. Don'tjou see him and the sheriff with a pos- sey?" "All is lost; I knew I should never reach a land of liberty. Accursed government, how am I followed by your vengeance, and for what?" "Never give it up -so. Time enough to cave in when the sheriff has hold of you."                        19 Well, then, what is to be done-?-return upon our footsteps? Never. Ezekiel Belknap don't craw fish arter thaf sort, no way you can fix it. I calkerlate we can reach that are boat afore the "posse-come-it-at-us.` They -are mounted while we are on foot." But they've got twice as far tew go as us. So come on. They ran with all speed towards the dock where the Mountain Maid was trembling with the respiration of her steam. Their flight was witnessed by Riley and his party, who urged their horses to their utmost speed. The fugitives were in the centre of the little village which surrounds the outlet; the sheriff and his band were upon its borders. The steamboat was in the act of leaving the wharf.. Xt this critical moment Kane stumbleA and fell. In the effort to save Frank Tot from injury-, hewrenefied his arm vio- lently. The sailor did not pause in his flight, but'leaping upon the boat, he addressed a few earnest words to tire captain, and, leaving Dolly in his charge, bounded upon the shore again. The,.Ampe of Katie now seemed hopeless. He ran since his'fall 'with' speed, than before, while the horsemen -were dashing rapidly the village. The sailor was by his side. Give me the boy. . Neow, if you place any valley upon liberty, buckle to it!" The savage laugh of Riley was heard. It gave Kine fresh Strength. He bounded forward ; and is the steam-boat was leave ing the dock, both Katie and the sailor leaped on board. Stop the boat! stop the boat P', shouted the sheriff.  I com- 'in &svusas uama." The au was ftmh,& you-                        -14107     ENGLISH SERFDOM but the Mountain Maid moved rapidly from the shore. They were free! It w'as a lovely morning; not a cloud could he see'n along the vast expanse of azure; not a breath of air ruffled the glossy bosom of the beautiful lake ; for a beautiful lake it is, the* enchant- ing Memphremagog! Poets ha've written of Loch Lomond and of Como, but no lovelier expanse of water can be seen on the surface of this earth than the romantic and beautiful Memphremagog'. '49 The Mountain Maid stopped a few moments at the base of the Owl's Head," whose frowning summit is now often visited. by the tourist. As the boat was passing an island in the middle of the lake, Ezekiel Belknap said, Neow, Mr. Kane, dew yeow see any particular difference be- tween the tew ends of that are island "No; except some few inequalities-" "One looks as fair as Vother, don't it?" "Precisely.," "Wall, one end i's in her majesty's province, and Vother is in the state of Vermont." Kane was speechless. "Yes, yeow ardin Canada neow. Neow, yeow are in Ver- mont. Your hand ; welcome-welcome tew the Land of the free and the home of the brave.' Robert Kane fell upon his knees, and, with uplifted eyes, returned thanks to Heaven for his escape. The farms upon the shore of the lake presented a lovelier appear- ance ; the rays of the sun shone more brightly : and the mountain summits were shaded with a softer and more dream-like atmosphere than he had ever seen before. As the boat landed' at the dock in Newport, he sprang upon the shore, and pressed his lips upon the soil of freedom. I'ThankHoaven weareatlastfree! Onehalfmydearfarnily have'been murdered by the bloody laws and government of Eng- land,.yet I am thankful that two dear children are spared to me. Happy-country! henceforth you shall be my home ;. and, protected by your constitution, I will try and win that peace which was denied me in my own land. 7 7   AND AMERICAN SLAVERY...           255 CHAPTER XXV. Flag of the free beat's hopp and home I By anirel hands to valor given: The stars have lit the welkin dome, And all thy hues were born in heaven. Forever float that standard sheet! Where breathes the foe but fallia before us, With Freedom's soil beneath our feet And Freedom's banner streaming er us." Dn,&zcz. Sixyears have, elapsed since the events occurred which were narrated in the last chapter. In a comfortable dwelling, situated on the border of a prairie, sheltered by a grove, and overlooking Michigan, the most lovely of the western lakes, sat two children, one ten and the other seven years of age. The oldest had appa- rently been reading the Bible, for it still lay open on her lap. An expression of happiness was visible upon her features, while the boy looked thoughtful and troubled. I have read these commandments so often to you Frank,. that' you ought to know them by heart." "I do," he replied, shortly. "Then why, my dear brother, don't you obey them?" "Cause other boys swear, and fight; and steal birds' eggs, and why shoulddent I 117 "Because it is wicked, Frank; and you have no right to act wickedly if all the boys in the United States should. Now, Frank, do you think father oves you V "Oh yes, that I do." "Is he kind to you "That he is." "Would ou do anything to offend him Not if was to die first.$$ Well, your heavenly father created you, he watches'qveryqh loves yon better,even, than your earthly father does, for he feet his own son, whom he loved better than  U -do me and father both, to die that you might be saved. Now, rank, when ,he- has done' so much for you, and is yet %watching over you, and keepl'ngyou u               - d from slickness and danger, do yo' think it isgenerous to offend an -grieve him "No, I'll be damned-Oh Doll' , I didn't mean to a  that." "11             y               to rank, I am afraid- you are a very thoughtless, W,  boys said Dolly, as a tear stole dowh her cheek., "Dolly, doo Dolly, don't say that. -1% thougtlww, WWI -xinvt     gll ENGLISH SELRFDOM wicked, for I love everybody-except-exreept Jim. Lee, who licked ne last week;. I ci'n't love him until I lick him back, and then I "'But you don't'love everything, Frank, for you rob birds' nests." Do you think that is wrong, Dolly 1" "Certainly it is; and it is very sinful to throw stonesitt frogs, as Fou were doing, last spring. You have no 'right to make dumb things suffer unnecessarily. They- were created by God, as well is ourselves, and are entitled to protection --against cruelty. It is just as sinful, Frankr, to torture a dumb beast, as it is a human be- ing, and I think, more so, because the flesh of both can feel pain, while one can proclaim its wrongs, aud the other cannot." "I won't hurt dumb animals a y more, Doliv, indeed I won't; Dn y if you'll just let me give Jim Lee one good 6iking, to pay off Ad scores.' "No, Frank, it is very sinful to fight and quarrel ; your heavenly Father will be offended with you, if you do so." "5 But you read in the bible the other day where he commanded the Israelites, I believe it was, to make war upon their'neighbors,' and kill and capture them, and burn their cities." t'That waij in the old testament, Frank."' "But izzent he an unchangeable God 1" "Yes." "Well, would he tell the Israelites, to do anything sinful in the DUil testament," Dolly was puzzled a moment, and then she said--  $6 I sup Ose he told them to punish his enemies because they were iso wicked, "They couldn't a been wickreder than Jim Lee, and I reckon God would like it if I should rout him and put him to the sword, just like the Israelites did." "Frank! Frank! how unhappy o make me,"' said Dolly, weep- I bittprly.  I have done al Icud to make you a good boy. ive prayed twenty times a day to God to give me knowledge; for, ran k, you have got no mother to watch over you. I feel such a weight here, when I think of my responsibility, for that was what the minister called it," and the little girl Pressed her hand upon her heart., "I fear I am but a poor weak child myself, for I can't make any impression on him. Would that poor dear mother had lived,") and she wept more biliterly. Don't or , pray don't cry, dear Dolly. I can't bear to see you. I will do any thing for you, if yon will only ' St not cry. There, that is 8agood girl. Now I am happy, for  won't vexe you any more. Ndw, Dohy, tell me more about MY Imother." Frank, she was the kindest and most affectionate mother ever wtas; and she was so fond afyo  She petted you morning, noon, and night. And poor dea neny  She loved him so ell,-too: and me, too. We were al  er faorites." Y ou never told me what made her die, Dolly." (rBecause I can never bear to think of it,"' said the child, woipin her eves with her aprbCI -]6d# - dQtQ maa- oa'w, UW f LDUy  I SW WwtoObK.   A-ND AMBRIC,&Np SLAVARTy. W Smith a powerful effort, and wih a voice broken with aobs, Dolly  said                             y     Wr'7e were all turned into the Street one cold night, and mother  1 `frGze6 to death's F'or some moments Frank tried to think whether he underto her.                           ato Yes."         O ethi  idyu Sayfroze to death, Dolly 2" (1Was she so cold that her hands, and feet, and armal and face, were hard-har'ad as ice? Don't say that for pity sake i"he said,. Y( esl Frank, it is true," said the weeping girl. IWho turned her into the street?1" h e inquired, as he doubled up his hand. "The landlord." t. And did the government let him do so?" es,e9  and a great many worse thihggs than that." "Where was my rather,. then ql" IleH had been knocked down, and taken on board a 'hip, to fight for the government that 'suffered his wife to die sin the Frank paused a fehi mornents, and then he said, as if his mind was unalterabl,y made up-- Dolly, I hate thk government of England worse thn, I do Jim Lee, and if I can Lret an opportunity, I will fight the British to the last moqienlt of mi life--that I will." It is thus that England makes i  fcoclable foes," said Roberi Klanet pointinff to the form, of his son. "And it is 1hus that Arneriky knows how tew reward good citi- ,tens, replied Ezekriel Belknap. H ow so, my worthy friend Vy it ou'e benelected a member of the legislature, by a large majority. I calkerlate that would go agin the -grain of them bug- edrs who, thoughtlgh you wa'nt good enough to black their boots, in the "I am grateful to my fellow citizens for their partiality, and I 3pe iny acts will not disappoint them." It would be difficult to dew so, for your principles were well iown afore the election. NYI stars and garters! What a change Ls come over yeou since I .fust kneouwed yeou, Robert ;Kane. hen yeou were a poor fugi ti ve, a tryin' to escape from persecution - 1w, the owner of a fine tharm, a comfortable house, and a member r Ict tew the legislature. Darn it, heouw much Wetter off you are But what l[ -have you shall always, enjY  Eeil    u o ichinebedto you ever to be un grate I., You have now been re a year, and you are -happyr, ain't you?" Very. Ony sometimes I   loiw or the seaagin.  I shoutedspile Dgether if it-wan't for this lakei, which kinder satisfies the rcra- s of*te spiit,"a Parson Remsen says., And when I see yoa well tew dew in the world, I'm contenrti"'sayhr ahl Cr                ow stay here awhflo-    *-.     tld EEENGISH 'SERFDOMZ I hope you may never leave me. , I have enough for all of us, and I don't know what Frank would do, if he did not have you to learn him how to sail his little ship." "Yonl mussent leave us, Mr. Belknap,"' said Frank  for I want you to learn me horw to be a sailor, so I can fight the British, wtlen there's anottler war. I want to revenge the death of my poor mother, aind the wrongs of my father." "How her loss weiah s upon us all. Hard fate!  Incurable injury  W V"th Mary and Henry, I should have nothing to wish for," said Kane, sadly. Wall neow that are is a figaer for a scare-crow, any way yeou can fix it,") said Ezekiel Belknap, pointing to a man wtlo was approachrina the house from the road. It was the figure orf a person still young, but so emaciated! His countenance was pate and haggard, and upon every lineament *as written suffering and disappointment. His dress was ragged and Altthy, and altogether lie verified the fidelity of Ezekiiel's com.- patrison. R6bert Kane courteously invited him to enter the house; but he had ndi sooner crossed its threshold, than Klane started back. His glance was rivetted upon the countenance of the stranger, while his features alternately assumed an expression of severity and compassion., LiLord Melville  Can it be possible that Lord Melville stands bjefore me?" 4.4 If it is, there must be a new paytent of nobility,"' Sala Ezekiel Belknap ;' for 1never seed sich a figger-as that anywhere but in a cornfield."t You see before you one who thonaht himself Lord Mrelville, but who wasrl not," replied the stranger, i' tolo -i' "And wtlo are you, then 1" 4 L Your brothers" Myy brothers And who was lie whom we all thought Christie fKane16 " LoLrd Melville.") Brother in misfortune, as well as by blood, you are welcome,"  said Robert Kane, as he embraced him. i'I do not deserve this kindness, replied Christie Kane, as lie wiped the tears from his eyes ; those tears, the first'he had shed since childhood. "Why not, my brother 7" "Have you forgotten 'my brutal conduct the night you were in the hands of the press-gang 1" Oh never think of that; it is all forgiven." But I: cannot forget it. I have tried, but it is ineffaJceably im. prpvissed upon my mind. I bavewandered over the' United States to find you, for I heard of your, escape. Miserably clad, often nearly starved, I wandered on in hopes of ineetingr you at last that I might have the privilege of asking your forgiveness before I died. And whenever my, heart failed me, and I was ready to despair, I -thouaht of youx bleeding face and stiffened form, and as I beheld   AND AMERMANN SLAVERY.46 them that night, and then I pressed onward onc  oe  n  o I have found you;             nee more. And nowl "Al!cn yu rrgive" All!everthin is foregriven, dear brother," said Robert, throw- in&. his arms around'him neeck. Then for the first time in i er ln ap-s  py, said Christie Kane, as he  sixyeas, ar haPPY  o app,. "Bt YU ar hugry, Christie, I am sure, for You, look so pale., "have eaten nothiing for Wwenty-four iiours, and I have walked since yesterday mornin ft ml,' IlM7; did vou not eat  Thereis not a house urithin fifty miles of thi laeta ahnr person could not have obta ined food." Illknwit  ut Icould not eat. J ascertained yesterday morn- ing that you resided here, and I thought of nothing but of seeing you." "Poor unclet"- said Dolly, as she ran to the kitchen, to tell the houseeeper to set the table instantly, for her uncle was vernl hun. with us n I your wanderings are over for you will always remain "This is indeed a, lovely-spot) and one calculated to make me forget what I have lost, if anything could,17 replied Christie Xane, "Your L"oss iscomparati v ely trifling, my dear brother," replied RobertKane. You have lost wealth, bit ,what is thalt ot ae to the healthful mind and frame of the man who co  , comparedth eternal decree, to earn hiis bread by the- sw-eat of his brow 2 YOU are removed from the circle where dissipation corrup sth ocn en and peace. 'heod:ht ouwhgin the sweet rest of cotltent. mentnd pace You have lost rank, but stiql there is within 'your grasp that inestimable jewel, in the presence 'f which pales the un- -substantial privileges of created rank-the 0aeto  oiiyuo which nature affixes Its seal and which, guarded by honors bearts the indestructible stamp of divine approbation." THE END. X   -     
         
      
   
