
    ----CITATION----
        Chamberlain, Charles.. The Servant-girl of the Period: the Greatest Plague of Life .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6009 wright2-0481
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE SERVANT-GIRL OF THE PERIOD
               THE GREATEST PLAGUE OF LIFE
               WHAT MR. AND MRS. HONEYDEW LEARNED OF HOUSEKEEPING
            
            BY CHARLES CHAMBERLAIN, JR.
            
            
               NEW YORK
               J. S. REDFIELD, PUBLISHER
                  
                     140 FULTON STREET
                  
               
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1872, by J. S. REDFIELD,
                  In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.
               EDWARD O. JENKINS, PRINTER AND STEREOTYPER, NO. 20 N. WILLIAM ST., N.
                  Y.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            A PROMINENT journalist once, in giving directions to a non-plussed reporter, briefly
               said, "Find one fact—or two—draw on your imagination for the rest, and make a good
               story."
            The reporter did so—and the account was a success, in a journalistic point of
               view.
            It is not pretended that the imagination has not been called upon for a part of the
               present volume; but that Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew, and dear Mamma, and the "ladies of
               the employment bureau," as a friend once heard the "help" of America styled by one of
               the "fraternity," are, to a certain extent
               tent, real characters, is a word of truthful information.
            To some, there may be a similarity of circumstance with personal experiences; to
               others, there may be exhibited a picture of what some one has suffered.
            Such as it is, the work is sent forth, clothed in such garments as seemed most
               becoming to its unpretending personality.
            
               C. C. Jr.
               NEW YORK, November, 1872.
            
         
         
            INTRODUCTORY.
            
               
                  
                     
                        "If I had servants true about me, that bear eyes
                        To see alike mine honor as their profits—
                        Their own particular thrifts—they would do that
                        Which should undo more doing."
                     
                  
                  
                     Winters Tale, i. 2.
               
            
            GOOD old Sam Johnson, who is more worthily correct in some of his definitions than
               either of the more pretending lexicographers, who comes closer to Shakespeare in his
               plain, undressed and fitting similes, gives, in the first edition of his dictionary,
               a few definitions—such as in 1755, printed in the craziest of crazy antique
               lettering, he gave to the thinking, writing, speaking world, from which to frame
               their plainest Anglo-Saxon.
            Dr. Johnson was not "up" in the modern improvements in accessories to the servants.
               No such word as laundress appears in any of the earlier editions of his work—it is so
                  nearly ly a modern invention that we must
               go to Webster for it; who defines the "institution" thus:
            
               "LAUNDRESS.—A washerwoman; a woman whose employment is to wash clothes.
            
            But good Dr. Johnson does find other words, and he defines them, in that same old
               book, as follows:
            
               COOK.—One whose profession is to dress and prepare victuals for the table.
               WAITING MAID,
               WAITING WOMAN,
               WAITING GENTLEWOMAN,
               An upper servant, who attends on a lady in her chamber.
               NURSE.—;A woman that has the care of another's child; a woman that has care of a
                  sick person; one who breeds, educates or protects; an old woman in contempt.
            
            If the definition of good old Dr. Johnson were exemplified in the character of the
               Servant-Girl of the Period, there would be grand reasons for congratulations; but the
               distinct classes into which servants are divided are so peculiar in their
               individuality that it is impossible to draw a comparison.
            They do not fraternize with each other. The Irish does not like the German, and the
               Ethiopian element does not stand in any direct relationship with either of the
               others. The latter class may be left out of the calculation in the consideration of
               the help upon which the housekeepers of America are dependent.
            The Cook of the Period is the most important of all the servants. When the wants of
               the inner man and the inner woman are to be ministered to, and when the plain duty is
               to "prepare victuals for the table," and nothing more, it becomes a necessity that
               the persons employed should be cooks by knowledge, and not by accident or prospective
               instruction, which they expect from the "misthress"—and which, unfortunately, the
               mistress is too often unable to give them.
            The tide of immigration brings to this country a class of people who hope to find in
               America a solace for the woes of their own land, and they bear with them the seeds of
               a presumptive arrogance which ripens as soon as exposed to the atmospheric influences
               of the new social climate into which they come.
            
            The Irish girl who, when asked why she came here, answered very quietly,
               and with the genuine national wit, which does not seem to be conscious of its own
               existence, "It wasn't for want, that I came here, sur—shure I had enough of that at
               home!" told the truth. They do not come here "for want"—mdash;they come
               to rule or ruin, in the households of the American ladies; and they generally manage
               to ruin.
            Plenty of food, however coarse, is what they desire; clothing is an outside matter,
               in more ways than in the wearing of it; and that the bed upon which they lie may be
               feathers instead of straw, is what they desire, in the way of comfort. They are used
               to few of the luxuries of life when at home, and they should not, therefore, be
               expected to know how to prepare them for others. Their pretension to the knowledge of
               cooking is a fault for which they are not responsible, and it is a serious reason for
               deprecation that, in the education of American women, the household duties are too
               often neglected.
            The "Intelligence Office"—an institution which has grown out of the necessity for
               servants, is like a double-edged knife—it cuts both ways—takes a fee from the servant
               who wants a place, and takes another from the mistress who desires the servant; and
               the same girl, after having hired out for a week, often obtains a week's wages after
               working a couple of days, and, being found inefficient, goes back again, seeking
               another situation from the same office, till her countenance becomes as familiar to
               the habitués of the establishment, not as a
               "household word," but as a household nuisance. She becomes more arrogant in her
               manner from the little knowledge of cooking which she may have obtained from her
               semi-occasional service, is not thankful for the beds in which she has been permitted
               to sleep, and contrives to pick up sufficient information to know how to broil a
               steak, or put together the simple ingredients for a rice pudding, and then starts out
               as a "cook."
            And so it is with all the rest; the "help" of the present day are living libels upon
               good old Dr. Johnson, and belie his just definitions in every act of their daily
               existence, not to say their daily service,
               for which they are paid the most exorbitant wages.
            A good friend of the author, who pulls with him in the harness during the hours of
               Editorial life, and who is himself a "housekeeper," tells his experience in his
               pleasant home. "Paul Peebles" is a good fellow—years of hard work in journalism have
               taught him to tell the truth—he does so, trippingly, and the liberty is taken of
               giving his pleasant letter, just as he sends it:
            
               
                  
                     
                        MY DEAR C——: Over "the walnuts and the wine," the other night, you were
                           good enough to confide to me your purpose of portraying the woes of
                           American housekeepers.
                        Do you know that you have undertaken a stupendous task?
                        To tell the story of all the woes that go to the making-up of our
                           domestic life, would be to rip off roofs with all the zeal and four times
                           the rapidity with which Asmodeus ever performed that "daring act." I have
                           n't the slightest doubt that you are equal to the emergency—for, upon my
                           life, I can't remember that you were ever fairly bowled over in any
                           effort you saw fit to make—but (mark my words!) you will find this
                           subject grow upon your hands until it reaches gigantic proportions. There
                           is positively no end to it. I do not clearly see how there ever can be an
                           end—unless, indeed, the ingenious device set afloat by
                              Punch many years ago should be reduced to an actual
                           fact by some inspired Yankee, skillful in the manipulation of automatic
                           machinery.
                        Ah! my dear old fellow!—if we could only wind ourselves up
                           in the morning and run down at nightfall—wind up the house, the furnace,
                           the cooking-range, the bed, the parlor, the nursery, children and all—set
                           them to clicking for a certain number of hours per diem, and stop the pendulum when we pleased—would there
                           be any need then of a more complete Millennium? I trow not.
                        But you can't wind up a serving-maid. She would not "stay" wound, even if
                           it were possible to wind her around your finger. No! it cannot be done!
                           We housekeepers are all
                           slaves—as much so as Wamba or Gurth were when they wore the collar of
                           Saxon Cedric.
                        What then?
                        Nothing!
                        But you have asked me to tell you the story of my experience, or a part
                           of it. Suppose I retort, like the Needy Knife-grinder—Story! God bless
                           you, I have none to tell! "Yet, in my case, such retort would not be apt
                           nor true; for was there ever yet forlorn and vexed householder who had
                           not a story which he could tell concerning that 
                              ——"wrong and outrage with which the earth is filled,"
                            wherever and whenever The Servant is in question?
                        Comfortably ensconced in my easy-chair, therefore, this inclement
                           November night, with slippered feet before a rousing fire, and a choice
                           selection from that box of Partagas, which you gave me, between my lips,
                           I keep my promise, and try to meet your requirement.
                        Let me see; it was, I think, some five years ago that Mrs. Peebles and I
                           took our first lessons in housekeeping and the science of domestic
                           economy. Our first servants were Irish; our next, Ethiopians; the third
                           set, Low (very low) Dutch; the fourth, High (uncommonly high) German; our
                           fifth, Swedes; our sixth, John Chinaman—and then we ran the gamut
                           backwards.
                        "A comprehensive scale, this!" you will say. So it is. But I shall spare
                           you all details, except those of the most harrowing and heart-rending
                           description. My eyes begin to fill, already, at the remembrance of past
                           woes. Will your lachrymal ducts distill tears in sympathy with mine?
                        To begin at the beginning:
                        Number one was an Irish person. She came to us highly recommended. As
                           with dog Tray, so with her; she was gentle, she was kind, and her like
                           you'd never, never find; at least, that was the meaning of the
                           commendatory epistle with the perusal of which she favored Mrs. P. We
                           tried her, and she tried us; and presently there was an end of all
                           experiments with the feminine
                           nine portion of that excitable race. If you will permit me, I'll drop the
                           veil over all the Bridgets, and go on to recall the memories of worse
                           experiences than the Irish maidens ever gave us.
                        Our second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth ventures having all resulted
                           in one single discovery—namely, that the biggest Intelligence
                              offices had been absurdly misnamed (their
                              air ducts not possessing the slightest atom of
                           intelligence,)—I advertised for a German woman and immediately received
                           visits from fifty vigorous, strong-armed females, the greater number of
                           whom spoke broken English. I picked out one who appeared to promise a
                           good deal—that is to say, as nearly as I could understand that she
                           promised anything. Her speech ran somewhat in this way during the three
                           days of her tarry with us:
                        "Haf you got no oder bots dan dese? Ich kann
                              nicht my dinner cook mit such bots! Der last place I vos in,
                           die laty paught me all der bots I vanted."
                        Mrs. Peebles did not clearly understand what it was that Gretchen
                           desired, but when, with the aid of Adler's "Lexikon," I succeeded in
                           enlightening her, she instantly cried out against what she was pleased to
                           term "the abominable impudence" of our maid servant.
                        "Why," said Mrs. P., "what does she mean?"
                        "I really don't know, my dear!" I replied.
                        "Why, Paul, our iron pots were all bought new last spring, and it can't
                           be possible they are all worn out!"
                        "Can't say, Mrs. P. Perhaps the young ladies whom you have been in the
                           habit of entertaining below stairs have worn them out.
                           Better go and see."
                        Mrs. Peebles took the hint, explored the kitchen closets, dived into the
                           cellar, and found her nice new iron pots stowed away in the
                           potato-bin—each with a big hole in the bottom.
                        I immediately went out and bought a new supply.
                        But this concession did not satisfy our German maiden. She had boundless
                              aspirations tions. She was a
                           person with "views." She was troubled by literary tendencies. The
                           pictorial publications selected by me at the news-stands for the
                           edification of my "partner," began to disappear, and were subsequently
                           recovered from among the pots and pans and skillets. Fragments of German
                           newspapers began to lie about the house; letters in German hieroglyphics
                           were handed in by the postman at brief intervals, and they were answered
                           only after my library desk had been despoiled of paper, pens, ink and
                           envelopes. Greasy smutches began to be unpleasantly manifest at the edges
                           of my book-shelves. And it was not long before a lovely little edition of
                           Zschokke, which I had brought home from Munich (to look at, for I could
                           n't read it), vanished so utterly, that to this day I have not set eyes
                           upon it.
                        I sent that girl away.
                        She was succeeded by a fellow-country woman, who spoke no word of English
                           under any circumstances whatever. She also departed, after a brief and
                           eminently unsatisfactory trial.
                        This sort of thing was not pleasant, of course. But what could we do?
                        I forgot to mention that when we gave up experimenting with the Irish
                           maidens, and fell back, so to speak, upon the steadier Germans, I found
                           that their places miscalled Intelligence Offices always involved me in
                           the payment of a fee exactly double that charged at the head-quarters of
                           the Irish. So, when our second German venture came to naught, I disbursed
                           another two-dollar bill, carried the amount to profit and loss, besought
                           the man in charge of the "Bureau" (that's what an Intelligence Office is
                           called in German) to send us a capable woman; and then waited.
                        We waited for three days before one came. During this interval I got up
                           very early in the morning, went down on my knees before the kitchen range
                           to make a fire, succeeded in raising a vast volume of smoke, found I
                           could n't make the fire burn, got myself laughed at by my wife, who said
                           she could beat me making fires, and became rapidly transformed into a
                           drawer of water and a carrier of coals. Snubbed, but calm, I delegated
                           all the hard work of the
                           household during those three days to Mrs. Peebles, who proved herself
                           equal to the emergency, as she always does; and I think, on reviewing the
                           situation after the lapse of a year, that my respect for that lady's
                           qualities then and there became fixed.
                        But relief came at last. That is to say, we thought it was a relief. But
                           it wasn't.
                        The new-comer looked like a lady. She was tidy, neatly dressed, composed
                           in manner, civil in speech, and her English was not bad.
                        The third day, she refused to go down-cellar to break up some
                           kindling-wood for my wife. My wife went to break it up for herself. I
                           came home just in the nick of time to call up my wife out of the damp
                           cellar, which was a place not at all suited to her bronchitis, and to
                           hear her story of the servant's refusal to do her bidding.
                        I was mad—I confess it. It was but the righteous wrath of an injured man,
                           whose wife had been compelled to do the menial office for which her
                           servant was paid at the rate of fourteen dollars monthly. Being mad, I
                           became peremptory, not to say, sharp. I went into the kitchen, taxed our
                           servant with her misconduct, and directed her to go at once to the cellar
                           and carry wood and coals up to my wife's room.
                        She refused, point-blank.
                        I continued mad.
                        "Do you refuse to obey my order?" I inquired.
                        "Yes, I do. I won't break up kindlings, and I won't carry coal
                           up-stairs."
                        "Very well—then leave the house."
                        "I won't."
                        This was a nice condition of things. But discipline above all else. I
                           gave the girl ten minutes to get out of the door.
                        Instead of getting out, she went off into a violent fit of hysterics,
                           tumbling down on the floor all in a heap, and shrieking dismally—greatly
                           to the discomfiture of Mrs. Peebles.
                        "My dear," said I, addressing that estimable lady, "will you be so good
                           as to bring me a wash-bowl full of water? This girl seems to require an
                           application to her head."
                        My wife brought the bowl of water.
                        I poised it.
                        
                        Maiden on the floor glanced venomously at me out of the corner of her
                           eye—rose with extreme rapidity—opened upon me with a torrent of abuse—and
                           left the premises within five minutes. Ever since that time I've kept a
                           large bowl of water handy. It was a grand discovery. There are some
                           creatures that don't like water.
                        But, bless me! my dear fellow, if I were to to go on unfolding to you the
                           long catalogue of similar accidents that the serving-maids bring upon
                           "virtuous Americans," I should have to ask for the whole space in your
                           book—and you want the most of that for yourself. Let me pass on to my
                           Swedish experience.
                        It was a queer occurrence, but it was true, that the first Swede we tried
                           was the counterpart of Christine Nilsson. My wife was just the least bit
                           in the world dubious about engaging her, having heard of cases of
                           susceptible husbands. But I convinced her that I was adamant—and so I am.
                           Don't laugh, you cynic!
                        The Swede proved to be a simple, quiet creature, whose "given" name was
                           utterly unpronounceable by any but Scandinavian tongues, but who gave us
                           an English name by which to call her, and I think my dear wife got on
                           better with her than with any of her predecessors. At least, I heard
                           fewer complaints, and when Mrs. P. came into my library evening after
                           evening looking cheerful, I concluded that some of the domestic storms
                           had finally been calmed. I still rest under that delusion. I hope that it
                           will not be dispelled by subsequent developments. I ask no questions, and
                           I am not troubled.
                        —Who was the man who uttered this aphorism? "After all, it is the best
                           wisdom to treat with absolute indifference or contempt a great deal that
                           happens in this world of misunderstandings." He could not have been a
                           housekeeper—or he must have been profoundly wise; patient, charitable,
                           even magnanimous. I know a dozen families whose existence is a daily
                           torture because they cannot regard either with indifference or contempt
                           the little nuisances that hive themselves within the four walls of the
                           dwelling-house. "Misunderstandings"—"quotha! Is it a misunderstanding when your paid servant
                           gives you daily insult? Is it misunderstanding when she uses your
                           choicest china, instead of the stone-ware, to entertain her "company" in
                           the kitchen? Certainly not. But there is a decided misunderstanding when
                           you require her to pay for the costly French-china platter which she has
                           carelessly shivered into fragments; and a great row instead of a
                           misunderstanding, when you forbid the visits of her lovers, who are
                           invariably her "cousins."
                        In point of fact, with very few exceptions, the housekeeper's lot in this
                           country is a hard one. It is a continual struggle—literally "one down,
                           and t' other come on!" No sooner are you rid of one nuisance than another
                           appears, and, so, I suppose, it will continue until our American idea of
                           equality is amended by the English method. Abroad, you can get civil
                           service; here, you pay three times the price demanded by English, French
                           or German cooks or waiters in their own countries, and get——what?
                           Impertinence, dishonesty, and the privilege of doing your own work
                           yourself in the interregnum between successive dynasties. That is what
                           you get by being a "man of family" in this Great Republic—and quite as
                           large a share of it as he desires has already been visited upon
                        
                           Your crony,
                           PAUL PEEBLES.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            My friend Peebles tells his experience truthfully; and he sends just a few lines
               more—perhaps intended as a postscript to his letter—in which he gives the benefit of
               his researches into the character and characteristics of the Scandinavian element of
               servant-girlism, as follows:
            
               
                  
                     
                        MY DEAR C——: Thinking over the letter I sent you last week, it has
                           occurred to me that there is one phase of the Servant question to which I
                           have made no reference.
                        Do you know that the Scandinavian element—just now increasing largely in
                           this country—is remarkable for one mental peculiarity?
                        The Swede, the Norwegian, and the Dane speedily become homesick.
                        
                        My wife has just told me of a curious revelation once made to her by a
                           serious young Swede, to the effect that when she couldn't get her money
                           from her employer, she went out and threw herself under a tree, and
                           nearly cried her eyes out. It was a foolish act, perhaps, but natural.
                           When a person is four thousand miles away from home, and can't get his or
                           her money for service faithfully performed, it is enough to make anybody
                           cry—or swear. I never swear myself, considering profanity an immoral
                           practice. But I think I should cry.
                        The weeping Swede who reposed this confidence in Mrs. P. went on to tell
                           the story of her life in and out of Sweden. The upshot of it was, that
                           all the Swedes hate to leave their stony and sterile homes, and only come
                           here because they can make money more rapidly among us. But they never
                           settle down into a comfortable life until they get all their family and
                           friends around them. Then they cheer up, and are pleasant, sunny folk.
                           The greater number of them, being Lutherans, find their highest enjoyment
                           in going to the churches in which the services are conducted in their own
                           tongue—not particularly for love of Gospel truth, but chiefly because it
                           is the Scandinavian habit to gossip "after meeting." Give the Swede his
                           family, his church, and his dish of gossip, and he will be happy as a bee
                           among the flowers. Deprive him of one of these and he goes about your
                           house with the air of a dismal Jemmy.
                        Conceding, therefore, that the Swedes are multiplying among us—the Census
                           says so, and therefore it must be true—let the fact be known that if we
                           desire to encourage the immigration of a thrifty and excellent people, we
                           must either help them to bring over all their friends, or be prepared to
                           witness endless cataracts of tears.
                        The subject becomes mournful; let us drop it.
                        
                           Your PEEBLES.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            So much for my friend Paul. He leaves the subject of the Servant-Girl of the Period
               at once to the author, and gives a send-off in his letters which points a moral and
               adorns this particular story, at its very beginning, with the lessons to be drawn from his experience.
            The question of just what we should expect our servants to do, is one which not even
               the best of housekeepers could be supposed to solve; what we should have a right to
               expect of them is quite a different matter. Whether it be in the City, where changes
               of servants may be kaleidoscopic, and the opportunities are offered by the hundred,
               or whether it be at the seaside, in a pretty cottage such as Mr. and Mrs. Harry
               Honeydew found at Long Branch, the annoyances to which the housekeepers are subjected
               are too great in number either to be classified or enumerated. The men and women of
               America are the victims of the caprice or the ignorance of those whom they employ to
               do their household work, and the experiences of the Honeydews may not be an
               exaggeration, when a parallel is fairly drawn with the records of other
               households.
            That there are faults in household management is far too easy of discernment to admit
               of a contradiction; the errors are the errors of the present time, and the contrast
               between the honest life-love weddings of years past, and the tinsel-weddings of the
               present day shows the partial reason for the trouble which exists.
            Time was, when people settled down in life, to fight its battles and to enjoy its
               pleasures, with a just estimate of its responsibilities, and with a quiet
               determination to be to each other what the solemnization of the marriage contract
               intended, and to erect for themselves at least one angel of the household, in the
               person of the wife, who should be all that God means the woman to be, when she places
               her love and her destiny in a husband's hands. There were generous-hearted, noble
               women in those days, as our good mothers show us, and as the lines of family
               portraits, with their unique costumes, tell us from the picture-cords. And there are
               just as good and generous-hearted women now, and there are many good wives of the
               present days of extravagance in life, who keep the white ribbons of their wedding
               cards untainted by falsehood, and the flowers of their wedding bouquets fresh in
               their matrimonial responsibilities and life.
            
            There is opportunity for the new-made wives to study the example of their good old
               grandmothers, and while the possession of the world's goods in abundance gives them
               every scope for enjoyment, and no fear of privation, they may weave a protecting web
               of honest livery about their new lives, by allowing the tinsel of their wedding days
               to wear off, refusing to carry its flimsy characteristics into their home life and
               habits, where they may be better fitted for the duties and responsibilities of their
               positions, and avoid one of the greatest plagues of life, in the inefficiency of
               servants, by learning the lesson of what they would be compelled—and should know
               how—to do, were there no servants to send distress into their households.
         
      
      
         
            The servant-girl of the period the greatest plague of life
            THE SERVANT-GIRL OF THE PERIOD.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               MRS. HONEYDEW MAKES A DISCOVERY.
               "DEAR?"
               "Well, darling?"
               Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew were inclined to be affectionate, one morning—and Mr. and
                  Mrs. Honeydew had a right to be affectionate, if they chose.
               'T was Sunday morning—and the lady and gentleman alluded to were comfortably
                  happy—comfortably happy because they did not want for anything, especially—and
                  happy, in the abstract, because they loved each other.
               Sunday morning, then, and at a New York hotel; time, eleven o'clock, just after
                  breakfast; Mrs. Honeydew in the daintiest of dainty slippers, and the nattiest of pretty morning-gowns;
                  Mr. Honeydew with a velvet smoking jacket, prettily trimmed, with very useless
                  pockets in either side, the whole garment the handiwork of Mrs. Honeydew, done at
                  odd times, all in secret, and a birthday present for her "darling husband"—a pair
                  of slippers, worked in golden beads and monogram on a groundwork of velvet—a good
                  cigar; in a well-colored meerschaum holder—the slippered feet upon a footstool,
                  the jacket (with a well-formed pair of shoulders inside, of course) resting upon
                  the back of a well-stuffed chair; and the Sunday papers, either for political,
                  social, or romantic reading.
               Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew had gone through the chrysalis changes of a fashionable
                  wedding—lots of cards—lots of presents—all the daylight shut out and all the
                  gas-light shut in at their afternoon reception. After the ceremony, a trip by way
                  of Albany, Rochester, Buffalo, Niagara, the Lake, St. Lawrence River, Lake
                  Champlain, Lake George, and the Hudson River to wind up with, at a cost to Mr.
                  Honeydew of —— dollars; and they had been three months in their comfortable
                  hotel-quarters at the cost of —— dollars per day for rooms and board, and the cost
                  of —— dollars for "extras."
               The indefinite question by Mrs. H., and the reply of Mr. H., in the monologues
                  which we have used for the opening of our initial chapter were apt, and
                  expressive—and so, Mr. Honeydew turned his not unhandsome face towards his
                  brown-eyed wife, and waited for the continuation of her idea—that is, if she had
                  one— and he did the lady the justice to suppose that she had.
               "I'm tired, dear," was all the answer.
               "Tired, darling? Tired of what?"
               "This hotel life—I want to go to housekeeping."
               Mr. Honeydew turned more than his face, this time, towards his pretty baby-wife.
                  The slippered feet came down from the ottoman, and he turned squarely around.
               He couldn't well imagine why she was tired; he wasn't. He had been
                  thoroughly well satisfied. The ice-water had been placed at his door by the
                  attentive and 
                     well-feed
                     well-fed
                  waiter er at eight o'clock—the
                  newspapers had been thrown over the transom, and had fallen beside his bed—but the
                  early morning companionship of Mrs. H., with her pure white face beside him, and
                  her wealth of brown hair lying in contrast upon the pillow, had proven a greater
                  attraction than the morning news. He had taken a second nap—had kissed her a most
                  affectionate of Sabbath-morning greetings—had leisurely dressed himself—had taken
                  a long time to shave—had arranged his well-cut moustache to look at its best
                  advantage—had taken a good breakfast—and was, as we have said, comfortable.
               Mrs. Honeydew looked marvelously pretty. She had thrown herself down upon the
                  lounge, in extenso—she was a full-length picture
                  of a lady who had just discovered a newly impending development of her married
                  life, and had arranged her general appearance to make the avowal to her husband,
                  just as it should be made; for a woman, to be effective in an appeal or in a
                  censure, should be pretty—and Mrs. Honeydew was even more than passably good
                  looking.
               She met the glance of Mr. Honeydew with a smile which had more anxiety in it than
                  she was probably aware.
               They had lived through their love life, so far, in complete accord with each
                  other. Mr. Honeydew had done all that he could do, or could be expected to do, to
                  make happy the life of the little lady with the brown hair, whom he had taken to
                  his heart as a household angel; but the angel had lately taken occasion to profit
                  by the visits of "dear Mamma," to obtain what "dear Mamma" maintained to be good
                  sound advice; and the lady just mentioned thought it no more than proper that the
                  angel taken to Mr. Honeydew's heart should have a more substantial place of
                  worldly residence than a suite of apartments, at —— dollars per week, in a nice
                  hotel.
               Mr. Honeydew was well to do—he had an actual interest in a broker's business—he
                  had a contingent interest in some "lots up town"—and as he could afford a home,
                  Mrs. H. had decided in her prettiest way, that he should provide for his household
                  angel.
               "Dear Mamma says, darling—" commenced the
                  lady, in a slightly tremulous accent, for it was the first real effort of her life
                  to devise or to carve out anything like a reality of what she was expected to do,
                  in her new relations—"dear Mamma says, that we should go to housekeeping. You
                  know, dear, now that we are married there may not—" here the lady blushed
                  becomingly—"there may not always be only two of us—and you know,
                  dear, that hotels are not pleasant."
               Mr. Honeydew smiled—he let fall the paper which he had just taken up, and the
                  little lady on the sofa took the smile for one of approval.
               He had nothing to say in contradiction. Whether the lady, or her mother, was
                  responsible for the suggestion, he adopted it, and merely nodded assent at what
                  might be an impending contingency.
               When the gentleman threw around and about, and turned over, in a moment's
                  consideration, just what the force of his wife's argument might be, he drew a
                  cloud-picture. He saw himself in his own house—neat, pretty, not extravagant, and
                  well appointed—he saw Mrs. Honeydew going about superintending things generally—as
                  of course she would be expected to do—and saw not two rooms, but several, in which
                  they could move. There was their charming bed-room, all fixed out in black walnut
                  and white marble—with a blue carpet (Mrs. H.'s favorite color); then there was the
                  dressing-room attached, with his pet shaving-stand in a prominent position and
                  good light, by a convenient window; there was his sweet little wife's pet bureau—a
                  new one, to be purchased—cheval-glass, drawers and everything complete; the
                  library, with all his bachelorhood accumulation of books and papers, and the
                  pictures; the dining-room, in walnut or oak, with nice high-backed chairs,
                  leather-cushioned and brass-nail-studded—in short, there was the whole house, just
                  as he would like to have it—and it should be his—not a vine and a fig tree, but
                  his own proper (hired) house—and they two were to live in it.
               After Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew had both breathed just a little more freely, and the
                  ice in the matter had been finally broken, there was a very satisfactory
                  matrimonial talk.
               
               There was at least one portion of a stock in household furniture to start on:
                  there were the wedding presents—kind friends, generous and thoughtful, had loaded
                  down the table in the present-room with all sorts of suggestive contributions.
                  There were several dozens of spoons—and there was a predominance of
                     ladles in the general assortment, very surprising in extent, and
                  very unavailable as to quantity.
               But they could be exchanged. Dear Mamma said so, and of course she was right; then
                  dear Mamma had some table and bed linen which her dear daughter could have—and
                  there were several articles of furniture (not elegant, but very precious from
                  their associations) which she would be glad to give them.
               And the dear, loving, delightful lady had saved them a deal of trouble in the
                  selection of a house; there was a pretty brownstone, English basement one in ——
                  street, convenient to the Park, from which the family —friends of one of Mamma's
                  old friends—had recently removed—and she had inquired all about the rent.
               In one of their daily excursions—which always ways ended in time for Mrs. Honeydew
                  to be at home for dinner—dear Mamma had taken her up to see the house—the refusal
                  had been obtained—and now the proposition was made —at the proper time most
                  certainly.
               Mr. Honeydew thought well of the general proposition: there was an hour of
                  delightful conversation—plans were made and unmade—the advertising columns of the
                     Herald were overhauled—the most eligible "wants" for a cook and
                  a waitress were marked for an examination—there were two kisses each upon the
                  happy prospective result, and Mr. Honeydew went out for a walk, sending a little
                  note, written by his wife, to the residence of her dear Mamma.
               The lady was happy when she wrote it, and it read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              —— HOTEL. Sunday Morning.
                              My Darling Mamma—
                           
                           Harry and I will take tea with you this evening. We want to talk over
                              the house matters. It is all arranged.
                           
                              Your loving daughter,
                              MARIAN.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II
               MRS. HONEYDEW'S TOUR OF EXPLORATION.
               WHAT a pleasant little tea-party it was in dear Mamma's cosy dining-room, that
                  Sunday evening! How pleasant the good lady was, and what a nice cigar had been
                  laid aside for Mr. Harry Honeydew, when they had adjourned to the library, and the
                  well-laid plans for their housekeeping were talked over!
               The minuteness of detail with which the fine points of the arrangement were taken
                  up was refreshing; and when the two started for their apartments at the —— Hotel,
                  Mrs. Honeydew was ready for an early departure next morning, in quest of the
                  necessary force of servants to run the new establishment successfully.
               And then, it was talked over when they were at home in their pretty rooms at ——
                  Hotel; and Mrs. Honeydew seemed to feel very jolly at the prospect, and Mr.
                  Honeydew began to count the limited number of his hotel breakfasts to come, and
                  wondered whereabouts in the New Home he should hang the pictures which now graced
                  the walls of his "private parlor," Room No. ——.
               
               One of the waiters at the Hotel was somewhat surprised at eight o'clock on the
                  Monday morning following the pleasant little tea-party at dear Mamma's. Mr.
                  Honeydew had company at breakfast; the little lady with the lustrous eyes and the
                  soft brown hair, who had become Mrs. Honeydew a few months before, came down to
                  her early breakfast with her hat and cloak on, and laid a pair of pretty,
                  light-colored kids, with dear little glove-fasteners mounted in ruby, alongside
                  her plate with an air of confidence which showed that she intended to go
                  somewhere—and "meant business."
               She had cut several sparkling advertisements from the paper, had put them in the
                  small pocket of her side-satchel, and was going ing out upon her trip of exploration; so she
                  finished her breakfast, put on the gloves, and walked out with Mr. Honeydew from
                  the "ladies' entrance."
               A pretty spring morning—so Mr. And Mrs. Honeydew struck off from the Avenue, and
                  together, they walked down town.
               It would have been more agreeable had the lady taken a carriage to make her
                  rounds; but she stopped in her walk, bade Mr. Honeydew an affectionate
                  street-corner farewell, and then examined the contents of the little
                  Russia-leather bag:
               
                  —EAST —D ST., THIRD FLOOR—A RESPECTABLE Protestant woman as cook in a
                     gentleman's family; understands all kinds of cooking, soups meats, game and
                     desserts; has lived in some of the best-families; reference from her last
                     place.
                  
                  EAST —TH ST.—TWO RESPECTABLE GIRLS; one as cook and to do the coarse washing
                     and ironing; the other as chambermaid and waitress; best city reference.
                  
                  —TH AV., CORNER OF —TH ST.—A NEAT tidy girl as cook, washer and ironer in a
                     small private family; is willing and obliging in her manners and is not afraid
                     to work; has the very best city reference. Apply for two days.
                  
                  WEST —TH ST., NEAR —TH AV.—A YOUNG woman as cook; would assist with washing and
                     ironing: best city reference.
                  
                  WEST —TH ST., BETWEEN —TH and —TH avs., up one flight of stairs, room 5.—A
                     respectable girl in a small private family; is an excellent cook and has no
                     objection to assist in the washing and ironing; four years' reference from her
                     last place.
               
               Here were five chances for innocent, unsophisticated Mrs. Honeydew to find just
                  what she wanted; so she stepped into a convenient drug-store, begged the favor of
                  a seat for a few moments, and repaid the favor of the seat by the purchase of a
                  new puff and a paper of Lubin's best toilet powder.
               The careful hands of Mr. Honeydew had sorted out the advertisements, leaving the
                  lady to take them in a progressive order, in consideration of the fact that it was
                  necessary to travel about by the most convenient and time-saving routes, so that
                  the would-be housekeeper saw an easy task before her.
               Certainly, in all the long list of females who were willing to serve as cooks, and
                  had no objection to assist at the washing and ironing, there were more than she
                  desired, and on the way to the first of the ladies' houses, in East —— Street,
                  third floor, Mrs. Honeydew turned over in her mind how nice it would be to have a
                  cook in the house who knew everything, and who could get up her dear husband's
                  dinners just as he would like to have them. Any candidate for the position who could answer all her questions would be a
                  jewel, and so she turned off from the Avenue into East —— Street, with her dainty
                  Polish boots coming down fairly and squarely upon the plebeian pavement, as though
                  the best favorite of court circles had deigned to lend her presence to a not
                  particularly aristocratic neighborhood.
               The confidence with which the little lady went eastward was no secondary
                  consideration in the beginning of her day's work. She was the happiest little
                  woman, with few actual but many prospective responsibilities, that could be
                  imagined.
               Many a time, and often, she had started out shopping; but the work of
                  servant-hunting was, as yet, a luxury; so she was bold in heart, confident and
                  expectant, as she began the search for No. — East —— Street, third floor, to seek
                  the Protestant lady who was willing to go as cook into a gentleman's family, and
                  who knew, according to her own statement, all that it was necessary to know—and
                  perhaps more—of all kinds of cooking.
               Now, Marian Honeydew was an enterprising ing little woman; she had correct ideas
                  in some things, and somewhat chimerical ones in others. But in the main, she was
                  right, and so she tripped along, "bound east," with a hearty will, and full
                  confidence in the result.
               Mrs. Honeydew had never been so far from the dividing line of the East and West
                  before, except to go to the ferries, and once to the launching of a steamer, to
                  which she went with Papa, on a very festive occasion; so she found herself in an
                  unfamiliar neighborhood; and in that neighborhood she felt herself to be
                  thoroughly adrift. There was not the orderly appearance and the cleanliness which
                  she had found in the narrow compass of the street where dear Mamma lived and
                  Madison Avenue; there were several carts in the street—carts without horses—and
                  the carts were standing before sundry dingy buildings and before sundry stable
                  doors; the tires upon the wheels of the carts were rusted and dirty, and boys were
                  playing hide and seek in and below the vehicles. The gamins of the East side looked and laughed at Mrs. Marian Honeydew,
                  but Mrs. Marian Honeydew dew did not take
                  time to laugh at them; she was studying the street numbers, and wondering how much
                  farther off the desired house might be, and just how far eastward the street might
                  extend.
               "You'se lookin' for some un, ma'am?" asked a chubby-faced lad, with a greasy cap
                  on his head, and a dirty rubber ball in his left hand. "Who d 'ye want over
                  'ere?"
               The lad was good-humored, and his face looked honest, so she laid her gloved hand
                  upon his shoulder as he looked inquiringly up at her, gathered her skirts a little
                  more carefully from the unswept pavement, and gave him a couple of five-cent
                  pieces for his politeness.
               Unfortunate coinage of the United States mint! No sooner had he received the
                  money, than his face was lighted up with a broad smile, and he looked, first at
                  her, and then at his dirty companions in their interrupted game of base-ball.
               "Look a-here, Johnny! See what this 'ere lady's give me; she wants to find some
                  one; come, you fellers, an' help her!"
               And the "fellers" alluded to came, promptly—four in number, and each evincing his
                  appreciation of what she had so kindly done for one of them by suggesting a
                  similar present, and offering valuable assistance in her search, either without,
                  or for a consideration.
               Meekly, she told her trouble, and with a generosity of character which will (some
                  day, perhaps) elevate that boy to a high municipal office on a Reform
                  ticket, the lad first addressing her told his companions to "take a back track an'
                  let the lady alone," and escorted her to the house she sought.
               No. — East —— Street was one of the features of the city—a tenement house,
                  equipped with a fire-escape, the front of the building ornamented with brown-stone
                  caps to the windows, and bearing somewhat the appearance of a well-built factory,
                  transformed into a dwelling. There was a wide "stoop," of seven or eight steps,
                  and a front door which would have borne a highly respectable tenement-house
                  aspect, only that the lower panels had been kicked clean of any varnish or paint
                  by the boot-toes of impatient urchins, and the No. — which had been put upon the center of it, in
                  the palmy days of the establishment, had been covered over with black paint by
                  some enterprising juvenile artist, and then circled with chalk by an assistant,
                  while above it was the dignified inscription, in crazy characters: 
                     HOSE O. 10. B. BULLY.
                  
               
               A frouzy-headed Irish woman stood leaning against the side of the partly open
                  door, and to her Marian Honeydew addressed her conversation—in a tremblingly
                  anxious tone. The Milesian lady took in at a single glance the errand and
                  disposition of the lady, answering her question almost before it had been
                  completed.
               "My name's Mulrooney—Ellen Mulrooney, ma'am—and the lady you're lookin' for has
                  jist gone across the sthreet!"
               In a mildly positive accent, Marian explained ed the object of her visit—that she
                  wanted a cook, the woman who had advertised that morning, in the paper—and she
                  noticed, in the meantime, that the eyes of the Mulrooney were directed across the
                  street, in a peculiarly unintelligible manner.
               "Ye want the lady who advertised, ma 'am? well, she ain't home, I tell ye!"
               "I can wait for her then, if you please—" suggested Mrs. Marian Honeydew, putting
                  on a bolder face, and resolved to go through the whole programme, submit to be
                  delayed and even questioned, by the frouzy-headed female, for the sake of the cook
                  who knew all about the game and desserts of which her dear Harry was so fond.
               There was a look, quizzical and half insulting, from the woman still leaning
                  against the door-post, and then a leer of satisfaction, as Mrs. Honeydew stood up
                  one step higher, almost beside her, with two children who had followed gaping up
                  at her from the pavement.
               "Well, ma-am—to tell ye the thruth, ye need n't wait—ye wont suit
                     her!"
               
               Marian turned from the indignant Ellen Mulrooney—'t was like a blow between her
                  pretty dark eyes, now flashing with ill-pent vexation, this sudden dismissal from
                  further enquiry, while a low, ringing laugh resounded from a two-story frame house
                  directly opposite.
               The applicant for the place had bargained with Ellen Mulrooney to inspect the
                  ladies who came in answer to the six line advertisement; telegraphic signals to
                  her accomplice had conveyed the news that she was "not at home," and Ellen
                  Mulrooney had conveyed that meaning, as she closed the door and left our anxious
                  servant-seeker standing on the steps.
               Marian could have cried—but she did n't; all the "decision of character," as dear
                  Mamma was pleased to call it, which came to her by inheritance of disposition from
                  her respected maternal, came to her aid, as she coolly stood upon the stone steps,
                  and referred to the advertisements which Harry had so nicely arranged for her.
               A carriage, coming out from one of the adjacent stables, rolled past the door, and
                  the appearance of a well-dressed lady arrested the attention of the driver.
               He looked at Marian Honeydew—she looked at him; he stopped and drew up his
                  fractious horses at the curb-stone.
               "Are you engaged?" she asked.
               "No, Miss, not for an hour."
               "Then drive me to No. — Avenue, corner of West —— Street."
               She entered the open door of the coach without more ado, and while she was being
                  driven off to the West side of the town, reflected upon her first experience, and
                  kept on reflecting, till "Here you are, ma'am; shall I wait for you?" aroused
                  her.
               This time things had a better appearance. The house was a large one, evidently a
                  boarding-house, and she rang the bell with confidence.
               A tidy waitress answered the call, and she enquired of the girl whether a servant
                  had advertised from the establishment.
               A girl had advertised for a situation as cook, and Mrs. H. was shown
                  into the boarding-house parlor to await her coming.
               
               The "neat, tidy girl" soon made her appearance, and that neat appearance won the
                  heart of pretty little Mrs. Honeydew.
               The girl was the type of an Irish blonde—hair of an indefinite auburn, clear blue
                  eyes, rather a round face, but a generous one, and she did look neat
                  and tidy in her dress.
               "You advertised ——"
               "Yes, ma'am, for a place as a cook, an' I'm not afraid to work."
               The woman had evidently studied the advertisement, and proposed to comply with its
                  conditions at the very outset of the enquiries.
               "You can cook?"
               "Yes, ma'am, I can."
               "All kinds of dishes?"
               "Yes, ma'am, most all kinds. How large a family have ye?"
               "Myself and husband—"
               "Any children, ma'am, to wash for?"
               "Not yet," blushed Marian, the question was so suddenly sprung; "I am lately
                  married."
               "Have ye kept house before, ma'am?"
               "Yes, with my mother."
               "Does your mother live with you, ma'am?"
               Mrs. Honeydew could not quite see why question had been put, but she mildly
                  answered in the negative, to which the girl continued—the neat, tidy girl, who
                  wasn't afraid to work:
               "An' the wages, ma'am? I'll come for fourteen dollars a month, one evenin' an'
                  every other Sunday out."
               After several questions, and a detailed description of how her husband liked to
                  have his dishes cooked, and how she would not want her until the beginning of the
                  next week, and how she could have the Sunday out but not the "one evening," and to
                  which negation the girl consented, she agreed to to Mrs. Honeydew, and "knew she
                  would suit, if the lady would give her a fair thrial."
               So far, so good; and so, with the good news to be taken to dear Mamma at once, and
                  to Harry, when he came home to dinner, Marian felt that she had secured a servant,
                  just to suit, and ordered the driver to set her down at dear Mamma's.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               A PAIR OF FAMILY PORTRAITS.
               WITH ill-concealed impatience evinced in her action and words, our expectant
                  would-be housekeeper was set down by the coach-driver at the door of her mother's
                  house—a brown-stone front of commanding exterior, in a fashionable neighborhood.
                  She sprang up the steps of the wide portals with scarcely two bounds, and pulled
                  the bell with more decided impatience than one would have supposed the dainty
                  hands, encased in number five-and-three-quarters Jugla's best, could have been
                  guilty of. The bell rang furiously, and the girl who answered the summons flew to
                  the door with more speed than was her wont, even upon special occasions.
               With only a nod to the girl, Mrs. Honeydew sprang upstairs and into dear Mamma's
                  room, where there was an exhibition of portraits, one of them done in water
                  colors.
               At sight of the old lady, who sat composedly, we will not presume to say
                  indolently, in an easy chair, the little lady burst into tears, and sobbed rather
                  hysterically as she hide one half of her face in the dainty folds of her little 6
                  x 9 handkerchief; for, in all things, Marian had an eye to the pretty, and she
                  knew just how to handle a mouchoir
                  when weeping.
               Just here, a word or two of description as to Mamma may not be incorrect: she was
                  stout, a little above fifty in age, well-preserved, and with a countenance which
                  bore unmistakable evidence of what she was pleased to call her "strength of
                  character." At one time she had been good-looking, perhaps handsome, and she was,
                  barring a peculiar hardness of outline in her face, rather attractive than
                  repulsive.
               "Well, what is it now, Marian?" was her pertinent question, in one of her
                  "decided" tones, as her daughter threw herself upon sofa.
               
               "Matter enough, Mamma," replied Marian, in one of her decided tones;
                  "I've been hunting after a girl, and I've got one, at last."
               She told over to her mother all the varied experiences of the morning's work,
                  winding up the description with a graphic picture of the neat, tidy cook whom she
                  had engaged, stating wages, conditions, and what the new help was expected to
                  do.
               Dear Mamma smiled faintly; but there was a self-satisfaction in the glance which
                  spoke volumes, She was an effective mother-in-law, a not overly indulgent mother,
                  and she saw her golden opportunity.
               Of foreign birth, and well equipped for active service in her home campaigns by a
                  good temper of her own, she prided herself particularly upon her talent in the
                  regulating of other people's affairs. She was a tireless worker; that is, when her
                  own especial convenience, if not her own comfort, was immediately concerned. Of
                  foreign extraction—German—she had come over to this country at an early age, the
                  wife of a ship captain, who had marked her in one of the German ports, and brought
                  her over to his own home—brought her over to help him carve their own way in the
                  world, which she had done, working and saving, through years of slight comfort and
                  some necessities, till there were lucky turns in her husband's business affairs;
                  and then, with all the pride of which she was capable, they had branched out in a
                  fine establishment, with several grown-up daughters, one of whom she had married
                  successfully, and away from home; another of whom she had condescended to bestow
                  upon Mr. Harry Honeydew.
               It may have been that Marian found a pleasanter home with Harry Honeydew than she
                  did within the limits of dear Mamma's parental establishment, for the title to the
                  house was in that lady's name, and as she pretended to handle a certain income
                  from real-estate investments, she claimed the privilege of the dispensation of the
                  income as she saw fit.
               She had nicely planned out the way of life which the young people should lead. She
                  wanted Marian to go to housekeeping, and of course expected to maintain a certain
                     right of supervision over the internal
                  arrangements of the establishment which she had selected.
               And so, there were a pair of family portraits, that morning—one in delicate water
                  colors, and one in decided oil, with a good high tone to it; and, without being
                  altogether an illiterate rendering of the English, there was a German accent to
                  Mamma's language which sometimes rendered it forcible, without intention:
               "So you've got the girl, have you—and when is she to come?"
               "On Monday, I told her, if the house was ready by that time;" was the meek reply,
                  which to Marian seemed just what to say, and to her mother, not quite what she
                  should have answered.
               "Then we must close the thing up at once—what does Harry say?"
               "What should he say—have n't I told him that I wanted it—and should n't he do all
                  that I want him to, now that he is my husband?"
               Mrs. Honeydew brightened up a little—she felt the master's part of Mamma's nature
                  rising up in her, and there was an importance in the new situation which she felt
                  that she should appreciate.
               "True enough, my dear; but you know the work must not be too sudden; time enough
                  to do quite as you want in everything, when you are settled. I have been to the
                  agent's for you this morning, and the lease will be all ready this afternoon. Will
                  you go up to the house with me?"
               There was a sigh of relief from pretty little Mrs. Honeydew, as she arose from the
                  sofa, brushed her brown hair back from her face, bathed her eyes with diluted
                     eau de cologne, and took just a little brush
                  of the chamois powder-pad over her cheeks and chin; Mamma could always settle
                  things so nicely, and so quickly, and it was such a relief to
                  her.
               The visit to the new domicile being decided, upon, the two set off—this time in an
                  ordinary street car, and proceeded to inspect the new residence in which Harry
                  Honeydew and his song-bird were proposed to be caged.
               And it was a neat little box of a house, to be sure. It was nicely situated near
                  one of the best avenues, it had a good exposure in the rear, was just in the centre of a row of neat
                  little houses, and it was altogether a desirable investment, at the modest sum of
                  one hundred and fifty dollars per month, nicely furnished.
               True, some of the furniture was a little the worse for wear, and there was not
                  quite the assortment of A—I hair mattresses which one could desire; but it was
                  good enough to start with. Harry would of course purchase a piano, for, since they
                  had been boarding, Marian's music had been neglected; and there was a suite of
                  bed-room furniture to be obtained for Marian's room; and the dining-room would
                  look much better in oak and walnut than in the present equipments which were
                  placed in it; but all these could soon be obtained.
               There was a general inventory of the availables made—there were some very
                  appropriate whispered calculations as to the general effect of the improvements
                  suggested, some few calculations as to the probable cost—and Marian went home to
                  her room at —— Hotel, threw off her cloak and hat, and watched the hands upon the
                  Geneva clock, ticking away upon the mantel, confident that, when Harry Honeydew
                  came home to dinner, she had a nice little story to tell him of the day's work,
                  and what might come of it.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               MR. HONEYDEW DOES HIS DUTY.
               MR. HARRY HONEYDEW rode up town in a coupé—that
                  is, he "tossed up" a nickel at Delmonico's in Broad Street, won the toss, and so
                  rode up in the coupé at a friend's expense—as
                  many of the Wall street fellows do, by the way, either with or without the
                  "flipping up the currency."
               What the story was that his wife told him, though very—and properly—interesting to
                  the parties concerned, would be of little importance in detail in our volume;
                  neither would a description of the seductive matrimonial kisses with which Marian
                  took care to punctuate her sentences be quite appropriate. Sufficient is it to
                  know that the plan which dear Mamma had clearly devised, and with which she had
                  "stuffed" her daughter, in advance of Mr. Honeydew's arrival home to dinner, as a
                  pupil would have been "stuffed" for a school examination, was told over, with the
                  doubtful parts of the story in the most delicate parenthesis.
               Harry found his little wife just tired enough to be interesting; for any lady,
                  when fatigued, and pretty in her fatigue, who almost supplicates for sympathy,
                  with a pouting lip and a pair of pretty dark eyes, is morally and matrimonially
                  certain of securing that sympathy in a ready consent to her expressed or implied
                  wishes, if the party of whom she supplicates be her husband, and if the couple
                  should chance to have been lately married.
               And we have said that the lovemaking of Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew was not yet over,
                  and that Marian was decidedly pretty, and left the presumption that her husband
                  was a willing convert to the pleasant side of their proposed housekeeping
                  experiment.
               The aspect of their bedroom and parlor at the —— Hotel had changed since morning.
                  In contrast with what they were to have in the snug little English basement house,
                  (convenient to the Park,) the area in
                  which they were at present compelled to move seemed decidedly insignificant. What
                  were two windows, looking out on Broadway, when compared to the
                  several windows of the several stories in that particular house in which they
                  proposed to live and have their being! And what were the table-furniture and
                     cuisine of the —— Hotel to the display of
                  wedding-present silver on their own buffet in
                  their new home, and the breakfasts and dinners which their newly-engaged cook was
                  to prepare for them! Mrs. Honeydew had framed her domestic picture in so pretty a
                  setting that Harry was jubilant, and his wife contented at the prospect.
               This jubilation caused him some anxiety, to be sure. According to the inventory
                  which had been taken down, there were several important deficiencies to be
                  supplied in the appointments of the new house; the pots, kettles and pans needed a
                  general overhauling, and some additions; the iron utensils were pretty generally
                  worn out, and some of the tin-ware was in a dilapidated and unserviceable
                  condition—saucepans with very thin bottoms toms were not up to the
                  requirements of Marian's idea of what saucepans should be; and to her own
                  discretion and her daintily gloved hands were given the business of purchasing
                  what she needed in that line, and a general assortment of ordinary glass-ware,
                  together with the selection of such pieces of stone-ware or china as were
                  necessary to replace those which were fringed upon their edges or variegated in
                  appearance from stove-burns or cracks.
               Wall Street did not see the junior partner of Margin, Short & Honeydew, Stock
                  Brokers, until late in the afternoon of the next day.
               The kind friends of dear Mamma's friends, who were "going away into the country,"
                  very graciously permitted Mr. Honeydew to view his intended residence early in the
                  morning, and the lady of the establishment volunteered and gave him good advice in
                  the selection, while suggesting what might be needed, and as a surprise to his
                  sweet wife—who seemed so much at heart in the whole arrangement—he proposed to
                  startle her by doing, unasked, what he
                  presumed to be his duty.
               The black-walnut and marble-top suit of chamber furniture, with the cheval-glass
                  bureau, were selected, paid for, and ordered to be sent on the Monday following;
                  the carpet man was directed to take the measurement of the room, and the blue and
                  white carpet was selected and ordered to be made by the same time; the peculiar
                  ideas of his own (the fruit of his home living and bachelor days) were given form,
                  shape and substance in an elegant buffet; after
                  the buffet, the dining-table with the proper
                  extension and the new chairs were added; he found a complete set of glass-ware was
                  a good thing to buy, and the monogram could be nicely engraven upon it, in due
                  season, with the initial letters of his name and Marian's in a neat wreath, upon
                  each piece; so he completed his orders, gave directions to send the bills to the
                  office, and went down town to business, with a confused idea of what the
                  stock-board quotations were the afternoon before, and a very distinct idea that he
                  was setting out in the world as a married ried man, and the head of a prospective
                  household, in sober earnest.
               And how with Mrs. H.?
               An hour after her husband had gone, she was standing upon the doorstep at dear
                  Mamma's, anxious to carry the good news to her and quite willing to receive and
                  act upon the advice of the lady who knew just what to do, and how to do it.
               The advice was timely; it suited dear Mamma to give it. There was a semblance of
                  authority in the position which met her preconceived ideas of the proper
                  superintendence over her daughter's domestic affairs which struck her in her most
                  vulnerable point. Her decision of character had full scope, and a trip with Marian
                  up to the new house soon settled the question as to what was immediately necessary
                  to be done. All, or nearly all, of the worn-out things were discarded; even a
                  genteel request to know if they could have the house before Monday,
                  was made in a polite and entreating manner; and by three o'clock in the afternoon
                  several large basketsful of necessary things were delivered, and the bills sent to Mr. Honeydew's office, and a
                  special messenger dispatched with a note, written in a delicate hand by Mrs.
                  Honeydew, to be left at the Hotel. It was short, affectionate, but effective, and
                  a stratum of true womanly feeling ran all the way through it, shining out from
                  within the envelope, as Harry Honeydew saw it sticking in the frame of the parlor
                  mirror, as he came into his rooms that afternoon.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "My DARLING HUSBAND,—Mamma and I have been up to the new house.
                              Perhaps we may get in before Monday; so I have gone over to Mamma's to
                              see about the silver and the other things. I am so tired that I shall
                              not be home to-night, and there is so much to do. Come over, please,
                              after dinner; or come over and dine at Mother's, if you want to. You
                              won't be angry, pet, will you?
                           
                              Your wife, 
                              MARIAN."
                           
                        
                        
                           "P.S.—As you are such a good boy, I send you a kiss 
                              here."
                        
                     
                  
               
               The circle, which was supposed to contain the affectionate matrimonial kiss,
                  looked so cunning at the end of the postscript, that Harry could find no fault
                  with the note. There may have been just the faintest possible thought that Marian
                  might have been at home; but then, the dear child really had so many things to do,
                  and all the wedding presents were over at Mamma's, in a silver-chest in one of the
                  front spare rooms; and there were so many things to be talked over and
                  accomplished at dear Mamma's, that he felt it best not to be angry, if he should
                  be just a little piqued at her remissness; so he did his duty again, by eating a
                  good dinner at the —— Hotel, lighted a large cigar after the meal, and, cane in
                  hand, walked over to see Marian, and to surprise her, for the kiss she had sent
                  him, with the story of his day's work, and of all the purchases which he had made;
                  and he never realized before how independent a person could be, and how nicely one
                  could entertain his friends, and live at his ease and comfort in his own house, as
                  he did while walking up the Avenue.
               Not that Harry Honeydew had not always lived at home; but he loved his almost
                     baby-wife wife, and he knew that they
                  would be happier in their own home, when they should have one.
               His cloud-picture was fast showing its outline and its coloring in more distinct
                  characters; the work of the day had given a zest to the undertaking which begat a
                  new interest in the experiment of housekeeping, and, like a good, fond, indulgent
                  husband, he was impatient to break the news to Marian how pretty the cage should
                  be in which his household songstress was to be made happy.
               So his musing as he walked along was profitably pleasant, and the wreaths of smoke
                  from his fragrant cigar served as a sympathetic companion in his evening
                  reverie.
               How glad they were to see him at the maternal mansion; how prettily Mrs. Honeydew
                  apologized for her absence, and how she hoped her dear Harry was not angry with
                  her, were the pleasant things of the occasion, after the gentleman had reached
                  Mamma's.
               Marian's pretty face looked well, lighted up with expectation, her dress thrown
                  off, and she clad in her sister's red dressing-gown and a pair of her own old
                  slippers. She had been at work all day. The silver from the chest had been spread
                  out upon the bed in the front spare room, and it was on full exhibition when Harry
                  came in. But the ladles bothered Marian; they were greatly in excess of the
                  proportion needed in a well-appointed and well-regulated establishment; there were
                  napkin-rings enough to equip a small family with one or two children, and as for
                  the butter-knives, there were enough to fit out a genteel boarding-house—but the
                  next day, the ladles and useless butter-knives were to be transformed into the
                  required number of tea, dessert, and table-spoons, by a friend of dear Mamma, who
                  presided over a manufactory of silver and plated ware.
               The bed-linen, which was quite an heirloom in the family, was already bestowed
                  upon the chair by the side of the bed in that same front spare room, and a set of
                  china tea service, which had been given by one of the aunts of the family, had
                  been nicely and carefully packed in a large basket, each piece of the set properly
                  wrapped up in newspaper, and the whole
                  ready for immediate and safe transportation.
               "Do as you please, my pet," was his loving reply, as Marian's little hands were,
                  metaphorically, spread over the whole array of silver-ware; "and now I'll tell you
                  what I've been doing!"
               How the little lady's face glowed all over with expectation as he enumerated the
                  articles which he had bought; and how cheerfully expectant she looked when she
                  inquired when they would be ready! And how dear Mamma volunteered the approbation
                  of a loving mother at the selection he had made, and added:
               "Your piano, dear; how nice it would be if you could have it when you went into
                  the house!"
               Harry thought the piano, just then, more of a luxury than a necessity, and he
                  ventured to say so.
               There was a look of mild reproach from Marian, nothing more, and they dropped the
                  subject; nevertheless Marian, at Mamma's suggestion, packed up her music, and
                  prepared pared to send it with the rest of the things, to have it ready when the
                  piano did come, at least.
               There were several cigars smoked, and several interesting arguments upon what was
                  at once necessary, in which Harry advised, and Marian suggested, and Mamma
                  decided, during the evening; a visit to the New Home next morning, was agreed
                  upon; a list of commissions to be executed and things to see about was carefully
                  written out in pencil, and given to Mr. Honeydew, all of which he promised to
                  attend to most faithfully, and when Marian laid her head upon her husband's
                  shoulder, and he kissed her goodnight, as they retired to rest in that front spare
                  room at dear Mamma's, he saw, in his own mind, that he had work to do, and meant
                  to do it, with a hearty will.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE HONEYDEWS "AT HOME."
               THOROUGHLY convinced that a new page in his life had been turned over, and not a
                  little influenced by the delightfully assuming advice of dear Mamma, and even more
                  assured and more enthusiastically encouraged by the smiling face of his darling
                  little wife, Harry Honeydew grew impatient at the delay of a day or two in getting
                  into the New Home. He had duly purchased the furniture, the glass-workers had
                  hurried up the monogrammic embellishments upon the decanters, goblets and
                  wine-glasses; the exchanging of the useless ladles had been well contrived and
                  carried out—with a liberal deduction as to weight of the precious metal in the
                  transformation into spoons and sundries—and by Saturday morning, the new residence
                  was ready for occupation by the young housekeepers.
               The establishment was, in fact, ready on Friday, but dear little Marian Honeydew
                  was commendably superstitious; so Harry went up to the house on Friday evening,
                  lighted the gas in every room, took the exact shade and the general effect of the
                  blue carpet in the pet bed-chamber into his mind's eye, went through the house
                  from garret to cellar, and when he locked the front door, and put the key in his
                  overcoat pocket, he was enchanted with the prospect.
               Some of the articles purchased had exceeded his probable figures of their
                  estimated cost—but that was of little consequence, they were all so pretty, and
                  the neat box of a house was so complete.
               He amused himself, on that same Friday evening, by going through the kitchen
                  closets and the dining-room pantry, and noting deficiencies, according to his
                  particular idea of what the contents should be.
               Dear Mamma had bargained for the balance of coal which the departing family were
                     prepared pared to leave in the cellar.
                  It was somewhat slaty, even a decided mixture of red and white ash, and was piled
                  up against one of the walls in such a manner as to leave the number of tons a nice
                  question for an expert; but it would do, and was taken at a supposed amount and at
                  the current price, an advance of nearly a dollar a ton upon its cost when put
                  in.
               He surprised the grocer at the corner by a very large order for sugar, coffee,
                  tea, flour, nuts, raisins, spices, and all that he had known his mother to use in
                  making nice things for the table, and ended his evening's work by a trip, as
                  suggested by Marian, over to the residence of the neat, tidy girl, who had been
                  engaged as cook, and left word for the girl to be at the house at ten o'clock the
                  next morning, to meet Mrs. Honeydew, all of which a friend, on duty at the room,
                  faithfully promised that she should do. And the rest of the housekeeping matters
                  he left to his wife's discretion and industry.
               With what good humor and absence of regret at the parting, he figured up and paid
                  his bill at the —— Hotel, we will not pretend to say. All the worldly goods and
                  possessions, which were necessary to their Hotel existence, had been packed up in
                  trunks and sent up to the new house; so there was little for our good young people
                  to do but to walk out and away. Marian took a street-car for the trip up town, and
                  Harry a stage on the Avenue, to go down to the office, agreeing to "come home to
                  dinner" at five o'clock, sharp.
               And what a day that was, in Wall Street, for him! There was a delightful
                  expectation in waiting for the closing of the stock-boards which lent a zest to
                  the day's transactions, and gave him the privilege of impatience for the moment
                  that he should meet his wife at the house in —— Street, so convenient to the
                  Park.
               Arrived there, he placed the latch-key to the door, but pretty hands were on the
                  knob inside; the door was opened, and a somewhat tired but pretty face looked out
                  at him from behind the partly opened vestibule glasses, and the kiss with which
                  she greeted him, the soft, warm pressure of her delightfully plump arms, as she almost stood on tip-toe and clasped
                  him around the neck, were worth more to him, just then, than the rent of the house
                  for a year, or the cost of the furniture.
               "Your girl came, darling?" was the inquiry, when the refreshing connubial
                  pleasantries had momentarily subsided.
               "Yes; and she is getting dinner ready. I've a nice steak, a broiled chicken, all
                  kinds of vegetables, and a pudding, and —"
               How much longer Marian would have made her list of the good things provided and
                  preparing, it would be hard to say, but she was interrupted in her recital by the
                  removal of his overcoat, and by his wistful look at the prettily carpeted
                  stairway, leading up to the room with the cheval-glass bureau, the black-walnut
                  and white marble, and the blue-and-white carpet.
               At full length upon the bed, a few moments after, Harry Honeydew took in the whole
                  room at a single glance. There was the air of feminine accomplishment in
                  housekeeping neatness pervading the apartment. All the little ornaments, (blue, of
                  course,) were arrayed ed upon the bureau, each piece standing upon its own
                  particular toilet-mat, worked in blue and white, and the ivory-handled brushes
                  were in their places, and the room was thoroughly "to rights." Mrs. Honeydew had
                  worked hard during the day, so he inwardly resolved to see things with her eyes,
                  and to appreciate what she had been doing to make him happy, and to make his home
                  pleasant.
               There was the most eminently just appreciation between them that there could have
                  been with any two people. Harry was proud of what Marian had done, and Marian was
                  pleased at what he had provided for her; the rose-tints of their new married life
                  seemed to glow with an intensity of color which gave a new love-phase to their
                  existence, and, while the rose-tints were thus glowing, there was the sound of a
                  silver-toned bell from below stairs.
               One of the wedding presents had given forth to their ear its first
                  tintinnabulations in its legitimate sphere of sound, and into the dining-room Mr.
                  and Mrs. Honeydew swept with the grace of consummate ease and the justly delightful expectancy of the moment—each one
                  confident of some new surprise.
               There was a slight odor of new furniture in the room; there was the unmistakable
                  smell of black-walnut, freshly oiled; but the white satin-damask cloth hung in the
                  most proper sort of folds, arranged by Marian's hands, and the table looked
                  prettily in its settings of real silver and sparkling new china—the dishes which
                  "belonged to the house" had not yet arrived—with the vegetables.
               'T was a traditionary part of Mrs. Honeydew's education to affect a "style" upon
                  every possible occasion, and therefore she seated herself at the foot of the
                  table, and placed Harry at the head, and awaited the appearance of the new cook,
                  who, for the nonce, was maid of all work, in addition to her other duties.
               The expectation with which she was waited for was somewhat comical—would have been
                  to an old housekeeper—and the door leading to the hall was closed, so that there
                  was nothing to interfere with the sound of the dumb-waiter waiter, which came up
                  with the least possible bump, and with a rattling of dishes, from below.
               Next there was a knock at the door, a delicate uncertain sort of knock, at which
                  Malian smiled. Harry looked down at his plate, tried to appear like the head of a
                  household, and Mrs. Honeydew answered, in a delicate, sweet voice of pleasant
                  assurance:
               "Come in, Ellen!"
               So Ellen came in, slightly abashed, and with a sidelong glance at the gentleman of
                  the house—a very pardonable curiosity, which is the privilege of all new
                  servants.
               Ellen, by the way, was not bad-looking; her face was a little highly colored,
                  attributable to two causes—the fire in the range, and a pardonable confusion for
                  the moment; but she had put on a clean white apron, which she had tucked up at one
                  side in a jaunty manner; she was not light-footed, but that may have been from the
                  heels upon her shoes, which were heavier than need be for dining-room service, and
                  she walked about, thoroughly like a girl who was not afraid to work.
               
               She may have been a little nervous in the handling of the plates, and the
                  vegetable dishes were set down upon the table with a decided emphasis, as Ellen's
                  face flushed at each emphatic movement, and she did contrive to put the potatoes
                  in front of Harry, alongside the carving-knife and fork, and to set down the
                  chicken before Marian, between the table spoons, and very close to
                  the butter-plate.
               "I'm not much on waitin' ma'am," she said, in apology, noticing the quick glance
                  of inquisitive surprise which Mr. Honeydew could not avoid betraying.
               Marian waited a moment, and then, in a mild manner, gave her directions, and the
                  dishes were placed in their proper positions. Ellen removed the covers, and
                  vanished through the open door.
               To give the girl credit, the meat was nicely cooked, seasoned properly, and the
                  chicken was broiled without much smoking, while the vegetables were fairly done,
                  and served without more than the ordinary "mussing up."
               "Well, darling, here we are, and I suppose that you are tired," ventured Harry,
                  between chicken and steak; "but your new girl seems unsteady, pet."
               Marian thought so, too, but was only too willing to make excuses, and relieved the
                  girl from any additional exhibitions of nervousness by placing the dishes on the
                  dumb-waiter and receiving the dessert from below.
               And so, with the wine-sauce and pudding, Harry Honeydew was favorably impressed
                  with the result of their initial dinner, and was glad to welcome dear Mamma and
                  one of the sisters-in-law, who came in just as the dessert was finished.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               AN EVENING'S EXPERIENCE.
               A WHOLE week at housekeeping, and with an experience which had some variety in it,
                  found the Honeydews, the next Sunday morning, after their breakfast, in a
                  peculiarly chaotic state of mind. So well had matters progressed since their
                  outset, that Marian felt herself already to be a pattern for all young
                  housekeepers. Several of the defects in their establishment had been remedied
                  during her seven days of superintendence; dear Mamma had been almost omnipresent,
                  and it became a vexed question with Harry whether she or Marian ran the household,
                  while the assertion of her certain and indisputable rights in the kitchen had made
                  a breach between the neat and tidy Ellen and the dear good lady, who had reared
                  Marian from infancy to womanhood, and still deemed it a duty to hold surveillance
                  veillance over her domestic arrangements. Already there were the signs of a coming
                  storm; the mercury in their household barometer had alternately risen and fallen,
                  till the state of the weather within doors became very uncertain.
               Ellen, who claimed to know all that was necessary in her department, thought she
                  knew enough for Mrs. Honeydew, but was quite deficient in many things, when
                  weighed by the scale of knowledge adopted by dear Mamma; and so, Ellen had already
                  commenced to find fault.
               She found fault with the range; she found fault with the meat sent home from the
                  butcher's ; she had not the necessary amount of kitchen utensils at hand to work
                  with; there were too many dishes required at dinner, and there was too much
                  company. She had agreed, she said, to cook for Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew, but she had
                  not agreed to cook and serve victuals for four or five others; and poor little
                  Marian tired her dainty feet more than once during the day, running up and down
                  stairs, because Ellen would not answer
                  her through the speaking-tube, and had actually stopped up the end of the tube
                  with paper, so as to be unable to hear the signals which she did not intend to
                  answer. In one short week there had been a theoretical change of position. Ellen
                  looked to Mrs. Honeydew for wages, but evidently not for orders, and when a
                  telegram came from down town, on Saturday afternoon, stating that Tom Delivery,
                  one of his fellow-brokers, was coming up with Harry to spend Sunday, Marian had a
                  good crying-spell in her own pretty room, and laid her dear little head, brown
                  hair and all, upon the white marble top of the cheval-glass bureau, in silent
                  agony.
               Her eyes were red, and her face looked haggard and careworn, as the gentlemen came
                  home. The pretty dress which she wore was becoming, and her hair turned back from
                  her forehead, with the bow of blue ribbon on the left side, was simple and pretty;
                  but there was a world of silent sorrow in her looks, and the smile with which she
                  greeted her husband was a forced one.
               The remembrance that she had suggested the change, that she had engineered the
                  house-taking and the experiment, was sufficient in itself to support her pride,
                  and she welcomed her guests, despite the war which was waging in the kitchen, and
                  put the "Mumm's Extra Dry" upon the ice with her own hands, even with the
                  uncertainty staring her in the face, of how the dinner might be sent
                  upstairs.
               "Ye'll not do this much longer, ma'am, I'll be sworn," said Ellen, as
                  the orders were given what to cook, and at what time to serve the dinner; "there's
                  no rest for a hard-workin' girl, anyhow!"
               Marian trembled with anxiety when the dishes were sent up, and there were several
                  mistakes in giving out the sugar, while she watched the form of the indignant
                  Ellen moving around the table, and there was a sigh of relief when the dessert had
                  been finished, and the three had adjourned to the reception-room.
               It was a gala-night at one of the theatres, the grandest night of a Shakspearian
                  revival, and Tom Delivery proposed that they should go.
               
               Glad as she would have been, under ordinary circumstances, Mrs. Honeydew trembled
                  at the prospect of going, and yet dared not refuse. It was a pleasant
                  evening—Saturday; they could have a late breakfast on Sunday, and neither Tom nor
                  Harry would take "no" for an answer; so she surveyed the battle-ground in the
                  kitchen, found Ellen washing up her dishes, and they left her in charge of the
                  house, her face a little red, perhaps from crying, and still busy with her
                  work.
               How they all enjoyed the play, how there was a snug half-bottle at Delmonico's,
                  and how pleasant the City looked as they went home, were matters of little
                  importance; but, to find the vestibule-door locked when they arrived home, was not
                  such an insignificant thing, by any sort of reckoning.
               In vain Harry tried his latch-key; the door was securely fastened upon the inside,
                  the bolts shot, the window as securely fastened as the door, and the lights were
                  burning in the hall, and casting their reflection, through the open door, into the
                  reception-room.
               "Locked out, old fellow, by Jove!" said Tom Delivery, laughing; "better try the
                  bell."
               Harry Honeydew tried it, and at the second pull at the handle, he sent the echoes
                  ringing through the house from garret to cellar.
               But no answer came. Whether the girl had gone out or not, was a complete mystery,
                  and the whole appearance of matters at No. — East —— Street began to be
                  serious.
               Tom rapped upon the door with his cane, and pulled at the knob, while Harry
                  climbed over the side of the stoop, and tried the window, and Marian Honeydew
                  began to grow commendably nervous.
               A policeman, upon a neighboring beat, heard the noise, and came leisurely down the
                  street, to interview the locked-out party. He pulled at the door, and rapped upon
                  it with his club, which aroused the neighbors; and at the modest hour of one
                  o'clock on Sunday morning, in the moonlight, there was a party of four arranged
                  upon the front stoop, like four lads about playing leap-frog, the policeman ahead,
                  stooping down with his eye to the keyhole.
               
               Harry, losing his good-nature, uttered a mild oath.
               Tom Delivery, jolly and fun-loving from the Delmonico wine, and disposed to make
                  merry of his friend's predicament, twitted Marian upon her servants, and proposed
                  to force an entrance.
               The policeman examined the lower door, found it fast, saw the lights shining in
                  Mr. Honeydew's room upstairs, and whispered, in a loud aside to Harry, just as
                  several night-capped and uncapped heads appeared at adjacent windows, and
                  inquisitive faces were discernible in the moonlight:
               "Burglars, sir, burglars; they're cracking places lively, around here, this
                  month!"
               Harry had no time to quench the anti-burglarious ardor of that policeman. The man
                  began a second sentence with the word "Burglar—" standing in a threatening
                  attitude, and preparing to break in a panel of the outer door.
               Poor little Marian! Already wrought up to their highest tension, her nerves gave
                  way, and as the last word uttered by the policeman fell upon her anxious ears, she
                  felt a sudden giddiness, reeled, and sank fainting into the arms of Mr. Tom
                  Delivery, who was standing behind her, in the leap-frog order of position.
               "Hold on, officer! Do n't smash that door! Do n't you see, my wife has fainted?"
                  shouted Honeydew, laying his hand upon the arm of the intrusive guardian of the
                  City's peace, and the property of the citizens in East —— Street especially.
               But the policeman had no milk of human kindness flowing in his heart, or in his
                  nature—particularly towards newly married ladies, who went out o' nights, and left
                  their houses to the care of servants. He reached over to the window of the
                  reception-room, and crash went the end of his bâton through the pane; he then sprang over to the sill, put his
                  hand inside, and sprung the patent fastening at the top.
               This was too much for Tom Delivery. He had already given the fainting Marian over
                  to her husband's arms, and when he saw the evident intention of the officer to
                  effect a forcible cible entrance, and "go
                  through the house," he determined not to follow, but to precede him.
               The numerous windows in the vicinity which were sent up with a bang, the several
                  heads which were exhibited at the several windows, looked painfully ludicrous to
                  Mr. Harry Honeydew, who held his wife in his arms, and was busy in making hurried
                  explanations to the neighbors, while his friend Tom was crawling into the
                  reception-room, and a moment after, having unlocked the vestibule and outer doors
                  and admitted the policeman, assisted Harry to carry his fainting wife up the stone
                  steps.
               But what of the policeman? That man earned promotion for his daring, certainly!
                  There wasn't a sign of a burglar. Everything was just as they had left it, even to
                  some of the dishes on the dining-room table, though the tea-spoons were scattered
                  along the floor, from the table to the dumb-waiter, and the castor had been upset,
                  so that the sweet oil and the vinegar, on the most friendly terms with each other,
                  had traveled down to the new carpet by parallel lines, over the satin-damask
                  table-cloth.
               The gas-lights over the dining-room table were blazing up beyond the globes, there
                  was an excellent head of gas on, for it was late (or rather, early Sunday
                  morning), and Harry laid his wife down upon the sofa in the reception-room, and
                  Tom assisted him in "bringing her to," with the aid of ice-water, cologne-water,
                  and friction; while the energetic policeman started upstairs, and they could hear
                  him stamping about upon the floor above them, and banging the bed-room doors, as
                  though it were necessary to make the most noise possible, to give notice to any
                  concealed housebreaker of his intended capture.
               Dear little Mrs. Honeydew opened her pretty dark eyes, and started, visibly, as
                  she saw Harry bending over her, and Tom Delivery, with the cologne-water all over
                  the facing of his light overcoat, down on his knees beside her, and with the
                  woman's usual correctness in such cases, she began to ask all sorts of questions,
                  with "Where am I?"
               A few words of explanation, only a few,
                  and Mr. Harry Honeydew evinced an anxiety about the anti-burglarious policeman,
                  who was, by this time, suspiciously quiet.
               He said nothing to Tom that might alarm his wife, he merely nodded in a knowing
                  manner, at which Tom darted upstairs, into one room, and out again, and so on to
                  the top floor.
               And now, Tom Delivery had his own fun, uproarious though it was, for the moment,
                  but, fortunately, not audible to Marian's sensitive ears.
               There were two persons in one of the upstairs back rooms—the policeman, in
                  uniform, and the neat, tidy girl, Ellen, in a not altogether presentable
                  condition. She had been lying upon her bed in a half stupid lethargy, while a tray
                  partly filled with glass-ware, which, for some unexplained reason, she had carried
                  away up to the third story, was upon the floor, the new monogram goblets broken,
                  and the wine-glasses, each one stemless and shattered.
               "Go out o' this, ye dirthy beast iv a man, ye!" was the salute which Ellen gave to
                  Mr. Tom Delivery, as he thrust his head into the room, dodging a blow from a heavy
                  brogan thrown at him.
               The energetic policeman was silent and contemplative.
               Ellen was seated upon the bed, partly undressed, and, in a most blissful state of
                  semi-intoxication, while the energetic policeman stood beside her,
                     not in so threatening an attitude as he had assumed upon the front
                  stoop a few moments before.
               She had evidently indulged in the liquor during the early part of the evening, as
                  a partly emptied bottle of "Martell—1840" clearly betrayed, and had, in her
                  drunken stupidity, played havoc with the glass-ware, and severely damaged the
                  table-cloth and carpet.
               The new discovery about the new girl was broken to Mrs. Honeydew in the most
                  delicate terms. Ellen was allowed to go to bed quietly, after having thrown a hair
                  brush and part of a pitcher of water at Tom Delivery, and after having threatened
                  to annihilate dear Mamma, if dear Mamma would only be good enough to allow herself to be
                  caught.
               The energetic policeman was given a couple of good drinks from that "Martell—1840"
                  bottle, a good cigar, and an hour later there was quiet in the household, even in
                  the third story back room, where Ellen reposed in peaceful slumber.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               MR. HONEYDEW SETTLES A DIFFICULTY.
               WAS it Sunday morning, or was it not? was the silent question which Harry Honeydew
                  asked himself, late in the day, for the events of the evening had drawn the veil
                  from the picture of his suddenly-acquired household experience, and Marian had
                  roused him from his slumbers—tired, sleepy, and vexed as he was—by lying sobbing
                  on his left shoulder.
               He kissed her, lovingly, to be sure; but with the kiss there was just a little
                  shadow of doubt, and so he asked the very pertinent question of Marian, what was
                  to be done about breakfast, and placed his ear to the speaking-tube. Whether the
                  paper had been removed from it, or whether his strong blast of breath down its
                  full length, with all the power of his lungs, had cleared the tube, there certainly was a faint noise from
                  below.
               "Ellen!"
               This time the summons was from the master of the house himself, and it was sounded
                  with an air of decidedly actual, and not constructive or doubtful, authority.
               "Yis, sur!" came sounding up through the tube, sufficiently loud for
                  Marian to hear, as she was lying with her eyes half closed, and the eyelids red,
                  from crying.
               "Are you getting breakfast ready?"
               "Yis, sur!"
               "That's good news, darling; come, get up!"
               No more was said by either of the two, until both were dressed, and then, down
                  stairs to the library they went, to find their friend Tom nicely seated in the big
                  chair, poring over the morning papers, with one eye on the glass door which shut
                  off the dining-room.
               There was a shadow-pantomime being enacted behind the ground-glass panes. Ellen
                  was the only figure in the exhibition; but Ellen's shadow was unsteady. A second
                  figure was soon added to the picture, that of Mrs. Honeydew, and then the two
                  figures vanished, and the lady of the house called the gentlemen in to a breakfast
                  of which Marian was heartily ashamed, the beefsteak being burned to a crisp, the
                  eggs watery, and what was intended to be pommes de terre à
                     la Lyonnaise, being nothing less than a mixture of poorly cooked
                  potatoes, and about as much onion as there was of potato in the general
                  composition.
               There was a silent meal, and at its close, with a face expressing more of sorrow
                  than of despair, Marian remained seated at the table, while Harry and Tom went off
                  to the library, and then Marian went to the kitchen.
               There was a lapse of only a few moments, but to Harry Honeydew they were like the
                  prologue to a sensation drama, to which drama, he had not the least doubt, was
                  then being given a dress rehearsal in the apartment below.
               "Harry—"
               "Tom—"
               The two gentlemen were looking at each
                  other through the smoke wreaths from their cigars, and Tom Delivery was smiling at
                  Harry Honeydew, with a smile which recalled some of the pleasant hours of his
                  bachelor days, when they smoked together in Harry's bachelor apartments at home,
                  and the cares of the household were upon his mother's shoulders, and not upon
                  his.
               "Things are mixed, I take it, old fellow, but never mind—these things will happen,
                  you know."
               "Yes, but it's infernally annoying, and this 'jewel of a girl,' is one of my
                  respected mother-in-law's selection—that is, she bosses the job, and Marian,—bless
                  her dear little heart,—submits."
               Just at this moment, there was a suddenly-conceived example of that submission;
                  there was the sound of hurried feet in the hall, and into the room—her face white
                  with indignation—rushed the lady whose dear little heart was so fervently blessed,
                  and after her, the girl, with her face about as red as a toy balloon, in an
                  indefinite state of semi-faded collapse.
               "I tell ye, ma'am, I won't stand it, an' that's all about it,—but
                  ye'll pay me for the month, ye will. I know my business ma'am, and
                  I'll teach ye yours—I'll teach ye yours—I'LL TEACH YE YOURS, I
                  WILL!
               The emphasis of italics and "small caps" will not serve to convey an idea of the
                  vehement expression which Ellen O'Connor, the neat, tidy girl, gave to her
                  words.
               She looked formidable, as she stood in the hall, with the sleeve upon her left arm
                  rolled up about the elbow, and her hands being hurriedly wiped upon her apron.
               "Why, Marian, pet—what is all this row—what has this brute of a girl been doing?"
                  asked Harry, as he received the frightened form of his wife in his arms, and held
                  her from the infuriated lady from below stairs.
               "Brute is it—brute is it, ye beast ye!" retorted Miss Ellen O'Connor,
                  shaking her fist before Mr. Harry Honeydew's face, but at a safe and respectful
                  distance; "I'll teach ye to call an honest workin' woman out of her name—I will!
                  Ye'd betther get a wife what knows something, before ye talk to the loikes o'
                     me. I'm going, d' ye hear? I'm
                  goin', an' I want my wages!"
               'T was Sunday morning, and just after breakfast; but even the remembrance of the
                  day the hour, his wife, Tom Delivery, and all the circumstances, did not prevent
                  Harry from making a quick reply.
               Miss Ellen O'Connor had spoken disparagingly of his wife, and with anger upon his
                  handsome countenance, Harry retorted:
               "D—n you, and your wages! You want to go, and you shall! Here, Tom,
                  take care of Marian; I'll settle with this young woman, and then I'll settle
                  her!"
               It was different from any of the difficulties which Harry Honeydew had
                  experienced; he knew how to squirm out of a difficulty in Wall street; he could
                  see his way through a corner in North Westerp, or a flurry in Rock Island; but,
                  when it came to dealing with an Irish servant-girl, who had been making free with
                  his best Martell brandy, he was hardly up to the occasion.
               Still, he had work to do, and must do it; he stopped Ellen O'Connor's volubility
                  by a peremptory order to hold her tongue, called her upstairs into his room,
                  refused to hear any recital of the whys and wherefores, and paid her off in full
                  for the whole month's service, into which she was not yet a full week
                  advanced.
               Bag, baggage, and bandboxes, on that bright Sunday morning, with her best dress,
                  just "done up," with a plentiful allowance of Glencove starch in the stiffening,
                  she went out on the sidewalk, slamming the door after her; and Harry Honeydew
                  relighted his cigar in the library, Marian hid her face in her hands and had a
                  pretty effective crying-spell, and Tom Delivery whistled.
               
               After all, the difficulty which had culminated in the dismissal of Cook Number One
                  was not such a desperate matter. The effect upon Marian had been to leave Harry
                  and Tom to enjoy their serenity of mind and talk over the result of the evening's
                  incidents, while she quickly rode down to dear Mamma's, and came back home
                  reinforced by one of her sisters, who claimed to know something about getting up a dinner. The accident of
                  having a friend to spend Sunday with them had placed little Mrs. Honeydew upon her
                  mettle; she found that, while she knew something about cooking in the theory, she
                  was deficient in the practice, and after an advice with dear Mamma, had taken her
                  sister Annie up to the house with her, and the two household beauties went to work
                  in the kitchen, banishing the gentlemen to the rest of the house until dinner
                  should be set a-cooking.
               To have seen the peeling of the potatoes, and the washing of celery, and the
                  preparing of a certain piece of veal, which they proposed to stuff and roast,
                  would have been as good as the making of a trick-dinner in a Ravel pantomime
                  revived. What little either of the girls knew of cooking was fully developed and
                  required. The vegetables were fairly done at the beginning, but being compelled to
                  wait upon the meat—which had been placed in an oven with every damper which turned
                  the heat into the oven fully reversed—the vegetables became soggy,
                  tasteless and watery, and the meat wouldn't get brown, and
                     would look as though it had been hung out in the rain upon the
                  exposed side of an outhouse, until after four o' clock.
               "Dear?" said Harry, from the head of the stairway.
               "Darling," replied Mrs. Honeydew from below, for they had a better right now to be
                  affectionate, and Marian had more reason to desire an exhibition of affection:
                  "What is it?"
               "Dinner, darling, if you please."
               But the lady addressed in such words of endearment did not happen to please, and
                  so the boys were summoned to the kitchen; Harry trifled with the dampers, Tom
                  flirted with bright-faced Annie, and nearly spilled over the turnips and the sauce
                  which had been made for the pudding. Mrs. Honeydew conceded that she was clearly
                  nonplussed at the housekeeping enigma, and they finally sat down to potatoes
                  (soggy), turnips (watery), beefsteak (very crisp and very smoky), a pudding (too
                  sweet by half), sauce (very stiff in good old sherry), and tea (just about
                  right).
               
               Shall we say, in truth, that Marian was glad the day was over?
               Shall we say that Harry had determined to try his hand at servant-hunting the next
                  day, and provide both cook and waitress?
               Shall we say that Mr. Thomas Delivery inwardly congratulated himself that he was
                  some months off from the fulfillment of his engagement with Emma Coupon, the
                  presumptive heiress of West —— street?
               Shall we say that Mr. and Mrs. Honeydew earned the meals, (such as they were,)
                  that they had eaten?
               All four queries may be answered in a few words; Harry Honeydew had decided to
                  choose for himself, and had ordered an early breakfast from a restaurant.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               A RAY OF SUNSHINE.
               "IT'S rather a bad morning , sir, to 'ave a good hexibition, sir; they does n't
                  hall come here a Monday;" was the suggestion of a ruddy-faced Englishman, counting
                  out the change from a five dollar bill, and handing Harry Honeydew a printed
                  ticket, on which, in a blank space, his name had been filled up, and on the
                  obverse side of the ticket THE BEARER was guaranteed the choice of THE OFFICE, for
                  three months.
               The balmy Briton with the close-cut whiskers, the plaid neck-tie, and the little
                  round-topped hat, was the chief of the Bureau which undertook to provide servants
                  well-recommended, and Honeydew had briefly stated his wants as follows: a cook,
                  who knew her business; a waitress and chamber-maid, who knew one dish from the
                  other.
               
               The office was not full, and the applicants, seated in a row on either side of the
                  room, looked at him as a "green un," while he looked at them.
               "Maggie Murphy!" said the proprietor, in a tone of supreme authority.
               And Maggie Murphy came forward. She was a bright-looking girl, neatly dressed, and
                  did not wear a green bow at her neck, nor had she a crimson ribbon on her hat.
               Maggie Murphy claimed to know how to cook; she had a handful of recommendations
                  which she handed to Harry, which he did not read; and stated that her reason for
                  leaving her last place was, that the family had "gone into the country." Harry
                  thought, meanwhile, that "the country," must be a self-appointed Paradise for the
                  fatigued housewives of New York. She could wash and iron, had no objection to a
                  young mistress; had no doubt she would suit the lady, if the lady would suit her;
                  she did not ask about stationary tubs, and where the coal was kept;
                  and so, Maggie Murphy was engaged and departed from the office with all her
                  worldly goods in a small brown-paper bundle, tied with a piece of white tape, the
                  full name and direction of Mrs. Honeydew's residence upon a card, and the money
                  for her car fare, in her left hand, her right being occupied with her bundle (and
                  a parasol).
               The attentive Englishman was very polite; he would send up a waitress by one
                  o'clock, and knew just what Mrs. Honeydew wanted, and he knew where to send for a
                  girl who had lived out with people with whom he was acquainted; so Harry paid
                  another dollar-and-a-half for a choice of chambermaids, and went down town
                  rejoicing, to send a note up to Marian, stating what he had done, and mildly
                  suggesting that if dear Mamma were left out of the question entirely, the result
                  might be more satisfactory.
               There need be no description of Miss Maggie Murphy's arrival at the house up town.
                  Mrs. Honeydew was waiting for her, and so was dear Mamma. The receipt of Harry's
                  note had so severely commenced the lesson of matrimonial obedience, that Marian
                  trembled in her dainty little one-and-a-half sized slippers at the evident conflict between connubial
                  and parental authority which was impending.
               The circumstances of the day before had aroused in the highly accomplished
                  mother-in-law, all her latent anxiety for the success of the experiment which she
                  had devised. She was keen to a sense of just what her opportunity was, and had no
                  idea of losing it.
               Judge of her surprise then, when Miss Maggie Murphy came into the reception-room,
                  and she was accosted by Marian in a ladylike and decided manner, and told, in
                  polite words, to lay aside her bundle upon a chair in the hallway, and to come
                  back to the reception-room, to be interviewed.
               Dear Mamma, in all the glory of a bonnet trimmed with an ostrich feather, rather
                  young, for her age—but then, dear Mamma affected the youthful—seated herself at
                  the table, and prepared to conduct the necessary examination.
               "Vell, you are the new cook?" began the lady, with the slightest German accent,
                  and in a tone which was evidently intended to impress Miss Murphy with a distinct
                  idea of her importance as one of the governing powers in Mrs. Honeydew's
                  household.
               "If you please, mother—" suggested Marian, her face just a little highly colored,
                  "I will attend to this!"
               Dear Mamma started, grew two shades paler in complexion, placed her gloved hands
                  in a favorite position across her stomach, and looked at Marian.
               "What does this mean, my child?" she asked, when partly recovered from her
                  surprise.
               "Simply this, mother, if I am to control my house, I will engage my servants."
               The dear good lady with the ostrich feather and the youthful bonnet did not stop
                  to consider that the new girl would be a witness to her outburst of parental
                  indignation at disputed authority. Neither did she care. Honesty towards the
                  reader compels this acknowledgement. The lines of her character were forcibly
                  drawn, and the peculiarly strong temperament with which she was unfortunately
                  equipped, gave her no control over her temper per, which was a fact well-known to Harry
                  Honeydew.
               In a concise explanation, it may be fairly understood that he had married Marian,
                  but had no intention of taking upon his shoulders the responsibility of submission
                  to her mother's imperious dictation.
               It was a struggle for Marian Honeydew; she loved her husband dearly, she knew that
                  he loved her, and the few words written in his hurried note were more in the way
                  of plain language than he had ever spoken, much less written, to her.
               The coming storm startled the quiet, inoffensive girl, and her face changed color,
                  while she grasped her parasol with a hold which betrayed an agitation that
                  frightened Marian, and she looked beseechingly at the new servant.
               There was but one glance between them; from that moment they understood each other
                  perfectly, notwithstanding the language of the elderly lady with the ostrich
                  feather on her bonnet, who by this time had worked herself up into a
                  German-American temper, and burst into a torrent of words which would have swamped
                  poor little Marian under ordinary circumstances at home.
               Dear Mamma accused her daughter of incompetency in housekeeping; Marian held her
                  responsible for the incompetency; the fault was laid at the proper threshold, and
                  the elderly lady tried to shirk the responsibility. Then came the question of
                  filial obedience, to which Marian tearfully replied, that in a choice between Mr.
                  Harry Honeydew as her husband, and Mrs. Johanna Weatherby as her mother, the
                  gentleman who was expected to pay the bills had the right to the preference.
               This finished the argument, relieved Marian and sent dear Mamma out of the
                  reception-room, down the stone steps, off to the corner, into a street car, and
                  away home to that brown-stone-front house from which her daughter had emerged as a
                  bride, a few months before, with her trunk on the outside of the carriage, and
                  Harry Honeydew inside, as the man whom she had chosen to "love, honor and
                  obey."
               As for Marian, she found relief in the tears which are always a woman's refuge in
                     her hour of trouble, and which in
                  the present instance enabled the newly-hired domestic to come to her
                  assistance.
               "Do n't worry yerself, my darlin' lady—the ould woman's a haythen, that she
                  is—there, now!"
               The kind-hearted girl caught her in her arms and raised her drooping head from the
                  sofa, in such a manner that Marian could not chide her for the presumptive
                  familiarity; so she merely asked her name, and dried the tears which betrayed her
                  own weakness.
               "My name, ma'am's Maggie—Maggie Murphy—I saw yer husband this morning, an' a fine,
                  nice sort iv a gintleman, Misther Honeysucker is, to be sure."
               "Honeydew, Maggie—not Honeysucker," corrected Marian, quite unable to suppress a
                  smile at the girl's pardonable mistake.
               "Honeydew, or Honeysuckle, ma'am, it's all the same; it's little difference, when
                  the heart's not gone out visitin'."
               Pathos and humor were in these words of honest Maggie Murphy, and Marian and she
                  became better friends as they went down to the kitchen to take a look at the
                  establishment, of which Marian, from this time forward, proposed to be the
                  ostensible and the acting mistress, and in which there seemed, at last, to be a
                  ray of sunshine for the little dark-eyed lady.
               Early in the afternoon, the waitress came, with another assortment of clothing,
                  contained in a newspaper bundle, and a band-box. She had no parasol, but a light
                  pea-green hat, which had a pink ribbon on it. She was not unhandsome,
                  and as such, would have been the first choice of Mr. Harry Honeydew, without
                  scrutinizing the recommendations which she brought.
               Professing well, she set out the table, under Marian's direction, and things
                  looked promising for a new beginning.
               There were no tears in Marian's eyes at five o'clock that afternoon. It was June,
                  and the air was balmy as it blew through the window, which the warm sunshine
                  enabled her to leave open, and she ran out to the door-step to meet her husband,
                  when she saw him spring from the platform of the street-car at the corner.
               
               A sigh of relief from Marian—the usual triplicate of kisses—and in less than half
                  an hour they sat down to a well-cooked, nicely-served dinner.
               Nicely served, so far as the cooking was concerned, but stupidly served, so far as
                  the waitress was implicated. The new up-stairs young lady was pretty. She was
                  well-dressed, and her hair was frizzed in front—wavy, brown hair which crimped
                  nicely—and she looked neat and prepossessing: that was all. She stumbled with the
                  soup, handed a teaspoon to Harry to eat it with, and spilled the ice-water on the
                  dining-room carpet as she filled the goblets.
               When Marian wanted the sauce, she stared at her with an almost idiotic smile, and
                  did not know whether the Worcestershire was in the cruet in the castor, or in the
                  bottle with the "Lea and Perrins" label.
               "You may take the dishes, Sarah," said Marian, when the change to dessert was
                  Ready—and away went Sarah from the room, evidently for a waiter.
               Five minutes or more elapsed, and there was a hollow, ringing sound at the door,
                  and then Sarah came in; her sleeves were rolled up, she had a clean dish-towel
                  slung over her shoulder, and in her hand she had a clean, bright, dish-pan, in
                  which she proposed to carry off the dishes and the vegetables—but how the meat,
                  remained an unsolved problem.
               "Your girl, this time, Harry," said Marian, in a quiet drive at his
                  choice—"will she do?"
               "No, not for the country, by a big calculation!"
               Marian corrected the girl, even assisted her to put the dishes on the dumb-waiter,
                  placed the dessert on the table herself, and asked Maggie Murphy to come up
                  stairs; which Maggie did, good-naturedly, but rather voluble in incidental
                  conversation—so the meal was a partial success.
               The mention of the country had raised a question which Harry Honeydew soon
                  answered.
               He acknowledged his carelessness in allowing the Englishman down town to send up a
                  waitress whom he had not himself seen, and a change was at once agreed upon; so
                     Marian took the ticket for the
                  office, to go down next day and make her own selection.
               The history of the scene in the reception-room was all told over. It was a hard
                  task for Marian to tell it; but it came, and with it came kinder words from Harry,
                  than even she would have expected.
               He was happy—the thraldom in which he had been held during a two-years courtship,
                  which had developed itself unpleasantly in his married life of only a few months'
                  duration, had been overcome, and then and there he proposed the plan of hiring a
                  Long Branch Cottage for the season, and an agreement was entered into by Maggie
                  Murphy to "go into the country."
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               A CHANGE OF SCENE.
               THE "Bouquet of Artists," who, for a month following the discharge of the
                  "competent waitress," enlivened the dining-room and household of Mr and Mrs.
                  Honeydew, offered a variety which had several characteristics. Description would
                  be tedious, if the details of acquiring experience were given in full. The
                  "experiments"—for such were the ladies employed, and not servants—may be summed up
                  or catalogued about as follows:
               
                  NORA MCSHANE,—Irish, aged twenty-two; this young lady, possessed of many
                     qualifications, according to her recommendations, was afflicted with a
                     prevalent disease raging in the neighborhood—flirtation. Not unhandsome; after
                     the third day, she became enamored
                     of the grocer's boy, who brought the vegetables; and on the fourth day,
                     prepared a plan for a supper-party, to be held in the reception-room, on the
                     first convenient occasion; on the sixth day, the cook being out and Mr. and
                     Mrs. Honeydew away from home, the party was held, and during the
                     "entertainment," several dishes and one cut-glass decanter were broken, Miss
                     McShane refused to pay for the broken glassware, and was discharged at
                     once.
                  ANNIE GILMARTIN,—Irish, aged nineteen; bright-faced and willing, well
                     recommended, "wanted a good home," very stupid, and was taken sick after a
                     week's service, and went home to her sister's.
                  TERESA VON-SCHOP,—German, aged thirty; well acquainted with the German
                     language, but deficient in English; knew nothing of waiting on table, and could
                     not agree with Maggie Murphy.
                  EMMA MCKEE,—Scotch, age indefinite; could not endure the presence of the cook;
                     sang Scotch airs in a staccato voice while at
                     work washing dishes, and was decidedly unpleasant in manner and voice to Mr.
                     Honeydew.
                  MARY ANN FEENEY,—Irish, aged twenty-five; just come from Ireland, landed at
                     Castle Garden; good recommendations for honesty from the Emigration Bureau;
                     wages twelve dollars instead of fourteen; knew nothing of New York, except by
                     hearsay; was freshly imported from County Sligo; liked the appearance of both
                     Maggie Murphy and Mrs. Honeydew; had no baggage but a bundle and was willing to
                     go into the country; no relations but one cousin "out west," to whom she had
                     written, on arrival.
               
               Despite the failures of the successive but unsuccessful young ladies, the kindly
                  face of Maggie Murphy still held its place in the Honeydew household. Her cooking,
                  to be sure, was not extravagantly good, but what she did know was rudimentary and
                  practical, and she was always good-natured, so much so, that, not unfrequently,
                  she gave advice to Marian which was
                  beneficial, and as she had few friends in the City, was seldom out at nights, and
                  not always on Sundays.
               From the day upon which she was engaged, when the scene with dear Mamma culminated
                  in that lady's sudden exit from the house, until the month had worn away, there
                  was a truly honest friendship between Maggie Murphy and her mistress.
               The plan for a seaside cottage, mentioned by the Honeydews just after they had
                  settled in their new home, had come to be a certainty. Fred Margin, the senior
                  partner of the stock brokers' firm—they were all young men, clerk-graduates of the
                  Gold Room—was addicted to Long Branch. He had successfully ventilated himself at
                  the seaside for the last five years—he had done the "Continental" in its various
                  changes of owners, had patronized the "Mansion" in its palmy days, and had been
                  quartered at the "West End," at its first season; so he was "up" on the prospect,
                  and had decided to occupy a cottage there, in which Harry and his wife should do
                  the housekeeping, and he would pay his share on the cooperative erative principle,
                  without the responsibility of the success of the undertaking.
               It was a nice arrangement, as proposed: given, a neat cottage, convenient to the
                  dépôt, containing nine rooms; also a stable, in which Harry and he could keep a
                  team of horses—Fred owned one good stepper, and Harry could buy a mate to him—the
                  house already furnished, and they could keep the thing going like a colony of
                  contented housekeepers.
               "Cheaper than the hotel, you know; and, besides, Livingston Speculate can't make
                  up that short margin on Pacific, and we may as well help him out by taking the
                  cottage and allowing him the rent for it."
               This was the argument used in the conversation which took place in the private
                  back office of the partners, when the chance of getting any money from several
                  "lame ducks" was talked over.
               When they considered that Mr. Livingston Speculate owned the cottage—that he had
                  given a second (chattel) mortgage a year before to his brokers to prevent being
                  sold out "just then;" that Pacific did n't happen to jump the right way; and that he was sold out
                  for their protection, the Long Branch cottage became a fixed fact.
               Just after the "Fourth," then, there was an expectant party on the way to the
                  Branch, and all in glee at the prospect. Fred Margin had taken the Red Bank boat
                  at six o'clock in the morning, had gone down with the coachman and the horses,
                  and, arriving at Red Bank a little after noon, had only an hour's drive of seven
                  miles over a good road, from the steamboat landing to the shore. He was to open
                  the house, and be ready to receive them at the dépôt, and Harry and Marian with
                  the servants were to come down by the afternoon boat.
               It was a lively scene at the pier. There was the Plymouth Rock,
                  gorgeously splendid in fresh paint and bunting, ready for a start, with her
                  elegant-looking Captain standing by the after gangway in all the glory of white
                  kids and new uniform, monogrammed and gold-laced, like an officer of the regular
                  navy, wanting only the Foul Anchor to make him complete. All the Wall Street
                  fellows had taken their camp-stools from the express-office, and were smoking and
                  knocking hats around on the forward deck, as all the Wall Street fellows did. The
                  lively strains of the gems from "Barbe Blue" were being played by the detachment
                  of the Ninth Regiment Band, and Harry had secured a seat for Marian upon the shady
                  side, among a crowd of Israelites—the barnacles of the watering places, forever
                  present on cars and steamboats, in the best places—while he had with careful
                  forethought stationed Miss Murphy and Miss Feeney, the "help" of that particular
                  period, together upon one of the sofas on the lower saloon deck, convenient to the
                  gangway.
               It was "awfully jolly," as several Stock-Board friends agreed, this having
                  Honeydew going down to the Branch; "all in a snug little cottage, you know," as
                  one of them playfully whispered to Marian, after the introduction which had been
                  given him. And Marian felt the necessity of showing how very important she was,
                  and how necessary to Harry's existence, by detailing their plans to the several
                  polite Wall Street friends of her
                  husband, while Harry went to the office below, to purchase a commutation
                  ticket—for he intended to travel to New York every morning, and back to the Branch
                  every night, with the rest of the fellows—had already paid for a camp-stool, in
                  view of the necessities of the morning trip up and the evening trip down, and had
                  been duly inducted into the mysterious process of obtaining a half-bottle without
                  delay, by an extra quarter to one of the swallow-tail-coated waiters in the
                  dining-room.
               And then, the prospects for that trip were so pleasant; the air was so bracing (at
                  the Branch) early in the morning; the boat arrived at her pier in due time for his
                  attendance at the office and the Board; it was such jolly fun to catch the cool,
                  invigorating sea-breeze after a day's hot work in the city, and there were so many
                  nice tables, and such good wine on ice in the gorgeous dining-room; and Levy
                  played so gloriously upon the cornet, and the "Band" discoursed such nice music;
                  and there were so many euchre (and poker) parties in the "private parlors," to be
                  obtained at the moderate price of two dollars per trip, on the Plymouth
                     Rock; and then Tilton, the Captain of the boat, was such a jolly good
                  fellow, and it was such a pleasant ride up the beach, with the ocean on one side
                  and the river and Highlands on the other; and there were so many pretty ladies,
                  whom the Wall Street fellows knew and chatted with; and the change would be such a
                  good thing for Marian; and the boys could come over from the hotels and take a
                  smoke with them on Sunday; and there were the Saturday night "hops" at the big
                  houses, and there was the Club House to go to (semi-occasionally); and there was
                  Monmouth Park, and the races in the July and the August meetings. To make
                  everything serene, and the prospect still more pleasant, there was Fred Margin at
                  the dépôt, whip in hand and horses prancing, with the new "drag"—all brilliant and
                  sparkling, just from Brewster's—waiting for Harry and Marian; and the coachman was
                  there, too, waiting for the girls who were to officiate as cook and
                  chambermaid.
               
               "All right, Fred?" asked Honeydew, as he assisted Marian to climb up to the back
                  seat of the two-story vehicle, after starting the girls off home in a hack,
                  attended by the coachman; "horses all right, and house open?"
               "Yes; and I've ordered a nice dinner to be sent down from Iauch's, to be ready at
                  half-past six!" was the proud reply, given with the ejaculatory interpolations of
                  "Whoa, Dick! Steady, Prince! Whoa, boys!" as Harry mounted to the front seat, and,
                  amid the cloud of omnibuses, pony-wagons, and private carriages, they rolled away
                  up the beach road, to take a turn past the hotels before dinner, as a commencement
                  to their Long Branch season.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               LONG BRANCH.
               THE music of the waves, which the sea-side poets so devoutly put into their
                  watering-place rhymes, fell upon the ears of a pleasant household at the Long
                  Branch cottage. Mr. 
                     Livingstone
                     Livingston
                   Speculate had laid things out nicely in his selection, and the furniture
                  which he had left in the house, without being very elaborate, or very abundant,
                  was sufficient for the purpose; and as Marian unpacked a couple of her trunks that
                  evening, while Harry and Fred were taking it lazily, behind good cigars, upon the
                  piazza, the soft moonlight looked pretty out on the ocean, and she liked Long
                  Branch.
               How charming the little lady looked in her négligé dress, her soft brown hair coquettishly attractive, as it
                  hung a-down her shoulders, and played about in the sea-breeze! She turned the corner of the piazza, breaking upon them
                  like a picture, and came towards the gentlemen, throwing her arms lovingly around
                  Harry's neck, with an utter disregard of hot cigar ashes upon his shirt bosom, and
                  then, after a couple of energetic attempts, seated herself at his feet in the
                  hammock in which he swung.
               "Why, pet, you're jolly, to-night!" said Honeydew, setting the hammock a-swinging,
                  and creating a new breeze by the oscillation; "are you happy?"
               "Yes, Harry, I'm happy, and this seems like living!"
               The dear little woman was in earnest, and Honeydew knew that she was; there was
                  nothing now to be said—they were fairly embarked in their new enterprise of
                  cooperative housekeeping, and as Marian was tired after her travel and her
                  unpacking, at an early hour in that moonlight evening there was quiet in the
                  Honeydew household.
               And there was an order for early breakfast in the morning conveyed to Miss Maggie
                  Murphy, and by Miss Murphy conveyed to Miss Feeney.
               
               There wasn't quite so pleasant an atmosphere out of doors, or in, the next morning
                  at half-past six o'clock, when the Honeydew cooperative household turned out from
                  beds, and in to breakfast. As frequently, at the seaside, it had clouded over
                  during the night, there was a drizzling sort of shower, and it was an unpleasant
                  July morning, with very little air on the land, and little upon the ocean.
               Away off at sea, the outward-bound schooners lay almost motionless, working slowly
                  off shore, and with their dingy, damp sails flapping idly against their masts,
                  while the carriages which passed the door, bearing passengers to the earlier
                  morning trains looked very blue, from the rain upon their black paint; and the
                  whole aspect was damp, gloomy and foreboding as Marian stood at the front door,
                  looking out upon the road and upon the shadowy horses moving along in the fog.
               There were two anxious gentlemen in
                  waiting for that early breakfast. Six o'clock was n't so terribly early, to be
                  sure, of a clear, sunshiny morning; but it did come a little early for two-thirds
                  of the firm of Margin, Short and Honeydew, that day. Harry never felt more like
                  sleeping in his life, and Fred rolled down into the parlor, and out upon the
                  piazza, with his eyes full of what he called "sea-fog," and just a little
                  ill-natured, as he called at the foot of the stair-way for Honeydew to get up and
                  come down, if he wanted to go to town.
               The reason of his impatience was a cursory view which he took of the dining-room.
                  How long it might possibly take to set the table, he did not know—and there was
                  nothing on it, but the tablecloth and a partly filled tumbler.
               Simultaneously with the appearance of Marian Honeydew from off the piazza there
                  came a sudden sunburst of Ireland from the kitchen. Maggie Murphy was angry, she
                  had cooked a breakfast, such as it was—for Marian had forgotten that the stores
                  were not at the corner of the street—and what little there was for breakfast had
                  been made ready, in expectation of being taken to the dining-room.
               But no Miss Feeney was visible.
               The new young lady had been awakened from her early morning slumbers by Maggie;
                  but a second nap had been too great a temptation, and she had just made her
                  appearance in the kitchen with unkempt hair, and slip-shod, and had deliberately
                  proceeded to wash her face in one of the clean dish-pans which Maggie had laid
                  aside for private use.
               "Shure, ma'am, an' it's too bad, indade, ma'am, with the strange gintleman in the
                  house, an' the dishes all cooked an' waitin', and no one to put them on the table.
                  D'ye see that?" said Maggie, pathetically.
               She nodded patronizingly at the new waitress, who stood with arms a-kimbo, leaning
                  against the open window, quite oblivious to the possible effect of the
                  oration.
               To add to the indignity of the situation, Harry thrust his head into the kitchen,
                  and demanded something to eat, in no very mild tone of voice, with the concise
                  remark that "the train went in half an
                  hour, and it rained like sin, out o' doors!"
               Little did the newly arisen Miss Feeney care what Mr. Honeydew wanted. She had
                  successfully played her trump card in the hand she held. With no very definite
                  idea where Long Branch was, how long it took to reach it, or by what
                  route, she had engaged to go into the country, was fresh from the Intelligence
                  Office, and had formed no very pleasant opinion of a sea-side residence upon her
                  arrival.
               "Are you going to work?" asked Marian, with all the authority which she could
                  command, and addressing her conversation solely to the young woman with the
                  unkempt hair, who still maintained her position by the window—"what do you
                  mean?"
               "What do I mane, is it?" was the quick reply. "What d'ye suppose I mane, ma 'am?
                  I'll not stay in this place, ye may be sure!"
               "Will you set that table?"
               "That I won't! If ye want it set, as ye call it, do it yerself!"
               And the girl sat down upon a vacant chair, while Marian appealed, by a look of
                  calm submission, to the now very angry and very red-faced cook.
               Persuasion was useless—arguments were beyond the limited comprehension of the
                  waitress—there was already a fair share of the half hour of time passed away, and
                  Marian had but one thing to do, which was to carry in the dishes herself, and pour
                  out the coffee with all possible haste.
               The poor little woman had seen her pretty picture of sea-side comfort fade away,
                  like the shadows from a camera, and, had it not been for the presence of Fred,
                  would have indulged in a feminine cry, by way of relief to her lacerated
                  feelings.
               There was no time for that, however; business was important—Harry must go to the
                  City, and there was scarcely time to catch the train. Biscuits were grown cold,
                  and there was no time to indulge in beefsteak or potatoes. The few moments left
                  for leave-taking were devoted to a private conversation at the front door, and in
                  silence, if not in anger, Honeydew walked over with Fred to the dépôt pôt, sprang upon the platform of the
                  smoking-car, and started for New York, leaving Marian, trying to smile, but rather
                  bashful, looking after them as they walked away.
               Once, and once only he looked towards the cottage; the train passed only a couple
                  of fields away, and as they moved off behind the wheezy engine, he saw a small
                  white handkerchief being waved as adieu at him, and waved his own in
                  return—mechanically, at least, for he was hungry, ill-humored, and very much
                  disgusted—and he maintained a peculiarly indefinite aspect, and a solemn silence,
                  broken only by an occasional monosyllable, until they reached the Plymouth
                     Rock.
               How far a good breakfast à la carte may have affected him
                  remains to be imagined; that it did affect him may be supposed from
                  the conversation with Fred and a couple of Wall Street friends, over the iced
                  champagne which was "set up" before them. The conversation "culminated" in a
                  message sent by telegraph to dear Mamma, from the Broad Street office, asking her
                  to "send Annie down to the Branch by the afternoon boat," and by his going back by
                  the 10:40 A. M. line, and finding Marian quite disconsolate, and the new girl not
                  missing from the cottage, but in a high state of insubordination.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               MILESIAN VISITORS.
               
                  
                     
                        "The Wall Street Broker, traveling with the men,
                        Sailed up the bay, and then sailed back again"—
                     
                   would be a good alteration of old lines, appropriate to Honeydew's situation,
                  as he stepped on board the good steamer Jesse Hoyt, on the way back
                  to Long Branch, with his feelings wrought up to their highest possible pitch of
                  household excitement, and with his conscience loaded down with censure at what he
                  thought to be injustice towards his wife.
               The skeleton in his housekeeping closet was, figuratively, grinning at him in all
                  its hideous deformity, and he couldn't smile back at the skeleton. He had toned
                  himself down from his indignant attitude long before the train reached Long Branch
                  station, and, entering the house by the back door, rushed up to his room, to find
                  Marian pale, anxious and tearful.
               "Cheer up, darling, cheer up!" was his first sentence. "I'll help you out
                  to-day!"
               But how? was the question. There was a thoroughly demoralized state of affairs at
                  the cottage. The contagion had extended to Maggie Murphy, the pattern cook, and
                  she was having a genteel row with Richard, the coachman, while the waitress was
                  sulking in the dining-room. The belligerent servants and the indignant mistress
                  had drawn fire; there was a cessation of active hostilities, while the breakfast
                  things, at twelve o'clock, stood upon the dining-table.
               The sudden appearance of the gentleman, however, had a good effect, and probably
                  saved Marian from the mortification of an abusive scene with the servants, or the
                  inconvenience of a secession of the whole force. The wrangling dispute between
                  Richard and Maggie came to a climax. Richard had laid violent hands upon a
                  water-pail, to carry water to the horses, and Maggie had protested, whereupon
                  Richard did use it to water the horses, and then tossed it in upon the kitchen
                  floor, so that it struck Miss Maggie upon the ankles as it rolled across the room
                  whereupon the cook had become justly incensed.
               Usurping the privileges of his wife, Harry Honeydew delivered a short, pithy
                  address to the refractory help. Maggie, after stating that there was nothing for
                  dinner, no coal to cook with, and that the well-water was "salty," took to her
                  dishes, and made a second wood fire—the waitress commenced setting the dining-room
                  in order, and Richard began the harnessing of the horses, without a word of
                  opposition, contenting himself with a venomous glance at the cook.
               The sea-fog had cleared away, and with it the temporary clouds above the Honeydew
                  household. Harry started off to the village—bought coal, and had it sent to the
                  house—opened an account at the general country store, and with fresh-caught fish
                  in abundance, which he deposited with an air of triumph upon the kitchen
                  table—provided enough of provisions for one day at least, and started off for a
                  ride, taking Marian along with him, leaving the household to run itself, and
                  bringing up at the dépôt at train time, to meet Fred and his other expected
                  visitor—that is, the sister-in-law who was to comfort Marian in her perplexity;
                  but other and unexpected ones came, without a greeting from the Honeydews.
               No sooner had the dinner been finished, and the pleasant little family party of
                  four congregated upon the sea-front side of the piazza, than there was a barking
                  of the coach-dog heard, and the dog continued to bark until Harry went around to
                  the back of the house, to enquire the reason for the disturbance.
               The dog was right—he should have barked; and the appearance of two
                  slovenly-looking fellows, who hung around the back door, was sufficient reason for
                  his canine manifestations.
               There was mud upon their boots, and their faces were unshaven; and they were in
                  conversation with the new waitress.
               "Well, my men, what is wanted?" was the first question which Honeydew asked.
               
               A sort of low comedy smile was the fellow's reply.
               "My cousin, sir, and a friend!"
               There was a degree of positive assurance about this announcement which was
                  refreshingly decisive, with the two gentlemen lately arrived, friends in ordinary
                  to the new girl.
               So, out of deference to Miss Feeney's feelings, Honeydew returned to the front
                  piazza, as Miss Feeney took possession of the back one, and gave her tired
                  "cousin" and his friend a few "scraps" from the table.
               How glad the lately arrived girl was to see the "cousin," and how nicely the story
                  of the one relation "out West," comported with his arrival at Long Branch quite as
                  soon as Miss Feeney's was an open question. To use a phrase bordering upon slang,
                  but very expressive, it was "thin"—quite transparent—and Harry Honeydew thought
                  so.
               The cousin and his friend lingered about the premises till late at night, and were
                  sitting upon the back steps when the family retired, and when Maggie was ready to
                  shut up the house.
               But they looked so innocent, and were apparently so inoffensive, and it seemed so
                  great a pity to deprive the poor girl of their companionship, that Marian
                  hesitated about ordering the men away, and waited nearly an hour—till it was
                  eleven o'clock—before Harry was sent down, in dressing-gown and slippers, to
                  dismiss the visitors and close up the establishment.
               There were looks of indignation, when he reached the back door—but the men took
                  the order without a word, at least that Harry could interpret, and the girl went
                  slowly up the back stairs, leaving him to lock the door, and affording him also
                  the privilege of taking the extra precaution of noting the fastenings to the
                  windows and the bolts upon the cellar shutters, which opened upon the outside.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               A PAINFUL DISCOVERY.
               MARIAN'S pretty little clock had ticked away all night, in its soberest way, and
                  was just striking six A. M., when Harry opened his sleepy eyes, and went out into
                  the hall to arouse the girls. It was a custom which the necessity for early
                  breakfast had taught him, and he thumped away at the cook's door with a violence
                  which would have recalled a remembrance of the cry of "Fall River!" accompanied by
                  three knocks upon stateroom doors, familiar to the travelers to Boston by the
                  boat. Maggie started from her bed, and answered sleepily—so Harry told her to call
                  the chambermaid, who had been given sleeping quarters in another room, and went
                  back to his own bed for just three minutes more of semi-somnolency, but which he
                  was not allowed to have.
               "God save us, sir, the girl is gone!" were the startling words which were shouted
                  at the door of his room two minutes after, while the latch was turned and the head
                  of the cook thrust within the opening made by the swinging door—"Gone; an' her
                  clothes wid her!"
               The frightened girl, with her face the complete picture of dismay and terror,
                  standing in her night-dress, and barefooted, clung to the side of the door for
                  support, making an exhibition of Celtic female loveliness in a disorganized state
                  of toilet, which added an interest to the situation fully appreciated by Marian
                  Honeydew, if not by her husband.
               In Marian's nervous state of mind, the sentence which she could not clearly make
                  out carried with it a volume of condensed disaster; and the annoyance of the
                  situation was not mitigated by Harry's evident fright at what had happened.
               "Gone, you say, Maggie; where?" was his inquiry, as Maggie drew back and blushed a
                  little at the realization of her dishabille.
               "Yis, sur, gone—an' God knows where; oh, sir, if ye plaze—"
               By the time she had reached the word
                  "plaze," Harry had pulled on his boots and pants, and he dashed out of his room,
                  and over to the chambermaid's in breathless anxiety.
               The bed had evidently not been occupied during the night—the window was open, and
                  beneath it were the marks of heavy foot-prints together with one or two hair-pins
                  and a dirty neck-tie, easily to be recognized as one which had been
                     stolen from Marian.
               The girl had thrown her clothes from the window, and the worst fears which Harry
                  might form of what had been done, had good promise of being found well
                  deserved.
               By this time Fred had been aroused by the unusual clamor, and Annie had emerged
                  from her room, in her night dress, and there was altogether a lively family scene,
                  with a confused family party.
               Down to the kitchen went the quartette of frightened housekeepers, Harry leading,
                  Fred next, then Annie, and then the cook; Marian remaining at the head of the
                  stairway, clinging to the balusters for support.
               The dining-room told the rest of the story. The drawers of the buffet were open, the napkins kins scattered over the
                  floor, and not a single silver spoon or fork was to be found. The back-door of the
                  kitchen was shut, but unlocked, one of the windows open, and beside the cellar
                  door, lying with his head upon the steps, was the coach dog, dead, from a blow
                  upon the head inflicted with an iron "jimmy," which had been used to force an
                  entrance to the cellar.
               The "cousin from the West" had paid a timely visit, and the girl who had been his
                  accomplice had made good her escape.
               The drowsy coachman, sleeping in his chamber over the carriage-house, was called
                  up, and evidently knew nothing of the affair, but mourned the loss of his pet dog
                  more than he did the silver-ware for which Harry had, in part, paid, and which
                  Marian had taken from the chest in which the wedding-presents were deposited.
               Nor was the chase to the village, on horseback, of any avail. The policemen, in
                  pay of the Long Branch Commissioners (and especially savage upon hack-drivers) had
                  seen no one of a suspicious character, and the only information which the most diligent inquiry
                  elicited from the railroad people, was, that a man and a woman, with no baggage
                  but a bundle and a bandbox, had taken passage on a freight train, at an early hour
                  in the morning; that it was not an unusual occurrence, and that by the time that
                  Harry was making his investigation, the thieves had arrived at New York, and were
                  safe from pursuit or detection.
               And so, there was one more day of anxiety promised, and another morning of
                  disorganized breakfast. When the two gentlemen went to town by a later train, it
                  was with the firm conviction that faith in womankind—when servants—was ill-placed;
                  and that running a seaside cottage on the cooperative plan was a luxury, rather
                  than a necessity.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               NORAH,—A LAST EXPERIMENT.
               IT was a mortification to Honeydew, when he was compelled to visit the maternal
                  mansion, near the Avenue, an hour after his arrival in New York; but there was no
                  help for it. Marian was young, inexperienced and nervous; she claimed to have need
                  of her mother's advice, and the errand was his second visit to the house since
                  they had given up their apartments at the —— Hotel, and had struck out for
                  themselves.
               Mrs. Weatherby, a little vindictive, but certainly gratified at the unexpected
                  necessity for her assistance or advice, received him rather coldly. When it is
                  considered that, on account of family difficulties, in which there were two sides
                  to the question, Ex-Captain Weatherby did not live at home, and as dear Mamma was
                  consequently the temporal head of the
                  Weatherby establishment, there may be found a reason for that lady's peculiar
                  prerogative of dictation in home and other matters in which she could consistently
                  claim a voice.
               "I told you so, but you never take my advice, you know so much!" was her reply,
                  after hearing the story of the Long Branch troubles.
               She had not told Harry anything of the kind; but he did not choose, just then, to
                  essay a contradiction, and, after a hasty interview, he agreed to meet her at the
                     Plymouth Rock that afternoon, while he went down to the office to
                  report progress to Fred.
               When the report of the Committee of One was duly made, the Committee of One was
                  somewhat surprised. The conversation took place a little after two o'clock, while
                  the stock sales were being compared, and when the office was a busy one.
               "You can give the old lady my room for to-night, then," said Fred, as he lighted a
                  fresh cigar, looking at Honeydew with a glance which may have had some pity for an
                  unfortunate Benedict in its signification.
               "Why, no, she can room with Marian, and I can go in with you. Nothing of the kind,
                  my dear fellow, I won't listen to it, there's room enough, somewhere, for us
                  all."
               Fred thought not, and Harry insisted, till, finally, the frank avowal was made
                  that "there wasn't room in the house for all of them, if Mrs. Weatherby was to
                  become a permanent visitor."
               The argument did not admit of extension. Fred knew the characteristics of dear
                  Mamma, and he was not slow in appreciating the inconvenience of having a stranger
                  in the house on such an emergency.
               "Fact is, Harry," said Fred, after a pause of ten minutes in their conversation,
                  "I do n't care much about the arrangement, if the old lady is to have her finger
                  in the pie; I do n't like her; you and Marian are good enough, and Annie; but when
                  it comes to your Duchess of Kent of a mother-in-law, excuse me, please!"
               It was said good-naturedly, and a private engagement in the City was pleaded as a further excuse, for the present. They
                  were two old friends, and were too intimately associated, socially and
                  financially, to quarrel, and so, Honeydew accepted the situation just as it was
                  forced upon him, and prepared to make every excuse but the correct one, to account
                  for his friend's absence from the cottage.
               The trip down to the Branch, with the big boat, the music, the Wall street
                  fellows, and the sight of Marian at the dépôt, smoothed matters nicely, and at the
                  cottage there was a recapitulation of all the adventures, in which narration even
                  Maggie Murphy took part, and volunteered the information that her sister was
                  expected to arrive from the old country in a few days, and she would engage her to
                  come as chambermaid and waitress, for twelve dollars a month.
               Marian, Harry and dear Mamma accepted this as the best thing to be done, and after
                  a day or two at the sea-side, dear Mamma went home; Marian became more composed;
                  Fred became a member of the household, and the new girl arrived, in brogans and
                  homespun.
               Norah was willing, but stupid, and Maggie "instructed" her in a loud tone of
                  voice, and, having now in the persons of herself and sister, the absolute control
                  of the household, she did not hesitate to assert her authority.
               Still, there was so much to be seen, and so much to do at the Branch, that the
                  experiment was relieved from part of its objectionable features. The season was at
                  its height—there was so much of pleasantness in the whole arrangement, and so many
                  friends at the hotels, that the worriment of the housekeeper found a panacea in
                  the outside attractions.
               Tom Delivery brought down his horse, and took rooms at the "West End"—several
                  friends of the boys were quartered at the "Continental"—there was a nice party of
                  congenial folks at "Howland's," and as the Honeydews were in with the ring of
                  Presidential admirers who clustered in the cottages over the Pond, it was pleasant
                  indeed. Besides, Marian had been presented with a pony-phaeton and a pony, as a
                  birth-day present.
               
               Judge then of the new difficulty which beset the little lady when she came back,
                  tearful and anxious after a turn up the beach in the pony-phaeton, and told Harry,
                  while the tears gave place to indignation, and her dark eyes flashed with the most
                  polite of society anger, that the Fungus family had deliberately "cut" her, when
                  she met them on the beach-road.
               The Fungus family were a portion of the nabob population of Long Branch— rich,
                  fairly educated, a little "mushroomy" as to their prestige, and claiming to have
                  ancestral pedigrees away back among the records of the "Irish Kings;" and as the
                  Fungus family were jolly, good-humored, generous folks and eligible acquaintances,
                  the event worried Mrs. Honeydew.
               "Cut you, my dear—why, you must be mistaken! Only a week ago they were at the West
                  End hop, and you have not seen them since;" was the assuring consolation which
                  Harry attempted to give his outraged wife.
               "But, I tell you, Harry, that they cut me— flat—to-day, on the drive. They passed
                  me twice, and they did not return my bow, at all."
               "Do n't you owe them a call, my darling? You know these watering-place people are
                  sensitive, sometimes."
               "Indeed, I do n't, they have not returned the last one which I made them."
               Just at that moment, Norah was seen crossing the hall, and so Harry called her,
                  and inquired if Mrs. Fungus had been at the house during his wife's
                  absence—whether there were any cards which had not been given to Marian.
               The girl stared at him in a stupid way, and then, with her hands clapped down at
                  her side, looked inquiringly at both master and mistress, and Harry began to
                  divine the possible cause of the difficulty.
               "Ye mane was there anybody here while the missus was out wid the wagon?"
               "Yes, Norah, that's what I mean—has anybody called?"
               "No, sir, they didn't call—the coachman rang the bell, an' the ladies
                  stopped in the wagon—that high sate iv
                  a coach, wid the two men sittin' on the top iv it."
               "Well, what was the message?"
               "Divil a word, then, sir—the man came up to the door, and handed me a bit iv
                  paper; I told him there was nothing for him, an' I shut the door in his dirthy
                  face, I did!"
               The secret was out—the polite and attentive waitress had insulted the visitors,
                  and the Honeydews were "out" with the Fungus family, and were not
                  invited to the Fungus family's entertainment that evening, as a consequence—and
                  the Honeydews knew that there was an entertainment, for everybody had spoken of
                  it, and Iauch had received the order for the refreshments, so, at least Iauch's
                  Italian porter had told them, when he brought the Neapolitan ice cream for the
                  dessert, that afternoon.
               Indignant as Marian was, she could say nothing—the neglect of an invitation to the
                  evening party was not to be overlooked, and the affront of that neglect had made a
                  breach in the social circle which could not be easily spanned over by the hedging
                  process of mutual apology, except by accident.
               The stupidity of Maggie's sister was amusing, after all. She had committed more
                  errors in the dining-room than could be forgiven, however.
               How she had mistaken the slices of lemon in the finger-bowls for an attempt at
                  lemonade, and had offered a teaspoon and the pulverized sugar to the guests upon
                  the occasion of the dinner-party upon the next Sunday, how she spilled the
                     consommé soup over Marian's pretty summer
                  silk, at that same dinner-party—how she put the water in the champagne-glasses,
                  and placed the cracked ice out on the piazza to be kept cool—and how she had
                  opened the ice-cream to taste it, and had allowed the salt to creep in through the
                  opening when she removed the cover to the form—were matters to be remedied by
                  experience, and could be forgiven, after a time; but when both Maggie and she
                  insisted upon going to early church every Sunday morning, and finally demanded
                  that, for lack of a commoner conveyance, they must be sent in the phaeton, and Richard did not get back to the
                  house in time for the proper breakfast-hour, the trouble became worse, and within
                  a fortnight, one bright Monday morning, both of the servants packed up, ready to
                  leave, and the Long Branch cottage was left without "help," and with Mrs. Honeydew
                  not well enough to undertake the work herself; and the family were forced to
                  "colonize" for a week, by sleeping at home, and going over to the "Continental"
                  for their meals, for want of a cook to prepare the victuals, or waitress to serve
                  them at the table.
               And in two days more, Harry and Marian had packed up and gone away from the Branch
                  for the White Mountains. Coachman, horses, and all had been sent away at the same
                  time. Fred took the horses off to Lake Mahopac, where he determined to "club it"
                  with some of the brokers, and as Marian needed a change, Harry sent part of the
                  trunks off to the establishment on East —— Street, and gave Richard the privilege
                  of sleeping in the house, to take care of it, and kept him under reduced pay in
                  the meanwhile.
               For the next few weeks the letters were dated at various places, all the way from
                  Centre Harbor, on Lake Winnipiseogee, to North Conway, and the Honeydews voted the
                  Profile House an "institution"—far ahead of the Long Branch cottage.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               BABY-KINGDOM.
               THE winds were cool at the mountains, and there had been early snowflakes on Mount
                  Washington, before the Honeydews had decided to turn their faces homeward; in
                  fact, they had stolen one more week, and were glorying in shawls at Centre Harbor,
                  together with Tom Delivery, who had sailed up the Lake one afternoon on the pretty
                  little steamer Chocurua—the boat with the small cabin aft, the
                  squatty pilot-house, and the very long smoke-stack—when a message reached them
                  which decided their action.
               The man Richard, whom they had left in charge of the house in East —— Street had
                  been making himself very much at home, and high revels had been held in the
                  dining-room, in which several horse-trainers and one retired pugilist with a fair
                  sprinkling of the servant-maids from the neighborhood had been the guests.
               How long the "goings on" had been in order was not exactly known, but Mrs.
                  Weatherby had made the discovery, had communicated the news in a confidential
                  letter—written in good English by one of the daughters—and Marian had cried over
                  the letter, for she was growing so delicate in health, that it became necessary
                  for them to return to the house in East —— Street, and once more commit themselves
                  to the care of servants.
               It was rough weather in September, by the Fall River Route. Point Judith had a
                  private sea of its own always on hand, and so they preferred, from respect to
                  Marian's comfort, or her delicate condition, the ride by rail from Boston, rather
                  than one of the big staterooms and the chance of sea-sickness on the
                     Bristol or the Providence.
               How strange the streets of the City seemed to Marian, as she took a carriage to go
                  up-town from the dépôt! So they rattled away home, with one of the trunks—the big
                  one—strapped upon the coach, and the rest of the "traps" coming by express, including an assortment of
                  fishing-rods which would have done credit to a new frontispiece to one of Murray's
                  Guide-Books to the Adirondacks—Murray, the eloquent divine of Boston, who told
                  such marvellous stories of the blissful beauties of the mountains, and set half
                  the school-girls of Boston and vicinity mountain-crazy, and almost made a "corner"
                  in heavy boots and camping-out equipments in the stores on Washington and Tremont
                  Streets, a few years ago.
               Richard had departed, and the keys of the house were in possession of Mrs.
                  Weatherby, to whose maternal residence the Honeydews went on arrival—that is,
                  Marian staid there, while Harry and Tom made themselves comfortable at the other
                  house, to receive the trunks and baggage, and breakfasted at Delmonico's in the
                  morning.
               For nearly a week after, there was a servant-siege at the front door. An
                  advertisement which Harry had inserted in the Herald brought no
                  less than twenty applicants for the cookship, and as many again for the berth of
                  chambermaid and waitress. Marian had profited a little by her experience, and
                  after several changes, which brought four cooks into the house and sent the same
                  number out of it, the cold weather set in, and the first snows of the season were
                  beginning to fall, when an English girl became the last new cook.
               Her history was somewhat romantic. She had run away from home, had come to America
                  nearly two years before, had set up a small pie and cake establishment on one of
                  the East-side Avenues, and had failed in her undertaking, because, as she
                  frequently averred, "she gave too much for the money." So Letty (short for
                  Letitia, she said,) gave up the shop, and became the mistress of the kitchen in
                  the Honeydew establishment.
               Yet Letty had her faults. She was literary in her taste, and would sit up late o'
                  nights reading "standard literature," in the shape of cheap novels; and as she
                  "burned the midnight" gas, was often more than commonly sleepy in the morning, and
                  would insist, during the day, upon every possible occasion, on detailing to Marian "'ow they did things at 'ome,"
                  and threw in very frequent quotations from the late novels, or very free
                  renderings of the poets, while at work in the kitchen, to the horror of the
                  up-stairs girl, who was undoubted Irish, and carried the natural hatred of the
                  English with her in her associations with the cook.
               Notwithstanding the temptations of Harry's book-case, and notwithstanding the
                  inevitable discussions upon the comparative differences between the upper society
                  of England and America, to which Marian was subjected in the course of her daily
                  interviews with Letty, Letty was a success in some respects, and was accepted as
                  the best one of all the servants since the return of the Honeydews from the
                  mountains.
               Besides, she seemed so capable of giving advice to Marian, upon several important
                  subjects, and was so handy about the house generally, that the finding of "The
                  Three Spaniards" (an illustrated copy) on the shelf among the dishes, was
                  considered a matter of little consequence.
               And now it was that Harry Honeydew found the state of affairs in the household
                  more than ordinarily important; the very frequent visits of the sisters-in-law,
                  and the daily presence of Mrs. Weatherby, who floated about the house from one end
                  to the other, keeping a sharp eye upon Marian, told him that the first crisis of
                  their married life was approaching. He rather liked the affectionate and anxious
                  inquiry after Mrs. Honeydew's health, and became very nervous when he went away
                  from home in the morning—asked, no less than three times each day, that a despatch
                  be sent to him "if any thing particular happened in his absence," and felt that
                  dear little dark-eyed Marian needed all his tenderness, all his care, and all his
                  possible indulgence towards herself—and expected it towards her dear Mamma.
               And then, away along towards the Christmas time, after the heater in the cellar
                  had been set a-going, and after an additional personage had been added to the
                  household, in the person of a very fidgetty and very reticent middle-aged lady—who
                  came splendidly recommended ed by a
                  particular friend, and had withstood the test of a critical cross-examination from
                  dear Mamma—there was a present sent, very early one cold morning, by one of the
                  kindly neighbors, who had become a visitor to the house.
               It was a large white, pin-cushion, embroidered in satin, and bordered with blue,
                  and on it, studded in bright pins, were the words: 
                     WELCOME LITTLE STRANGER.
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               BABY'S CABINET.
               COMING, with the snowflakes, in the bleak cold month of December, the Baby-King,
                  in all the glorious household majesty and prettiness of a chubby little nose—which
                  had scarcely come to be a nose, it was so short and stubby—a round head, with a
                  knot of funny dark hair struggling for existence on the top of it; pretty,
                  straight limbs and dimpled hands, and a pair of chubby little feet; which were
                  eternally playing at cross purposes with each other, had set up, without any
                  knowledge on his part, the most perfect of Baby Kingdoms, and had been provided
                  with a cabinet, without the trouble of selecting the members.
               With the coming of the "Little Stranger," whose advent had been welcomed in pins
                  on the pin-cushion, there had been a change— sudden in its development, notwithstanding its long
                  expectation—and all the necessary preparation which had been made for the occasion
                  of an heir to the Honeydew estate in bonds and personal property.
               Baby-King, without an articulate word, and Baby's Cabinet ruled the household.
                  Harry Honeydew was permitted to have the proper solicitude for Marian, and a
                  commendable anxiety as to the baby, but beyond that, he scarcely seemed to be an
                  integral part of the household, to say nothing of his loss of authority as the
                  head of the establishment.
               A third story back room, furnished with a cot-bed, and a small mirror, with a
                  washstand and a small table, were his designated quarters. Mrs. Weatherby found it
                  necessary to take possession of the spare-room, in order to be near to Marian.
                  Marian's room was kept dark and silent; the front-door bell was partly muffled,
                  that its sound might not disturb the young mother, who looked so pretty, with her
                  pale face and her dark eyes, and her brown hair; and Baby's Cabinet was in
                  continual session, with closed doors.
               Whether the nurse or dear Mamma was the "prime minister," was a question open to
                  considerable argument. It was one of those Lord Dundreary things, "which no fellow
                  could find out," and which Harry did not consider it politic to try to settle.
               The professional qualifications of Mrs. Wrackett (the nurse) were her
                  recommendations to the favor of dear Mamma, who had, with commendable (!)
                  forethought, undertaken the management of the house, and the welfare of Marian
                  Honeydew during the interesting period which reached its height with the present
                  of the pin-cushion worked on white satin and blue, and ornamented with the
                  pin-head inscription. The full weight of these qualifications being duly taken
                  into consideration, there were certain peculiarities and afflictions to which Mrs.
                  Wrackett was subject, which were hardly characteristic of that inevitable
                  temporary attachment to the household of young married people, known as the
                  nurse.
               She had reached an age, and claimed so vast an amount of experience, that she
                     sometimes times ran in conflict with
                  dear Mamma's experience and her way of doing things; as a consequence, there were
                  several animated discussions in the spare-room, in which many questions at issue
                  were submitted to the Doctor, who, by the way, failed to win the entire regard of
                  Mrs. Weatherby by nearly always giving his decision in favor of the nurse, who was
                  his especial appointee.
               Mrs. Wrackett was crochetty and fretful, and somewhat rheumatic. The halls were
                  cold, she said, and she exacted more attention from the cook and waitress than
                  either of them were inclined freely to give. Her rheumatic ailment was the source
                  of continual exclamation, and she went about the house, on cold or damp days, with
                  her limbs bound up in red flannel and brown paper, and considered Martell brandy
                  and salt the only proper remedies for her affliction.
               She had brought with her a trunk and a bandbox, as though she proposed to make a
                  long stay of it, and really, in some instances, worried the young mother more by
                  her fidgetty gyrations around the room and bedside than the visitors who wanted to
                  see the baby and were admitted to the room of the interesting invalid.
               And dear Mamma, in her authoritative German-English voice, would insist upon
                  holding conversations upon every possible topic, in the sick-room, until Marian
                  was more than once forced to ask her to quit the apartment, and was found by
                  Harry, upon his return home at night, in a state of feverish excitement bordering
                  on the dangerous.
               The joint-proprietorship which he claimed in the infantile Honeydew seemed to give
                  him no privileges. He was allowed to turn down the covers very carefully, and take
                  a look at the little helpless head lying close to Marian, and he was allowed to
                  make a few affectionate inquiries as to the condition of his dear little wife, and
                  then he was sent off to the library, or the parlor, or the dining-room, and as he
                  did n't want to go out to the club and play billiards, he generally read over all
                  the papers and the magazines, and commenced the second reading of Irving's works,
                  by way of amusement.
               
               He was sitting in the library one evening, just after New Years, and was about as
                  comfortable as a man could be, with slippers and smoking-jacket, and a good cigar,
                  when there were noises heard through the speaking-tube near him, which caused him
                  to listen. With his ear to the mouthpiece, he could hear very distinctly all that
                  was being said, or was going on in the kitchen.
               "I tell ye, Katey, if that ould woman comes fussin' around here to-night, wantin'
                  her black tea sthrong, an' her toast, all for herself, I 'll give her a blast
                  that'll settle her for awhile; an' I'll give the master notice that my month's up
                  to-morrow, an' I'm going!"
               The cook was the speaker.
               "An' ye 're right, so ye are; ye 're right intirely; divil a word iv her
                  blatherin' would I stand, indade! She's as fussy as an ould witch, and as
                  crass-timpered as an ould fairy in the Killiloo bogs, so she is!"
               Katey, the chambermaid, was the speaker this time.
               The conversation overheard by Harry told a true story to him. Another rebellion
                  was upon the eve of breaking out, and would soon be forced to a decided
                  complexion. He could hear the creaking shoes of the nurse upon the stairway, as
                  she came down.
               Away went the paper; he gave an extraordinarily strong pull at his cigar, by way
                  of fortifying himself to resist an attack, should it be made, and called the woman
                  into the library.
               She was carrying a bowl and a plate, on her way to the kitchen, and she sat both
                  down upon a library chair, and then took possession of another one, leaving Harry
                  to stand while he addressed her.
               "Mrs. Wrackett," said Harry, in a quiet tone, "how much longer do you intend to
                  remain here? Baby is more than a month old, you know, and Mrs. Honeydew has been
                  down stairs and about the house for almost a week."
               Mrs. Wrackett stared at him in an inquiring sort of way, and then answering with a
                  determined emphasis on a part of the sentence, replied:
               "As long as Mrs. Weatherby wants to keep me, to be sure!"
               
               "Mrs. Weatherby, eh! I merely wanted to know—that was all," said Harry, pausing
                  just long enough to show the nurse that he desired no further conversation, and
                  then, as she picked up the bowl and the plate and left the room, he slowly went
                  up-stairs.
               Marian was sitting in the big chair, baby was asleep in the new cradle, with the
                  blue hangings and the lace upon it, the drop-light had been turned well-down, and
                  was nicely shaded, and the room looked pretty, warm, and comfortable.
               "Well, darling, you're tired of this; I suppose," was Marian's languid salutation;
                  "come over here and kiss me."
               Harry did kiss her, and more than once; and then, as there was just the least
                  possible gurgling noise from the little fellow in the cradle, he stepped lightly
                  over to it, gave it a few pushes with his hand, to set it a-rocking; baby became
                  quiet, and he sat down upon the floor, at Marian's feet, to have a talk.
               It was the first chance that he had found to talk to Marian for many weeks, and
                  their new household treasure, lying asleep in his little cradle, was a new bond of
                  union between them.
               Mrs. Weatherby had gone home, to be absent a day or two, and Marian and he were
                  left to talk over their plans as they saw fit, and to discuss Mrs. Wrackett if
                  they deemed it proper.
               Harry did; and the result of the interview was, that the nurse should go away the
                  next day. A young girl, who knew how to do it, was to be engaged to take care of
                  the baby, and Harry was to give up the poorly furnished third-story back-room, and
                  return to his proper quarters.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               A NEW RÉGIME.
               WITH the new era in life which had opened unto Harry Honeydew, quite with the Xmas
                  chimes, came a determination that, with the new responsibilities of life, there
                  should be a change in the entire management of the household affairs in the
                  Honeydew residence.
               There was no longer any direct occasion for the interference of Mrs. Johanna
                  Weatherby; Marian had passed into the cares of maternity, the agony of expectation
                  of both the father and the mother of the young Honeydew was long over, and there
                  was a new aspect to every apartment, from the library to the third story.
               Angel wings had spread themselves over the portals, and there was an angel
                  presence in the house.
               There was less of cigar smoke in the library, and there were more of newspapers
                  and magazines in Marian's pretty bed-chamber, while the hundred or more little
                  things which were found necessary to the new existence quite filled up the odd
                  nooks and corners, and all the airy nothings, in the way of little worked socks,
                  comb-and-brush holders, and an accumulation of "baby baskets"—every body seemed to
                  think the little fellow deserved a baby-basket, well equipped—transformed
                  apartments which were often quite barren of ornaments into the real pictures of
                  home life.
               There was more than the dawning of a new existence to Marian Honeydew, and when
                  the long winter evenings came, there was no expenditure for reserved seats at the
                  opera and theatre, two or three times a week, for there was work for Marian at
                  home, and she "did n't like to leave the baby."
               And so, Harry Honeydew told, with a fair decree of pride, to all his Wall Street
                  companions, that there was a highly successful baby at his house, and the usual
                  compliments of the Stock Board donation upon such events had been placed in a little ebony box, and put away
                  somewhere, till baby should be big enough to play with it.
               But then, there was a dark side to the picture. Babyhood, in its beautiful
                  innocence, was the distillation of happiness; but innocent babyhood soon came to
                  be troublesome, and the nurse question was found a hard one to bring to a
                  satisfactory solution.
               That the women who hired out as child's nurses were unfit for the position, soon
                  became evident to the Honeydews, and that the proper person to tend the baby was
                  the one thing to be desired, was evident at the same time.
               Poor Marian! What with the cares of the house, the clashing of interest between
                  the cook and the chambermaid, and the constant disagreements with the nurse, there
                  was enough of annoyance to make her maternal cares hard enough to bear.
               Domesticated Harry had been forced to take lessons in taking care of the baby,
                  which he never supposed that he would be taught that winter! He had become an
                  unwilling proficient in the heating of milk; and he was more familiar with the
                  aromatic qualities of "Old Holland Gin," when warm, than he had been during the
                  Delmonico season at the height of the excitement in Saint Paul, Rock Island or
                  North-Western. He became a proficient, also, in herbs, and, to a certain extent,
                  herbivorous; he knew catnip the moment he saw it, and could not be mistaken in its
                  taste, and as to goose-grease, he never before realized how necessary the goose
                  was, when children were to be reared, and the attacks of croup were imminently
                  dangerous.
               Throughout the whole of the cold winter months, and away into March, it was a
                  siege with the baby, and the infantile troubles which the young Honeydew
                  experienced were such as only helpless babyhood could tell of, if helpless
                  babyhood could carry its recollections into after life, and then detail them in a
                  story of babyhood sorrows.
               Marian paid several successive nurse-maids for doing work, and was compelled to do
                  it herself, and the last of them all, the "little girl" whom dear Mamma engaged,
                  fell asleep over the cradle, early in
                  the afternoon, leaving the baby only partly covered by the blanket, and allowed
                  him to take a cold in consequence, which lasted him for a month; and the number of
                  bottles which were broken, the amount of linen which was scorched in the drying,
                  and the number of dishes which were fractured in being carried up-stairs, were
                  more in their aggregate value, than the girl's wages.
               And then, when the spring had opened, and there was a real prospect of being able
                  to go out, Marian engaged an "accomplished" nurse to take charge of the baby, and
                  the young woman came, early on a Monday morning.
               Maria—it was a high-sounding name, less frivolous than Katey, less national than
                  Bridget, Ellen or Mary, and more dignified than Susan—was a good-looking girl,
                  born in Ireland. She had been in this country for ten years, and claimed to be
                  almost an American, and consequently several degrees ahead of the ordinary run of
                  nursery-maids, for which "qualification" she exacted not less than two dollars per
                  month advanced wages, and finally compromised with Marian for one.
               Claiming, then, to be a good nurse, she refused to do anything else than attend to
                  the baby; and it is truth to say, that she complied with the exact intention of
                  the refusal, by doing that and nothing more, even to seeing that Marian's room was
                  in order, and suggested that, as she had to be with the baby, she would not sleep
                  in the room with the other girls, and took possession of the temporary quarters
                  which Harry had occupied in the third story backroom. She evidently meant to stay;
                  her baggage did not consist of one trunk and a bandbox, but there were two trunks,
                  marked each with her name in full, and they came by city express instead of being
                  brought by four small boys, as was generally the case.
               She unpacked both trunks immediately on her arrival, and aroused Marian from her
                  nap and the baby from his sleep, by driving nails into the wall of the third story
                  back room, in order to hang up her clothing, as there was n't space enough on the
                  row of hooks behind the door, and surprised Marian, when she came down, by an application for a hair mattress instead
                  of the husk one which had been provided for her bed.
               This application was referred to Harry, and Harry refused; so Maria was fain to be
                  contented with the husk bed, and accepted the situation with no direct complaint,
                  but with a sulky look which betrayed a high temper in a temporary subjection,
                  perhaps for a politic purpose.
               Of a higher grade than the rest of the servants, Maria carried herself into the
                  kitchen with a little more than becoming dignity, and carried the dishes out, when
                  she needed to take them up-stairs, with an air of superiority which placed her on
                  no very good terms with the rest of the servant-household, and very seriously
                  interfered with her usefulness in doing the washing and the ironing which was
                  necessary to baby's clothes.
               Marian had waited more than an hour, watching baby while he was asleep, one
                  morning, while Maria was at work ironing baby's linen, down in the kitchen. She
                  had rung the bell once already, expecting the nurse to come up-stairs, and was
                  nervously impatient at the delay. Her hat and cloak were upon the bed, and she was
                  waiting for Maria to come, that she might help her with her cloaking and button
                  those little one-and-a-half-sized Polish boots: when she heard a great noise upon
                  the stairs, a war of voices, and chamber-maid and nurse-maid dashed into the
                  room.
               The faces of two second-rate criminal lawyers, arguing a motion before a
                  police-justice would not have been more expressive of contempt towards each other,
                  than the countenances of the two servants, upon that occasion.
               Honora MacMullan, the chambermaid and waitress, being just three steps in advance
                  of the nurse-maid, in coming up-stairs, first reached the door of Marian's room,
                  and with both fists brought down upon it with a simultaneous thump, she threw it
                  open, and came into Marian's presence.
               "Ye're betther than I am, are ye, ye Wexford tramper, ye!" exclaimed
                  the irate Honora, pointing to Maria, who had followed her into the room. "Better than I am,
                  indade— ye niver saw a cloth upon yer table till ye, came here. See here,
                  ma'am?"
               She addressed her conversation to Marian, who had by this time reached the cradle
                  and was rocking the baby, to prevent his waking, and her only answer to the girl,
                  was an inquiring look; she was too much frightened to speak.
               "Do ye hear me, ma'am?" continued Honora, in a louder voice. "I won't take her
                  impertence any longer—it was n't me, ma'am, that done it! 'Twas this
                     supayrior nurse ye have—an' the policeman!"
               "Did what, 'Norah. What's the trouble with you both?" Marian finally mustered
                  courage enough to ask, quite at a loss to see the cause of the difficulty, and
                  nervous enough to cry, from genuine vexation. "What is all this about?"
               "Why, the ale in the cellar ma'am! only a week ago, Mr. Honeydew brought home the
                  dozen bottles for his own drinkin' an' yours, and now they're all gone but two,
                  an' I know where!"
               The quarrel between the girls had been brewing for some time, and had finally
                  reached its breaking out. Norah MacMullan was red-faced and voluble, while Maria
                  was white-faced and silent, though her eyes were gloriously large and brilliant
                  with pent-up anger flashing in their glances, as she looked towards the angry
                  chambermaid.
               "What policeman do you mean?" asked Marian, when there was a
                  temporary lull in the domestic gale which was blowing—"What about the ale?"
               "Why, ma'am, the other night, when ye were out wid the master, an' when ye left
                  the baby wid Maria, she came down into the dinin' room, and sat there wid the
                  policeman, an' gave him the ale to drink, an' took the illigant cigars from the
                  master's case for the dirty blackguard to smoke!"
               Maria could make no reply, or would not. The baby was set a-crying, and the war of
                  words continued for nearly ten minutes, until Norah, exasperated to indiscretion
                  by the nurse's silence, struck her in the face, with the back of her hand, and
                  there was a scene of hair pulling which
                  was only ended by the interference of the cook, when Marian called her upstairs,
                  as she herself ran, crying and frightened, into the next room, carrying the baby
                  in her arms, towards a place of safety; for the battle-ground of the feminine
                  pugilistic encounter was very close to the dear baby's cradle.
               The damage done in the short scrimmage was not heavy, but ridiculous; there were a
                  dozen of hair-pins left lying on the carpet, a linen collar and a silk ribbon torn
                  to pieces, and when the girls went out of the room, Miss Honora MacMullan's left
                  cheek was marked with the prints of Maria's finger-nails, and Maria's hair was
                  hanging down her back, and every button about the upper part of her dress loose
                  and unfastened.
               To add to Marian's discomfort, the door-bell rang, and visitors were announced—a
                  lady with whom she had made an engagement to go shopping had called for her, and,
                  after being admitted by the cook, found Marian in her room, clasping her baby in
                  her arms, her face pale and lips trembling, and the baby crying in spasmodic
                  sobs.
               There was no shopping that day—the nervous excitement of the affray to which she
                  had been a witness, occasioned so severe a headache that poor little Mrs. Honeydew
                  was compelled to go to bed for the rest of the day, after ordering both of the
                  fighting ladies from the house, and her good-natured lady friend volunteered to
                  take care of the child and remain with her till Mr. Honeydew's return.
               An examination of the wine-closet told the truth of the story which 'Norah had
                  begun. The ale had been pretty well used up—several quart bottles of "Napoleon's
                  Cabinet" were missing from the champagne shelf, and nearly a whole box of fine
                     Gonzales Africana cigars had been given away or smoked up. The
                  accomplished nurse had been in the habit of entertaining several friends, upon the
                  evenings when the Honeydews were out, and it was discovered that she had employed
                  a locksmith upon the Avenue to make a duplicate key to the wine-closet, by
                  pleading the excuse that Mr. Honeydew had lost his own key and had instructed her
                  to order a new one to be made.
               Several of Marian's fine laces were also missing, and an examination of the trunks in the girl's room showed that, when
                  she had gone away, she had left only a few things in them, and one of them was
                  made to appear heavy by being filled with some old pamphlets, taken from the upper
                  hall closet.
               Whatever the policeman knew of the matter, he would tell nothing. Honeydew even
                  threatened to complain of him to the Commissioners, but the fellow insisted that
                  all visits which he had made to the house had been when he was not on duty—that he
                  knew nothing of the stolen articles, and that if Honeydew could n't look out for
                  his wine and keep it properly guarded under lock and key, it was n't the fault of
                  the man who helped to drink it, and added, in a very knowing way, that, "if he
                  didn't want to have a fuss in the papers about it," Honeydew had "better let that
                  'ere job alone!"
               To be the central character in a newspaper paragraph under the heading of 
                     A DISHONEST SERVANT
                     Champagne and Cigars for two
                   in an evening paper, under the heading of the police reports would have been
                  far more annoying to Harry Honeydew than to suffer the loss of the stolen
                  articles, and the complaint would not have been easily proven—so Harry put away
                  the girl's trunks in the garret as mementoes of the experience, and Marian
                  indulged in a good cry, when she told the story, and grew sick and pale, before
                  the end of the week, from confinement to the bed-room and the care of the child,
                  and the labor of having to do nearly all of the upstairs work, while she was
                  changing servants.
               Her pale, sad face worried Harry. To see his little wife the victim of such a
                  series of disasters was more than he could bear.
               The Honeydew experience in housekeeping was passing far beyond what he had
                  bargained for. He did not realize the benefit—if there were any benefit at all, in
                  the arrangement—of feeding three servants, when the rest of the household
                  consisted, properly, only of himself and Marian, and the innocent little
                  half-year-old baby, who could n't be counted as one, in the aggregate, and, just
                  as the April days were opening, he took the greatest pleasure of his life in pasting on the front of the house
                  one of the printed notices which could be bought for two cents at any stationer's,
                  and which read, in bold, clear letters: 
                     THIS HOUSE TO LET. INQUIRE WITHIN.
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               A CHANGE OF BASE.
               THE experiences which had been granted to Marian Honeydew during her married life
                  had not been altogether as rose-colored as she could have wished, and the
                  remembrance of their Sunday morning conversations in their pretty parlor and
                  bedroom at the —— Hotel came back to her every once in a while with poignant
                  sorrow at the consequences which had followed in the train of the suggestions she
                  had there and then made.
               Not that she liked a hotel life—not that she thought it better to be confined to
                  the roaming capacity of two rooms, or three, instead of a whole house, all to
                  herself, to do as she pleased, and to live as she pleased—but Marian Honeydew was
                  the victim of educational circumstances which she could not control.
               She had gone forth into the world as a
                  bride, and in little more than a year, had discovered that the tinsel-wedding
                  education which Mrs. Weatherby had given her, was of little use to her when the
                  battle of life was to be fought in a series of hard campaigns. There was a great
                  deal more in life than mere enjoyment; there was more to be done, much more to be
                  thought of, than what to wear at the Fungus' party, or what to wear at the Charity
                  Ball, the Leiderkrantz, or at the Opera; and as the buds in her bridal bouquet had
                  faded, beneath the glass shade upon the mantel, she realized that even so had
                  faded away, her pictures of married life, with all love and no
                  responsibilities.
               She thought she knew how to do things, till she was forced to put her limited
                  knowledge to a practical test. To eat a piece of well-cooked meat, or vegetables,
                  which some one else had prepared, was a nice thing to do—any one, with the food
                  provided—could enjoy it; but when it came to knowing how to cook the
                  meats herself, or how to superintend the cooking at the hands of
                  inexperienced or stupid servants, she was far beyond her depth and could not stem
                  the current.
               The lessons of dear Mamma's household had been faulty, in very many respects.
                  Selfish of her own comforts, Mrs. Weatherby had for years ruled her children (and
                  her husband) with hands of iron, and had failed to educate her daughters up to the
                  standard of American housekeeping, as required by the tests of the annoyances of
                  their Greatest Plague in Life—the Servant Question; and had sent Marian into the
                  arms of her husband, a prettily dressed doll, to be treated as she was in reality,
                  only as a baby-wife, and to be humored with camelias and tube-roses the year
                  round, at no matter what actual cost to her indulgent husband.
               And yet, in all these trials, the young people loved each other, and felt a mutual
                  dependence which made their love almost a blessing, when they were left to
                  themselves and beyond the baneful jurisdiction of Mrs. Weatherby's ill-chosen
                  dictation or "advice."
               At sea, in an open boat, without oars—afloat on the billows of their matrimonial
                  and paternal responsibility—they were drifting, these young people, and had seen enough of
                  housekeeping to know that the errors of early domestic training were to be
                  remedied in after life only by the hardest knocks, and by the most patient
                  endurance, and they had determined on a new departure, when the house should be
                  rented, and the time for moving out should arrive.
               The dear little chubby hands which clasped Marian around the neck in the early
                  morning Hours—the little head, with its small apportionment of soft, silken hair,
                  which nestled in its sleepy innocence upon Harry's shoulder—these two formed a
                  bond between them which would grow firmer with years, and more hallowed in its
                  union, as each additional ray of sunlight came to them, and the cares which love
                  lightened became a life's burden they were glad to bear.
               Love-life had passed its shadow phases, and had changed into the stern reality of
                  life which needed exertion, consistency and forbearance to make it pleasant; and
                  that they two were to live for each other, and with each other, to lighten their
                  mutual cares and to relieve lieve their mutual sorrows, became, with Marian
                  Honeydew and Harry, the teachings of the lessons in housekeeping which they had
                  already learned.
               Another plan of living was advised, and the consultation which ended in its
                  adoption ran as follows:
               "Dear?"
               "Well, darling?"
               This time the word "dear" came from Harry, and the reply from Marian.
               "I'm tired of housekeeping."
               "But, Harry, what will we do with the things? you know you bought so many, and it
                  is a shame to sacrifice them."
               "Do with them? Why this. There are nice rooms in Fifth Avenue—a whole
                  suite—bath-room and all, and a room for the nurse. They can be rented at a fair
                  price, we have things enough to furnish them, and we can live on the semi-European
                  plan. What do you say to it?"
               And then Harry Honeydew caught his little wife around the waist, as she stood by
                  him, as he was lying upon the sofa, with a Sunday paper in his hand, and, moving back a little,
                  pulled her down to a seat beside him.
               "We will try it, darling, if you think best, and, this time, let it be
                     your experiment!"
               Marian's soft hand—with the solitaire diamond, the amethyst with the initial upon
                  it, and the plain gold wedding ring—was placed lovingly in his, and the nurse, who
                  came down into the library with baby in her arms, placed little Harry between
                  them, sitting on his father's breast.
               They played awhile with baby, and then sat down to dinner—a dinner cooked by their
                  latest mistress of the kitchen, who had been only a month in the house, and had
                  not served them a thoroughly decent meal since her induction into office.
               There was a little more consultation, a deal of effective argument, and as a
                  result, the next day, they went down into the Avenue, looked at the apartments,
                  agreed to take them, and to move in one week's time.
               The new tenants of the house in East —— street bought some of the furniture, and
                  the oil-cloth, which the departing tenants did not need, and the rest went into
                  the rooms which the Honeydews had taken, where they were to live as they pleased,
                  with room for comfort and to spare, and without the annoyance of but the one
                  servant, the nurse for the little curly-headed boy.
               And the Honeydews say they like it, leaving to others, if they choose, the
                  solution of the Servant Question and allowing a random friend, in a parody to tell
                  in rhyme what they had learned in sober, honest, prose:
               
                  AN APPEAL.
                  
                     YE servant girls, who idly sing,
                     And make your dirty kitchens ring—
                     Whose useless hands, 't would seem most true,
                     Neglect all things you have to do,
                     Tell us, we pray, what do you ask,
                     To do each day your honest task?
                     Pray tell us, servants, will you stay,
                     If higher wages we should pay?
                     Would you have ladies hire to you,
                     To teach you all your duties through?
                     
                     Could you but hear the sad complaint,
                     Of household-horrors none can paint,
                     You would give up your stubborn ways,
                     And let your mistress end her days
                     In quiet—girls, she'll ask no more
                     Than girls would do in days of yore!
                  
                  
                     Ye model cooks—who always bring
                     "Characters" good for every thing,—
                     Why do you represent to do
                     So many things, both old and new—
                     To cook our dinners, great and small,
                     And yet so often fail in all?
                     Why are our beefsteaks never done?
                     And why do all your custards "run?"
                     Why do you claim your "one day out?"
                     Why do you slam the things about?
                     To get you, housewives have to stand,
                     And answer every stern command—
                     Of, whether tubs are "stationary;"
                     Or, if the kitchen's light and airy—
                     Or, if the range be new or old—
                     Or, if the cellar's damp or cold—
                     While you are putting questions so,
                     Ere from the "Office" you will go.
                  
                  
                     Ye model nurse-maids, who hire out
                     To "tote" our precious babes about—
                     Why do you all, when out of sight,
                     Allow the child to cry with fright,
                     While you go flirting here and there,
                     With baby's arms all cold and bare?
                     You take no heed of what you do,
                     And handle babe like rubber, too!
                     Why do its frocks go long unmended?
                     Why do you all, when day is ended,
                     Read novels (neatly bound in yellow,
                     Which bring the sobs from hearts so mellow,)
                     Instead of mending up things torn,
                     Or darning stockings badly worn?
                     There's only one thing that you heed—
                     'T is when your monthly pay you need;
                     And even then, you ask for more,
                     As though not overpaid before!
                  
                  
                     Ye cooks and nursing-maids who thrive
                     Upon such actions, you will drive
                     Your mistresses to such a strait,
                     You will be ruined, soon or late!
                     They 'll quit the parlor, and will learn
                     To cook a beefsteak to a turn—
                     
                     As in the famed, old-fashioned days,
                     In their grandmothers' homely ways—
                     When women learned to sew and cook
                     In sober earnest-not by book.
                     Then, like all good and loving wives,
                     They'll not be pestered all their lives
                     By girls who know a deal, they vow,
                     "If misthress will but show them how!"
                     And, when the "month is up," they go,
                     (After the "mistress" has done so).
                     So heed, ye servants, this appeal,
                     And for your honest interests feel,
                     Else no more "agencies" will live
                     Upon the dollar-fees we give—
                     And ladies will defy your call,
                     By doing—not a part—but ALL!
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE REMEDY, AND THE RESULT.
               IT would be unfair towards the Honeydews to leave them adrift, with the remark
                  that they were satisfied in their new "experimental" home, without further
                  comment. But it is worthy of much remark that, when we took occasion to say that
                  the Honeydews were satisfied, that the Honeydews "liked" it, meaning the
                  situation, they left to others a solution of a mystery.
               Their own remedy was the best solution, and why they liked their new
                  home is an easy showing.
               There was yet a great deal to be done, when the Honeydews turned the back of their
                  carriage to the establishment in East —— Street, and turned down into the Avenue,
                  on the way to the new residence.
               Marian and Harry sat on the back seat of the vehicle, and the latest edition of a nurse-girl, who had been one month in
                  active service, and moderately successful, sat on the front seat, holding the
                  young Honeydew on her Milesian lap, and the baby looked with its little wondering
                  eyes out of the carriage window, and Harry looked at the baby, and looked quite as
                  wonderingly at the infant as the baby did at the objects which passed within the
                  range of its baby vision.
               All the small things, such as the pet bandboxes, and the few choice things done up
                  in a bundle, together with the case containing the household silver, were upon the
                  seat next to the nurse, and it may be truly said of Harry, that the most valued of
                  his worldly possessions were in that carriage, bound down-town to a new home,
                  which was, in still greater verity, his experiment.
               Marian had consented to the new arrangement of housekeeping with apparent
                  sincerity at the result, and yet with an indefinable misgiving as to the
                  particular plan which her husband had devised.
               Mrs. Weatherby had, by way of a parting crumb of comfort to the young folks,
                  substantially allowed her foot to be set down upon the whole arrangement.
               Marian's appreciation of filial respect had permitted, at the last moment, her
                  dear Mamma's opinions to have a comparative weight in the final consideration of
                  the arrangements.
               A little dubious, then, was her inquiry, as the carriage was driven rapidly down
                  town, and she turned her face to Harry, and, in a half whisper, asked:
               "Do you think you 'll like it, Harry?"
               "Like it, little wife? We can only try it; and if it doesn't suit, there is but
                  one thing to be done."
               "And that is——"
               "Drown the baby; and then, when there are no more servants to be humored, live
                  somewhere on a roof, and go down to the street by the fire-escape of a tenement
                  house."
               He was severe in his expression, which was hardly humorous; but Marian had seen so
                  much of the consequences of her own want of experience, that she was at last
                  willing to consider that the lines of her life and Harry's had been drawn in parallels, and that on his
                  judgment and to his door should be laid the failure of their new way of
                  living.
               Besides, they had been long enough married to have worn off the gilding from their
                  married life; and while Harry had not in reality any reason to be less loving,
                  there was a quiet determination in his manner which forbade any argument, and left
                  the situation to be accepted as it was.
               The new house was an institution—rooms on the second floor, in a fashionable
                  neighborhood, nicely furnished at Honeydew's expense, and the general arrangement,
                  one which, while it gave most of the advantages of housekeeping, precluded the
                  possibility of an infliction of the servant-nuisance.
               A week or more was frittered away in a sort of semi-affectionate existence. There
                  was no actual quarrelling between Marian and Harry, but there was a great deal of
                  cross-firing, which the visit of dear Mamma, on Sunday morning, had not helped to
                  quiet.
               A rainy, drizzling day, that Sunday, with no sunshine to come in at the front
                  windows, and Mrs. Weatherby had seen fit to pay them an early visit—just in time
                  to catch Marian at work washing baby, while the breakfast things in the next room
                  of the suite were still upon the table.
               It had been one of those peculiar mornings, known only to married people, when the
                  matrimonial barometer had begun to fall, long before daylight.
               Baby had been restless—there had been a sleepless night, and Harry and Marian had
                  very little to say to each other between getting-up time and breakfast; which
                  breakfast, ordered from the restaurant, had not been served quite as they would
                  have wished to have it.
               It wasn't quite so handy as having their own kitchen, and their own cook to
                  prepare the meal, but there was a diversion to the meal-taking which Harry had for
                  his own indulgence, by way of aiding to serve, if not to prepare, it.
               Restaurant cooks had failed to boil the eggs to their proper consistency to suit
                  Marian's taste—and the five-dollar gas-stove, located in the bath-room, was put in requisition to
                  complete the egg-boiling.
               All this, and several other small evidences of discomfort, together with the
                  crying of young Master Honeydew, did not put dear Mamma in the best of humor, and
                  did not tend to keep Marian's sweet face wreathed in household smiles.
               And then, there was an argument upon keeping house in apartments, and keeping
                  house in your own complete establishment.
               From argument to argument the three progressed, till the several phases of their
                  new way of living were all duly considered, and Mrs. Weatherby proposed to take
                  the party to board, at the paternal mansion.
               After the making of the proposition, she waited, as calmly as she could, with her
                  German-American temper, for the answer.
               Marian hesitated—her dark eyes began to glisten with tears, and a chin that was
                  quite as pretty as any one else's chin, with a dear little, cunning dimple in it,
                  began to quiver spasmodically.
               "I think not, mother," said Harry, noticing Marian's confusion and indecision. "We
                  will try it here; if we can't continue to live comfortably, there is one thing
                  left. There are rooms to be had in the Hotel. I know all about it, and we can go
                  back there."
               'T was no use for dear Mamma to get angry—angry words or quick ones would have
                  been ill-timed, and she had enough of discernment to know it, and left the house
                  with a very definite opinion that Harry Honeydew was the most stubborn of men, and
                  Marian Honeydew the most incorrigible of daughters.
               It would not be fair to detail all the loving words which Harry said to his little
                  wife when they were alone—they are sacred as all such words should be, to the
                  persons who have a right to say them but, before the afternoon had worn away,
                  there was hopeful expectancy for the future in the apartments of the
                  Honeydews.
               Here, then, we may say, that they had found the remedy for the servant troubles,
                  and had adopted the principle of living, which seems best adapted to their
                  comfortable existence.
               Handsomely furnished, their rooms cost
                  them only half as much as the rent of a house would, and there was no annoyance
                  from having to provide the wood, the coal, the cooking-utensils, and the cook.
               It cost about as much to live, perhaps—but there was a change of diet and a
                  freedom from care, which afforded a grateful change to Marian, and there was a
                  relief from all anxiety, excepting such as they saw fit to encourage in their own
                  apartments, and the care of the curly-headed baby-boy.
               To the way of living, which alone suggests the remedy for the servant-nuisance,
                  such as the Honeydews have adopted, must the American housekeepers come, unless
                  there be a radical change in the construction of the female servants' duties.
               The evils of an extensive immigration, of the "rings" of employment offices, and
                  the formation of secret surveillance-service societies over the ladies who employ
                  the cooks, the waiting-maids, the chambermaids, and the laundresses, are the evils
                  from which there would seem to be but one channel of escape. There must be a
                  willingness to work, and to teach the Servant-girls of the Period that wages must
                  be moderate and duties must be fairly performed. The old-time lessons of women who
                  were content to take life as it was—not as they would wish it to be—must be turned
                  to good profit; and, until such is the case, there will be no diminution of the
                  list of household terrors, and home will be tinsel and uncertainty, and the
                  servants will retain the upper hand.
               The curiosities of Servant-Girlism are strange, when considered as a part of a
                  general system which has inherent peculiarities; and there would really seem to be
                  no way of escape from the annoyances and inflictions placed upon the American
                  housekeepers.
               Area-railing conferences are among the channels of information through which is
                  derived the complete 
                     ascendency
                     ascendancy
                   of the servants over the people whom they are pledged to serve, and to
                  whom they look for punctual payment of wages.
               Bridget, Mary, or Susan, as the case may be, "makes friends with the
                  neighborhood," interviews the butcher's boy, or the baker, or the lad who brings in the groceries, and at the end
                  of her cross-examination has generally posted herself upon the names, habits and
                  love-affairs of the girls for a block, at least, within the range of her present
                  residence, and within the visiting circle which she proposes to adopt.
               A new face in a neighborhood creates a sensation among the "help," which ends in a
                  scrutiny of the new comer, as to whether she shall be adopted in a particular set,
                  or whether she shall be considered as an outsider in the making up of the society
                  slate.
               Belles of the kitchen are quite as careful in their selection of associates as the
                  belles of the parlor; and when there are wars, or rumors of wars, among the
                  Cabinet down stairs, the effect of the trouble becomes manifest all over the
                  house, more particularly if the disturbance be occasioned by one of the petty
                  jealousies which follow upon servant-girl flirtation or actual servant-girl
                  love.
               The relations of mistress and servant have no line by which to mark their
                  existence or prescribe their limits. The mistress is never permitted to encroach
                  upon the servant; this may be taken as a fact, borne out by the evidence of every
                  household, and it has already become a law by which the women employed hold their
                  control in matters of household importance by an indirect but strong-handed
                  influence.
               Summing up this situation is a work of little labor, and it will suggest itself to
                  any housekeeper who has passed the ordeal which the servants impose.
               Given, a good cook—one who really knows her business. This woman, with the full
                  knowledge that she is the main spring of the establishment, chooses to dictate how
                  she will govern her kitchen—will take no suggestions from a young mistress, and
                  finally deems so many things necessary (?) to her use, that the list from the
                  grocer's exceeds all estimates of cost of articles or quantity, and the lady
                  ventures to remonstrate.
               Here, then, comes the row. In a few moments the "ball is open," to the
                  satisfaction of the cook, and to the dismay of the mistress.
               "'If ye want yer dinners cooked, ye must have the things; an' if ye do n't know what to ordher, yerself, I
                  do!"
               This ends the discussion. If the cook is allowed to quarrel, the mistress gets the
                  worst of it—just as dear little Marian Honeydew did, in several of her
                  discussions; and the cook remains the mistress, and with an open war continually
                  impending, the rule of the servants is established, and the ladies must
                  submit—just as Marian Honeydew submitted, till the interference of Mamma ended in
                  the girl's dismissal and consequent chaos in the Honeydew kitchen for a week or
                  more.
               Remembering all these things—taking into consideration the fact that the
                  Servant-Girl of the Period is a necessity which the duties of housekeeping demand
                  shall exist, remembering also that the almost universal lack of education among
                  servants—that they come to this country breathing the air of a land new to them,
                  and which they have been led to look upon as a land of veritable promise, and
                  abounding in the privileges of suffrage and government to their lovers, or their
                  male relatives, and with the privilege of ruling below stairs vouchsafed to
                  themselves—there is work of great magnitude to be accomplished before the
                  servant-plague can be abated.
               Our friends, the Honeydews, had tried every sort of experiment, excepting the
                  Negro servant, whom Marian "could not endure to have around her," or the Chinese,
                  whom she refused to adopt, and very properly, under the circumstances.
               Sitting in their cosy parlor, after a month's residence in their new apartments,
                  Marian and Harry were looking out upon the Avenue, one pleasant evening, watching
                  the carriages rolling along on the busy street, and Marian wondering where all the
                  pretty little sparrows stowed themselves away in their little wooden boxes, and at
                  what time the birds "went to bed."
               But Harry had more to think of than sparrows, or bird-boxes; he was wondering,
                  quietly, whether Marian really liked their way of living, and so he asked her, in
                  a quiet way:
               "Do you like your new home, pet?"
               They were sitting just close enough to each other to allow Marian to rest her head
                     upon her
                  husband's shoulder. A close observer would perhaps have noticed that Harry moved
                  an inch or two nearer to his little wife, as he looked at her; but, either way,
                  the head did reach his shoulder, and a pair of dark eyes looked lovingly up into
                  his face, as she answered:
               "Yes, Harry, I do. Until servants become ordinary men and women in their relations
                  to housekeepers, and learn to know their places, I live here—unless you want
                  another house."
               The reply which Harry gave to her was loving in its intention, although perhaps
                  severe, causing a blush upon Marian's face, which Harry did not see, as they were
                  sitting in the shadow:
               "My baby-wife has not the household training to cope with the servants she must
                  have around her; we will let well-enough alone, darling, if you say so."
               There need be no details given of the loving kiss which followed. Both were
                  satisfied and both had learned of housekeeping and the Servant-Question all they
                  desired, for present uses and experiences.
            
         
      
      
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               INTRODUCTORY.—An old definition.—"Paul Peebles'" experience.—Digressive 5
               
               CHAPTER I. Mr. Honeydew's discovery.—Tired of Hotel Life.—Mrs. Honeydew takes
                  advice.—A Pretty Picture drawn.—And a little letter to Dear Mamma 29
               
               CHAPTER II. Mrs. Honeydew's tour of exploration.—Advertisements.—Five chances
                  for a cook.—A little lady in a strange neighborhood.—No. — East ——
                  Street.—Tenement-house artists.—A little lady snubbed.—Another trial.—A jewel
                  secured 38
               
               CHAPTER III. Family Portraits.—Dear Mamma.—What Dear Mamma had done.—Policy and
                  Cologne-water.—News for Mr. Honeydew 52
               
               CHAPTER IV. Mr. Honeydew does his duty.—His conversion.—Mrs. Honeydew's duty
                  performed—The work commenced.—Not angry, but surprised.—An "opening" in
                  silver-ware.—A sincere determination 60
               
               CHAPTER V. The Honeydews "at home."—A good prospect.—A "new
                  departure."—Rose-tints of life.—Ellen.—The first visitors 72
               
               
               CHAPTER VI. An evening's experience.—Fault-finding.—Anxiety.—Locked out in the
                  moonlight.—Patience and window-panes.—A brilliant dining-room.—An energetic
                  policeman.—"Martell—1840." 82
               
               CHAPTER VII. Mr. Honeydew settles a difficulty.—That breakfast.—Dear Mamma's
                  selection—Miss O'Connor indignant.—One servant less.—An affectionate inquiry 95
               
               CHAPTER VIII. A ray of sunshine.—The Employment Bureau.—Maggie Murphy.—Dear
                  Mamma surprised.—A just distinction.—Inspection.—Mr. Honeydew's selection.—The
                  Long Branch cottage105
               
               CHAPTER IX. A change of scene.—The "Bouquet of Artists."—A catalogue.—Seaside
                  plans.—Considering.—Off to the "Branch."—Advantages—Sundries for the "season."
                  117
               
               CHAPTER X. Long Branch.—A glimpse of happiness.—Sea-fog.—Marine view, with
                  landscape.—An early breakfast wanted.—Miss Feeney.—Rebellion.—A quick
                  "good-morning!"—A disgusted traveler 127
               
               CHAPTER XI. Milesian visitors.—An armistice.—A few things wanted.—Cousin and
                  friend.—Late visitors and back-door courtship 136
               
               CHAPTER XII. A painful discovery.—A bird flown.—A lively family scene.—Cleaned
                  out.—A timely escape 142
               
               CHAPTER XIII. Norah,—A last experiment.—Dear Mamma pleased.—A difference of
                  opinion.—A story-telling.—A bevy of friends.—The cut direct.—Seaside
                  courtesies.—The cause of a snubbing.—Dining-room errors.—Mountains versus seaside
                  147
               
               CHAPTER XIV. Baby Kingdom.—Homeward-bound.—A divided household.—A romantic
                  servant.— Kitchen literature. —Ante-parental nervousness.—"Welcome, little
                  stranger!" 158
               
               CHAPTER XV. Baby's Cabinet.—Baby's Prime Ministers.—Mrs. Wrackett.—A rheumatic
                  nurse.—Paternal privileges.—Banished to the third story.—A question of
                  endurance.—Once more "at home"165
               
               CHAPTER XVI. A new Regime.—Baby's presents.—Infantile troubles.—"Old Holland
                  Gin" and Catnip.—Mr. Honeydew's new sphere of duty.—A high-toned cook.—A passage
                  at arms.—Ale, champagne and cigars for two.—A policeman off duty.—A little
                  encounter.—Summing up the damage.—This house to let 174
               
               CHAPTER XVII. A change of base.—Tinsel-wedding education.—Dear Mamma's
                  teaching.—Tube-roses and matrimony.—Baby-pictures.—Another affectionate
                  interview.—Solitaire and plain gold.—A pleasant sofa-party of three.—The Remedy
                  for the Greatest Plague in Life 189
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. The remedy and the result.—Moving away.—A last
                  resource.—Disadvantages.—Surveillance-service.—Bridget, Mary, Susan, et al.—The
                  housekeeper's situation.—The only thing to do.—Semi-European plan and its
                  success.—At home on the Avenue 199
               
            
         
      
   
