
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Cholula, or, The Young Mexican .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6049
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  Cholus arose, and bending over her, said tenderly, Page 12. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               CHOLULA; 
               OR THE YOUNG MEXICAN. 
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               J. P. SKELLY & Co.,  
                     No. 21 SOUTH SEVENTH STREET, 
                     (SECOND FLOOR.) 
                  
               
             
            1869. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by J. P. SKELLY & Co., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
            
               Stereotyped and printed by Alfred Marlien.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. CHOLULA'S HOME. 7
                
               CHAPTER II. WHITE MEN FROM THE EAST. 23
                
               CHAPTER III. THE AVAIRY. 42
                
               CHAPTER IV. MONTEZUMA. 66
                
               CHAPTER V. THE INCENSE OFFERING. 102
                
               CHAPTER VI. THE NEW HOME. 119
                
               CHAPTER VII. A HAPPY MEETING. 141
                
                
               CHAPTER VIII. NOCHE TRISTE. 160
                
               CHAPTER IX. A MISSION. 170
                
               CHAPTER X. THE RETURN OF THE SPANIARDS. 184
                
               CHAPTER XI. THE END OF THE SIEGE. 201
                
               CHAPTER XII. CONCLUSION. 215
                
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            The interest which has been lately felt in our Mexican neighbors, has suggested the idea that it might be well to travel back a few hundred years, and become acquainted with the people who lived in Mexico at the time of the coming of the white men. With this view this book has been written, with the hope that it may prove entertaining and instructive to young readers, lead them to sympathize more deeply with the sufferings of that unhappy people, and show them that there were other motives besides those of plunder in the breasts of some of its invaders. The historical parts of the narrative have been gleaned from Prescott's Conquest of Mexico. The aim has been to make the tale consistent with the facts related in that exceedingly interesting work. 
          
       
      
         
            Cholula, or, The young Mexican 
             
             
            CHOLULA; 
            OR, The Young Mexican. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               CHOLULA'S HOME. 
               IT was towards the close of the year 1518. The sun had for several hours shed abroad its rays on the grand old City of Mexico. 
               Among the many costly dwellings that then adorned its streets, there was one, less remarkable for its grandeur than for the charming simplicity of its adornments. It was on the principal street of the town, separated from the neighboring houses by a garden, filled with the innumerable varieties of flowers that the peculiar climate of the country renders so common. Indeed, this mansion, fairy-like, seemed to be made of flowers; for the terraced roof was covered with as great a variety, although not as large a quantity, as in the garden below. Their delicious fragrance was wafted in all directions by the breeze. Within the house all seemed to be hurry and confusion. The beauties around them seemed lost on most of the family. The servants bustled about from one room to another, excited apparently by some unusual occurrence. 
               Cholula sat on a low stool at one end of a spacious apartment, engaged on an elaborate piece of embroidery; but she frequently suffered her work to fall from her hands, as she became more earnest in conversation with her brother. 
               
                  His work seemed to have more interest, for he never raised his eyes from it, except when at intervals he exhibited it to her, for her admiration, or that she might suggest some improvement. They spoke in low confidential tones, as if their conversation were not intended for the ears of the noisy group at the other end of the room. There, mother, father, and the other members of the family, were discussing some topic, which seemed of great interest to all. 
                
               Cholula and Cholus were twins, about fourteen years of age. They received their names from the fact that their birth occurred on the anniversary of the day, on which the city of Cholula was annexed to the Aztec monarchy. Cholus had a tall muscular frame, which contrasted singularly with the slight delicate form of his invalid sister. Their countenances when in repose seemed almost exactly similar, but that of the youth was frequently distorted by the angry passions which stormed within; while Cholula's sad face seldom changed from its expression of patient suffering, except when, as this morning, it was lighted up with all the enthusiasm of a generous nature, roused to exertion by sympathy for the suffering or the oppressed. Her dress may be a subject of interest to some of our readers. It was of fine cloth, her skirts, of different lengths (so as to produce the effect of several modern flounces), were richly embroidered. As the air was cool she had thrown over her shoulders a feather mantle of as many different hues as the famous "coat of many colors." The feathers were so wrought together as to produce pictures of birds and other animals, forming such a wonderfully elaborate piece of workmanship that even the advanced skill of our day fails to produce anything approaching its fantastic beauty. Her hair fell loosely over her shoulders, and a coronet of jewels served to add beauty to its dark lustre. Cholus's dress, including the mantle, was not unlike his sister's. In his case the lower garment was a loose robe, fastened at the waist by a sash. 
               His countenance was very winning in its expression just now, but a look of stern determination overspread it, as his father left the room, saying,-"Well, then, it is all settled." At these words poor Cholula gave a low cry of intense pain, and closing her eyes, pressed her hands to her throbbing brow as if endeavoring to shut out some horrid spectacle, that forced itself upon her. Cholus rose and bending over her, said tenderly,-"I will do what I can, my dear little Dove, but 'twill be in vain, I know." 
                
               "Thanks, dear Cholus," she whispered, "I know now that you will have the favor of the great God who is mightiest of all, more than if you should agree that our faithful Neza should be led to the sacrifice." 
               Cholus hastened with impatient step after his father. 
               It is time to explain the cause of the morning's excitement. One of the religious rites of the ancient Mexicans was the offering up of human beings to their different gods. The slaves, who were prisoners taken in war, were reserved for this purpose. 
               It is not necessary to enter into the details of this barbarous custom; suffice it to say, that the poor victim was put to death in the most cruel way possible ble, and his flesh afterwards served up at the tables of the misguided worshippers. 
               Circumstances had combined to shield Cholula, in a great measure, from the hardening influences of these scenes of blood. She was, from early infancy, so frail and delicate that it was deemed imprudent for her to be subjected to the severe discipline of a school life. 
               While Cholus was under the instruction of the priests, who cunningly enough contrived to have the training of the children assigned to them, Cholula's education was carried on at home by her mother. She learned a lesson of patient endurance, from the almost constant pain that she was called on to suffer. She learned also from her own sufferings to sympathize with those of others, and to look with horror on the dreadful "sacrifices" that her brother regarded with stoical indifference, as his daily attendance had been required in the temple, where these were of such frequent occurrence. 
               Maxtla, Cholula's father, had proposed that Neza, a faithful attendant, should be offered to the priests, to be sacrificed at the yearly festival. At this celebration the handsomest among the slaves was chosen out. He was allowed a year's probation, during which he was permitted to enjoy every luxury; but at the end of this time an awful doom awaited him. 
               You can imagine then with what feelings Cholula heard that one, whom she had been accustomed to see daily, was about to meet with this dreadful fate. She knew that remonstrance with her father, from her, would be worse than useless, but she hoped that through her brother's influence she might obtain at least a reprieve for the good Neza. 
               Cholula spent most of the time during the absence of her brother on his errand of mercy, in earnest prayer to the "Creator, The Soul of the World," that He would not require the precious life of the faithful Neza. She was roused from this, however, by a mild rebuke from her mother. She could not bear to be thought idle, so she hastened to tell of Cholus's exertions in behalf of Neza. 
                
               She met with little sympathy. "Ah! my silly little Cholula," said her mother, "think you not that Neza will be made happier, hereafter, by the good gods, on account of his sufferings in this world? Doubt it not, my child. Though he be one of those dreadful Tlascalans, he will surely be rewarded for his pains, heroically endured to satisfy the great gods." 
               "O, mother dear, think you that it delights the God who made us, to see his works destroyed by violence?" 
               "As for that," said Tecola, "wiser judges than I, or my dear little pet, have decided for us; 'tis for us only to obey the counsel of the learned priests." 
               Her mother's argument was small comfort to Cholula, and with sad forebodings she awaited her brother's return. She augured favorably from his long absence, and when he at length came in, a glance at his countenance served to tell her that his news was not bad.
                
               "Well," he said, "father yielded to my earnest entreaties; as, on second consideration, he concluded that as Neza does not look nearly so well as usual, he would probably not be accepted for the yearly sacrifice; so that he will at least wait until next year." 
               "O, brother, let us return thanks for this mercy. The great God will surely provide some way, by which to save our dear Neza forever from such a horrible death." 
                
               Cholula's words prompted by the trust of a loving soul towards a yet "Unknown God," were destined to be fulfilled in a way that she thought not of, when she gave them utterance. 
               The day, begun so sadly, had a happy ending for Cholula. Maxtla, on his return from the royal palace, where he had been in attendance on the king, brought an invitation for her to spend next month at the country residence of her friend Iztatl. 
               "Ah, Cholus," said Cholula, "there is rest in a country home, that we have not here. There I hear not the groans and cries of the poor creatures, offered up daily in the temple. And yet, though the holy priests say that they do these dreadful things to appease the gods, I know my love towards the great Supreme Being grows stronger and purer when I am away from these fearful sights and sounds." 
               "Sister," said he, "make me one promise. That you will never give utterance to such thoughts to any one but me. It might bring upon you some dreadful punishment from our father. For you know it is his pride that none of his noble line ever forsook the gods of the Aztecs, and should he find your faith wavering, he might even think it necessary to give you up to them to appease their wrath." 
               "Brother, let us forget all about these horrible things. This time next month I'll be in the country. Ah, how sweet it will be!-- 
                  
                      
                        "Now let us banish pain and fear, 
                        For, if our joys are measured here, 
                        Life's sadness hath its end," 
                     
                   she sang in a sweet strain. 
               "But," said he, "do you remember two lines from the same ballad,- 
                      
                        "'Seize me the glories of to-day 
                        For mortal life fleets fast away.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "O, brother, our noble poet surely looks beyond the present life to a reward, for at the conclusion of his poem he says,- 
                      
                        "'Would that those now in friendship bound, 
                        We whom Love's thread encircles round, 
                        Death's cruel edge might see! 
                        Since good on earth is insecure, 
                        And all things else must change endure, 
                        In dark futurity.' 
                     
                  
                   Could he long for death, unless there was something beyond?" 
               "O," answered Cholus, "this sister of ours is so wise that she will have to turn into a fierce little priestess, and assist in the services of the temple!" 
               "Now after that wicked speech I won't say another word! It is time, indeed, that I should examine my wardrobe and prepare for my journey," said Cholula, hastening with eager feet to attend to this pleasant task. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE WHITE MEN FROM THE EAST. 
               THE next month passed happily by in Cholula's beautiful home. Relieved from all anxiety in regard to their attached servant, and joyful in her brother's company, what could occur to make her sorrowful, save indeed the sufferings of the unhappy victims of sacrifice, whose groans and cries for mercy would sometimes fall on her unwilling ear. Her heart was too tender for her to hear, without pain, the sounds of woe, even though they proceeded from those she knew not, and whom she was taught to consider as her enemies. But she was spared the sight and sound of suffering for some weeks by leaving her home in the capital to accept the invitation her father had brought for her to pay a visit to her dearly loved friend, Iztatl. She lived in a beautiful spot on the borders of the lake. The house was in the centre of a garden where the numerous beds of flowers, watered by sparkling fountains, were overshadowed by groves of cedar and cypress, giving to the spot the appearance of fairy-land. 
               Here, after completing their daily task of embroidery or weaving, the young girls would wander together, in pleasant converse, or sit under the tall trees listening to the gay songs of the birds, with which the garden was abundantly supplied. 
               Thus the time passed quickly by, when their free careless talk was changed into sober wonder by the tidings that daily reached them from the capital. 
               The "white men from the East" had landed on their shores, and were steadily approaching their capital, regardless of the many efforts of their sovereign to stay their coming. 
               Many were their conjectures about the wonderful beings who had crossed the wide ocean, and reached their shores, and they longed to know if, indeed, they were the children of their god who had promised he would return to his kingdom. 
               Before they could settle this question to their satisfaction, Cholus came to take his sister back, and the friends parted with reluctance, but with earnest hopes of meeting soon in Iztatl's city home. 
               It was great pleasure for the twins to be once more together, and they showed that their short separation had only united them more closely in love and confidence. They did not talk much of the events, that had lately filled Cholula's mind, for she soon found that her brother was opposed to the invaders of his country, and did not invest them with that sacred character, which her imagination had given them. 
                
               One day as she was sitting among the flowers on the terraced roof, gazing upon the distant mountains, which looked so blue through the soft clear atmosphere, she was aroused by the sound of music, such as she had never heard, and thought,-"it must come from another world." But it was drowned by the shouts of multitudes, and while she was wondering what it all could mean, her brother came in search of her. 
               "O! Cholula," he said, "I have been to see the white men, and I came to bring you, that you might look on them too; so hasten, my sister, that we may be in time; for they are even now entering the gates of the city." 
               "How does our King think of them?" 
                
               "He thinks that they are the children of our good god, who has been so long expected, and so he has sent them presents, and will bring them to the city, and give them the palace of his father, that they may dwell there in peace. But he must be mistaken in his ideas, for have they not cast down the altars, and burned the images of our gods on their way?" 
               "But, Cholus, if these were the true gods could they not have defended themselves against this handful of foes, who would destroy them? O! it gives me joy to think of those dreadful sacrifices being stopped, and I do hope, our God has sent his children to do it." 
               "Only our foes are sacrificed, and that is good," said Cholus. 
                
               "Nay, have you forgotten how our faithful Neza was almost a victim? And besides, my brother, cruelty can not be good, even to our enemies. Night after night the cries of the victims have rung in my ears, and driven sleep from my eyes; and gods that love these groans cannot be good," and the tears filled her eyes as she thought of these scenes of agony. 
               While they were speaking thus, they were hurrying rapidly through the thronged streets towards the place appointed by Montezuma for the reception of the Spaniards, the terrible "white men of the East." As they neared the place, the crowd became more dense, and it was clear to the spectator that the whole city had come out to witness this intrepid band, who, so few in number, had dared to penetrate into the heart of their capital city. With difficulty Cholus pressed through the throng and obtained a place in the front ranks for his sister to see the strange procession. 
               It was a novel sight to the young girl, and she gazed in wonder on those warriors so different in appearance and dress from any she had before seen. 
               They were most of them tall and slender, and their hair fell in rich clusters over their pale faces, while their heads were covered with helmets of steel, which, sparkling in the rays of the sun, gave additional glory to their appearance. Some of them were mounted on noble war horses, under whose iron tramp the pavements of the city rung for the first time since its foundation. 
               "Cholus, what strange monster is that?" said Cholula, as one of these horses with its rider passed near them. 
               "I know not," he replied; "but I wonder no more that they conquer with such wondrous animals as these. See!--" 
               His exclamation was interrupted by seeing the monster stop, and as the rider sprang from his saddle to read-just it, they saw with astonishment that what they had looked on with such awe was, indeed, a man mounted on an animal entirely new to them, and therefore clothed with supernatural terrors. 
                
               "There are the priests of this new religion, Cholula;" and Cholus pointed to a group of men with shaven heads and clad in long black robes. 
               "See what sullen faces they have, and how they curl their lips in scorn whenever their eyes chance to light on one of our teocallis, and the sacred fires burning on their summits." 
               "Yes, Cholus, but I see one that is different. His face is kind and benevolent, and even now is lit up with a pleasant smile as he looks on us." 
               Well might she be struck with the contrast which this kind face presented to the rest of his order; for his face was beaming with Christian love, and while his comrades saw only with hatred the symbols of the idolatrous trous worship of these heathens, his heart was moved with love towards them, and earnest desire to point these benighted creatures to the Cross, that they might be cleansed from all their sins in the blood of Christ. 
               The procession approached the courtyard which surrounded the low range of stone buildings opposite one of the principal temples, and which was given to the Spaniards as their future residence. On entering the gates a warrior rode forward, and throwing the reins of his charger to a page, dismounted, and advanced to meet Montezuma, the great monarch of the Aztecs. He was rather slender, but with a muscular and well proportioned frame, which showed that he did not lack strength and vigor. His large dark eye, which shone with such lustre from his pale countenance, was roaming with an expression of wonder and delight over the magnificent temples, terraces and gardens, which rose in such splendor around him. 
               "There, Cholula, there is Malinche, the head of this band of Spaniards," said Cholus. 
               She gazed with admiration on his noble form, and felt certain that this wonderful being, who had surmounted such incredible dangers and difficulties, must, indeed, be the messenger of the God for whose coming she had so longed. 
               As Cortez approached, Montezuma took from a slave a massive collar of delicate workmanship, composed of shells of great value among the Mexicans, set in gold and connected by heavy links. Throwing the rich gift around the neck of the general, he said: "This palace belongs to you, Malinche; rest here from your fatigues, and in a little time I will visit you again." Thus saying, he turned away, and entering the litter, on which he was generally carried, he was borne to his palace amid the throng of his subjects, who paid homage to him as he passed, some even bowing themselves low to the ground before him. 
               Cholula and her brother returned home, and, as they sat down to a sumptuous repast, the family commented freely upon the strange events of the morning. The father inveighed loudly against the courteous treatment of the Spaniards by his sovereign, and accused him of weakness, and womanish fears. 
               "Much better it would have been," said he, "to have assembled our forces and crushed our foes at once, rather than allow them to come to our city and establish themselves in our midst. They are not the children of Quetzacoatl, and Montezuma only pretends they are, that he may hide his fear of their power under the cloak of religion." 
               Cholula listened with eager attention to this excited language, and her trembling hope that those dreadful sacrifices would cease, and a mild and peaceful religion be established, was almost crushed by the stern, confident words of her father. 
               After dinner she rested on her couch, revolving in her mind the strange events, and trying to conjecture what might be the issue, until tired out, she fell into a soft slumber. 
               After a long and refreshing slumber, she was awakened by a gentle touch on her shoulder, and a soft voice whispering her name in her ear. 
               She opened her eyes and a bright smile spread over her countenance, as she recognized her dear friend, Iztatl, whom she had not seen for some weeks. 
               "O, Cholula," she said, "we came back to our house this morning, and we have a new attraction in our city home! A Spanish woman fainted from fatigue near our door, and mother took her in, when she could be moved. We have been nursing her and that is why I did not come sooner to see you." 
               "I am so glad to have you near me, again," said Cholula. "I have so missed our nice talks, and now we will have so much to say to each other since these strangers have come to our city." 
               Iztatl said she had not seen much of the other white people as she had to be with the poor woman, and she begged Cholula to go with her to their quarters. Cholula readily assented, and together they wended their way through the city, where groups of curious citizens were still lingering around, discussing the one all engrossing theme. 
               As they approached the place, they were met by the same kind looking priest that Cholula had noticed in the morning. As he saw their gaze, so full of interest, fastened on him, he smiled kindly towards them, and passed on, and Cholula exclaimed, "I should so much like to understand his language that he might tell me of his God. I feel sure he must be good or his face would not wear such a peaceful, happy look." 
               "We can learn the Spanish language from Leonore, the woman at our house. Will you come around and see her, Cholula? Mother is as anxious as you can be to learn of this new religion, and will take good care of Leonore until she entirely recovers." 
               The poor Spaniard seemed indeed very ill for a short time, but the watchful care of her kind benefactress was rewarded by her sure though slow amendment. She was the widow of a Spanish soldier, who had been killed in the first encounter with the natives. She had continued in the train of Cortez, being filled with love to God and desire to do what she could for the heathen Mexicans, those who had caused her widowhood. It was not difficult, therefore, to persuade her to remain with those who had done so much for her, and seek to instruct them in the way of life. Though living in an age of the world, when all truth was somewhat clouded over by superstition, her life was dedicated to the service of God, and the foundation of her hope of eternal life was the blood of Jesus Christ, which alone cleanseth from all sin. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE AVIARY. 
               IZTATL and Cholula lingered near the court yard, watching the Spaniards as they walked about their quarters. 
               "I wish you could have seen Malinche, Iztatl; his bearing was so noble. It is said that our king intends presenting some of our most beautiful plumage, and I suppose the work will be ordered to be done by the most expert. Oh! would it not be delightful for that noble Malinche to have something which I had made with my own hands, I shall finish that robe I was working at and send it as a present to him." 
               "But suppose your father should object?" suggested Iztatl. 
               "I don't think he will," returned Cholula, "for he will probably be ordered to contribute his share; at any rate I will ask his permission." 
               Do; and come to our house to-morrow morning and tell me the result. Then you can see the poor Spanish woman. I think she is very good and bears her trials beautifully. She tells me her husband died just after they had landed. I can scarcely make out what she says, though she has picked up a little of our language and I think she will soon talk very well, she has learned what she does say so quickly. But here, we are at your house," and after they had saluted each other, Iztatl turned and pursued her way home with quickened steps, as it was getting towards sunset. 
               Cholula arrived at home feeling in much better spirits than she had been for several weeks, and now that she had an object in view, with regard to the destination of her work, she determined to spare no pains on it. She was at all times very successful in different sorts of fancy work known among the women of Mexico, so hurrying to her room, she took up her work and surveyed it. 
                
               "O, yes! this will be the very thing. But I wonder how I shall get it to Malinche and let him know that it was made for him individually, and by me, though after all, I should not care about his knowing that I made it." 
               After the return of her father she asked his permission to finish her work for the Spanish commander. 
               At first he refused, but on reflection he concluded that she might, as he knew he would have to furnish something, being a rich and influential merchant. 
               Cholula arose the next morning, having dreamed all night of the Spaniards and those great and fearful-looking animals; but her thoughts were, on the whole, pleasant as she remembered the work she had before her. She waited impatiently till the time came when she was to go to her friend's house, working diligently on her feathers until then. 
               Iztatl was almost as eager as she was herself, and rejoiced with her that her father's consent had been given. 
               "Come, Cholula, I want you to see the Spanish Leonore; now don't laugh when you first hear her attempt to talk to us; I don't suppose you will though, you are such a good girl about keeping your face straight. I laughed and had to run out of the room the first time I heard her; though, fortunately, she did not hear me." 
                
               The girls proceeded to the sick-room, where they found the invalid much better to-day. She was expecting a visit from the good priest, Olmedo. 
               Cholula rejoiced at this, for here was a chance of getting to know a good man, as she felt sure it must be the one to whom she had taken such a fancy. Her conjectures were correct; for she had only been with the invalid a short time before Olmedo was announced. 
               The conversation was in Spanish, and though Cholula could not understand a word of it, yet she listened and watched these two with the greatest interest, and she could not help respecting their manner of praying, for that she knew it must be, when Olmedo knelt, and with uplifted hands addressed his God. Cholula thought there must be great efficacy in such prayers, when she saw their effect on the Spanish lady, who seemed to gather so much comfort and even strength from them. 
               Olmedo tried conversing with the young girls. He seemed to be struck with their appearance, and desirous of benefiting them, but his knowledge of the language was so slight that it was with great difficulty that he could make himself understood. Cholula was particularly interested in what he said, for her mind naturally inclined towards a humane religion, and she soon found that the Spaniards condemned the Mexican custom of sacrificing- ficing their fellow-creatures. In this respect his ideas agreed precisely with hers. She thought in her own mind that the God of the white man must be a good and gracious God, from all that Olmedo had said. He had purposely turned the conversation into a religious channel, as he wished to sow the good seed whenever an opportunity offered. After he had gone, Leonore conversed with the young girls, trying to explain to them what Olmedo had said. 
               Cholula talked with Iztatl about the feather-work, asking her company to the Aviary to obtain more feathers and as they proceeded on their way, a description of this museum of the Aztecs may be given. 
                
               It was an immense building of fanciful structure in wood and bamboo, its walls of lattice-work. It contained birds of splendid plumage, from all parts of the Empire, which furnished materials for Aztec workmanship. Three hundred attendants were here employed, who fed the birds and collected and arranged their plumage in moulting season. 
               Thither the girls proceeded, but on arriving there, Cholula found that the kind of feathers she wished to obtain were not yet sorted, but the attendant promised to have them ready by the next day at the same time. Having been there so frequently on a like errand to obtain feathers, of course she was very well known, so she and her friend walked round the garden adjoining, admiring the beautiful view across the lake. Many little humming birds were fluttering among the flowers; and the girls seemed to revel in the delights of nature, who, in that land puts forth her gorgeous beauties through most of the year. 
               Returning home they agreed to go together on the morrow to get the plumage requisite to finish Cholula's work, and also to receive instruction from certain workers in the art, who attended daily at the Aviary. 
               When Cholula returned home and told her adventures to Cholus, he was desirous also of seeing the Spaniards again, more from curiosity than with any idea of obtaining information respecting their views on religious subjects. 
               On his soliciting his sister to allow him to accompany her, she consented, provided he would behave himself with due respect towards those, whom he seemed so inclined to look upon with a jealous and distrustful eye. He gave the required promise. 
               When they arrived the next day at Iztatl's house, they found her all ready to start, and what surprised them not a little, Olmedo also ready to accompany them. He had learned their intended destination, and being desirous both of seeing this Aztec wonder and conversing with the natives, who were employed in such numbers in the building, he had asked and obtained leave to go with them. They all walked towards the House of Birds, as it is sometimes called. 
               When they arrived near the place the priest was startled by hearing the most hideous sounds, and asking in his imperfect manner of pronouncing Aztec, what it was, he learned from Cholula, who seemed not all disturbed by it, that it was the menagerie and the noise proceeded from the wild beasts kept there. 
               They entered the Aviary, and after obtaining the promised feathers, Cholus, his sister, and her friend went on to show their guest over the building. 
               It took some time to examine the various species of birds. As this was his first visit, Olmedo had little opportunity to do more than obtain a slight footing. He became acquainted and thus had an excuse for coming again. 
               Going home they stopped at the reservoir and walked round the thick wall, thence down the steps into the garden, and out into the street. 
               Olmeda had engaged to come again during the week, intending to commence his work of teaching the natives, though his language was so imperfect that he determined to bring an interpreter from the retinue of Cortez. He invited Cholus and his sister and also Iztatl to be there. 
               During the remainder of the day, and in fact, till they again saw Olmedo, Cholus could do nothing but talk to his sister in the broken dialect, used by the two Spaniards whom they had met. She could scarcely refrain from laughing, not because of the pronunciation, so much as that it was Cholus, who delighted in making her laugh against her will. She tried in vain to make him desist, for she feared he would behave so before their new acquaintances, and this she wished to avoid, both because it was wrong, and because she was beginning to feel a deep esteem and respect for two such good persons as she perceived Olmedo and Leonore Estrella to be. She finally conquered her laughing when Cholus talked so, and by the time the day arrived on which they were to visit the Aviary again, Cholus had stopped mimicking, because he received no encouragement from his sister, and when he found she would not laugh of course he had no further object in view, so he ceased his efforts. 
               Cholula had determined to ask Olmedo to carry her present to Cortez; and as it would be finished in a few days, she began to ask him while walking to the Aviary. He smiled and was pleased with her modest manner of proffering this simple request, and Olmedo seemed to see much good in his young friend; and his heart bounded at the thought that perhaps he could win her to Christ. He thanked her in the commander's name, and told her, though he had not seen the robe, that Cortez would be much pleased with it, especially coming from so young a subject of Montezuma's. 
               Olmedo addressed the attendants at the Aviary, through the interpreter, at first on topics of every day occurrence, but he finally got on the subject of human sacrifices. He dilated largely upon it. While he was speaking, Cholula, though listening to every word that he said, could not help observing that her brother Cholus was not taking what he said with the best grace. He frowned, bit his lip, looked black looks towards Olmedo, and finally, not content with feeling this himself, he went round whispering his views to the attendants, and exciting their ire against the speaker, telling the natives that such language as Olmedo used, was conspiring against their gods and their king. In a short time the assembly were so worked up, that Olmedo perceived his words were not in season at that time. Indeed so savagely did one or two look towards him and menace him, that he was obliged to make good his retreat by escaping through a lower door, several having barricaded the principal entrance to obstruct his retreat, intending to carry him to the authorities. 
               Cholula had directed his passage through this little end door, and had shown him the nearest way to the Spanish quarters. He thanked her, and promised to come see her at her own home before the week was over; and thus he bade her adieu. 
               She returned into the Aviary to find Cholus and Iztatl, both of whom she had left there on her precipitate retreat. Iztatl she found, but not Cholus. He had started for home in anger at her for helping Olmedo out of the hands of the natives. 
               However, she overtook him on the reservoir wall, which was the shortest way to get to their house. That is, down the steps and through the garden. 
               Cholus appeared to be in a very bad humor, answering his sister's questions with sullen replies, and occasionally giving her a push with his elbow, which nearly sent her into the reservoir. After he had ceased doing that, he walked on the very edge of the wall himself, thus frightening her. She was more nervous than most Aztec girls, from the fact that she had been kept at home most of her life; not having been to school where fortitude is engendered on the pupils, it is to be supposed that she was lacking in that principle of Aztec education, especially as she had always been sickly and delicate. 
               Cholus was forced to submit to a scolding. Cholula, though generally so kind to her brother, could not pass over his rude conduct towards the good Olmedo. Iztatl listened in wonder as Cholula reproached her brother for his conduct. She had never before heard anything like a quarrel between them. 
               "Just think, Cholus," she said, "it was actually you who turned that good man out of the house, where he was addressing us for our benefit." 
               "Indeed, sister, it was not I, but your own self who did it. If I had had my way, I should have kept him in for a while longer, at any rate. Did you not see how the entrance door was closed up?" 
               "For shame, Cholus! How could you incite those wicked men so? You know the least slight thrown upon our religion is enough to rouse them to anger; and you implied that such was the intention of Olmedo." 
               "Well, so it was; and if I had had my way, as I said before, I should have had him taken up before the king, and then he would have got his deserts, and what all other Spaniards deserve-death-of the most torturing kind. What right have they to enter our capital and lodge here as if they were lords of the land?" 
               "I'm sure, brother, the king allows it, and that ought to be sufficient reason for you to treat them with the same courtesy which he extends towards them. He believes, and so do I with him, that they were sent by the great Quetzacoatl, who lived here long ago, and went to the East and promised that he should come again. And why should these not be his children?" 
                
               "Oh! That is all nonsense. You ask father, and hear what he says. He will tell you that our gods will soon dispose of them, and their big animals, too, if they are so avaricious as they seem to be going to be. Why, in this short time that they've been here, just look at what they've done! They must have pillaged some place, for even the common soldiers-some of them, at least-wear chains of gold and other trinkets, that I know and recognize as our workmanship." 
               "O, Cholus," said Cholula, "how can you be so hard-hearted! You are in a bad humor now, and just say such things because you are angry at me. Do spare the poor Spaniards and scold me." 
                
               "Don't talk about being in a bad humor, Cholula, for I think you have just given evidence that you are in one. Come, make up before we part with Iztatl. I can't help hating the Spaniards. I will hate them, and I suppose you will like them; but that is no reason we should quarrel so. Is it, Iztatl?" 
               "No; I don't think you need quarrel, and neither do I think you need hate the Spaniards. I think if you had listened to what Olmedo said about loving your enemies, you would have tried to banish such feelings from your heart, which, he told us, is naturally sinful." 
               "There, don't quote that old fellow to me, Iztatl, unless you want to make me quarrel with you too. But here is our parting place; so, with a good-bye to thoughts of the good-for-nothing Spaniards, we'll bid you good-bye and take our course homeward." 
               "Cholus! Cholus! when will you learn to govern your feelings of hatred? Some day they will lead you to do something that you will regret all the rest of your life," said Cholula. 
               By this time they had arrived at home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               MONTEZUMA. 
               ABOUT a week after the arrival of the "white man," Cholus burst in to his sister's room with a vehemence which startled her, and throwing himself upon the floor, he commenced to beat his breast and tear his hair, his eyes flashing all the while with a terrible fire. 
               Quickly the gentle Cholula dropped her work, and running to him, threw herself by his side, and tried to draw from him the cause of this tempest, hoping to open a way for the consolation which she longed to pour in upon his wounded soul. 
               "Oh! What is the matter, dear Cholus?" (At least he did not repulse her.) "Is father dead? or the king?" Again and again she repeated these, and many other questions, which her fears suggested. He shook his head as if unable to speak. For some time (it seemed like hours to her) she remained with him, well knowing that as soon as he could, he would tell her all, for he had never yet kept anything from her. 
               Suddenly his eye was attracted by a beautiful glass vase, filled with flowers, which rested in one corner of the room, and jumping up hastily, he snatched it from its resting place, and dashed it to a thousand atoms, then ground those atoms to powder under his feet. 
               Something like remorse seemed to overtake him, when he heard the little cry of sorrow which involuntarily escaped from the lips of Cholula, as she saw the beautiful present which he had given her only the day before, thus utterly ruined. "But," he thought, "when she hears all, she will care no more for it than I do." 
               Then he said aloud, "The friendship of these precious whites is about as enduring as that glass which they gave me in exchange for my jewels. Cholula, I can't bear to tell you, for I know that it will break your heart, but I might as well, for you cannot help hearing it before the day is over." 
               "What is it?" she asked, her voice trembling with anxiety. 
               "They have taken our beloved chief, our sacred Montezuma, and carried him a prisoner to their quarters; and not a blow was struck in his defence." 
               Cholula uttered a sigh of relief, and said, "Then no blood is shed, no lives lost?" 
               "And do you value life more than honor? Rather would I have seen every drop of Mexican blood poured out like water in his defence, than see him submit quietly to such disgrace; for, understand, Cholula, that we are no longer free. As long as these pale-faced faced people have possession of our king, they will rule us with an iron hand; for well they know how sacred we hold his person, and that we will not rise against them, so long as it would endanger his safety." 
               The conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Maxtla with several of his kinsmen; who began to discuss the great topic of the day. The noise of their arrival awakened the mother of the household, who had been indulging in her siesta. 
               The whole affair was then described to her (for the Mexicans did not despise their women,) and Cholula gathered a clearer idea of the event, than she had formed from her her brother's incoherent recital. 
                
               She listened with breathless interest to her father, as he told how twenty-five or thirty of the soldiers of Cortez, or Malinche as he was called by the Mexicans, had entered the palace in groups of five or six. Their being armed had excited no suspicion in the breasts of the people, as they never appeared in public without armor. 
               Cortez, accompanied by five of his most valiant commanders, and also by Marina, his interpreter, had then held an interview with Montezuma, and had persuaded him to resign his liberty, and accompany them to their quarters. 
               Tecola's eyes flashed as she heard all this, and she exclaimed indignantly,-"And where were all his subjects, to let him be borne off in this manner, by the white faces? Why didn't you rise in a body and rescue him?" and she glanced around contemptuously on the able bodied men who surrounded her. 
               "How could we, when he himself seemed willing to go, and forbade our preventing it, by saying that he was visiting his friends of his own accord?" 
               A profound silence followed this announcement, for no one felt willing to breathe a word against their king, who was still sacred in their eyes, and how could they blame his subjects for obeying his orders, whose lightest wish had always been a command. 
               The pause was interrupted by Cholus's lus's exclaiming, "And just think, mother, his own noblemen had to carry him in his litter, and father had to assist." 
               All eyes turned on Maxtla, who said gloomily, "Yes, our blood is eternally disgraced, Tecola. I could not help it, for the king sent for me among the others who were to lift him out of his litter. I would rather have lost my right hand and eye, than have lifted a finger to help in this disgrace; but his will is law, and I could not disobey." 
               "O, father," said Cholus hotly, "we must do something to wipe out this stain; we must recover our king, if we all die in the attempt. Would that I could see the hearts of every one of these traitorous Spaniards laid on the altar of our God, and their bodies served up for Montezuma's dinner. 
               Cholula shuddered as she heard her brother utter these revengeful words, and almost fainted as she pictured to herself their fulfilment. Her brother saw the effect which his words had produced on her, and laying his hand gently on hers, he whispered, "My little dove had better retire for rest now, as we have things to talk about which it is better for her not to hear." 
               Cholula yielded, for she thought that while he carried her to her apartment, she could whisper to him a few words, which might soften his feelings towards the foe, and prevent him from joining in any scheme for their destruction. 
               "Dear Cholus," she said, as soon as they were alone, "I have learned something new in the last few days-a sentence which I never heard before." 
               "Well?" he said, inquiringly. 
               "It is, 'forgive your enemies,'" she said, gently. 
               "And what coward taught you that?" he asked, contemptuously. 
               "She was no coward, who said it," she replied, with spirit. 
               "She-then I suppose it was that Spanish signora, who is at Iztatl's?" 
               "Yes, and she told me that this is one of the first duties taught by her religion. Oh! If every one only obeyed it, they would be no more horrible war, and no prisoners sacrificed. Cholus, won't you believe it?" and she clasped his arm entreatingly. 
               He could not answer that beseeching look by the rough words which rose to his lips, but he would make her no promise to embrace a motto, which was so entirely contrary to all that he had ever been taught. His silence made her hope that he would return to the consultation which was progressing, with softened feelings; her heart was also lightened, by the thought that their king would now have an opportunity of being instructed in the new religion. "And if he embraces it," she thought, "the whole kingdom will of course follow his example." And she dwelt on the happiness which would ensue, if her country adopted a religion whose teachings would put an end to those horrible sacrifices, which had always cast such a cloud over her existence; and whispering to herself, "forgive your enemies," she fell asleep. 
               Weeks passed away. Cholula's frequent meetings with Olmedo and Leonore only confirmed her in her first impressions of the religion which they professed. She could not help contrasting the Christian's God, with those whom she had been taught to reverence. The former she was told, was slow to anger and of great mercy, while hers, she knew by too bitter experience, was so hard to appease that thousands of lives offered up yearly, failed to satisfy their blood-thirsty longings: and then would come to her mind some of those sayings which had dropped from the good Olmedo's lips, and taken such deep root in her heart; one in particular, returned again and again to her mind, furnishing much food for thought,-"God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoso believeth in Him should not perish, but have eternal life." How she longed to break down the barriers which his imperfect knowledge of the language placed upon their intercourse. Oh! that she might converse more freely with him and Leonore; lay before them her difficulties and learn more of that "well-beloved Son" who had laid down his life for all who believed in Him; even for her, if she chose to accept the salvation thus offered to her. 
               Every day she hoped to hear that, through the eloquent exertions of Fathers Olmedo and Diaz, their beloved king had been persuaded to believe in the Christian's God; but no such tidings reached her. 
               Cholus replied triumphantly when she asked him about it, 
               "No, indeed, our king is true to his gods; though those wily Spaniards are trying every plan they can invent to make him desert them-but he can answer every one of their cunning arguments with one which dashes theirs to pieces." 
               Cholula felt a strange doubt come over her; what right had she, a young girl not fifteen, to question the truth of the religion in which she had been educated? She tried to return to her old unbounded faith in the gods of her country, but in vain. Those terrible sacrifices would rise up before her, in a still more revolting aspect, since she had heard of a God who would require no such sacrifices from his believers. 
               Cholus interrupted her meditations by taking her out for a walk. He had noticed of late, that she had seemed more abstracted than was her wont, and determined, that whatever was the cause, he would try and dissipate the clouds which seemed to hover over her mind. 
               But he found it not so easy as formerly to amuse her. For the first time in their lives, there was a subject on which they did not agree, and, as neither of them wished to disagree, they chose the wise policy of avoiding the subject as much as possible. 
               But how could they avoid the subject which was occupying the attention of all, and in which they were both most particularly interested? How speak of anything else, when that one subject colored all their thoughts? 
               Even now, Cholus was burning with the thoughts of the recent news of the capture of Cacama, the lord of Tezcuco, and nephew of Montezuma. This prince had beheld with contempt the quiet submission of his uncle to the "pale faces," and had entered into a league with some of the neighboring chiefs to effect his rescue. 
               He had urged many of the Aztec nobles to join him, but they had refused, saying that they could enter into no such plans without the consent of their emperor. But even the refusal of his immediate subjects to join them, did not deter these bold spirits from their enterprise. Perhaps with more foresight than the others they saw the spreading power of the whites, and preferred the Aztec yoke to that of the Spaniards. 
                
               Slowly and stealthily their plans had developed, and were almost ripe for execution, when Cortez, with a perception which seemed supernatural to these superstitious natives, discovered the conspiracy, and with the speed of execution which with him always followed such discoveries, succeeded in arresting Cacama and the other caciques who were engaged with him, and had them brought in irons to the capital. 
               With thoughts of this in his mind, he found it hard to follow out his intention of amusing his sister, and at last gave up the attempt as useless, pursued his own train of thought and allowed her to do the same. 
               This walk seemed to be the forerunner runner of many others of the same character. The brother and sister could no longer talk freely together; the forbidden topic would intrude itself, sometimes causing an open rupture between them, but more frequently a long silence, moody on his part, and on her's sorrowful.
                
               Months passed on, and the detested Spaniards showed no signs of vacating the city of which they had so coolly taken possession; nor of resigning their hold upon Montezuma. 
               One day Cholus came home with a more joyful expression of countenance than Cholula had seen there for some time. Her face brightened as he saluted her affectionately, and sat down as if for a good long chat. 
                
               "Well, sister, we are going to be rid of these friends of yours at last; for we have heard that vessels from their own country have appeared off the coast, and Cortez will no longer have the excuse for remaining which he gave to our chief; that of having no vessels in which to depart." 
               "And why couldn't they go back the same way they came?" said Teopantla, their little brother, who had caught something of Cholus' spirit. 
               "Their wily captain destroyed their vessels, soon after landing, in order that they could not go back." 
               "Now, Cholus, you ought at least to do him the justice to say, that he kept one vessel for any who might choose to return." 
                
               "I will feel more like it, when they are too far off to do any more justice to our provisions and jewels," he replied, and he began to descant on the happiness which would spread like the sun's rays over their land, as soon as this big cloud of Spaniards was removed. 
               Cholula felt that she could not sympathize with him in his joy, for, of course, the departure of Cortez involved that of her two friends Leonore and Olmedo. Gathering up her work, therefore, she left her two brothers to rejoice together, while she retired to her own chamber to meditate on her coming sorrow, and try to recollect some of the consoling words which she had learned from Olmedo. 
                
               Her sorrow and her brother's joy were of short duration, however, for many days had not elapsed before it was generally known that Cortez had no intention of availing himself of this favorable opportunity to depart. 
               "His quarters are entirely too comfortable," said Cholus, angrily, as he was walking with his father, "and he will never depart until he is forced to do so by the arm of the Mexican." 
               "There is one other hope," interrupted his father, "it is said that these whites who have so recently landed, are no friends of Cortez, and it has been even hinted that they have offered to reinstate Montezuma on his throne. Their force is much larger than that now in our city, and I have no doubt that if we united our numbers with theirs, we could have every one of these whites ready for the next sacrifice, two days after the arrival of Narvaez; for that, I believe, is what they call the new commander." 
               "Oh! if we only could!" said Cholus enthusiastically. 
               "Of course, my son, you must say nothing of this to a soul; for if any such plans should reach the ears of that wily Cortez, he would find some means of nipping them in the bud. It appears almost useless, at any rate, to conspire against one, who seems able to penetrate, with his dark eye, the deepest laid scheme." 
                
               "But," said Cholus, "we have never had any white man to help us against him; perhaps this Narvaez is as wily as he," and his heart bounded at the thought. 
               "If he were, Montezuma would probably submit to him as quietly as to Cortez, and we would be no better off than before." 
               "But if he is once free, he would certainly not be caught in the same trap again." 
               Maxtla shook his head and said, "He puts too much faith in the idea of these whites being the children of the great Quetzacoath, to resist them. But," he said, interrupting himself, "who is this stranger entering the city? He is certainly not one of the train of Cortez. I surely know the faces of most of his horsemen." 
               "And this one is guided by several natives," said Cholus. "Cortez' soldiers know their way about the city only too well." 
               "We must see what it means," said Maxtla, and they began to retrace their steps. 
               "Perhaps it is the great Narvaez himself, come to save our chief." 
               Maxtla was too anxious just then to laugh at the idea of one man doing what millions had failed in, but he pushed his way toward the place, whither the horseman and his guides seemed to be going. 
               Arrived there, the envoy, for such he eventually proved to be, jumped lightly from his horse and was conducted to the apartments of Cortez. Thither of course Cholus and his father did not follow, but they waited anxiously in the halls of the palace in hopes of assisting, in case any attempt was made by the stranger to rescue their chief; or at least to learn, if they could, the object of his visit. 
               They did not wait long before there was a stir in the palace, and something of importance seemed to be occurring. Cholus seized a bow and arrows, and Maxtla his javelin; but they waited in vain for the war cries which they had momentarily expected. Instead of these, they heard the tramping of horses' feet on the pavement outside, and saw the Spaniards hurrying to and fro, as if excited by some important news. 
               Maxtla, feeling that he must know what it was all about, addressed one of the Mexicans who attended Cortez; for Montezuma, with characteristic generosity, had provided each of the Spaniards with several servants. 
               "What has happened?" he said, with eager interest; and others gathered round to learn the meaning of this commotion from one who had the best chance of knowing. 
               "From what I can learn, a party of Cortez's friend have arrived at the suburbs of the city with some prisoners." 
               "Prisoners' What kind? I am sure he has enough already." 
                
               "These are his own countrymen, I believe; a part of the army of Narvaez. They were seized by the governor of Villa Rica, and sent to Cortez, for him to dispose of at his pleasure." 
               "And why should he make prisoners of his own countrymen?" 
               "I do not understand exactly, but I believe this Narvaez claims submission from Cortez, who you know acknowledges no one for his superior, except his own king. I shouldn't wonder if there would be some fighting between them before they settle it." 
               Not a Mexican dared to express the hopes which this thought raised in his breast, but their countenances assumed a less melancholy expression when they heard that Cortez had an enemy who would be able to meet him with his own weapons. "Very likely," they thought, "they will kill each other, and once the white yoke off our neck, we will take care not to slip into it very soon again." 
               Their meeting was interrupted by the arrival of the friends of Cortez, on the horses which he had sent for them, and great was their chagrin when they saw that Cortez received the prisoners with as much courtesy as he did those who escorted them. 
               A few days afterwards the city was ringing with the news that Cortez had dismissed his prisoners, and sent them back to his enemy, Narvaez, loaded with presents. 
                
               Afterwards, as Iztatl and Cholula were taking one of their accustomed walks, they were met by Father Olmedo, who stopped them, saying he had a few last words to say to them, as perhaps he might never see them again. 
               Cholula's eyes filled with tears, and she said, "Oh! father, why do you say so?" 
               "To-morrow, my daughter, I am going on an embassy from my commander to his enemy, Narvaez. Our religion is one which forbids the shedding of blood, when the peace can by any means be kept, and Cortez is particularly anxious not to shed the blood of his own countrymen, who, you know, are Christians." 
                
               "Yes-father-then tell us something to remember and think about, when you are gone. Something about the dear Saviour." 
               It was just what he wished to do, but he had not much time, as they were nearing the palace. He thought he would teach her some little text which she could put in practice every day, and so he said, she all the time earnestly repeating his words, "Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not." 
               By the time she could say it over by herself, they had arrived at the palace, where they parted, after Iztatl and Cholula received the blessing of their friend. 
                
               The time passed slowly on, after the departure of Olmedo; and how sorry was Cholula when the news arrived that his effort to keep the peace between his two countrymen was successful. 
               The next day Cholus came to her triumphantly, and said, "At last we are going to be rid of these white faces, or at least of their commander and some of his followers. Come, Cholula, and see the last of them." 
               "Are they really going to-day?" she said. 
               "Yes; they are preparing to march out of the city now." 
               "And do you think he is going to fight his countrymen?" 
               "I hope so-but come;" and they walked out together, and went towards the palace, in which the procession was forming, which was to accompany Cortez to the causeway at the entrance of the city. 
               "It will be that many less white men for us to conquer, even if this Cortez is not killed." 
               "Oh! why does he fight against his own countrymen?" said Cholula, sorrowfully. 
               "Because he wants to have all the honor to himself of conquering the powerful Mexican race," said Cholus, bitterly. 
               "Perhaps even yet they will make peace with each other." 
               "Cholula," he said, impatiently, "I once thought you had more sense than most women, but you do not seem to understand that if these whites meet and destroy each other, it will free us from the yoke which is oppressing us." 
               "But he is not going to take all his forces, is he?" 
               "No; but when the wily chief is gone, it will be easy enough to conquer the handful which he leaves to take charge of us." 
               By this time they had arrived at the palace, where they found the procession already formed. 
               There was Montezuma (borne in his royal litter by his nobles, and surrounded by the Spanish guard). Behind rode Cortez, on a snow-white steed, with the seventy soldiers whom he intended taking with him on his enterprise. 
               They were attended by a crowd of Mexicans, eager and curious, but restrained from any expression of their feelings by the Spanish soldiers, who were scattered in their midst. 
               The cavalcade advanced slowly up the street, Cholus and Cholula following at some distance, the former saying that he wished to see the last of the wily enemy, and the streets were now too crowded for Cholula to go back alone. At last they reached the cause-way, where Cortez parted from his Mexican attendants, but not before embracing his royal prisoner. How different were the circumstances under which he next saw him! 
                
               The Mexicans waited until the Spaniards had passed out of sight, and then headed by Alvarado, who had been left in command of the city by Cortez, they turned and slowly retraced their steps to the palace. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE INCENSE OFFERING. 
               EARLY one morning about a week after the events just related, Cholula was roused from her slumbers by her mother's voice, "Come, child, get up. Don't you remember, this is the day of the great festival of our war god? You must bring out your prettiest ornaments and look just as charming as possible. But, my dear Cholula, what is the matter? Are you in more suffering than usual?" 
                
               "My head aches so," she answered, "that I know I could not bear the tiresome dance, so if you will let me, mother dear, I think I will stay quietly at home, only I hope father will not be angry." 
               "He is angry enough all ready but not at you, little dove. Those impudent presumptuous Spaniards have refused to permit our captive king to come into the teocalli today to take part in our rejoicings. 
               "Cholus says he will have nothing to do with it. He is so indignant that they should have prohibited the sacrifice and ordered that our men should come entirely unarmed. 
               "So you and he will be company for each other, while we are away." 
                
               The bustle of preparation going on through the house prevented Cholula from getting to sleep again, so she determined to dress quickly and assist in decking out her mother and sisters. She brought out all her stores of trinkets, and spent at least an hour in arranging them to the best advantage on her mother's person. 
               They formed a very gay party all together, when at length they were ready to start; and even Cholus' face, before darkened by an angry scowl, brightened into something like a smile as he said:- 
               "Won't these Spaniards be envious of you for all these bracelets of gold, and these precious stones. But I know one thing, I wont go to worship at all as long as we cannot do it without being spied by these white faced villains. Good-bye. A merry time to you, father, mother, and all. Come, Cholula, let us have a nice little festival all to ourselves, this morning." 
               "We will have a good time," she said, "but it cannot be quite to ourselves; for, yesterday when I saw Iztatl, she said her father was on one of his long journeys and her mother would have to stay with Leonore, so that she would have no one to go with to the teocalli, and she did not care to go alone. When I heard that, I invited her to come round this morning and go with us, but since you and I decided not to go, I knew she would prefer staying with us." 
                
               She had scarcely finished speaking when she heard a sly tread behind her, and turning, caught sight of Iztatl, stealing in on tip-toe, her dark eyes sparkling with fun, and a warning finger uplifted to Cholus, that he should not let his sister know there was any one there. 
               "I thought I would take you by surprise," she said, "and be close upon you without your knowing it. But," looking around in surprise, "where are all the rest? and why are you not arrayed in your best feathers and jewels?" 
               "Why, Iztatl, I hope you won't be disappointed. My head felt so dizzy this morning, it was not fit for the dance, and I thought you would have more real fun with Cholus and me, than at the noisy jubilee, especially as you said yesterday, you had no particular wish to go. So I bade father and the rest not wait for you, as they seemed impatient to get off." 
               "And pray, Cholus," said Iztatl, "what kept you from this gay festival? You, who are generally so zealous in your devotion to the gods." 
               "It was just this," he said, "it seems to me an insult to our gods to see these pale-faced Spaniards profaning our temple and not offer any resistance; if I went at all, I would go armed, and have a good thrust at some of these cowards. But that would be impossible so long as even the brave Montezuma submits to these outrages, and so I determined I would not go at all." 
               "Now, Cholus," said Cholula, "let us not talk any more about that, for I want Iztatl to have a real good time to-day, to make up for her not going to the festival, and if we begin a discussion on that subject there will be an end to all peace. We will deck the room with flowers, and sing sweet ballads together, and indeed try to imagine ourselves in that happy land the good Leonore told us of the other day. O, Cholus, in that land, she says there will be no more shedding of blood, and not even a harsh word spoken and a great and good God rules there, whose very name is love." 
               Cholus moved uneasily on his seat at this, for his conscience was not entirely clear in regard to his treatment of his sister lately, and this speech seemed to him a well merited reproach. 
               "Well," he said, willing to turn it off, "as all the servants have gone to the teocalli to look on at the dance, Iztatl, we'll have to ask you to help us to get that little feast ready." 
               "O, that will be ever so nice," said Iztatl, "I will set to work and make some chocolate, if you will give me the things for it." 
               "Then," said Cholus, "sister you must direct me about setting out the table, for I don't know much about it, and you must not have anything to do, but look on, so that your head will be rested enough to enjoy it afterwards." The work went on merrily and the preparations took up so much time that the morning was somewhat advanced before they were ended, and all things were ready. 
               "Dinner awaits you," said Cholus, after giving the last finishing touch to the table. Just at this instant their merriment was arrested by a sound for which they were totally unprepared. 
               "Hark," exclaimed Cholus, "hear you those sounds? What does that mean? There was to be no sacrifice to-day." 
               They all listened in breathless suspense. Shriek after shriek rent the air. They proceeded from the direction tion of the teocalli, some squares distant. Cholula threw her arms around Iztatl's neck in an agony of fear, not for herself, but for the poor sufferers, who ever they were. But in a moment she recovered her presence of mind and starting forward seized hold of Cholus, just in time to prevent his rushing out of the house to the scene of action. 
               "Brother," she said, "what would you do? What ever is going on, and I cannot imagine what it is, your presence would do no good, stay with us if you have any love left for me. We can do nothing but pray to the great God above, to protect those poor creatures, whoever they are." 
               They were, indeed, utterly powerless to do anything but try to shut out the agonizing sounds which fell with more and more distinctness on their ears. Many times Cholus started up, as if to go inquire the cause of the tumult, but Cholula held him fast, with a clasp that was almost supernatural in its strength. 
               "There is One alone who can help us in this hour," she said; "let us go to Him in our distress. These dreadful sounds may delight the ears of the war god, but they cannot please the God of Love. Dear brother, dear friend, let us kneel, as the good Olmedo does, and ask the help of this merciful Being." 
               Cholus complied mechanically, and both he and Iztatl joined with the trembling young girl in her petitions, which were poured forth with yet more fervor, as they were occasionally interrupted by a still more piercing cry from without. 
               How long they waited thus none of them could have told, but at length the sounds died away into silence. 
               Cholus rose, and said, vehemently, that he would go now and ascertain exactly what it was. 
               His sister no longer opposed it, but entreated him for her sake not to expose himself to any danger unnecessarily, but before she had finished speaking he had gone. 
               She and her companion had not really long to wait, but it seemed an interminable time before he re-entered the room, accompanied by an Aztec priest. 
               One glance at Cholus' face convinced the girls that his report would more than realize their worst apprehensions. It was terrible to behold that youthful countenance, convulsed by grief and rage, and these held such complete sway over him, that his voice failed him. "Tell them," he said, to companion, and throwing himself on the floor, he gave expression to his feelings by tearing his hair, and giving every outward sign of a mind beside itself. 
               Cholula knelt beside her brother, and strove by mute caresses and soothing terms of affection to stem the torrent of his fierce passion. But she was completely stunned by the brief but awful words of the stranger priest. "The false Alvarado and his greedy, treacherous followers have murdered, in cold blood, all the worshippers who came to the teocalli this morning. Not one escaped of all who were within those sacred walls. And now the payment, which is wont to be washed by the sacrificial blood, reeks with that of thousands of our countrymen." 
               The calamity was too dreadful for them to realize it at once in all its awfulness. But as Cholula comprehended the horrible import of the priest's words she uttered a low cry, and fell over in a death-like swoon. Iztatl hastened to her help, and when, at length she was restored to consciousness ness, supported by her brother, she listened to the counsel of the priest. 
               "Ah, my poor orphan children, spend not your time in idle weeping; rather prepare the arrows and the javelin, and help to avenge, on these traitorous cowards, all the wrongs they have heaped upon us." 
               Cholus' eye kindled still more fiercely, as he exclaimed, "I will labor day and night; I will offer up my life's blood to accomplish this vengeance." 
               In the midst of this speech the door of the apartment was violently pushed open, and Mexitli, Iztatl's mother, rushed wildly in. On seeing her daughter all safe, however, her cry of anguish was turned into one of joyous astonishment. 
                
               "O, my child! my dear little dove! I thought never to see this sweet face again!" and she almost crushed her in the warmth of her embrace. 
               Poor Cholula's calmness quite gave way. The meeting brought home to her, in all its force, the agonizing thought,-"My mother will never embrace me again." 
               Iztatl and her mother strove in vain to comfort her. At such times as this no human friend can render aid, and the words intended as consolation fall coldly on the bleeding heart. 
               It was with a sense of relief, therefore, that Cholula bade her friend good-night, and sought her bed in the vain hope of finding there a temporary oblivion of her terrible misfortunes. 
                
               Cholus, after requesting Mexitli and her daughter to remain there that night, that his sister might not be wholly unprotected, disappeared with his companion. 
               They, together with all the sufferers in this affair, were bent on instantaneous revenge. All that night they spent in laying their plans, and, at the early dawn, every Aztec left in the city was in arms to revolt against the Spaniards. 
               They commenced the work with the fury of demons, but were persuaded by their captive monarch to desist from this butchery. 
               They then set to work in sullen defiance to blockade their enemy in their own quarter of the town. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE NEW HOME. 
               THE earnest invitation of Mexitli induced Cholus to give his consent that his sister should accompany her friends the next day to their home, and henceforth make it her own. 
               As he would necessarily be much away, it would not do for Cholula to be alone; and in the society of her young friend she would more easily recover from the shock, occasioned by her recent dreadful loss. 
                
               Iztatl looked forward with delight to the prospect of having her friend always near her, although she sorrowed truly for the sad event which had brought this pleasure to her. 
               Early in the morning, she went home to relieve the anxiety of Leonore in regard to her safety, and to tell her of the loss her friend had sustained. 
               Leonore was deeply grieved at the sad tidings, but rejoiced that Cholula was spared, and would now have her home with them. 
               She had loved the young girl from the first moment they met, and felt that her love was returned, and she would now she thought have good opportunity to teach her the truth and strive to lead her to the Saviour. Great was her disappointment then to find that Cholula on her arrival, instead of giving her the hearty embrace, with which she usually greeted her, passed by her coldly, and would have gone away without speaking, had she not been detained by a soft hand on her shoulder, and an earnest entreaty to stop for a moment. 
               What is the matter, my poor child? Why do you turn from me so coldly? I am full of sorrow for your loss, and would try to comfort you. God has surely stricken you, Cholula, but--" 
               "No. Do not speak to me of your God," she cried passionately. "He cannot be just since those who profess to love him do such cruel deeds. They have left me no friend save one. My father and mother breathe no more; my sisters and brother are taken away in the sunshine of their life; they went away in peace from our bright home, but they returned no more; slain by the hand of those that they had never injured!" 
               "But, Cholula, God did not love this cruel deed of Alvarado, and he will surely punish him for it. God is angry with the wicked, even though they call upon His holy name." 
               Her words were in vain, for Cholula burst into a passionate fit of weeping, and rushed into the garden, into a secluded spot, where she might indulge her grief without restraint. 
               "Alas," she said, "my heart is sad, indeed; I mourn not only that my dear friends are taken from me, and I am left alone, but I am so disappointed; so long I have been groping in darkness, seeking for light to point me to God, and now, when I thought I had found it, and hailed with joy the knowledge of a merciful Being to whom I might give my whole heart, all my joy has fled, and clouds again surround me. May the true God, whoever he may be, give me light to find Him." 
               Her prayer was answered, for God, who "heareth the young ravens when they cry," much more attends to the earnest petition of the trembling suppliant, who looks to Him for help; for "whosoever shall call on the name of the LORD shall be saved." 
                
               Slowly and sadly passed the weeks that followed. Cholus daily brought his sister tidings of the blockade in which the Mexicans kept the Spanish troops; and he would speak in triumph of their defeat, and the glorious celebration that would take place after their final overthrow; when these enemies should grace the huge stone of sacrifice, and thus atonement would be made to their god, for their sin in allowing his enemies to come to their city, and offer insult to his image. Cholula listened, and though she shuddered at the thought, she gave no word of reproof to her brother for his revengeful words. 
               No efforts of the good Leonore to recover her place in Cholula's heart seemed to succeed, and she mourned indeed that all the seed that she had sown, and fostered with her prayers, should have fallen on barren ground, and would bring forth no fruit. 
               But despair not, Leonore; for "He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again rejoicing, bearing his sheaves with him." 
               Though Cholula seemed as though she heard not, when Leonore spoke of the love of God in sending his Son to save sinners; and his gracious promise to keep him in perfect peace whose mind was stayed on him; the words sank into her heart and lodged there. 
               Slowly she began to acknowledge to herself, that though the Spaniards had done wrong, they might have done so, without seeking to know the will of their God, and he might still be just and merciful. So her manner to Leonore gradually began to soften, and her face to wear a more cheerful aspect. 
               One day being weary with her work, she laid it aside, and going into the garden threw herself under a large tree to rest. 
               The soft rippling of a fountain near her, and the playing of the breeze through her hair soothed her, and she was just sinking into a soft slumber, when she was roused by voices near her. The speakers had entered the garden by another path, and, 
                   
                     She was aroused by voices near her. Page 126. 
                  
                  
                   though quite near Cholula, were prevented from seeing her by the tall shrubs which were between. 
               "Yes, I know," were the first words that reached her ears, "she is a soft-spoken Spaniard, and for that reason I hate her, and would joyfully obtain her to be one of the victims in the coming sacrifice." 
               "But, Coyotl," said the other, "mistress loves her well, and treats her like her sister, how then could we succeed, for she has always some of the family with her." 
               "Oh! I have thought of that and have my plans arranged. To-morrow you know our master, Conatzin, returns from his expedition to the west whither he has been to dispose of his merchandise dise, and the whole family, as is their custom, will go to meet him on the other side of the lake, and welcome him home again. The Spaniard may not go, for they dare not show that they allow one of our nation's foes to remain under their roof, and then will be our time." 
               "You have arranged your plan with great skill, and it seems so easy that I am sure it must succeed, and the priest will give us his blessing for adding another victim to appease the anger of our gods." 
               Having completed their arrangements to carry out this wicked plot, they turned from the garden and entered the house, and busily employed themselves with their respective tasks, that nothing might be suspected, little dreaming that there was another beside themselves, who knew their plans as well as they. 
               Cholula lay with her eyes closed, revolving earnestly in her mind, how she might best defeat their designs. She did not wish to expose their plot, for that might reserve them for the horrible fate for which they destined Leonore, who had wound herself so closely around the heart of every inmate of the house, that some would be sure to seek revenge against the author of this design to take away her life. Cholula thought, too, that at some future time she might have an opportunity to try to instruct them about the true God, for already as her mind began to be illumined with the light of truth, she longed to show the way to others that they too might have peace. 
               At last she hit upon a plan, which she thought was the best that could be found. She remembered that in the very chamber occupied by Leonore there was a secret door which opened into a vault in which the treasures of the family were deposited. Only a few knew of its existence, but Cholula had learned it from Iztatl, who never could keep any knowledge she possessed from her friend. Having settled all to her satisfaction, she returned to the house. 
               Iztatl and her mother had noticed, with pleasure, the return of Cholula's affectionate bearing towards their guest, and they were not now surprised when she entered the room, and seated herself at the feet of Leonore, looking with a loving smile into the sweet face which bent over her. 
               Leonore's countenance beamed with pleasure, but after sitting for a few minutes with her hand-resting lightly on Cholula's raven locks, she rose abruptly, and went to the furthest end of the room. Mexitli and Iztatl seemed to perceive that the two others would like to be alone together, for they left the apartment. 
               When the door was closed upon them, Cholula, after asking for forgiveness for her late conduct, which was readily granted, revealed the plot as well as the wild beating of her heart would permit. 
               Leonore heard in silence, and though her face grew deadly white at the mention of the "sacrifice," she gave no other signs of fear, but sat with her head resting in her hands in deep thought. 
               "But I will save you, my precious friend," said Cholula, "and show you that I truly love you, and repent of my wicked conduct." 
               "But you must not save me and have the life of those wretched men the price of my blood; for God will give me strength to die, and they do not believe in Him, and might be forever lost." 
               "No; I will save you without that for I want them, too, to be led to love your God; but I will show you what I will do;" and Cholula arose, and joyfully drawing aside some of the light drapery which festooned the apartment, revealed to the wondering eyes of Leonore a secret door. She told her that on the next day as soon as the family had left the house she must conceal herself in this place, and remain there until she should come herself to set her free. 
               Leonore thanked her, and promised to follow her directions, and then they knelt down together to bless God for letting them receive the warning ere it was too late. The rest of the day, Cholula stayed in her own room, and having requested to be left alone, she remained undisturbed in her thoughts for Leonore's safety. 
               Cholus, having a desire for his sister to enjoy his pleasures with him, had given her some instructions in drawing, which knowledge she diligently improved, and, as she was very fond of the art, had made rapid advancement. She thought now she could make use of this talent, and leave a drawing, which, falling into the hands of the plotters, would convince them that their sin had been discovered, and make them see in it the hand of a powerful God. This, by rousing their superstitious fears, would prevent them from trying the same again, and would more readily incline them to listen to her teachings of the great God, who knoweth all things, even the secret thoughts that have place in our bosoms. 
               She worked rapidly, and soon looked with satisfaction on a sketch of a garden, in which two men sat together conversing, while hovering near them was the dim outline of a figure bending his ear, as if to catch their words, at the same time pointing upwards, where there was the form of a woman becoming rapidly enveloped in a cloud. 
               The spacious mansion which was now Cholula's home seemed deserted; no sounds issued forth from its shaded windows, for the family had gone forth to welcome their lord and master, leaving the poor Spaniard alone in her chamber. 
                
               An hour or two after their departure, two men stealthily entered the house, and pursued their way to Leonore's chamber, whispering in low tones, as if fearful of the sound of their own voices. 
               "Now for our revenge on this treacherous race," exclaimed one, with a look of fierce hatred on his face, as he stood before the door. "You cannot escape us now, vile woman." 
               Thus saying they opened the door, and entered with exultant steps, when their joy was cut short, and they looked at each other with speechless amazement, for the room was empty; their victim was not their. A draught of wind coming in, at that moment, blew something to their feet, and hastily picking it up, their wonder was changed into fear and dread as they conjectured the hidden meaning of the symbolic picture. 
               "The gods are angry with us, and have taken her from us by miracle. Quick let us fly, for if our mistress returns and finds us here, she will suspect us of having made way with her, and require her blood at our hands." 
               They quickly left the house, and feeling the fear of detection that always attends the consciousness of guilt, they determined to join the army blockading the Spanish quarters, were they could conceal themselves, and perhaps satisfy their thirst for the blood of their enemies by killing some with their arrows. 
                
               When the family returned Iztatl hastened to Leonore's apartment, to greet her, and tell her of the prudent advice her father gave. He had told them there was no safety for any of the family from the malice of their countrymen, so long as they harbored a Spaniard in the house. Indeed, it was only after earnest entreaty from his wife that he agreed to permit Leonore to remain, and that on condition that she should stay in her room observing as much secrecy as possible. 
               Greatly was Iztatl astonished to find no Leonore, and her suffering was intense. She was obliged to conceal her emotion, for some of the neighbors had run in to see Conatzin, and her mother was with them, and so there was no one to whom to impart her trouble, for Cholula had gone with her brother for a visit to a relation who had arrived that day, and had not yet come back. 
               Again and again she went to Leonore's apartment to see if she had not been mistaken, and, with horror, she thought she saw the marks of feet upon the floor and along the corridor. 
               Then she wandered around the house waiting impatiently for her friend, and it seemed like hours before she saw her enter the house. 
               "O, Cholula!" she exclaimed as soon as she succeeded in getting her friend alone, "Leonore has gone, I fear some of our countrymen have seized her while we were away, and she may even now be lying a sacrifice on the great jasper stone," and a cold shudder ran over her frame at the dreadful thought. 
               Cholula shuddered, too, as she thought it might have been so, but she drew her friend's arm in her own, and told her not to be frightened for Leonore was safe, and she should go immediately to her. As they walked along, Cholula told of the plot, and of her motives for keeping silence, and received a promised from Iztatl not to reveal it. They reached Leonore's room, and speedily rescued her from her confinement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               A HAPPY MEETING. 
               IN dread Leonore waited for the return of Cholula, for she feared the natives might even search for her and find her in this place of concealment. When she heard the approach of foot-steps she thought with horror that it might be the two wicked men who had destined her destruction. It was therefore with joy that she beheld the faces of her two young friends. 
               "Father is home, Leonore, and I wished to tell you that he thinks you had better not leave your room at all, not even for your meals as you have been doing. The greatest caution is neccessary. Indeed, he himself is so incensed at the massacre of our friends that it was with difficulty we persuaded him to permit us to have you with us still; but dear mother's influence saved us from that trial." 
               Cholula, on going down-stairs, was met by her brother, who ran joyfully towards her, exclaiming, "Well, sister, at last we will have our revenge; as you know, we have been surrounding the Spanish quarters, and keeping them in; the truth is, we intend to destroy them if we can." 
               "You seem to be very well informed as to the plans of our countrymen," responded Cholula. 
               "Yes; there is not much that passes, or that is planned, that I cannot find out." 
               Several days after this conversation, Cholus informed his sister, with a frown, that Cortez had returned from the coast to assist his followers, whom he had left in charge of the city. He was represented, he continued, as being horror-stricken at the cruel murder of the natives. 
               Cholula rejoiced to hear this latter piece of news, because it confirmed her in her good opinion of the Spanish leader. 
               "I saw the king in his prison house. Cortez was present; he wore that elegant gant robe that you sent to him. I felt just like tearing it from his body. There was a page there, whom Cortez left with our king to attend on him. It was through him that I was admitted into the house." 
               "But, brother, how did you happen to be near there?" said Cholula, in surprise. 
               "Don't tell any one if I let you into the secret," he replied. "My youthful appearance makes me beyond suspicion on the part of the Spaniards, whom I encourage in the idea that I am friendly to them, but this is only that I may better serve our cause. I have several times brought back from them to our leaders important observations which I have made, so that it is to the interest terest of our countrymen to assist me in going and coming wherever I wish." 
               "And who is this page who assisted you?" 
               "It was some one interested in your dear friend and companion up-stairs. He wished to know how the Widow Estrella fared, and if she was improving in health. He told me that Olmedo had been talking to him of us and Iztatl, and how 'Signora Estrella,' as he called her, was lodged at the house of our friends. He even had the assurance to condole with me on the loss of our parents." 
               "O, brother, that must be the young Louis Estrella, whom I have heard Leonore mention so often. He is a cousin of her husband." 
                
               "He was very anxious to come and see his relative, and asked me if I would object to changing places with him some dark night. I could not object, besides, I thought that would lay him under obligation to me, in case I needed his assistance in finding out little useful things about his leader's movements, so we are to exchange clothes the first opportunity, and then he will pay a visit to his cousin, but it must be as short as possible, Cholula, for there is great risk in this sort of business." 
               "Brother, depend upon my word! No true follower of the Spaniard's God, no one who really loves the Saviour, Jesus, could be a traitor to his country's cause. Louis will never assist you, I am sure, by revealing any secrets necessarily confided to him. Yet, I am glad for Leonore's sake that he is coming. Doubtless he knew nothing of what influenced you to consent to his plan." 
               "Of course he did not; he thinks that I am one of the weak, deluded creatures who submit to the "white man" as sent by the gods. He may think so, too, for a while longer, and then we shall see who has been duped! I should as soon have brought you in contact with a viper as with him, only it best suits my purposes to keep him my friend." 
               "He comes not to see me, but Leonore, so there would be no danger for me, if he were like a viper, which I know is not so; but-to leave vexed subjects-how are you getting on with our father's business? I fear it is too much of a burden for you, you are so young." 
               "Oh! uncle is with me most of the time, and I had almost as much to attend to when my father was living. Uncle desired me to tell you that he wishes you to try and become strong enough to come take charge of his house," 
               "Oh, Cholus, I cannot think of it! Our friends here are so kind, and would not let me leave them; besides, think of living in a great, large house without a single woman in it of my own station! No! no! Cholus; I must stay here, as Iztatl says, till you are old enough to have an establishment of your own, when it shall be my great pleasure to attend it for you. Meanwhile, you must go on visiting me daily, so that we shall feel almost as if we lived together." 
               Cholula informed Leonore that Louis had been inquiring about her, and then described Cholula's interview with him. It was a pleasant relief to the monotony of Leonore's secluded life to have the visit of her cousin to look forward to. 
               One stormy evening not long after he appeared, and very glad were they to meet once more. 
               "O, Leonore, how I have missed you. I have been almost starved several times for the want of your ever successful hand to sway the culinary sceptre. These Mexicans do get up the most detestable messes, but there's one thing to be said for them. That chocolate of their's is the most delicious drink I ever tasted. It makes my mouth water to mention it." 
               "Poor Louis! I see you are the same boy as ever, hungry still. And this is why you wished to see me so much?" asked Leonore. 
               "Of course, that was my principal reason," said Louis, laughing and raising his eyebrows, "but do hurry and get well enough to go out, I should like you to see the curiosities of the town." 
               "Why, Louis, what are you thinking of. I never even leave this room, any more, for fear of these fierce people." 
               "Yes," he replied, "but I mean after we conquer them, and I believe our noble Cortez intends sending Montezuma out to appease them, for you know he still professes friendship for us and will do much to keep down the anger of his subjects; but, hark, what was that?" and looking out the door he encountered Mexitli, who had come to warn him that it was unsafe for Cholus to be kept longer in his strange position, and therefore it was necessary that he should be relieved as soon as possible. 
               "Well, good-bye. I must hurry back. Don't forget, dear cousin, to learn how to make that refreshing chocolate. Oh! I forgot to tell you. Young De Leon, who had to be in the secret about this visit, desired to be remembered to you. He misses Carlos sadly, and how you survive his loss is more than I can understand, but this is not getting back to quarters; remember chocolate is my watch-word." 
               "Oh! what a tease he is! How persistently he pursues one subject." Leonore followed a train of thought caused by what Louis had said respecting her husband. She mourned his loss, though she knew it was all for the best that the good Lord had taken him away from her. 
               Hostilities continued at intervals, and Cholus became very anxious to assist actually in attacking the Spaniards iards. His desire for revenge was so great that he was not satisfied with anything short of fighting them himself. It was not enough that his countrymen had in a degree repaid the Spanish massacre at the Teocalli, but he seemed to desire the total extirmination of his enemies; but his sister after much coaxing and persuasion extracted a promise from him that he would not take up arms till he was ordered to. He was too young to come under the first order that had been given for every Aztec man to bear a hand against their enemies. All the part that he had as yet taken, was owing to the influence of the Mexican priest, who had made his acquaintance the fatal day of the massacre. 
                
               At length one day the fighting was carried on in good earnest, and continued for three days without ceasing. Cholula was horrified by the sounds, and more so by the intelligence which Cholus brought her that the king had been brought out to address the people. He had tried to appease them and make them think that the Spaniards were truly their friends, and his language had so incensed some of the Mexicans that they had dashed their arrows at him, and that he had been severely wounded. 
               Cholula gazed from the window into the street. The men seemed to be stunned at the this terrible deed. In fact it was the cause of a cessation of the protracted fight, so great was the remorse and dejection of the Aztecs; but they soon recovered their wonted vigor. The Spaniards that night set fire to a great many houses in the city. Cholula wakened Iztatl with the distressing news that the city was on fire. There was no more sleep for them that night. In terror they watched, fearing each moment that their vicinity would be the next to be burned, but they rejoiced together in the morning that God had protected them in so many dangers, while others around them had lost house and home. 
               Cholus was at length obliged to render his services in battle, for which he rejoiced very much. He even felt that his being along would almost make them succeed; and at least his vigor in everything he was ordered to do, was such as to give rise to this impression in his sister's mind. 
               Cholula and Iztatl were, of course, much interested in the passing events. In fact, they had little else outside the house to occupy them. One day their attention was attracted by seeing a small band of cavaliers attacked by a superior number of Aztecs. They were just mourning the fate of the whites, when a party of Spanish horse, with Cortez himself at their head, dashed up and rescued their companions. They all rode in front of the window where the girls were standing, but this was the last time for many days that they beheld the Spanish commander in such a successful situation tion, for the Aztecs surrounded their quarters with the intention of starving them out. 
               Cholus one night relieved guard for a sick sentinel. This was the first time he had ever attended such a post, and he determined to do his very best, and to let nothing and no one pass without giving the alarm. He walked on his round, pausing at every sound, but nothing occurred that night. So well were his duties performed, that hereafter he was posted as sentinel in a very important position. 
               Meanwhile, his sister and her friends were shocked at the death of Montezuma, who died from not allowing his wounds to be dressed; for such was the mortification of this king, that he determined termined to die rather than he looked upon with such feelings of scorn, as those expressed by his countrymen. And so he died. The Spaniards tried, in vain, during his sickness, to make him acknowledge a belief in the Christian faith. He died as he had lived. He place, or rather his duties and title, were allotted, by the choice of the Mexicans, to Cuitlahua. This gave them signal advantage, as their king was now really their leader. 
               But to return to our young sentinel. Eager for revenge, alert, and ever active in performing his duties, his wishes, at length, were to be gratified, and he was to serve his country in an hour when his promptitude would prevent the success of their enemies. 
                
               One night, very late, while on guard, he discovered a commotion among the Spaniards, and on calling several of his companions they examined and found that Cortez was leaving the city. This important discovery they shortly made known to the Aztec chief, and soon the whole city was roused and rushing on to their common enemy. The slaughter which followed, in after years, lay heavy on the heart of Cholus, for he could never help feeling that but for him they might have made good their escape. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               NOCHE TRISTE. 
               THE crowd of Mexicans, who were aroused by Cholus, almost trampled him under foot, but he managed to move with the tide, and clenching the bow and arrows tightly in his hand, he hastened with his countrymen towards their work of destruction. 
               "Ha!" said he, triumphantly, "now we have caught these fellows, and we will pay them up for all former offences; for how can they leave the city when all the bridges over the causeways are destroyed? Oh! that I may fire this arrow right into the heart of Cortez, or of the bloody Alvarado, who made me and my sister orphans." 
               "But," said one of his companions, "the Spaniards seem to be going across without the aid of our bridges. See! they are nearly all over the first breach of the causeway." 
               "Yes; but see how the arrows fly thick and fast around them, and those who are across are standing still-not going over the second breach! Come! let us hasten-I must have my chance at a shot." 
               Cholus hastened forward, and soon found himself on the scene of action. The cause of a portion of the Spaniards standing still between the two breaches was soon explained to him, when he perceived that they had come over on a portable bridge, which Cortez had had made to supply the place of those which the Mexicans had destroyed in order to cut off their retreat from the city. 
               It was the first time Cholus had ever been in an actual engagement with the Spaniards, and he determined to do credit to his family by calling into action the courage which had hitherto lain dormant in his breast. 
               Adding his to the many hideous war cries, which were piercing the air, he launched his arrows towards the enemy, and when these were exhausted hausted fired such stones and missiles as lay near the ruins of the bridge which the Mexicans had destroyed. 
               The Spaniards, that is, those who had not been struck down by the missiles, which darkened the air around them, had all succeeded in crossing the first breach. And now came the grand work of removing the bridge to the second opening, there being three breaches in this causeway over deep waters. 
               But, alas! the weight of the men and horses, moving across it, had so completely wedged the bridge into its resting place, that Magarino and the other brave men who had charge of it found it impossible to remove it. 
               Words cannot described the consternation sternation which seized the Spaniards, as the news spread among them; cut off from every hope of retreat, with the Mexicans, their enemies, thirsting for revenge on one side, and the deep waters almost as relentless on the other. The water, too, contained other dangers than that furnished by its depth, for its surface was darkened by canoes flitting hither and thither discharging their load of arrows, javelins, and lances upon their pitiable enemy. 
               We need not describe the scene which followed. The Spaniards, nerved to action by their desperate situation, leapt into the waters, where many of them were either swallowed up by them or seized by their enemies in the canoes, and carried off for the victims of sacrifice. 
               Cholus had worked himself nearer to the enemy, and now found himself, where he had most wished to be, near Alvarado whom he hated with such deadly hatred. 
               He was surrounded by a few of his followers, and was bravely defending himself against the attacks of the infuriated Mexicans, so many of whom had reason to hold him in abhorrence. 
               Cholus added his to the many other missiles which were directed towards Alvarado, and his heart gave a leap as he saw the Spaniard's faithful horse fall under him; perhaps his had been the well directed blow which had caused his death, and if near enough to kill the horse, why not the rider? and he applied himself with redoubled fury to the attack. 
               But Alvarado did not despair, even though unhorsed; he rallied his men, cheering them on with the hopeful words which rose to his lips, though it can hardly be thought they had much depth in his heart. 
               Again and again the Mexicans renewed their furious attack, and again were driven back, but at last the little party was completely exhausted and would certainly have been captured by their enemy, had not Cortez and some of his immediate attendants, who had swam across the lake, returned to their rescue. They charged with their horses, always a powerful ally against the Mexicans, and created a diversion in favor of their countrymen; but it was only for a moment, the Mexicans bore down upon them and they leapt into the lake and swam across as before. 
               "Tonatiuh!" shouted Cholus as he saw that Alvarado alone remained. Now was the moment to launch the deadly arrow into his heart, and every Mexican who saw his critical position cast an arrow at him. But it could not be-yes-it is. His lance on the rubbish which filled the bottom of the lake, with one bold leap he was on the other side, almost before the astonished Mexicans had time to turn their eyes in that direction. 
                
               Cholus held his breath, he was stupefied; could it be possible that the enemy, so nearly taken, had thus escaped out of their hands? Again and again he and his astonished comrades looked across the breadth of the lake, and each time found it harder to realize that the almost supernatural feat of leaping it had been accomplished, and that, too, by him who had caused such sorrow in that land but a few months before. 
               The capture of Alvarado was the only thing wanting to complete the triumph of that night, and Cholus felt that, had it been in his power, he would willingly give all the prisoners, who had been taken that evening, in exchange for this one man. But it was too late now. His countrymen were too busily engaged in gathering up the treasures dropped by the enemy in their flight to think of further pursuit, and, as the Spaniards gradually disappeared on the other side of the causeway, Cholus turned away in disgust from his countrymen so greedy of gain, and retraced his steps to the city. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A MISSION 
               THE news of the last night's proceeding was received with various emotions by the different members of Conatzin's household. While he and Cholus enjoyed their triumph together, talking boastingly of the military prowess of their king, Cholula and Iztatl stole away unobserved to break the sad intelligence to Leonore. She, poor thing, would suffer the more intensely, as there was no certainty as to the fate of Louis. Her condition would now indeed have been desolate, had it not been for these friends, who she felt had been sent her by an all merciful Providence. 
               During the trying months of suspense that followed, the two young girls, in observing Leonore's patient, and even at times cheerful, mien, were strengthened yet more in their belief in a religion that endowed its followers with such power of endurance. 
               One day, when they were gathered around the table, partaking of their mid-day meal, a servant came running in with the news of the king's death. They were not wholly unprepared for this sad intelligence, for they had heard of his illness a day or two before, and many had been the conjectures as to what could be the remedy for the malady so rapidly spreading among them. 
               "See, Cholula," said Cholus, "what horrible beings these 'pale faces' must be! This dread disease, that has snatched away our good king, was unknown before the white man invaded our country. Now it is fast spreading over our army, doing more to diminish our members than many attacks from the enemy would." 
               "Father, who will be elected king now?" said Iztatl, willing to divert the conversation from vexed subjects. 
               "I suppose the choice will be made immediately," replied Conatzin, "and most probably it will fall on the nephew of our late king. He has been as ardent in our cause, as any one could wish." 
               The result of the election was as Conatzin thought. Guatemozin, as he was called by the Spaniards, was unanimously chosen by the Aztecs to be their leader in this trying hour. 
               Cholus came home every day with fresh accounts of his courageous spirit, which pervaded his addresses to his warriors. 
               The youthfulness of the monarch added a charm to this manly valor in Cholus' eyes, and he longed that the foe might return, that he might have a chance to put into practice the heroic resolve inspired by their leader. 
                
               His desire was likely soon to be gratified, as intelligence was received, by means of spies, that Cortez and his followers were on their way towards the city, together with an army of the Tlascalans, a neighboring tribe of no little strength. 
               Cholula, meantime, was rendered very unhappy by her brother's blood-thirsty spirit. She sought comfort from Leonore, and many hours of the day she spent with this kind friend in her seclusion. 
               "Do you know, Cholula, dear," she said, one day, "I have great hope that your brother will some time be convinced that he is in the wrong. In the early history of Christ's Church, there are many instances of those who persecuted and put to death the very ministers of his word, who afterwards became blessed instruments of his to teach, and to preach of the Way of Life. I think it is but natural Cholus should have this deadly hatred towards our race. For the human heart, left to itself, is slow to adopt the beautiful doctrine of forgiveness. Will you forgive me, dear child, if I tell you that it was hard even for me, who had learned of the blessed Saviour, not to cherish revengeful feelings against those who, perhaps, have murdered my poor Louis? For a time, I even shrank from hearing your brother's name mentioned. It is all over now, though, and I only pray that he may learn at some future time to share in the sweet peacefulness of our blessed religion." 
               Cholula was greatly surprised at this. Whatever had been Leonore's hard thoughts, they had not been suffered to hold a long sway-for she had never revealed them by a word. 
               "Oh, Leonore!" exclaimed Cholula, "that is just the way I felt for some time after that awful day at the teocalli; but I didn't know you could feel the same way! But I can never understand how your countrymen can do the cruel things they have done, when they profess to follow the meek and gentle Jesus!" 
               "I will tell you, Cholula. They could not, if they really had his spirit within them; but too many of them make their zeal in promoting his cause an excuse for gratifying their own selfish ambition. I don't say that this is the case with all of them. For Father Olmedo says that there are many sayings of the Saviour that might be interpreted to warrant the shedding of blood, to punish those who worship false gods. He is not inclined to believe that they mean so, though, and, I doubt not, if he had been present that day your people would have been saved. Let us not spend the time in vain regrets. There is infinite comfort in the thought that our God orders all things for our good, and not even the birds of the air perish without His knowledge and consent." 
               At this moment, Iztatl entered the apartment, and said, "Cholus is down in the hall, and wants to see you in great haste, Cholula." 
               She hurried out of the room, and heard Cholus walking up and down the hall below, humming snatches of a war song, interrupted by an impatient call to her. 
               "Well, sister," he said, "I will have to be away for several days, and so I want to bid you good-bye." 
               "Why, where are you going, Cholus," she asked, anxiously enough, for she had learned to dread a separation, ever for such a short time. 
               "I go," he said, with some importance in his tone, "at the command of our noble King Guatemozin, to find out the whereabouts of those treacherous
                   
                   
                     Cholula ran to meet him. Page 179. 
                  
                   Spaniards, and what new schemes of murder and rapine they may be planning." 
               This prevented all remonstrance from Cholula, for she knew that the orders of the king must be obeyed. 
               It was a sad parting for her, for the dangers of spying out the movements of the enemy were very great. 
               The next few days were spent in anxious suspense. At the end of that time Cholus returned, exhausted by his journey, but having escaped discovery by the foe. 
               Cholula ran down to meet him with open arms. 
               "Well," he said, "I haven't had a mouthful to eat for a whole day, so I'm hardly worth devouring yet, Cholula. Wait until you get me my dinner, and then you can dine on me, if you choose." 
               She and Iztatl were not long in preparing him a substantial repast, and then her considerate friend left her to enjoy his company all to herself. 
               He had several interesting adventures, and once was very nearly taken by a small troop of Spaniards, who had been out as scouts, and were returning to their encampment. 
               "I scarcely had time to conceal myself in the bushes," he said, "before they went past, treading the same ground I had walked over just before. I tell you, it was an exciting moment! And only guess, who was the leader of this band of scoundrels! None other than that young scamp, Louis, the cousin of your precious friend, Leonore." 
               Cholula gave an exclamation of joyous surprise, and did not wait to hear the end of his story, in her haste to communicate this intelligence to her friend. 
               Leonore knew not how to contain herself at this news. Louis had been the only near relative left her on this side the great ocean, who had known and loved her husband, and she had given up all hope of seeing him again. 
               Cholus little knew what comfort he was bringing to one whom he considered an enemy. If he had, it is doubtful whether he would have granted it to her. For like all who are blinded by their passions, he carried his malice to the fullest extent. 
               "Well, Cholula," he said to his sister on her return to the dining hall, "I don't think you were very kind! How do you know that these fellows didn't catch me after all, and do all sorts of things to me before I escaped?" 
               "Why, I can judge pretty well from your appearance that you have not suffered much, except from hunger," she answered, "but go on, Cholus, tell me all about it." 
               "Hum! There's not much more to tell, and if there were, I suppose you would rather talk to Leonore than hear it, so I don't intend to say a word about it." 
                
               "Dear Cholus," she said, coaxingly, "don't be angry. In these times of danger we never know at parting whether we will ever meet again, so don't let me remember you, as displeased with me." 
               "O, well, sister, forgive me. I did not mean to be cross with you, but I wish you were well rid of that Spanish friend of yours. There's no more to tell of my journey that you do not know already, so I must go now and inform uncle of my safe return." So saying he bade her an affectionate adieu and went his way. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE RETURN OF THE SPANIARDS. 
               TIDINGS were brought day by day of the nearer approach of the Spaniards, which Cholus hailed with delight. "Now," said he, "we have a chief who will fight to the end. He never will give up until the last drop of Spanish blood has been offered in sacrifice to our gods." 
               "O, Cholus, do not talk so," said Cholula. "Is your thirst for blood not yet satisfied? I had so much hoped that your heart would be softened by the sufferings our people have endured; and I cannot bear to think of more blood shed." 
               "Cholula, I have no patience with you, when you talk so, your seem to have lost all the patriotism that you ever possessed. Don't you know it is only by losing some of our lives that we can rid the land of our detested enemies. But, I know it is all the fault of that hateful woman, that has won you over by her soft words and meek looks. I will go this minute and tell that she is here and clear my hands at least of treason." 
               "O, Cholus, it would break my heart, to have her go. Do not for my sake." It was in vain to say more, for he had rushed wildly from the room, and was already making his way through the street towards a neighboring teocalli, where he might find a priest to whom to give the information. 
               Meanwhile, Cholula was left behind in an agony of grief. Was her beloved friend, to whose instructions she owed all her hope of heaven, to be thus rudely torn from her, to suffer a violent death, and through the malice of her own brother. The thought was too bitter, and, with a piercing cry, she fell back unconscious from her seat. 
               Hearing the cry, Iztatl hastened to the room, and, bending over her friend, tried every means to restore her to consciousness. She was surprised to find her alone, for she had left her with Cholus but a little while before, and what could he have said or done to produce such an effect on his sister, and then left her? 
               When Cholula came to herself, she gazed around bewildered, and then, as the truth flashed upon her, she exclaimed, "Oh, hide her, hide Leonore! for they will be here to seize her-quick, for he has gone to tell of her concealment." 
               "Cholula, that cannot be. Your brother is too noble for such a contemptible act. He only said so to frighten you, because he was angry. He will repent before long, and be back to relieve your mind." 
               All her words fell unheeded on Cholula. She had seen on his face that fierce look of revenge, and felt certain he would carry out his intention. All day long did she sit, trembling at every sound, imagining it was the soldiers who had come to carry off her friend. 
               Leonore had, indeed, been persuaded to go into the hidden chamber, but Cholula knew that her aroused countrymen would sooner tear down the house, than to allow one of that hated race to have shelter in its walls. 
               It was late in the evening, when Cholula heard Cholus' voice in the house. It made her glad, for she felt sure he would not have returned, if he had done what he had threatened; but when she saw his sad face and downcast eye, her heart again misgave her. 
                
               "Oh! my brother, you surely did not do as you said," she exclaimed, as she clasped her arms around him. "Tell me you did not do it?" 
               He returned her embrace, and then answered, "No; I could not. Just as I reached the place, the sight of your pale face and look of suffering came before me so vividly, that I could not go on. But soon," he added, "if our foes are not repelled, we shall all of us die a more painful and lingering death than would have been her lot, if repentance had come a moment later." 
               "What do you mean, Cholus," exclaimed Cholula, anxiously, for his look of despondency caused her to imagine some terrible catastrophe about to befal them. 
                
               "Well," said he, "the enemy has finally succeeded in demolishing our aqueduct, and no more water can be brought to the city. Our supply will soon be exhausted, as there is such a large number of people confined here. The Spaniards are pressing closer upon us, and will soon have entire possession of the suburbs." 
               They looked at each other with mute dismay; for, with all the sufferings they had anticipated, it had not occurred to their minds that their supply of water could possibly be cut off. Indeed, with such a prospect before them, they had need of all the lessons of endurance and fortitude, which the teachings of Leonore had instilled in their minds. 
               The sounds and sights of war were now constantly around them. Day by day the air was rent with the sharp sounds of the artillery, the deafening shouts of the soldiers, and the piercing shrieks of the dying. Night by night was the city illuminated by the flames bursting forth from some building, which had been seized by the Spaniards; for they destroyed everything as they advanced to secure themselves from danger behind. 
               Anxiously did Cholula look for some signs of their king's agreeing to the proposals which were so constantly sent by the Spaniards, so that the further shedding of blood should be stopped, and peace reign again in the land. He resolutely refused to listen to them, saying, he was ready to defend his country to the last, and die, if need be, in his capital. 
               One day Cholus rushed into the house with the daily supply of food. (He had lately been in the habit of bringing it to them, owing to the difficulty of obtaining it from the markets; and Conatzin was necessarily absent in attendance on the king.) "There," said he, setting down the load, "you had better make that last, for it will be long before you get more. Our cowardly neighbors, seeing us so hard pushed, have deserted us, and refuse to give us more help. The supplies are becoming less and less, and soon we will be without food as well as water." 
               They listened, in mute horror, at the new dangers accumulating around them; but each one, with generous love, determined to deny herself that the others should be fed. They little knew that famine soon shuts out the tender feelings of the heart, and that during the fearful months that were to follow, mothers would even devour their children, whose cries for food they could not satisfy. Another sorrow was now to be added to those which they had already experienced. 
               One day Iztatl came to Cholula, and begged that she would come with her to her mother's room. 
               "I do not know what can be the matter with her," she said. "Her face is red and swollen. She has a raging fever and talks so wildly. She did not know me, when I spoke, but attempted to drive me away, saying she did not want any strangers to come near her." 
               "O, Iztatl," said Cholula, "can it be that dreadful disease which has killed so many of our people, and our king himself!" 
               When they reached the apartment, they found Leonore bending over Mexitli, and, as soon as they saw her anxious face, their worst fears were confirmed. Iztatl had visited her in her room a few minutes before, and told her of the symptoms of the patient, and she determined to do her best towards her kind hostess, at whatever risk to herself. She told the two girls that it was the dreaded small pox, and seemed an aggravated case; but she would do what she could to effect a cure, as she said she had some experience in treating this disease. She insisted, however, that the children must keep away from the sick room, as they could do no good, and would only run the risk of taking the foul disease. 
               She recommended them to go and pray to God for the life of the sufferer, or that, if it was his will to take her away from earth that he would receive here into those mansions which had been prepared by the blessed Saviour, whose words she had received by faith into her heart. 
               Many sorrowful days passed, and Iztatl, whom no words could turn from her purpose, spent her time before her mother's door, listening anxiously for tidings of every change in the invalid, and praying earnestly that her mother's life might be spared. It caused a deep struggle in her heart to add the rest of the prayer that Leonore had counseled, but she succeeded at last. 
               God saw fit to deny the first part of her petition, but gave them a good hope that he answered the second. 
               When near her end, she had a short interval of consciousness and asked for her daughter. 
               "My poor child," she said, as the weeping girl was brought to her bedside, "do not weep for me, for God is with me, and I am in perfect peace. Strive to live to his glory, and to bring your dear father to the faith. Tell him I grived not to see him, but say I entreat him to follow me to heaven." 
               She sank back exhausted, but she pointed upwards, and a smile of holy peace and joy lit up her countenance as her spirit fled from earth to join the throng around the great white throne, and sing forever the praises of redeeming love. 
               Sorrowfully they arrayed her body for its last resting place; clasped her thin hands over her bosom, and, scattering flowers around her bier, carried her to the grave. They buried her in their garden once so beautiful, but now desolate and running to waste for want of care. 
                
               No mourners were there save Cholula and one faithful servant; for the rest had fled from the house, as soon as the fatal disease appeared, and Conatzin and Cholus were away in the service of their monarch. But where were Leonore and Iztatl that they came not to pay their last respects to the honor of the dead? Alas! the poison that had destroyed the mother's life had laid the daughter low, and she was tossing with fever and delirium upon her bed. 
               Leonore was watching over her, so Cholula was left alone to commit the body to the tomb. 
               Day after day they watched, in tearful suspense, by the side of the sick girl, and gradually lost all hope as she grew weaker and weaker. But God, in their hour of deepest need, came to their help, and gave them comfort. The remedies which had in vain been used for Mexitli, he caused to be effectual to the recovery of her child, and they saw with joy the prospect of her return to life. 
               It took long for her to recover from the ravages that the disease had made in her frame, especially as they were now without the nourishing food, so important to the convalescent. But finally she was restored, and could mingle her praises with those of her friends to God for his great mercy. 
               Though she sorely missed the loving care of her mother, she rejoiced that she was spared the suffering which they experienced, and she could say with earnestness, "The Lord gave, and the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the Lord." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE END OF THE SIEGE. 
               AS time passed on the condition of our little party, as well as that of all their beseiged countrymen, became more and more appalling. With all hope of further supplies, both of food and water cut off, they were obliged to make their present scanty stock of provisions go as far as possible; when that was gone they learned to be thankful for anything, which could, in any degree, appease the cravings of their appetite. The onward advance of the Spaniards had by this time driven all of the Mexicans back into a very small portion of the city, and those who had flown so quickly from Iztatl, when the dreaded disease infected her home, now gladly availed themselves of its sheltering walls, some to lie down and die of famine, others to fire down stones and other missiles upon the beseigers whenever they renewed their attack. 
               It was during a temporary lull that Cholula and her friends had the sad pleasure of welcoming back Cholus and Conatzin. The latter clasped his child to his arms, and then it was that he learned the sorrowful bereavement which had befallen them during his absence. 
                
               But how could he stop to grieve for the dead, when he saw the living wasting away before him? Rushing out, accompanied by Cholus, he determined not to return until he had found something for her who was now his all. They returned with a few salt weeds and moss, obtained from the bottom of the lake. 
               Cholus watched jealously when he saw his sister whisper something to her friend, which he knew was, "Leonore;" then, leaving the room, they went towards the chamber where she was secreted; he knew that they were going, generously, to share with her the last mouthful which he had brought them. 
               When Cholula returned she drew her brother aside, and whispered to him, 
               "Leonore is very anxious for you to take us to the Spanish quarters, where, she says, she can secure us a hospitable reception." 
               Cholus' eyes flashed fire, and he said, "Cholula, what are you thinking of? Have you got so far in your infatuation, that you would desert your country, and have me desert it in the hour of its greatest need?" 
               Cholula answered more patiently than many an educated Christian might, so rapid had been her spiritual growth, 
               "Brother, I would be willing to bear anything myself for your sake, and that of my country, but I cannot bear to see my two friends wasting away day by day, when the means of subsistence are within our reach." 
               "I would rather see this than see one of my blood sacrifice her honor by going over to the enemy. If that Spanish woman is so anxious to get something to eat, she can go and welcome; I for one, will be glad to be rid of her." 
               "Brother, you know very well that she proposed it for our sakes entirely. It would be at the risk of her own life to let herself be seen by these Mexicans, even if she were under your protection." 
               "And is it possible you would consent to any plan that would endanger her dear life?" said Cholus. 
                
               "It would be no harder death than that which we are all slowly suffering now." 
               Cholus looked at his sister, and for the first time fully realized her altered appearance. He took her poor, wasted hand in his and pressed it to his lips. 
               A long pause followed, in which he seemed to be weighing love in the scale against honor; before he had time to come to decision a rushing noise was heard, whose import he knew only too well, and seizing his bow and arrows, he rushed from the house to join his brother warriors in disputing the passage over a canal, which the enemy had just commenced to cross. 
                
               The sufferings through which the Mexicans had gone the last few months seemed rather to have increased than diminished their courage. Notwithstanding that they were severely defeated in the engagement which followed, and driven back into their quarters with greatly diminished forces, they showed no signs of yielding. They watched, with sullen looks, as the Spanish commander ascended the teocalli, held so sacred in their eyes, but where the standard of Castile now gallantly floated, firing the hearts of those who fought under its colors to deeds of new valor. 
               Alas! alas! they knew too well the scenes of desolation which would greet his eye from every quarter, and they cursed him in their hearts as the cause of it all, never dreaming that he felt anything but pleasure in gazing around on these his trophies of victory. 
               If any thoughts of acceding to his sister's request had entered Cholus' mind, all such were banished by the events of that day; and well he knew that she dare ask no one else to take charge of Leonore as far as the Spanish quarters; for, had she even hinted of her existence to the Mexicans, she would have been torn into a thousand piece, and divided among them to satisfy their cravings for food. 
               Days passed; sometimes bringing with them renewed attacks of the enemy, while others were passed in a death-like stillness; for, after a victory, Cortez would often cease firing for several days, hoping that the Mexicans would prevent the further shedding of blood by a peaceful submission. 
               One day Cholus came in with the news that Cortez had requested an interview with Guatemozin, which the latter, after repeated entreaties from his nobles, had at length consented to grant. 
               "Oh!" exclaimed Cholula, fervently, "let us thank the Lord for delivering us out of all our miseries, for we know that if our king, at last, consents to surrender, that we will be treated with all kindness by these Christians." 
               "Christians!" muttered Cholus; "'tis but another name for butchers." 
                
               "O, no!" said Iztatl. "I have heard that all who ask for quarter from the Spaniards are sure to receive it. And not only that, but they treat their prisoners with the greatest kindness and hospitality." 
               "It is those of our own country, who have never learnt the Saviour's love, who have carried on this war with such cruelty," said Cholula. 
               "Cholula always has a word to say against her own people," said Cholus, bitterly; and turning on his heel, he walked away, little dreaming how soon he was to realize the truth of his sister's words. 
               Cholus came in hastily the next day, and said, "Our king is true to the last! He will not confer with the enemy, but chooses rather to die than submit. We are making preparations for the defence against the attack, which we expect will follow the reception of this news." 
               Cholula clasped her brother in her arms, and blessed him, as she always did before an expected engagement, praying silently to God, that if it were His will, her brother might not die before embracing the only true hope of salvation. 
               "Good-bye, sister; good-bye, Iztatl; it is our last effort for liberty. You had better go into your Spanish woman's room, as it is more secluded." 
               "Good-bye;" and they gazed sorrowfully at each other, feeling almost certain that it would be for the last time; then, seeing that they took his advice about going to Leonore's room, Cholus quickly departed. 
               As he had said, it was their last effort for liberty; and, as he rushed desperate as his companions into the midst of the battle, each felt that death was preferable to surrender; that life was worth nothing without liberty. 
               The fight grew more and more desperate; every moment Cholus expected and almost hoped to receive his death blow. He saw his uncle, at whose side he always fought, fall wounded, and was almost immediately trampled under feet of both friend and foe; as his countrymen fell, he saw the enemy advancing over their dead bodies; nearer and nearer they were approaching to the house which contained all that he loved on earth; he nerved himself to the final struggle, determined to shed his last drop of blood in defence of all that he held dear; but what could his single arm do against that fierce body of Tlascalans, who were bearing down upon him? He felt a severe blow on his head, found himself thrown down and trampled under foot. Oh! it was terrible! that awful crushing sensation. But they were all over, and he managed to rise before the next party had borne him down; he turned, and saw those bloodthirsty Tlascalans emerging from Iztatl's house, and bearing with them a party which he knew only too well. 
                
               With an unearthly shriek he attempted to rush towards them; but again, he received a blow and a push, and then felt himself going down! down! down! into immeasurable depths! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               IT was sometime before Cholus recovered consciousness. A dim rumbling sounded in his ears, and seemed to be calling to him to avenge his sister. Gradually, as his senses returned, the reverberations grew louder, and it now sounded like the roar of artillery. A flash of light made him open his eyes, and he found himself surrounded by heaps of slain, in a large building whose charred roof allowed the rain to pour through in torrents, while the walls were shaken by the tempest without, and the whole ghastly scene was lighted up by the vivid flashes of lightning, which entered through every crevice. 
               Cholus found a place where the rain did not enter, and there extended himself, drenched as he was, as if for the purpose of sleeping. 
               But suddenly as memory returned, with its train of horrible ideas, he started up with the thought, "Where is Cholula, my darling? Perhaps, even now, she may be weltering in her own blood, cut down by those murderous Tlascalans, who spare neither age nor sex in their butchery." 
               Exhausted as he was, he managed to creep to the entrance, to hear tidings ings. The battle had ceased to rage as soon as Gautemozin was captured by the Spaniards, but it had been succeeded by a storm no less violent. The poor Mexicans, exhausted by hunger and disease, and completely defeated by their enemy, were now driven by the tempest to seek such shelter as they could find in their ruined buildings. But what cared Cholus for the storm? His agonized mind could find room for no thought save that of his sister, and he set out determined not to rest till he had learned her fate. 
               He repaired with weary steps to the house of Conatzin, determined to satisfy himself respecting the fate of those whom he loved so dearly. He felt almost certain that they had been destroyed by the Tlascalans. The storm still continued, and, on arriving at his intended destination, which was no great distance from where he had fallen, he found the house deserted as he thought, but on going into one of the rooms he perceived the figure of a man extended on a mat, which was the customary bed of the Aztecs. Not far distant were two others; all were sleeping. Cholus could scarcely recognize the thin and painfully emaciated form as that of his friend Conatzin, but it was even so, and the others were the two servants who had attempted to sacrifice Leonore Estrella. They, of course, were in arms against the Spaniards, and on the last day's fight had come in contact with their master, who was severely wounded, and they knowing that his house was in the only part of the city which had not been destroyed, had carried him thither, expecting to find the family still there. 
               Cholus wakened them and inquired what had become of his sister, Iztatl, and Leonore. They knew no more than he did himself, for they said their master was too severely wounded to look about and find the bodies. 
               The noise of voices now awakened Conatzin, who started up in terror, expecting to find himself surrounded by Spaniards, but on perceiving his mistake he languidly expressed his joy at seeing Cholus once more. 
               "Well, Cholus, where are the rest?" but, as he looked at Cholus' sad face, he added, "Ah! I fear they have suffered the fate of many another of their countrymen. They have been murdered or starved. Look around and see if you can find their bodies." 
               "We will not find them here," replied Cholus, "nor will we ever find them," and the brave, manly, once defiant Cholus burst into a torrent of tears. 
               It was long before he could control himself sufficiently to reply to Conatzin's questions as to what he knew of the fate of their loved ones. But at length he found voice enough to tell of how he had seen a party of Tlascalans issue from the house, surrounding a little group of prisoners who, there could be no doubt, were Cholula and her two friends. "And even now," he continued, "perhaps these blood-thirsty men are delighting in her cries of mortal agony." The thought was too terrible, and giving way to another burst of grief, he sank upon the floor exhausted. "O, now for the first time I wish she may fall into the hands of the Spaniards. O, that it might be so! She always trusted them, and now perhaps they will protect her. O, Thou, God of the Spaniards, because she loved Thee, I pray Thee put this kindness into Thy servants' hearts." Breathing this prayer he fell asleep, but his rest was broken and disturbed. As it was late Conatzin would not disturb him but put off the search until the morrow. 
                
               In the morning all were roused by an order to leave the city. Every Mexican and Spaniard was to go out, because of the pestilences which had arisen from the accumulation of dead bodies. 
               Conatzin determined to go to his country residence across the lake, first finding, if possible, the dead bodies of his daughter and her young friend, but on his way to his boat, he could discover no signs of either; so he invited Cholus to accompany him, and again received his two slaves back into his service. He was extremely weak, and it was with difficulty that he managed to get to the boat, even though he was at length lifted up and carried by his two faithful followers. 
                
               While going across the lake Cholus informed Conatzin of his uncle's death. 
               Cholus now felt that he was alone in the world, but this dreary feeling was soon to experience a joyful and surprising change. For, on their arriving at the beautiful residence of Conatzin, they were met by Cholula and Iztatl, who, though wasted and forlorn, were still living! Leonore and Louis Estrella were also present, and a few other Spaniards, under the command of the latter. 
               After having been supplied with food, they all quietly seated themselves; Cholus desiring his sister to relate her adventures from the beginning to the end. 
                
               "Nothing happened to us," said Cholula, "after you left us, until a party of Tlascalans entered and took us prisoners. The sight of Leonore, I think, saved us from instant death. We were dreadfully frightened, and yet, I can scarcely say that, because, for myself, I almost welcomed death, even in the horrid form of murder. They were very rough, but, fortunately for us, we fell in with Louis Estrella. He prevented their harming us, and, as Iztatl proposed coming here, Louis promised to give us his protection till we arrived safely. Just then, the news of Guatemozin's capture was brought us, and we knew the long, long siege was ended, so we thought the best thing would be to get here and relieve our hungry wants. Leonore has refreshed us all by some delicious chocolate, though I believe it was made especially for the benefit of her cousin, who provided the materials. We have not been allowed to eat much by our prudent matron, who fears the bad effects after our long starvation; but, Iztatl, your father seems to be suffering severely from his wounds. Perhaps he had better be carried to his room where he can repose." 
               For many days Conatzin lay between life and death. His bad symptoms increased, and he suffered not only from his wounds, but from the effect of the long siege. During all the time of his illness he was waited on by his kind, Christian friends with forbearing love. 
                
               Cholula and Iztatl were fast growing into faithful soldiers of Christ, and Leonore perceived, with pleasure, that their good example was not lost on Cholus and Conatzin, who, before long, openly confessed their determination to renounce the religion of their countrymen, and follow that of the Christian, and thus be sure of a final salvation and eternal peace in the glories of the Heavenly Kingdom. 
               Louis Estrella received information that his commander was to be sent to Spain in a vessel containing presents for the emperor. 
               Leonore, seeing that her work of teaching her young friends of the "Way of Life" had, through the mercy of the ever-loving God, succeeded ceeded, determined to ask her cousin's escort back to her native country. He might either remain there, or return to the New World and pursue his adventures. He acceded to her request, both for her benefit and because his own leader was going. They parted with their friends in much sorrow, but hoping to have a joyful reunion in the Eternal City. Their progress to their own country was interrupted, however, and they were much longer on the way than they anticipated. The vessel on which they sailed was captured by the French, and the treasures, instead of going to the emperor of their own country, were appropriated by the French king. 
               Louis and Leonore landed in France, and thence travelled, though with much difficulty, to their own country. Leonore, through all her trials, still preserved her faith in God, and heartily thanked him that he had, at last, brought her and her cousin in safety to their own native country. There she lived the remainder of her life in peace among her relations. 
               To return to our friends, Cholula and Iztatl. They agreed to devote their lives to the conversion of their countrymen, and many a trial they experienced in this mission. 
               On the rebuilding of the city of Mexico, by the Spaniards and Aztecs, under the direction of Cortez, the girls returned to their old home. 
               "Cholula," said Iztatl, one day, "you know, my dear friend, that, now my father and Cholus have resolved to turn to the new faith, we have only the servants now in our household who are not Christians. We must try and teach them our way of thinking." 
               So they set to work, but their task was more difficult than they had expected, and it was many a long day before their heathenish customs could be eradicated. Finally, however, by the consistent Christian life, which these two young girls led, all about them were brought to see the beauty of their religion, and to reap the benefit of their prayers. 
               Cholus had much difficulty in bringing his rebellious and revengeful heart into subjection, and at the time that his king and several others were tortured all his bitter feelings were brought up again, and he declaimed to his sister, saying, "No, Cholula, there is no use in my trying; I can never be a Christian while I hate the white men so, and I can never cease to hate them while they are so cruel." 
               "But, my dear brother, they are not all so wicked, and you must forgive because we are so full of sins ourselves; and, you know, if we forgive not men their trespasses, neither will our Heavenly Father forgive us ours. And, above all, if we follow the example of our Saviour, Jesus, we must not bear malice, for even as he hung upon the cross, bearing the pains his foes had heaped upon him, he cried, 'Father, forgive them, they know not what they do.'" 
               "But, sister, do you not think," said Cholus, "it is less hard to forgive an injury to one's self than to one we love? I think if I had been tortured, by the grace of God I might have been enabled to pray for my misguided persecutors; but to have to stand by and permit our honored king to suffer is too great an injury to forgive." 
               "Yes, Cholus; but the great God looked down upon the sufferings of his dearly beloved Son, and answered his divinely compassionate prayer. For even through those pains are all invited to become heirs of unending bliss." 
                
               Cholus pondered a long time on what his sister said, and finally succeeded in gaining a truly Christian feeling towards his conquerors. 
               Several years passed away. At the end of that time, in taking a look at our Mexican Christians, we will find them comfortably settled in their old home. Iztatl has consented to become Cholus' partner for life, and Cholula still resides with them, doing her best among all her friends and acquaintances to spread her faith, which has helped her so much, and trying to enlighten the minds of those who followed the religion which she knew was not pleasing to her God. She lived a devoted Christian life, having many struggles with her own faults-not overlooking them in her zeal for the improvement of those around her, and looking forward to the reward which awaits the true believer:-"Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of Life." 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
             
            NEW PUBLICATIONS OF J. P. SKELLY & CO., 
            21 S. SEVENTH ST., PHILA. 
             
               BERTIE AND HIS FRIENDS; or, Pilgrim Life on the Battery. Illustrated. 18mo .90. 
               BARBY'S SHUTTLE, AND WHAT IT WROUGHT. By Mrs. Mary D. R. Boyd. Illustrated. 18mo .75. 
               STEPPING-STONES OVER THE BROOK. By Mrs. Mary D. R. Boyd. Illustrated. 18mo .90. 
               CHOLULA; or, The Young Mexican. Illustrated. 18mo .90. 
               BREAKERS AHEAD. By Harriet B. McKeever. Illustrated. 16mo 
               MARY MORNE AND HER FRIEND; or, The Two Paths. By Mrs. E. E. Boyd. Illustrated. 18mo .75. 
               LILY'S LOOKING-GLASSES. By Mrs. E. E. Boyd. Illustrated. 18mo .45. 
               NOTHING BUT LEAVES. By Harriet B. McKeever. Illustrated. 16mo $1.25. 
               THE LITTLE SLATE-PICKER. By Mrs. E. E. Boyd. Illustrated. 18mo .60. 
               HUGH WYNFORD; or, The Cousin's Revenge. Illustrated. 16mo $1.00. 
               GRANDMA'S WARDROBE. By Emma Marshall. Illustrated. 18mo .75. 
               ELEANOR'S LESSONS. By Miss Sarah G. Connell. Illustrated. 16mo $1.00. 
               PATTY BAILEY; or, Who Knows Best. Illustrated. 18mo .90. 
               GRETCHEN'S TROUBLES. A Book for Girls. By Alfred H. Englebach. Illustrated. 18mo .75. 
               THE HAPPY DAYS AT FERN BANK. By Mrs. Emma Marshall. Illustrated. 16mo $1.00. 
               CHARLEY WATSON, The Drunkard's Little Son. Illustrated. 16mo .90. 
               URSULA'S GIRLHOOD. Illustrated. 16mo .90. 
             
             
                
               WHAT THE "PRESS" SAY OF US. 
               Messrs. J. P. Skelly & Co., a publishing firm in Philadelphia, have made publishing Juvenile Books, a specialty. They have thus far confined themselves to religious works, and have shown admirable taste in their selection.-American Baptist (New York).
                
               Skelly and Co.'s Sabbath-school publications are winning a rank for themselves second to those of no other firm.-American Presbyterian.
                
               We have received from J. P. Skelly & Co. several works for children, all of which are well-written, and abound in that healthy style of literature which is suited to the young-Independent (New York).
                
               The contributions of J. P. Skelly & Co., hitherto to juvenile literature, have been judicious as well as large. They are selected with care and are unexceptionable in moral. The stories have the variety of plot and incident which will keep attention awake, and have their distinct lessons to teach.-Presbyterian.
                
               J. P. Skelly & Co. make a specialty of publishing Juvenile and Sunday-school Books. Their issues compare favorably with all others, and they deserve a liberal patronage.-Episcopalian.
                
               The Juveniles published by J. P. Skelly & Co., are of a high tone of Christian morality, and admirably suited to the wants of our Sunday-schools.-Lutheran Observer.
                
               The publishing house of J. P. Skelly & Co. is establishing for itself an honorable reputation. Its books for the young are faultless in their general spirit, and at the same time of such interest as to secure the attention of every reader to the end.-National Baptist.
                
               The Messrs. Skelly keep their presses going, and are adding to the reputation they have won, by every successive issue.-Baltimore Methodist Protestant.
                
               If the subsequent publications of J. P. Skelly & Co. shall possess the same excellent character, which has distinguished those thus far issued, they will confer a great favor upon the religious public, and will doubtless find their labors properly appreciated.-Reformed Church Messenger.
                
               SEND FOR A CATALOGUE. 
             
          
       
   
