
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). The Mysteries and Miseries of New Orleans .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6974
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The mysteries and miseries of New Orleans 
            
               THE

OF

A utor of
L1Ei$TERIES AND MI ER!E3 0?NE~W-YOT ,'    '1OY s LIFE YARN'7 TO

NE1 w - Yo0u K
AKARtMAN AND ORMSBY
19Z NASSA TgE1 T, GO tNER OF' ANN.

1
IX

1
f                  ,   .'

ER]


fi        ;,.     -c,     '    e_   ?°

i.

THE
1YSTREJES AND MISERIES
OF
INE WOR LE A NS.

CHAPTER L

Entered accdiuw to Act of Congress in the year 1E~1, by
AKAIDMAN &amp; ORMSUY,-
in the Cloe;'s Oi o of the Distriet Court of the United Sets fi r the Southern Di ,riet
of New-York.

t

AnLle! Oh, how beautiful! Eyes dark
as night, when no star shall pierce its ebon
gloom ; hair glossy as the untamed .raven's
wing ; brow clear in its brunet hue, loft'
with thought's sculptured mould ; features all
womanly, yet majestic ; figure full, queenly,
erect, y t lithe ac the poplar. Such was she-
yet otly seventeen years had she existed.
Beautiful a a flower in the wild-wood, and
all as unprotected ! Yet she had a mother-
end such a mother ! Yet she had a sister, and
such a sister ! Reader, ere this tole is finished,
you will shudder to think howy cold and'heart.
less humanity can be.  I saw  her in her
beauty-admired-had not misfortune's ice
once chilled, and the faithless one of other
days have torn my heart's warm cells wide
asunder, might have loved her. But 'tis past.
Adalie is dead. Cold were her cheeks, and
pale her chiseled lips, when last I gazed upon
them. Death had claimed her as his bride.
Poor Adalie !
Her murderers! They must suffer. Aye,
they must writhe, while that viper, conscience,
gnaws upon their hearts. Let them read this
tale. Let them remember, and she will be
avenged.
On a soft and balmy evening, in early
spring, in Rue de Bieuville; in New (Orleaxns,
two ladies were seated on the second story
piazzo of one of the old French built houses,

so common in that ancient city. One was a
lady whose age might be forty or forty-five ;
but time had spared her considerable beauty.
Large-well formed--even volutuously so,
with a complexion betokening her creole ori-
gio, she, in the abenne of her companion,
'would have been thought by many a judge,
(Daly not excepted,) handsome. Yet a close
observer of cha racter would be more inclined
to 11ear than admire her.  Her black ek e, thor
large and expressive, glittered with a fierce
fire, a serpent like glare. icr lips were
thin, and, like her are-Jd nostrils, seemed
to be -perpetually quivering like the aspen.
leaf on its slender bough. Hier features, tho'
perfect, were sharp. Hei appearance alto.
gether indicated a passionate temperament.
[hr dress was exceedingly rich.  Jewels
glittered in her hair, on her plump and round.
ed arms, on her small, tapering fingers.-
Beating the stcli air wihha pearl-handled fan,
she sat, glancing at the various passers-by,
many of whom cast their eyes up toward
her.
She was Madame Minervie d'Bouligny,
the mother of Adalie. Adalie was seated
near. No jewel needed the young girl to
adorn her peerlees form. Dressed in plain
white, shy shone bright as a Venus freshly
risen from the ocean wave. But her eyes
were nut glancing down towards the prome.
naders on the batture. Soft and pensive as
the eve itself, they gazed up into the quiet

F


OF NEW ORLEANS.               , 11

sky, where the stars could he dimly seen as
the twdight deepened irto nitnht. Yet ar
lovely lac wore an expresion of care and
anxiety.  This look increased, when her
mother remarked
" Adalie, do you see that tall gentleman on
the batture ?  H-e has passed and repassed
here several times--his eyes constantly lixed
on you !'"
" Yes, Mamma," she replied,  i met him
in the street also, to day, and his manner is
impertinent; to say the least, it is to me very
annoyirig !"
" H-e seems to admire you f"S
" The admiration of a min whomt I dislike
is no compliment to me, mcmma."
fBut he is good looking, and is well-yes
more, he is very richly dressed !"
"lie can ford to dress well !" replied
Adalie.
"hen you know him ?"
"Yes, mamma, he has often cast boquets
upon the stage, with notes to me. I have
never noticed themr, or his proposals--Oh
mamma, when you sent me on the stage you
did a cruel deed. You placed me before the
eyes of a world of libertines, and since then
no happiness has been mine!"
"Pshaw, child, you are too particular. But
this gentleman--who is he ?"
"Mr. Mal pin!"
What, the rich merchant of ChartresI
street ?"
"Yes, mama."
"And you, like a foci, slight his atten-
tions? He might marry you -make you and
me independent for life !"
"No, manna !" said the young girl, sor-s
rowfully, " he would never marry a don-
seuse ; my profession will forever debar me
from such a station in life. And besides, I
would not marry him-not even for all his
wealth.  I will not marry where I cannot
love! "

° Love !n cried the mother, irpatiwntly.
" Love  It is but a word.  loterest is a bet.
ter. What else have we to live for. He can.
not eat love.  We cannot dress on it. Ne.
ver speak to me of love.  It were bette-r to
be a rich man's mislre8s without love, than a
poor man's wife with it !"
A daia shund ered, but she sail nothing.
Again the tall nan passed and a boquet fell
at her feet. With a movement of scorn she
spurned it fron'the piazza. As she did so,
her mother in a tone of anger cried
'' You are, a fool, girl-1 fool!"'
Tihe gemtlemanIn hrd the expres ion-saw
the act, and n expressive glance passed he.
tween hi o and the brother. 'TEwas but a
look, it worlt cauld not have more plainly
told that his suit br the daughter would no
be opposed by the oeather, ei tho' shame
was to be the droom of poor Adalie.
*     *    *    *     *    *
Two hours later. Adalie sat in-her charn
ber, robed in the ioisnabille of the couch.-
She was about to retire. Yet, era she did so,
she knelt down by her bedside and prayed.
Yes, the dancing girl prayed. For whom-
herself?  Alas, so-tho' herself environed
with dangers, she prayed for God to hess and
protect one who was far away. She drew a
portait from her bosom-hissed it passionate-
ly, gazed upon it as iftnr eyes would devout
it. "Eugene !' she murmured -" dear Eu-
gene, shall I ever behold thee-press my lips
to thine, so enfold thy manly form to this
breast as I now embrae   its shadow.  For
years unseen and unseeing-tho' lofty moun
tains, deep rivers and broad vales have divided
us, have I loved you. Will you love me
when we meet. . Will we meet? Yes, you
-say you will come to me !
She drew a worn letter front her bosom,
carefully opened its creased folds, and read it.
"Yes-dear one--yes, '" she continued,"
you will come and love me too-aye, and

protect me from the base insults of the wretch
es Who would dr ive nme to di-pair. Oh coUe
soon ry Eugene- Mcome 'crc I perish !''
Araai:n breathing a prayer, the lonely vyunir
girl cast herself on the bed-one small hand
ressiog the mininature to her heaving bosom
-the other clasping the letter.
C[APIER -Ii.
Liter still. A young man with a flushed
brow an eve dark, but glittering with excite
ment, a step rapid and urnsteady, cane one
from a note d gambling palace in St. Cha rle,
st., oprrosite the Verandah. lie was follow
ed by an elderly inan, whose thick neck,
care features, du.mp' figure, arid vngar
expression, mode a wile con rast between
their looks. The younger man was a gent
ted and sti ikingl  handsome individual, yet
the marks ot dissipation 'were evident in the
ruddy glow of his fee, and mitthis reckless
kea rung.
toe elder spoke as they passed dow n the
str  t  " You tricked Gardner out of a nice
sum to night, Orrn !" he s' id.
" About five hundred only !" said the other
carelessly. " But he'll get it back-Come in
here to GUnio  and t  me make a pur
cae. He has a diiamernd ring which I look
eu at the other day-the $300 will just buy
it  !'
" What the devil do you wLh another rimg
-you've enough, I should judge, now on
your fingers !
"' The one I purchasC wil grace the fair
fingers of Gardner's pretty little vwe!" replia d
the young rman.
"Oh, oh ! That's the wry he'll get ht
mon; backt !" said tie eomer, wih a coarse
laugh. " You mnak   rich presents do1iuis
cheap ! But ye t'4] better lc i out ha the
qua::te:-Gsrdner is a shoiog man!

" What do I care. shooting is a game
two cnn play at."         ,
"Yes, that's a fact, but ren nhr that
you're lost two brothers at that gaun !"
Y Yes, and I'm the last of the fl-ck, but
Eanny Gardner is worth a little ris--.-there
t 't a prettier woman in the city ! Come i
anti get the ring!''
As they entered the store a man who had
stood unobserved in the shade of a porch next
the dour, stepped out, and with- a quiet
chuckle, muttered
" There's fun ahead. i'll take the items
fir the ' Pie,' and giye Gardner a hint of
what's going on besides ! it'll be rich P I'll
bet a ride to the Lake, and the supper, Orrin
Bird is a dead mae in less than three eontha
-who'! take it !'
As nobody was near to take up t-  ceti..
es ger,tletnau's bet, it is fair to comni  that
it went lett pocket against right te loser
witnnirg.
ANoTR tin OF OUR CIAIACTERS.
In a room at the Saint LAouis TosA. sat a
thin, lean-faced, hungary looking geoieuman,
whoo atppetranee indicated that he flowed
the Graham sp--Oin of diet. Ie dii not in
fact seem to have any blood i nhis body-did
not look as if ie could perspire---would have
made an admiranble apothecary in the play of
Romeo and Juliet. Elis age might be fomty,
fitiy or thirty--no one could ta)l by a. look
which. His eyes; were a cold grey--his
long, te lected hair a dirty straw color--his
complexion a wiey color. Hi  dress fitted
hin sbout as a put ser's shirt fit's a he lanpike
-was of a dingy g-rey. YEthe was wealthy
and in his own opinion the most scerntific
man o.' the are. hi roo-n was filiad with
models of engines, stem  boats, boilers, bal-
lncns, globes, tdescr'ps a-in fact wit a large

'4

'           PIIE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES


OF NE1h OiUIEAN

variety of scientific parraphenalia. The walls!
were adorned with drawings and designs.-
Reader, permit me to introduce you to Mr.
Flundummery. lie is in a brown study
just now, he always is. But see he starts
from his chair.
" An idea !'' he cried. " Yes, I've got it-
i've got it. Syrnmres was right, the earth is
hollow-the skii '11 fly off one of these days
and expose the inner world. But, ah! another
idea! When the outside flies off at a tangent
in consequence of the earth's rotary motion,
the, people will have to go too. It can be
rernedied only in one way.    Excavations
thirty feet deep mut he nado, and all who
pierce the earth to that depth will be safe.
Grand idea. Yet another-coming events
cast their shadows befhre-something will
pre-indicate the sho k ---nen i ight go up far
enough in a balloon, and light gain after all
was over. That's a good idea.  MIust confer
with Mr. Wise on that subject, Who's there
-come in ?",z
This last remark wos caused by a knock
at the door. It opened, and a female en.
tered.
She was a very fair specimen of the plump.
rosy-checked, good h umored daughters of
Erin, who, in our large cities, perform almost
exclusively the duties of houso-servant and
washer- woman.
"The blessin of the houly virgin light on
ye, Sir i" she- said, dropping an awkward
courts. "I've come for yer honor's linen !"
" Linen -. the dressed product of ihx !"
muttered Mr. F. " Very intcresting process
-think I can U p prve en it-yes, g:t a
article, cheaper---anther invrentIon !"
" I want yor honor's dirty c!t-he s, plom !"
said the girl, wo did not comopr-hend tm
importanc' of the ptlekman's cogitations.
" Ah, yes, Bridget, yes, immediatel-but
you must have the buttons sewed on the
wristbands-had to pin them  this morning,°

pin pricked me--produced a slight iemor.
rage !"
what, air ?"
" A hemmorrage, Bridget !"
" What kind of a hem is that, sir, plase ?
I've heard of hem stitches, but never of a
hernorrige !"
"Bleeding -only a proper and scientific
word for bleeding !"
"Is that all ! Sure, and what's the use o'
havin' two words to mane the same thing.
It's like having two stocking's on one fit, isn't
it. ' But may be it was meant that poor folks
like me should say blade when we blade, and
the hard word was made for rich folks, like
your honor. Sure, hard words must be a
luxury !"
" Will you sew on the buttons, Bridget ?"
c Sure, yis, yer honor, but why don't yer
honor git a good nice bit of a wife. $he'd
he handy for sich little jobs !"
" The women are all fools, Bridget-all
fools !"
"Not quite, yer honor ! I know one, and
that's my mother's only daughter, that isn't
such a fool, even f she is poor !"
Poh, girl; what do you know of sci-
ence
"Is it science ye mane, sir ? Sure, and
wa-'n't my brother Teddy the best science
imna in all Canaught, and havn't I seen him
set too many t time !"
" You do not understand me, Bridget, but
'tis no matter, you can gather up the gar-
ments and prococ d to lave them !"
SLoe them ?    Sure, yet' honor is not
oiY ' to take the wa shing a way frm nnme ?
N" N  do I nt lid you take the garments
and lve thom?"
Och ! in the name o' gcodnes , is yer
honer  razy. How can I take the clothes,
and 7ee 'em too!'
C  Pob, child, you do not comprehend me.
To lavo is to wash.  Vide Webster "

"To lave is to wash, is it, sir ?  Sure, if I
lave the clothes here, it's a long time wud go
by, I'm thinking, 'afore they'd be washed.
But I must hurry, for I've got to do up some
stage clothes for the purtiest and swatest an-
gel that.ever throd the airth. Och, yer honor,
if ye had sich a wife as her !"
" Voi ?'
" Mem';elle Adalie "
;Adalle ? Ah, yes, the one who dances
et the Tarieties. S e is fair to look upon-
unde rstands the science of Catiothenics and--"
''I don't know what yer honor means by
... . . . .  .     ~   . 1'

rences related in the beginning of the second
chapter, a young woman was seated in a. par.
lor, naatl y, but not richly furnished, reading
a late novel. The light which came softly
from a shaded globe lamp, cast its glow on a
face and form of rare but voluptuous beauty
-a beauty which, while it )leased the eye
and was calculated to awaken passion's storm
in any breast, lacked that etheriul delicacy
and purity which links some fair  eings al.
most to the class of angels. While the last
seem fitted only for heaven--the former seem
fitted only for earth.

glluestenicks, but UI t's any thing hadl, ash
e    The lady   in questtoi was of medium
don't know -a word of' it !" ctied  bridge  heiuht, full in figure, yet fauliless in that
egrly interrupting the philosoph r m h    fht'tlness, for her tapering arms were rounded,
remark. " She's pe as howly water, ndds and feet so               mal that, to add to
-      gi 'e saway morn money in charity t             ad    mdfe    ottl     ht    oadt
givos andwa  mre tone  lart to te eno charm  or to pare from another, would
poor, and pas more to the laborers that Oll.                   r mouth was small, but
her work, than miny a icht one that rides itr
tner  ar "y.    Iher aliin            poutneg  lip'', a a-I  e  a ttral, opened sufficien1t-
bthr caras 1 In her a hvw soa l iy to show th" .aal pearl-white teeth within;
brethe saien wo  n'her, show'eher eyes were darkly blue btut full of fire and
'  the snce ',scineo' Conn'au ght. ,I wu d !".             .     -
Th  i~e pilo 1c e ;r ed almost alarmed at vivacity. e[or hair was a ich chestnut brown,
The  ielookand  gestures  which a come   and  vas gathered  up  in  folds  in  a  careless
)thii ec e              wal  est r  which  accom.manner  around  her  head, lo kinrg  like  a  tur-
os              th            t    i   ban of glittering threads. Laying down the
andretu ed'her to take the cltrhesa rnd go.
hht                                        book upen the centre table, the lady drew a
She did so, but as she pa:: ad from tie door !   n                            j
1~~~ ~ b:. d.  .n.r~r'\l #t( 1  t  th hour fl(

she muttered:
I 'd like to kn'ow the mteaiing of that
word gallustenicka.  Sure E'li akthe pra-te
this very day !"
i've se a the girl. She dnceas divinely,
and is bauiful !" soiiiequi-ed Mr. f., where
he was alone. " But a wife-folly. Let meI
see, a wife- mnight learn one something though,.
Stat  p W-ero  a fi rs t Jli uO:C'orI in a kirthOn
through the aid of a ee.kotlc,  I'll consilder
the matter,
CHAPTER III.
An hour later than the time of the occur-

watch froum ner oom anti nuo &amp;je-  e [ u.
a It is twelve," she murmured, "and yet
he does not come. It is hard to be thus slight.
ed 'cre the first year of my marriage is past.
Thus too, it is, night after night. Other hus.
bands do not do so. They either pass the
evening by the side of their wives, or take
them to some place of tmusement-they do
not leave theta alone to read or ponder. Ah,
Charles, you are renlring cold a heart all too
warmly thine, and I who pictured fot myself
a married life as but liulo short of leaven,
am doomed to drink of dimappointment's bit.
ter cup. Alh ! a step- .'tis he !" she added,
and a smile lit up the face but now so gloomy,
She sprang to open the door, and as a young

ii

TJJI, ]IiTEli1Es AMJ IJ1EJll.Es


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

01? NEW ORLEANS.

man entered, threw her arms around his neck,
exclaiming
"Dear Charles, I'm so glad you've come
-'ve been so lonely, even the last novel by
Dumas could scarcely keep me awake, But
you look ill, what is the matter ?"
" Nothing-nothing, Fanny, but don't hug
mte so, it is warm, I don't like it !" he replied,
pushing her rudely away.
Anger in a moment, like the sparks from
an electric wire, flashed from her eyes, but in
an instant subsided and tears rose in its
place.
"Charles !" said she, 4"once the pressure
of my arms, the touch of my lips, the sound
of my voice was all that you cared for, but
NOW--"
" We are married.'" ho said coldly, inter.
erupting her.
i  And we are to love no more !" she asked
m a low, sad tone.
" Yes, when we feel like it ! But don't
bother me, Fanny, I'm in a bad humor !"
"When we feel like it ! Charles Gardner,
you won my early love-you have won my
band-beware ! Treat me not as you do now,
or you may win my first hate-lose my hand.
I am but a woman, a weak, fond woman, but
neglect will kill the rugged as well as the
most delicate flower. Remember, sir, if this
v ontinues, you are not the only man in the
world, and--but I will not threaten you-will
not drive me to an act of desperation !"
" Threaten ?  What do on m+an, Fanny,
what could you do ?"
" Do?   Resort to aneglccted wife's only
revenge-givo to another the love you neglect
-yield to another the joys you alone should
possess-dograde and curse myself to teath
you that a slighted women can retaliate .'
" Fanny, is this !pu ?'
"No, Charles, it is not, it is only what you
are making of me ! Night after night you
are, absent-sometimes a  night long. When,

as to-uight, I meet you with love and kind'
ness, I am repulsed-' Fanny, don't hug me
so, it is warm, ifdon't like it!' If I murmur
I am reproached- if I weep, you care not-
if I threaten, von ask if it is me. It is, and
Charles Gardner, T bid you beware when I
do threathen, for so surely as I do, just so
surely will I fulfill !"
" When did you see Orrin Bird, last ?" he
asked.
When you brought him, a well known
libertine, here to gaze upon me, as you would
take a jockey to see a horse that y,ou had
bought !"
" ie won five hundred dollars from me to.
night !"
"That is rnt' business, sir !"
" A nd so you do not cate fir my lessen ?"
" Not if your own mad foliy causes them!"
" Fanny, you will make moe angry !"
" You hive made me so already !"
" Pshaw, there is no use in our quarrel'
ing. Let us make up love-.let us make
up !"
"I am willing, Charles, but remember itJ
is you who gives cause for the quarrels, not
me!"
Well, I'll try not to do so more, Fanny,
I'll attend more to my business !"
" And stay at home, evenings ?" asked the
young wife in a kinder tone.
Yes I"
" Then I will kiss you, and do all that I
can to make you happy !"
The storm was over. Sunshine followed.
Love's kisses were renewed and "the winter
of di content" has banished from their hearts
CHAPTER IV.
Two of the New Orleans police were stand-
ing on the little Levee. In front, as far as the

eye coutd reach, up and down the ri'er were touch him for that, but let me manage the
to be seen the white hull; and black pipes of ce r'l can do him easier than you-he don't
steamers and on either wing of these, forests know you !"
of ma- t of snipping from all Nations. The  " Sure, thin, it's the honor of my acquaint
two M. P 's were evidently on a lay, for their once'he'll soon be makin'-but thero's the
eves vtre fixed towards a particular boat divil now. Faith I belave he's got nothin' i"
which wa just ringing her last bell for a start "That shows you don't know him. See
up the river.  She was one of the lare St. how leisurely he walks along, his quick eyes
Louis packets, and her decks were crowded are moving fast though. Yes, he's got swag
fvith passenger. --move on a little to the left, he might try
The elder of the policemen was a heavy, to run--no, he sees  aen-he comes this
square built man, with short grey hair, a way !
rum colored countenance, and a face that   Reader, if you have ever read the Myster-
looked as if it had "seen the wars" atnd suf- ies and Mieries ot New York, you will re.
fered some. His companion had an Irish member the character of Count Tloi, alias

lonl , inherited from hip birth, but was a neat,
dapper, slender little fellow. A b!ue coat
i with bright brass buttons stiiped pants, stand
ing shirt collar, a small cap set jauntily on
the forward part ofhis head- and a stout
hickori in his hand gave him an appearane
calculated to make o/  remember him on a
second meeting.
" Don't ye thin: the thafe o' the world
might he atther givo us the slip and slide off
up the river in her?" asked the last described
policeniman of his comrade.
" No !" growled the other, coarsely -"No,
Barney O'Casey, i the first place he don't
know we've spott-d hirn down, and in the next
he's got too much s wag stowed away at hi.
woman's to leave behind. I know to a dot
how one's fixcd.  ie's gone aboard that boat
to make a lift, and he'll do it sure !"p
And we'll help him to carry it, after he
gits ashore, faith !" said Mr. O'Casey, with a
chuckle.
"Aye, boy, but we :nusn't b. tr o greedy
to our share, or we'll drive himn off our beat.
it won't do to kill the goose that lays golden
eggs !"
"Voud two thirds be asking over the gen-
tale, thie, Mr. Grurmmer."
"Aye --hlf is about the 0. K. dot. Well

Uncle 'ommy, alias the French Captain--"
the smart est pick-pocket and most accomplish-
ed thid in the Union, perhaps in the world.
Watched too closely by " M essieur Matsale,
zat dam shief,' in New York, Touny has
emigrated to a S.uthern clime, and he it was
:'hom1 the two officers had trailed down to
the lever, and who now approached them
seeing them too late to avoid a meeting. He
was a little altered since last we saw him,
five or six years ago, but still a fine looking,
well-dressed personification of a wealthy, el-
derly  rench gcieitlemnan.
"le bowed low as he approached the cor-
ner i here the offers stood, and said
A ver fine d Ry, shentilnens, 'ow you do
Mr. Grammer ?"
S Hear tv, Uncle Tommy," replied Grurm.
mer ; "w hich way this morning, on a tramp,
oh ?"
" Alh no, Messeiur Grummer, 1 was feel
ver bad zis morning wis 'edache, and I sink
1 take a walk oi ze bank of ze rivare for my
good P'
" Ard abarl of the Alec Scott too for
your good, rh ?"
"A h, yes, Messieur, I see one of ny frents
there-[ go to say to heem, Adieu!     Zat
was all t"

14


18               THE, M YSTE EIJES ANT) MISERIES

"Didn-t you borrow son ni n y irom hn?"  " Then lund me and Mr. O'Casey half, aid
" Ah no, he was like myself, Messieur, ver all's right !'
A poor, poor as one, what you call him. $ Shoh a  " O  darn, zat is too mooch  You make
turkey !"                                 two, three thousand dollars, Isink zat is too
" Well[ 'm sorry to hear that.  Perhaps
moo--.-
you'll walk up as far as the Reorder's Otee  " Why, you old Greeny, don't you think
with me and my friend here. Captain For-   we could make as much by naLiing you of
'neau wants to 5e YOU."                  :he spt ! Ther s more than one i-card out
" Me !  Ahi Mon Dieu, M ossieur GUruin- for a   -t about your  ze.  You may. take
mer-ces't not possible just now, after 1 'ave  our Choice, esther divide or pay a visit to
eat my dejuner, mine. br-akfast, zen I shall BoBaton Rouge via tie Recordei'a omle !"
come wiz ver great pleasure !"'Sr!D                        !" m ut red i'o in, shrug.
Oh, that mak(  n   .r(l!aC-Oe, old 4p, 1d,   w i up shoulders, ' if I. mst, I suppose
you can break fast with inc !"    -      .     ; v    t  1 we dimide."
" Oh, damrn  I canoot go, I mist ba xcu-se J  ,  vw mel,' dvn aoinilgt thue re of
leetle whll!" cied the p frplxed lFra umu.an.! nuu bdeds, ad iin vooo ind't ity to r.lip me,
" Not a minute, my cove," :-.- Gruniama.r, 5-a I )( asey wil be  -acls.behind you .
sternly, " I know h'fJy ou don t want to go.  Nevarinyou rmid ait, \essieurU rum-
You've pa;.me       i a s .v. aboard that bGam, iou  mare, a ba rgm Into h a 14rgaan a me, you
want to :ncue it. but you cam't co-n it emo an knot zat.
= old gardner like n n. Cie ain o! 'Thmin tnio ow pr.-d'tAc      nix  to d aiI  art
Yis, be af'ther thravclii' a ba  wi- 'us' "of the levee, which aes o' cr  ddl with piles
.. .               .   ,i.  .
aid Mr. O'Casey,    apmrg  iauk about of cotton bale eor hundreds tiand hundreds of
the middle.                               yer o, and entering a narr-w lone which cdi.

Shentilmnns, on my honare !"
" 1)-n your honor, what's honor to
thieves !" said Mr. Grummer, sills more
tercely.
" About as much cs it is to ze dam cop-
pare ;"* muttered Tohin, then turning to
Gruinmer, he said  " Spose I dii bo-row
some money from my rent on zat boat, how
mooch you want me to lend vou, eh ?"
" Ah, now yomi Lalk, oild boy ! How ranch
did you get."
'.' I don't know yet, I was in a hury, and

I no count heem '"
" What is it in, fimsies. ?'t
" No, sare, in cagle.s, I sink.-gold
rate i"
" Purty heavy I'
" Razzer 'eavy, razzer !"
Slang term for OLices, (Coppers.)
f Paper money.

at anry

vided two tots, disappeared to -harm the il..
g ottin booty. But ano-ther keen eye had been
oixed on th  all thistimie.  A  tall, gaunt-
lookmeg e-sma wno-+  S- lookleJ iwO a ays Fir
Sunday, e Vho  son  h- e! a taint ;iider
brothers ot Beunett -f I'm !  dll, and who
was a (o oie of the a-ammae-au .5o., un imt able,
and unt'rriiablo epols-, Ia+, t:om a
screen, in a louse on the ima- , wm itare-d the
meting iand dimied he cause,. ie, hlow.
ever, kenjt s-shady uiic the wothy tiler-p-
pear ed, ando1 unceS Iormny h-ad  paatla ed
from tih mo.  ifn, -stping up behind that
individual, be Isppe h.: gmuty on hthe shoul.
dor.  The Frenelhian turned, recognized the
man, and mutters  a bitter death. }
" What you Vtit mWiZ moe ? ' he adse
;E Com to the office $" said the ovticer, with
a horihe squint.
" For tat I shall go to the office I"

 For stealing !" replied the man, using as
flev words as plssihle, for perhaps he thought
breath was precious.
" Iam, 1 no skh al ! you know me !
" IUncle Tommy, come along- -swags in
your pocket now .''
Bly dam, no. Zern offlcares just fk iC
me and haid osmeti  .
iYou lie, they went you halves. "
" Dam IWho told you eatit  What will
you take to lct mov go, ol -"
" Two thirds of what's left !'
" Sncre, by (damd at is robbery -Ia i
not !
(' onmic along then "'
' The peversfuI hand of the gaunt ma ni w; ;
on his ious- r, un e Tommy t realei d  qh
mingled rage and fear, but paused .
"I will pay, oh dim, I will pay out  u
rob nie of all I have earn ae mornim
among you coppares ! By dam, Uis no bat
ter zan steal ! I will not tief no nwe in you
dam dirtee city, you see if 1. do f"
Yes, Il see if you do !" said the officer,
folIona id  the  pickpIocket  to  the  frm er phcfd vis
e of division.
Sall other eyes were on them now, and a
little dumpy Dutch officer, with'an Irishman,
whose kne-brecches and clogs told that hje
hadn trt hc' many days on the s3 of "-a mate
Ameriky," waited their chance at the very
entrance of tho lane.  Febin on coierinr out
,. . , ,    .o       ,
aw them, rivined their itentin, far the
)utchnan y'e en olI hand, and in -a fl t
biter anger, drew a hardlful of gold eas
fiom his pl yt   In '!est them at t' b-i
."'
crying
" There Vo dan ti   , ef'there,  o it all
by da m   I no got noesirg'.m v--.:-se I, }';
razzere be a h'entilnman zen a tlief, "t i e
,ate, aend  mazr :u be a copre i-zaa es
* See" b

The otlicers umale a resh for the scattered
money, gramppled and rolled in the mud to-
gether in their eagerness each to get the most,'
and when they rose to thei feet Tobin tvas
out of .ight.
Och, and isn't this luck !" said the Irish-
man.   "Sure the Emigratim' Society across
the waters told us we cmuld pick up gould im
the strates here, and wasn'tt it come thrue
inti rely !''
"{ (ot ffar te m-y aahave umake ploody
nn on  nose and dirty mine clothes, you Irish
black guard !'' said the Dutchman, who had
S  h e a s ihi s   i y e w o rds , honey ,  o r  'll  give
ye a taste of mv bit a' shitah Jere! I'm no
nit-oe ian! bih black ear- than o a Dutch
hog I Dv mind themt no-
" The lul.ndcr cool and phlematic took a
god long l cat i Paddy, th-en quite as CoOiy
knocked himt down. liut    addy was like a
true man, he louda 't sai  vwn, but jumping
up brought his s-ick( dos crn the top of the,-
Dutuhman's head with a - rce which would
have crushed a innerr skull, knocking his
hat over his eyes and bringing him to his
knees.   ie was about repeating the blow
when the Duelneen sung out:
° Esougi !Go for lea yon have preah
in  -  .n  -s   ,,)
mimne anmske 1pype C
-£. -
"I"hen hape a Ciil angue ii yer potato
trap   smaid Paddy, sniping up his late an-
igomist,i wm raId his hat a ad di-cu 'ered,
as he sad, hia smoke jmp' ' broken into
many1k aca.
, A h, dat wash a very good pipe I" ighes
the i renve an disconsmlate.
But this c-hap'ter miut (close. ~The writer
mld however in cloesng remark that he does
net intend limit to convey a general slur upon
the p-ice of the city of New O-rleans. There
are men ovihm  personally know among them
who are an honor to their office---a credit-

OF NEW ORLEANS:

17


18           TILE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

humanity; men who, nobly forgetful of the
sacrifices both in time and feeling which
an honorable fulfilment of their duties calls
t upon them to make, have made them without
a murmur, and felt their reward in the con-
sciousness of having performed their obliga-
tions to society, honor and the State. These
men, however, are not appreciated as they
should be by the public; not because the
oommuuity does not stand ready and willing
e to commend and reward those who serve it
0 faithfully-but because the men 1 speak of
have too much manhood, diffidence and prin.
Y ciple to brag of their own merits and blow
their owrn trumpets to the public; and as
h their rivals are too selfish and ungenerous to
mention their faithfulness and good qualities,
s the consequence is the p or fellows' claims
Never, except by accident, reach the public
"ear. The chief blame in this, as in the ma-
j ority of public abuses, rests with the press,,
which never, unless its editors and reporters
are kept constantly easy by black mail, re
port thenerits of any body ; and when they
do, the chances are that the man they recom.n
mend or applaud is of litth'or no account,
£ and is himself the writer of the very para-
graphs which eulogise him. It is a notorious
fact that there is scarcely a newspaper in
New   Orleans whose opinions cannot  be
bought at the simple fee of twenty-five cenis
$ per line--the majority of them for one half
i that sum. I myself am cognisant, of the fact
that a certain reporter of the daily press wil-
d fully kept back from public mention the rec-
ord of the saving of a citizens' life who had
I fallen accidentally from the Levee, and
would have been drowned but for the timely
interposition of an officer, who, at the risk of
rt his own existence, plunged in, arid after the
most-.superhuman efforts, succeeded at lg }
- in briegihg the man in safety from the winter
No mention was made of this noble perform
anet pf the officer, simply because he was a

Native Amnerican in principle, and the report.
er i black mouthed Englishman, whose na.
tional prejudices would not allow him to see
any thing good in an American who nobly
stood up for the interest of his country-
And this same foulheaded. Englishman has
been heard to assertthat he would never, un-
der any circumstances, mention favorably in
the paper of which he was the principal quill
driver, the name of any Native American-.
and he has kept his word;so far as his posi-
tion would allow him. I repeat it : the press
of New Orleans is mainly to blame for the
miserable manner in which the great majority
of the public departments are coati acted.
The reporters display greater smallness, to
use an expressive hibernicisrm, than those of
any other city with which I am aeiailuted.
They judge of a man's merits by his liber-
ality towards themselves. If they can use
him, that is, borrow money within t being
compelled to refund it, he is a first rate fellow.
If a member of the police is not liberal in
supplying them  with drinks whenever he
meets them, his efficiency, as a public officer,
if he be efficient, never reaches t public
eye through the medium ofithe papers.  And
even if some great robberyoccurs, in which
his superior abilities enable him to achieve
the capture of the robbers and the restration
of the stolen goods, the reporters, in giving
their accounts of the transaction, wiifu'ly omit
altogether the name of the policeman, or sub-
stitute another who is in favor with them, or
purposely alter and mis-spell iit, to gratify
their petty dislike of the man. Hence the
members of the police, finding that to be
really worthy i of but little account, since
it brings them  it her good nane nor bread,
gradually fall into the general corruption
whii h pervades their ranks, and go in for
the chances. Still, as I have sak, there
ar. mea ainongi them, who ate an honor
to ieir office, a cryalit, to hmtntiney and

their cry. But there are others there wht
are too ainly described in the above sketch
to have their characters mistaken. And such
characters will be found in the police ofaevery
city, until an American system is adopted
and the Native born, or those who have long
been used to our laws, customs and institu
tions are placed ire office, and none others!
Would to God such a system were already
in operation, then it would not be necessary
for me to write such tales and draw such
scenes as these ti attract the public eye to
the evils existing in our midst. I repeat again
that I men no slur upon the Police of New
Orleans as a body, but want all to wear the
coat that fits them.
CHAPTER V.
Two days more have passed in our rapid,
true and eventful history. In a parlor of the
house in Bienville St., described in the first
chapter, two persons were seated, Adalie,
and her mother.
" I expect a visitor this morI ing, Adalie !"
said the latter.
"I might have known as much by the way
you are dressed--so much more jewelry than
you usually wear in the morning !" replied
the lovely young girl, quietly.
" Have you no curiosity to know who he
is ?" said the mother, impatiently.
"No, mother,what are your visitors to me?"
"This one may be a good deal yet. I
yesterday received a note from Mr. Malpin,
requesting an interview !"
"You have consented to it-it is him you
expect ?" s.id the young girl, while her brows
and cheeks reddened and her form shoos
with sudden excitement.
" Yes, -it is nearly time he, should be
here !"
"Then I will retire !"

 Do child, and dress yourself a little bet.
ter, he nay wish an introduction-in fact he
said as much yesterday in his note !"
'Then he will not get it !"
 "Yes he will ! His note is very gentle.
manly, very much so, and you shall not in.
sult my friends, Miss, or if you do, you will
rue theday !''
"Mother, mother, would you pander to
your.child's ruin.. That man seeks me but
to destroy !" said Adalie, tearfully.
"I don't believe it. Yo' are a suspicious
young fbol--your sister isn't' like you !''
" No, but she is pure yet, mother. Do not
let her be destroyed. Ah, there is a ring at
the door bell-it may be him. Remember,
mother, I will not see him."
"  we'll see-we'll see!" said th heartless
woman coldly, as her daughter left the room.
- Yes," muttered Madame d'Bouligny, to
herself, " Adalie must give herself up to
this man. lie will pay like a prince, and as
even men of his stamp are not to be picked
up every day, I must make the most of him.
As to this honor that the stupid girl prates so
much about, I'd like to know what it is good
for, if by holding on to it she gains not ing
but a little self-esteem, which, after all, is
nothing; whereas, money, which she can get
in thousands if she is willing to part with it,
money is every thing. One can get along
very well in these days without honor; but I
should like to know how we could live with-
'ut money ! I don't see where the stupid
thing gets her high ridiculous notions ! lion.
or, indeed ! What right has a girl without
a fortune to such a thing? She don't inherit
her nonnsensical ideas from me. I never
boasted of my honor, and I can't conceive
by what right she should. A rich and hand-
some man like this Mr. Malpin could have.me
t any time. :fHonor, indeed !"
At this moment, a servant announced Mr4
Malpin.

OF NEW OR L E A (S


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

It 20

s aj
Ur
a
a£
I
ti
_ 8
i0
I it
n
sit
10!
t! f e
II
f   I
E
_4 I
I'
1 l

Mr. M. appeared to be about thirty-five
years of age-was of genteel exteir, evi-
dertly a " tan of' the World " in thegeneral
meaning of that term. Dressed richly, yet
not with vulgar over taste, he was such a
man as would a y where be s t down as a
"gentleman," by ca-ual observers. But
in the bright color which sIffuse I his face
one might see the tint of the debauchee ; in
the thick lip and sensual expression about
the lower part of his face, a sign of a licen-
tious, or at least of a voluptous disposition.
H1 is figure was fine -in short he was a very
good looking man, and he wats aware of it.
lie bowed low as he entered, and in a tone
of studhd politness, said:-
"iMalam, I feel honored and happy at ma-
king your acquaintance."
'-The pleasure is reciprocated, Sir," re-
plied the lady--' having often seen you and
been struck with your air llstingue, I have
desired to know you."               ,
" Really, Madeit, you (latter me. It has
iong been my desire to make the acquaintance
of yourself, and your scarcely more beautiful
daughter.  In fact I can scarcely believe
that you have a daughter, for I should not
believe you to be over twenty or twenty-three
or four at the uttuost."
"Oh, Sir, you compliment me undeserved.
!y ; I am a little older than that ! '
" Where is your lovely second-self, the
beautiful Adalie, this morning, Madam ? "
" She is not very well, I believe-fatigued
from dancing last evening-but I will see it
she is not presentable. Excuse me a mo-
ment."
"Pretty good beginning-the old lady
seems all right!" muttered Malpin to himself;
as the mother left the room. " A little flat-
tery and plenty of money will keep her on
my side !"
A loud altercation between the daughter
and mother in another room now reached his

ears, and he advanced close to the door te
hear it.-
" I will not see that man, mother-" he
could hear her say. "I hate him-I can't
bear the sight of him-he is my horror even
when I see him from the stage I"
" You shall see him, you contrary thing-
I say you shall see him !" replied the mother
angrily.
"If 1do, it will be to insult him and to tell
him I detest him L" said the pure, high-spirited
girl.  "You had better not force me to
that !''
" If you don't behave yourself and act like
a lady, I'll force you to worse than that !"
said the mother spitefully. "I'll turn you
out of doors !"
" It is better mother if you do, for if these
doors are to be opened . to every libertioeini-
town, they can no longer protect mue. If I
cannot live virtuously in your house, I will
try to do so out of it !"
"By Jove the girl is a trump-she is a
prize worth conquering," muttered the liber.
ine
" low do you know but Mr. Malpin means
to offur marriage, you fool ?" continued the
mother.
"Marriage !" echoed Adalie. Marriage!
lie, the aristocratic son of wealth, think of
marrying me, a poor danseuse---an actress/
You know better. No, he is like other men,
he thinks gold can win the poor actress to his
arms, but they shall all learn that one at least
can live purely even if she is placed in that
polluted atmosphere !"
"Yes-I suppose you'll starve yourself
and ume too!"
"Mother-my salary is not large it is true
--but it is enough h, if we live economically !"
" Ecenomically !  I hate the word ! 'hat
is to say we're to dress in calico and live on
gruel I"
" I would rather'so dress and so live, mo

excuse my delay, sir," she said-.." Adalie is
not very well and needs. much urging to
make her appearance !"
" Or more frankly, Madam, does she not
harbor a dislike for me and whish not to see
me ! I accidentally overheard a remark  of
hers just now, which indicated such a fel
ing ! "
" Be not angry then with the poor girl,
kind sir, she is young and foolish, but I am
sure if she gets acquainted with you she can-
not but be pleased with you!"
"I should hope so, for to speak truly I have
never seen a lady either on the stage or off
so lovely as she is. One half the town seems
to be in love with her."
"And she seems to care nothing for love
or admiration."

L U \   4 [  w yr ,  w  .
will contrast with her tine coitplexion and
uagnifieent hair. And for yourself, Madam,
this diamond ring
' Oh sir, you are too kind and generous
-really I know not what to say --"
" Say nothing fair lady, wear it and con-
,ider these but trifling marks of my esteem.
Will you he at the Theatre to night "
" Yes Sir, and if when the last (lance is
over, you await us at the stage door, you can
walk home with my daughterand myself."
"A thousand tanks, Madam, my carriage
shall be there. Feet so small as yours and
hers should never touch the earth."
Mr. M. did not wait till the widow  got
through blushing and acknowledging this last
offer and compliment, but arose and bowed
himself' from the room.

her, cn the woges I earn, than live like a  " Perhaps she has some one that she loves
prince on the price of shaie !"        -has long loved ?
" Who talkc to you of shame--you fool.    "No, Sir-she receives visitors-yet she
Because you have rich and tnflueutial friends, has a kind of foolish or romantic friendship
it is no reason shame should follow--but this for a gentleman who lives thousands of miles
is wasting time--dress yourself and come in 'i" from us, and for the last two years has kept
" I shall not, mother !"               up a correspondence with him."
" If you do not, I'll bring hia: here, even  " Has she never seen him ? "
ini your chamber "                         "No Sir, but they have exchanged like
nesses, and she wears his next to her heart."
" Mother !''
" Adalie---you know  me--I shallexpect   " A  ! The   I can see why she shuns all
you out in five minutes !" said the mother, others, she loves hin. Who is he ? "
sweeping haughtily from the room."cec
"A ndt you do not know me," said Adalie,  "-What, the writer ? "
as a moment later she lcked the door of her  "'The same. She read his works at first
room to prevent intrusion. Then casting her- Till she grew fond of them, and then com.
self into a chair, while her lovely eyes stream- menced a correspondence, I know not exactly
ing with tears, she murmured : "Oh Eugene when. or  mow. i   o   h     ~
E                          M~e cmmecedityou thmnk ?
genewhy are you not here to protect         hecoc I believe she did. She is very fond of
me ! My God, for what fate am I destined.
Wretched Adalie, is there nto one to save ?
Heaven guide and guard me                po!er    Tere is litle chance of main(
When nmadam de Boultigny returned to her forget him for another !" said itMnIpin.
Mr. Malpin, all traces of anger had vanish-  [lot with your perm:uinsiot I wil, call again
ed front her face and she looked as ph  ant to see her.  In the mean tine i beg her to
and smiling as a May morning. " You must        t
-                       ceetm~~~t this trifling  it  e r  e ka e i

Iri
w-S

OF NEW OILS ANS.

21

0-


22               THE MYSTERIES ANT) MISERIES

h       She immediately hurried to the chAmib. r
of her daughter to exhibt the joelry. h'le
room was locked, and it was not unmil repea-
ted assurances that her persecutor was gone
that Adalie would open it.
{ a     " Wh.t do you think of these-'this neck
t   lace for you of pearl, never cost less than
I    5 or 600 dollars, and my ring not much 's
a    There are eleven diamonds in the clus'er-
c    it glitters like fire on my fiuger " exclaim
t i    ed Madam Dc B. as she entered, at the sam;-
B fi   time ff -ring to clasp the necklace around
h    her daughter's neck.. " Are not these gifts
l e    princely ? "
ltt     " No-nor will I touch a gift from  his
4      hand !'' said Adalie, pushing back her moth
f    er's extended hand. " I do not wish to wear
any jewelry, 1 can do without it."
"Very well, Miss, if you can, [can't. I
intend to take all I can get and to wear it too.
Oh if Sou were not such a fool, we could
outshine every woman in town ! "
"Shining on the same principle that a de
caring mackerel shines, from  our very rot-
tenness of character, I suppose!" said Ada
lie, bitterly.
"I suppose that is some grand simile of
your Nothern lover's-I wish   he'd  been
burned before he ever -vrote a line to'meet
your eye !"
"You can tell him so to his face before
long, Mother-he is coming here and then
we'll see if Mr. Malpin will persist in his
visits and annoyances. Eugene will teach
him how to respect me, I think ! "
"Coming here-coming to New Orleans,
did you say. Is he, Eugene -."
Yes mother, but why do you turn pale.
r      Surely you are not afraid of him?"
" Afraid-no I'm not afraid of the devil
himself, but 1 don't want to see any penniless
-     authors at my house, and I w ill not!"
"I can see him elsewhere, mother."

Girl-girl y ou are Jetermined to drive
me mad !"
" No imot her--l am only determined to do
what God through my own heart tells me is
right, Had you your way I should soon be
mad.~'
" When is he coming?" asked the moth.
e r.                                  -
" In two or three weeks."
" There is yet time--there is yet time !"
murmured the woans to herself.
" Time for what ? " asked Adalie, who had
overheard the .ejaculation.
" Nothing, oh tothiug ! " replied the cold
hearted woman. But her eyes belied her
words. She gezed on her child with a look
of hate rather th-anr love.--God help thee poor
Adaio, thy own flesh and blood is enlisted
against thee, aiming to compass thy ruin.
CHAPTER VI.
,rns war:a. .
It was three o'clock. In a private room at
a fashionable and celebrated Restaurant on
St Charles street, two of our friends were
seated at dinner. One was Orrin Bird-the
other our friend Malpin. As is often the
case with young men, while they sip their
wine, their conversation had turned upon
women.
"I've just left the house of Madam  De
Bouligny," said Malpin.
"Ah, your scent lies in that direction?
How is the fair Adalie ?  They say she is
pure as a lily and cold as an icicle!"
"She shall not be so long. The lily can
be plucked, the icicle thawed---and so can
woman be won!"
"She wont see anybody, though I tried to
make her acquaintance myself, but could'nt"

"You'did'nt go to work right-you should
do as I have done, court the mother first  I
am to take a rife with them to-night-at least
I'm to take them home from the theatre, and
I rather think the ride will extend as far as
the Lake."
"I'd like to act as your coachman, but
I'm engaged-l've got a beauty in view, and
instead of courting the mother, I'm courting
the husband!"
" Your divinity is married, then ?"
wes-fortunately she is, so there'll be no
breach of promise-no suit for damages or
anything of that kind. I hrte law. I'd
fight any time for a woman, but I'd not go to
law for the best of them!"
" Who is she ? "
" I'll tell you if you keep mum! "
" Certainly, I will."
" Then its Fanny Gardner."
" What ! Why you was arm in arm with
her husband when I met you!"
"Certainly, and he thinks I'm a capital
fellow-only a little too lucky at cards.  I've
won three thousand from him within a month."
"The devil you have. Why he can't af-
ford to lose-he was nearly ruined by the fall
in cotton-Mills the broker refused his pa
per to my certain knowledge."
"So much the better for me-.when he is
broke my plans will work the easier. If he
should find me out,he'd hai-dly shoot a man
to whom he is obliged for pecuniary aid."
Don't trust to that, Orrin my boy--don't
trust to that. But how stands the lady affec-
led ? "
" So- far she is chaste as Penelope, Lut she
has blood in her veins and fire in her heart.-
rhe will yet do that for revenge which love
would never prompt. She is exacting and
jealous ; he is careless and neglectful. A
good bottle-of wine, a pack of cards and two
or three jolly fellows can keep him  up all
tight,.any time!"

"Well such a man ought to be fooled. But
Orrin let us make a bet. We have hih set
our hearts on gaining prizes that will be all
the richer because of the difficulties in our
way. Let the one who first succeeds in his
aim, give the other and a few choice friends
as good a dinner as the Verandah can set
out."
"Agreed-I'm booked for that--a fihr start
and no gouging."
"It is understood-let us have cofl-e now
and adjourn. I've some letters to write this
afternoon-and want to prepare for this eve.
ning?."
" And I've a visit to make to my F anny."
"Don't call her your Fanny till you win
her, Orrin
"That time shall not be long coming!
said the other with a laugh.
After their coffee was finished, the gent'n, a
men retired-one to write his letters, the c ,i
er to dress for his intended visit.
Fanny Gardner looked beautiful that after.
noon. Dressed in a loose evening dishabille,
lanquid any dreamy from the warm flower
laden atmosphere she breathed, she reclined
on a sofa near the window of her parlor,
slowly waving a fan with her small white
hand. The - artificial breeze gently raised
the hair above her placid brow-her lovely
forn, scarce concealed by the thin light dra-
pery shle wore, was disposed in a voluptous
abandonment of attitude-her small slipper-
ed feet resting on a low attoman and so
placed as t/o reveal the outlines of her slender
ancle and even fuller proportions slightly
above.
[fir dark blue eyes were half closed, and
the long dark lashes drooped over her spotless
cheek. She looked a being made only to
love and to be loved-a flower for a Sultan's
garden-not for this work-a-day world of
,ours, btut for a world of romance.

O NEW ORL1 ANS                23


OF NEW ORLEANS.

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

A servant entered, and she started to her my absence for my returning, to share in my
feet as she heard Mr. Bird  announced.  A joys."

Ii
U  i
V
I t
ii
FI {
sCr
1
.4
f

flush gathered on her face, but it on!v aided
to her beauty, heightening the glow of her
peerless countenance.
The stupid girl," she murmured-" I Lm
not dressed to receive company."
But it was too late. Her visitor stood he
fore her. Bird was a handsome man at any
time, but to day he seemed especially so.
Dressed with scrupulous taste and care--
slightly flushed with the generous wine o!
which he had partaken, and anxious to appear
well in her eyes, he seemed to look better
than she had ever seen him before. Say
what you may of worth and intellect, no wo.
man is entirely insenrsille to good look' , aid
good looks have won for many a fool what
i tellect in vain sighed for.
Oh   i I have disturbed you in your simsta.,
vrttr lady, I deeply regret it!" said Bird Lov-
rng low.
"Oh, no sir, pray be seated.  My  hets.
band's friends are always welcome-1 was
only dreaming with my eyes open."
"And what did you dream, Madam?"
"Really sir, I forget--day dreams are sel-
dom remembered."
"And all too seldom realized!" said Bird
with a sigh.  "I never had one fulfilled
yet, and yet I often dream of happiness, of.
ten see the cup of bliss before me, yet never
can i taste it."
"You seem   misanthropic this afternoon,
sir."
"I feel so, Madam, I get more and more
tired of this world the longer I live in it. To'
me it is almost like a desert !"
"I am astonished to hear you say so, sir,
young, gifted, with ambition to prompt you
forward, what can there be to make you un-
happy ?"
"The lack of a single being to take an in-
terest in my welfare-to love me, to watch in

" Oh you will not long lack e wife, if that
is what you mean," said the lady laughing,
"I've no doubt that there are a dozen young
ladies already dying for you, especially if
report speaks the truth."
"Believe not reports, lady--Rumor has ay
lying tongue. I never shall marry .
"Never rilarry ?  Why Mr. Bird--what
is the reason of that terrible (letermination,
said with such a sigh too ? ,,
"i'll tll you some day why I will not mar.
ry-hut that is not what I came to do, I
came as a friend of yours and of your hue.
band, to talk with you about him-fbr I feel;
a deep interest in his welfare.''
T 'hen why do y ou keep him out so late at
migat ?~
" I do not-he wi/ stay out, and if I watch
over hun to see that he does not get robbed
among the crw.d of sharpers in our city, I can.
not be blamed for it.''
The lady looked at him with an expression
of incredulity on her lovely face. He con.
tinned -P
" Two nights go, he was determined on
play.  We were not in honest company, l:
feared to s e 'm in their clutches, so played
myself and won all he had with him. It was
this that brought mehere this afternoon-in
this diamond ring is invested the five hun-
dred dollars I won from him. It is safer in;
your hands than his. I have never won a
cent fror him that is not now safely invested
and subject to your order ; from his passier
for gaming, I can see that ruin must come
upon him ! ''
Mrs. Gardner started like one in a drean.
Tears rose in her beautiful eyes. "Oh, Mr
Bird, how cruel and unjust I have been ."
she cried; "I have deemed you a gamester
arid a libertine, and all this time you havwk
been acting such a noble part.  Forgive meY-

25

and accept my thanks-my grateful thanks !"
"Lady, I am rewarded by the conscious
ness of having served one so good as your-
self. Whenever you need a friend, you will
find one in me. if sorrow or trouble comes
upon you, feel to me as a brother, and apply
as freely."
"God bless you, Mr. Bird ; but this ring,
1 cannot wear it.  My husband will ask
where it came from ?"
"Tell him it was sent you in this note-
see, I have prepared it-only these words are
written in it. ' A tribute to worth, virtue and
beauty from a respectfulfriend.' "
"Ihow   generous even in your oomph
ments. Mr. Bird, I kno\v not how to thank
you!"
"Again, fair lady, let me say that I am
amply rewarded in the pleasure of being able
to serve you, and I shall continue to watch
over him you love, and do all that I can to
keep him out of evil associations and to break
up his convivial habits. But I must make
my excuses, I shave an engagement-good
evening U'
"What a noble hearted young man! oh
that Charles was like him!'-' murmured the
young wife, as she sat down and tried on the
ring after she was alone.
That was enough. The seed was eown.
The seducer's first step was taken. The
wife had drawn a comparison between him
and her husband, and all comparisons are
dangerous-such ones as this, especially so.
Beware young wife of this--have no eyes
but for him you love, and you will never'see
his faults.
CHAPTER VII.
THE THEA TRUE.
One of the neatest Theatres in the Southl
is Plaoides Varieties. Pontlar with the peo.

pie because of various attractions ; it is eier
filled with a brilliant and showy audiences
Reader, take a stage box with me and enjoy
an evening there. We will see the the love-
ly Mrs. Howard, the bewtiching lilariot, mo-
dest Barron, funny Maugin graceful Vegas
and last, but not least the fair Adalie.
And in front there'll be the handsome Ed-
itor that didn't get shot-the great little Auc-
tioneer---and a mass of stockholders who
think they have a right to everything in the
theatre, behind the scenes especially ; a bevy
of beauty and fashion, and a parquette full
of happy, hearty boatmen who have just come
down the Father of Rivers to see the Elephant
and sell off their " truck."  Many of them
come down on flats to see sharps as soon as
they reach the city. But come to the box--
let's see what is going on,
The play is "The School for Scandal," a
capital play if played, "a horrible event" if
butchered. Placido Chippendale, Charles
Bass, Mrs. Howard are cast in it-.-of course
it goes oft well. Hosi the ladies in front hide
their pretty faces with their fans when a
rather broad allusion is made ; how the dear
creatures frown when scandal is spoken of
as a favorite amusement of their sex, tell.
ing thus with their sparkling eyes that even
the truth rnusn't be told at all times. The
piece goes on---goee on well-the last actAs
rnished, scandal gets its due and virtue its
reward "according to copy," and the cur-
tain falls. Then a short interlude during
which fans and lorgnettes are busy in the
dress circles, while 'young men are absent
minded enough to go out for spiTritual conso-
lation at the next saloon. Then the orches-
tra strike up--the curtain rises and out, like
a winged fairy and an Apollo bound the
lovely Hillariot and the manly Vegas. They
dance the Bolero.  How bewitching-now
hand in hand, then flying far apart, then
wheeling in rapid circles-their feet keep,

9,


Ii
-E
Fto
(VI
1
rh
Ic
Lix
I tI,
at
i
ft
1
}Z!
a1

OF NEW ORLEANS.               27

STIIE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
ing time with the rapid music, see them write rest, the dance is again performed with the
the poetry of motion.                     same effect.  The people seem frantic with
The dance is over, but a shouting audi pleasure.  The front of the stage is literally
ence recall them and again they appear.-- covered with the flowers cast towards her.
Bouets are showered upon the stage-they    One enthusiastic steamboat captain casts
are received by the gallant Vegas and pre- his hat on the stage, shouting:
rented to his charming partner, who press   " You can take my hat and me too, gal,
ing them to her heart retires panting with fa. by thunder !al
tigue and delight.  Again the curtain falls  "Arn't she a snorter !" yells a delighted
--the orchestra play a national air, and when Kentucky flat-poatman.
it rises, what do we see. Who is she, clad " She is indeed acquainted with the science
-ilifrilishencs "hm                                      tteeddr.     lum  um,
in red, white, and blue, with silver stars git of Calisthenics !" muttered Mr. u lusm dum
tering thick upon her blue satin bodice, that mery from his box---" I must make her no-
stands blushing and paleing by turis, as the quaintance."
shouts of thousands applaud her.  lcarna--  "She is a glorious creature, and she shall
tion of Liberty-gem of beauty it is thee, be mine!" said Malpin to his friend Bird who
oh ADALIE,                                stood in speechless admiration near him.
Yes, it is Adalie  who is about to dance,  But the curtain fell and she was bidder
an American dance. Behold the scarf which from view. Yet the people were not satisfied.
as she arises on the tips of her small feet she " Mam'selle Adalie-.--Mam'seile  A dalie--"
flings out in graceful folds upon the air. It was heard from an hundred lips. She must
fowad                                      She   ae    led on by the
is the flay of our, of her beloved country. come forward.    e came,      e
Shout after shout rises, for never more beau- handsome Vegas. But the ecciteu ent of the
tiful picture met admiring eyes. The music dance was over. The blood had left her
begins.  They play the " Star Spangled cheeks, she was no longer teblcndn          .
Banner."   With slow  and graceful steps, dancer, but the modest, confused, yet gratifi-
like a fairy queen, her form  bending to and ed girl. And as such, even yet smoe beau-d
fro like a flowver toying with the evening tiful was she. She coul  no   pea--a
zephyr; see the peerless girl move across the she spoken, her voice could not have been
stage. The music changes to that heart-song beard amid the din of approbation, hut with
of freemen, the Morsellais. Qhicker fly her her glorious eyes she looked her thanks, how
starry sandals---but again when the rapid ed and passed from  the stage, to snk half
music shifts to the tune, "Yankee Doodle," faintig and in tears on the sofa in her dreis-
those feet are no longer to be seen. Like the ing room. In tears?  Alas, yes!  oor ghi_
pattering of rain drops on a lake,here,there and  aiehe Tp ee the she  asc sd I
every where, they glance.--until at the close sick at heart. True, while the mus  sound
she stands suddenly still as if transformed to ed in her ears, the lights flashed in her eyes
a statue, then kneeling on one knee lilts up and her soul was wrapped in the dance  she
her beautiful eyes towards heaven and kiss. forgot her sorrows. But when this was over,
he      fl of her native land. Hvhen she no longer had excitement around
es the flagm e raieln.
The house trembles with the applause of her, she felt how all alone she
themultitude. " Encore" is the cry.  The    The men who admired and flattered, sougt
manager knows it is useless even to ring her but to destroy, as hose who, seeing plu
down the curtain, and after a few moments beautiuflwrnitbeirg.tkpls

it thence that it may minister to their gratifi
cation for an hour, then wither and die. She
felt that even her own blood was cold towards
her, that even her mother loved her not ;
valued her only for her talent and beauty, as
the means of adding to her income. Poor
Adalie, well may we pity thee.
But the last play is over, the green curtain
has descended and the people are departing
for their homes. Adalie has already changed
her dress, and in a simple frock of plain
white muslin, leaves her dressing room with
her mother. They retire by the back door
of the theatre, emerge from  the narrow al.
ley-way upon the street,. when she beholds
the hateful form of her persecutor before her.
He stands with his hand on the open door of
his carriage, waiting for them to enter. Her
mother had not told her of this arrangement,
she would have hurried past, but her mother
detained her*:
We will accept Mr. Malpin's invitation,
dear," said the latter, "and let him take us
home!"'
"I prefer walking, the distance is short!"
said Adalie.
" Don't make a fool of yourself, here be-
fore folks ;" said the mother angrily, almost
forcing her into the carriage. The next mo-
ment she was in also, and then Mr. Malpin
was seated before , them, and the carriage
drove slowly on.
"You met with most triumphant success
to-night, Miss Adalie, I never have seen you
look or dance so well as you did this even.
ieg," said Malpin, after the ceremony of an
introduction had passed.
"Did I ?" said she, abstractedly.
"The whole house was in raptures; half
the gentlemen present were dead in love with
you !"
She made no reply to this last remark.
But a moment later, casting a glance to-
ward a corner they were passing, she said :

"Your driver is taking us in a wrong di-
rection, sir. This is not Bienville street !"
"True, fair lady, but with your mother's
permission, we'll drive down to the lake and
have a supper !"
"I have no objections !;' said Madame De
Bouligny, hastily.
"But I have !" said Adalie, firmly. "I
am fatigued-sick---must go home !"
"We will not be gone long--a glass of
wine will revive you, do let us go Miss
Adalie !" said Malpin, pleasingly.
"If my mother wishes to go she- can, of
course, consult her own pleasure, but I will
not-i can walk home if you will have the
kindness to stop your carriage and let me get
out."
" You're a fool, Ndalie. Don't listen to'
her-go on !" said her mother,
"Do it, and I will scream for-assistance !"
said the spirited girl. " Oh Eugene, Eugene,
why are you not here to help me now ! Mr.
Malpin, if you are a gentleman, take me
home !"
"Certainly, Miss Adalie, if you insist upon
it !" said he, coldly, giving the necessary
orders to his driver.
"There's a pleasant evening spoiled by
your froward temper !" muttered the mother.
"Curse your Eugene's !"
Adalie made no reply, but the geat tears
which coursed down her pale cheeks were
indicative of the agony of her heart.
When they arrived at the door, Madame
D"e: B. invited Malpin to enter, but he declined,
remarking that he would call to enquire after
Miss Adalie's health, in the morning. This
was some relief to Adalie, who hurrying to
her chamber, locked herself in to avoid the
storm of wrath she had reason to expect.


Y P;                    TIE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
h             CHAPTER VIIi.               hear an individual interlarding his talk with
oaths and ribald jests, I know that the pot.
"ONLY FoR AMUSEMENT."          house has been his school. But pardon this
q.4                                      digression.
Another evening had arrived. In the plea  At the moment which I selected to intro.
sant parlor of a professional gentleman, en duce the reader to the party, the '" Colonel"
t  Royal street, a very select party were as had proposed a game of  cucher, merely for
_   sembled to play a game of cards, " only for c:amusement," or for five dollars a corner.
amusement."   Among them were Mr. Char-   " I object," said Bird, who was working
E j les Gardner, Mr. Bird, Mr. Malpin, and his game well ; " at any rate, Charley, don't
several others whom  we have met, or will you take a hand, 'or you'vft beeu in bad luck
meet in this history frequently. One of these, lately."
however, merits a description, for he is one  " i'hern the more reason why he should
of those genteel sharks, who, preying upon play," cried the Colonel. " Bad luck must
community, pass for gentlemen, living on a change. Dame Fortune's wheel is always
a supposed fortune, when, in fact, they are on the turn !"
nothing but gamblers, and have no income  "That's a fact," replied Gardner. "I'll
except it be gained by the chances or thr take a hand ; come, Orrin, you are not al-
trickeries of the gaming table. Every city ways so backward. Come, be my partner !"
in the Union, but particularly New York and  " No, Charley, I'd rather not play, but if
New Orleans has a stock of these " gentle- you think your luck is about to change, I
men" ever on hand, to lead good men astray, certainly will not be your partner, for I want
make bad ones worse, and to bring ruin on you to win back from me all that I have won
parents by enticing young men to follow from you. I only play cards for amusement
fashionable examples. But call one of these not for gain !"                    -
gentlemen a gambler, it he possesses courage  That's my line too !" said the Colonel,
enough, he will knock you down for the "in- with a sly wink at Bird. "Come, Malpin, .
suilt;" or if he is a coward, he will challenge you take Mr. Gardner, 1 11 take Bird, and  1
S  you. But to my description:            we'll play four handed."'P-,
4 I     The individual referred to, was addressed  " I never play," said Mailpin. "I thought:
by his companions as, the " Colonel." ie you knew that. I've no small vices, as Beard
was a large, showy man, wore a heavy pair says when he empties his eighty ninth glass
of whiskers which were cut a la militaire, before dinner."
dressed fashionably, and wore jewelry enough  " Ha ! ha ! devilish good joke. Beard is .
tostock a show case.  A deep scar upon one a great joker, but 1 think I've seen you play+
of his cheeks, terminating at the lip, gave cards !" cried the Colonel.
him a rather ferocious look, His manners  " Never for a cent--I have played whilst
were lively and polite however, and he seem  in the company of ladies, but never have
ed to be a man who had mingled much im played for anything, nor will I.I don't think
good society, though by the roughness of his a merchant looks well over a card table !"
phrases at times, it could be seen that he had.  "That's a hit for me, I suppose !" said
also known lower associations.  Nothing Gardner.
sooner indicates the company a man keeps  " No, Charley, not meant as a hit, I assure__
than the style of his conversation. When I you. Every man has a right to judge and

OF -NEW    ORLEANS.                               9
act for himself, I only spoke for' myself." I shall not be able to pay my notes to-mor.
" Well, well, let's take a drink and go row.
ahead ! cried the Colonel. " Here you, Jube,  " How much are they ?"
you black angel of satan, bring up a couple  " One for three, the other for four hundred
of bottles of Heidsick from the ice-chest- dollars."
there's brandy on the side board, gentlermen, Bird walked on in silence a few moments,
for such of you as prefer it."           then muttered to himself, "it is a high price,
The wine was passed, the game begun. but it will do the job." Then turning to his
one of the Colonel's friends taking Gardner companin, he said
for a partner.  The stakes commenced at      Charley, I'll make a bargain with you..
five dollars, but soon they were increased to f   , you'll promise never to touch a card aain,
ten, and then the limit was remov4 adld I'll let you have the money to take up those
heavier bets were made. Of course Gard   notes !'
ner and his partner stood no chance.  Even  "Bird, are you serious ?"
if they held good cards,. the latter was sure  "Certainly, why do you doubt me-have
to make a misplay and lose. But the infa. I not always been your friend ?"
tuated man played on, nerving himself with  "Yes, yes but friends now-a-days don't
repeated doses of brandy, until he had lost often do such favors.  nowill - s Orrin
every dollar he had with him. He then bor- ouen  giv      I willpromise,
rowed from Bird, until he had lost during the.  "Well, liet' m  n  he
evening near one thousand dollars; still hop- "well, lets stop in at the Phoenix and
in, ashesaidiu      w   d   r    t     take one drink and thea I'll see you as far as
i, asli said, his luck would turn. It was
after midnight when he left the table, his brain your own door, it is late now."
reeling with despair and from the effects of  "Agreed, anything on earth you ask me
liquor. Bird arose with him, and together to do, I'll do."
they left the room. Malpin had retired long  A meaning smile might have been seen to
before.                                  flit over Bird's face, at the words, but he
"I'm a ruined man !" said Gardner, hoarse- made no reply. They entered the drinking
ly, as they reached the street. "I have notes house and it was half an hour before they
to pay to-morrow ; I have gambled away returned to the street, and Gardner was'evi-
every cent I had."                       dently still the worse for liquor, in fact he
"I tried to keep you from playing."    now needed the arm   of his companion to
- "I know it, but I, like an infernalfool, steady his steps. Bird, however, was cool
must do it. I was sure of winning to-night; and sober and in a short time they were
there is a difference between playing among both at the door of Gardner's house, where
gentlemen and going to a gambling house." the friend left him.
"Certainly there is, and you have been  It was near one o'clock, yet Fanny Gard-
sure offair playing, but you never were ncr had waited for her husband, and on hear-
lucky at cards. You do not play with good ing the door bell ring, had hurried down to
judgment either. I advise you never to play open it. He was so tipsy that he could
again."                                  hardly stand, and as the door opened, losing
"lHumph !" said the other, bitterly, "I've his balance, would have fallen had she not
but little left to play with, I'm sure ! I tell caught him in her arms.
you again, Bird, that I'm ruined-ruined, "Charles, what is the matter ?" she cried.


80                   THE MYSTERIES
"I'm-hie, only a little tight, Fanny
That's all-hic-love !"
That: all?  My God, how long is this
',to last. Here it is long past midnight, and
you drunk, coming home, not even able to
stand without support. Oh, Charles, Charles,
I cannot stai this !  Who brought you
home ?"
"A good fellow--hic, a devilish noble fel.
tr low, he's the saviour of my business, he's
going to pay my notes to-morrow. If he didn't
do that I'd be ruined ! I've sworn to him
never to touch a card again !"
t     "it is time you took such an oath. But
it! . who is this man, who can have so befriended
one so unworthy of friendship, as you have
lately proved ?"
"Can't you, hic-guess, Fanny ?"
"No, she replied, but a blush rose to her
cheek, her bssom heaved with the suppressed
thought that it might be him whose ring sh
even then wore on her finger.
"I'll tell you then, Fanny, it is that sam
Orrin Bird, that you've so often warned mf
not to associate with. If it were not for him
I should be a ruined man tomorrow !"
"He is a better man than I thought he was
Charles. But come in, go to bed and try t
sleep yourself sober !"
T
CHAPTER IX.
' I               LOVES MAGIC.
Mr. Flumdummery was seated at his hot
in a brown study. It was no uncommon thin
for him to be in abrown study, but on th
occasion his cogitations were not upon scient
fic subjects. He was thinking of the fair

beig wno nad entranced alley es at t
theatre, and especially had enthralled h
r ; gaze.  From time to time his murmured
words indicated his thoughts.

S AND MISERIES
How shall I get an introduction to the
lovely girl"-he said musingly. "I hear no
ill report of her and she will make a sweet
wife. Her steps are modest and she is very
beautiful. Yes, I must see her-must win
her. But how ? I'll write a letter--ask to ses
her. Bridget who'll be here soon with my
clothes, must take it  W hat shall I say.
I never wrote a love letter in my life-not
even by way of an experiment. I've exper-
imented upon every material but a woman's
heart--never tried that. Have heard of a
work on the art-" Ovids-art of Love," so it
t must require some scientific knowledge to do
l it skilfully. I'll get my wits to work and
see what C can do at any rate."
Drawing a chair up to his writing table
the gentleman seized a pen, and selecting
r some letter paper from amid a mass of draw-
d ings, specifications &amp;c., commenced his task.
e But it seemed diricult to him. He made two
or three commencements, erasing the words
e again. "Miss Adalie"-wrote. " No, that
e is too cold and formal"---he said. "My Dear
, Miss Adalie---no that is too familiar, previ.
vious to an acquaintance-charming Miss
, Adalie. She is charming but she may think
o I want to flatter her. Confound the thing
why can't I hit, the proper phrase. I'll say
Fair and virtuous lady : that '11 do. I know
she's one and I believe she is the other. Now
what next. Pardon the audacity of a man-
no, I'll say gentleman, who has fallen a vic-
tim-no that won't do. A victim   sounds
as if I made a sacrifice in loving her. Let me
el see-who has-who has seen you but to ad-
g mire, admired but to love. There that's pret-
is ty fair, I think, for a beginning. Now I've
i- started I can go along. The-start is always
y the hardest point. I could move the world
he out of its sphere with the archimedian lever
is if I could only start it an inch. He then
ed wrote on rapidly, but was soon interrupted
, by a knock at the door.. Biddin-r the intro-

OF NEW ORLEANS.

der enter: he looked around to see who en-
tered. It was Bridget, his washerwoman,
with her basket of clothes.
"Here I am,likethe dawn o' day,your honer,
with your honer's linene and tho' its not meself
should that spake it, shure nobody's linen,not
even Quti. victory'ss was better done up.
"You are a good girl,Bridget, i sm always
satisfied with your work, but l'n in a quan-
dary to night."
"What sort of a diary is that, sir ?"
"A quandary, a" fix"  "Bridget, I have
been trying to write a love letter."
"A love letter sure, Sir. I got one my-
self only yesterdayy"
"How did it commence, can you remem.
her ?"
"Sure I can, the commencement and the
ind also. It was short and swate. This was
all there was in : Bridget darlin, I love you
entirely, be the powers o' mud I do, and am
e thin kin' wud ye marry me? If yis, me and
tl,, praste are ready, and I've got a cart and
na a horse and a uow at;d a stable for them
atu two rooms for ourselves in a convainent
pa, of the; city  near the Levee. Micky
P1 an, brother to Burney Phalans neice
Kauleen that ye are intimate vid, where first
I saw yer purty face. Send along an answer
soon will ye, plaze."
"A curious letter, but very characteristic,
but my letter is not exactly like it. I'll read
it to you Bridget and see what you think of
it-they say two heads are better than one1!"
"«Be me faith, ye may well say that yer
honor, and that's the rason I sent word to
Micky by Kathleen that if the praste was
ready two wakes, from Sunday, which wud
give me-time. to get me clothes all ready, I'd
marry wid him!"
"Well, 'm glad to hear it Bridget ; but
I'll read you my letter !"
" Won't you tell me who its to, Sir, first ?"
"Mis Adalie do Bouligny"

at

"And do you mane honest ay the blessed
lady-is it yer wif'e yer askin her to be ?"
" Certainly-she is a hood beautiful girl."
" Yer honer never spoke a truer word than
that. But go on wid the letter, plase--I'm
all in a hurry to hear what you say to the
angel."
"Well, listen. Fair and virtuous lady
pardon the audacity of a gentleman -"
"Stop a moment if you please Sir. What
is the audacity-I don't know what it is. Is
it all right and proper V"
"Yes, it means boldness, my good girl."
" Ah yis, I see. You ax her to forgive
your honor for bein' so bould as to write to
her."
"Precisely so-now don't. interrupt me
again, but lisen ; pardon the audacity of a
gentleman who has seen you but to admire,
admired but to love you. Nor.deem that in
these lines will be expressed on thought
which can bring the blush of anger upon your
lovely cheeks.
My motives for addressing you are honor.
able-I wish to make'your acquaintance in
hopes that when you know me better, you
may be induced to listen to a proposal of mar.
riage from me. I am in the prime of my
manhood-alone in the world, with wealth
which could place every luxury around you
in a sphere which you are fitted to adorn and
take you from the stage where the coarse
gaze of the libertine can but abash one so
pure as you. Believe me sincere in my ad.
miration, pure in my wishes. If permitted
to call upon you, you shall never have rea.,
son to regret my acquaintance. I have ming-
led but little in society, my time and atten-
tion for years has been given to the advances
meant of science. I have never before spoken
of love, or even felt its power."
"What do you think of that Bridget-what
shall I add to it ?"
"Why yer name to be sure Sir, and then


a
hfi
i1
F zi
[8
]t  f
Ziia
tI
k  sI(
1I
-4:
Y-I t
F
t.
t1r'

put down please answer by Bridget the bear-
er, for 'Im thinkin' ye woud like me to take
it for ye honor !"
"Yes Bridget, and there's the postage."
"What a gould Sovereign ?" Sure an' if
being post-man is so profitable, I'd like to larn
the trade entirely. I'll make Micky go at it
so I will."
"He'd better stick to his cart Bridget-
but I want you to hurry with the letter. I
shall feel so anxious till I get the answer !"
"I'll do it yer honer and say a good word
for you myself. 1'm sure the young lady
thinks a dale o' me-she always speaks so
kind and gentle. Sure its a blessed luck I
have to be workin' for such good people."
Bridget having first deposited her employ.
er's linen in a beureau draw, took up her bas-
ket and the letter which was now ready and
departed.
Again Mr. Flumdummery relapsed into.
his brown study, but his mind now again
turned to science. "I wonder if the moon is
peopled ?" He murmured. "I can see by
my telescope that it is like the earth ; has its
mountains and its valleys, its rivers and its
lakes, and yet I doubt whether people can live
there. I think the climate is too hot -that it
is all on fire inside and the crust is thinner
than that which separates us from the fire
which burns eternally within the earth. What
a study is creation !"
Mr. F. studied on until his head fell back
in his easy chair and his snores told that he
was exploring the land of Dreams.
CHAPTER X.
A CHAFTrR OF INCIDENTS.

"What d'yo say to a drive to the lake
and a dinr, this afternoon, Charley !" said
Bird after the notes of Gardner had been duly

paid. "I'll have my double team put to my
light barouche and I think I can take down
some of the fast odes. Will you go ?"
"Yes, anywhere, or do any thing you ask,
Orrin. You have saved my honor this day
and I shall never forget it."
" Wouldn't your lady enjoy the ride too'f
There are seats for three besides my driver,
and I always drive my own team when I
strike the Shell Road. We can come back
by the way of'Carrolton, it will be delightful
I think."
" Yes, so it will. I know Fanny will be
pleased to go. She used to dislike you very
much, but now she is just the other way. If
you were not the noble fellow, and true friend
you've proved yourself to be, i'd almost be
tempted to feel jealous !"
" Pob, never feel jealous of me--I think a-
great deal of your lady, but it is as a brothers
foels for a Sister. Were she not your wife
Charley I should think nothing of her."
" Well, love her as hard as you please
Orrin- can trust in your honor, 1 hnow ."
Indeed you can," said Bird  "but now
go and get ready while I have my team go
out. I'll call for you in half an hour."
they parted, after paying a visit the " Pa-
cific" where they took a friendly smile.
The Shell Road extends from the suburbs
of New Orleans down to Lake Porichartrain,
along the banks of the Canal which connects-
the lake and the city. It is only about five}
miles in length, but is hard, and almost as
smooth as marble, making one of the most
beautiful tracks for fast driving in the world.
It is broad enough for three or four wagons;
to drive abreast, level as a floor, and not too
hard for the horses' hoofs. It is made of the
sea shells of the lake gathered from the beach
and broken up fine. It is the favorite for the
"fast ones" of New Orleans--and on a pleas.
ant afternoon, especially on a Sunday it is
thronged with gay parties in light vehicles of

33

every kind and description. At the lower    "Dey is dat, and' dis chile helped to do it,"

end of it, a splendid Hotel is kept by the well
known Captain Dan Hickok, where the best
of edibles and bibibles are ever kept on hand,
and where the placid waters of the beautiful
lake invite the bather or the fisherman,rolling
up its surf close before his door. Thousands
of visitors crowd there every day to enjoy the
cooling breeze from the water, sail in the
beautiful Yachts there, or partake of the
bountiful fare in the shape of fish, flesh and
fowl which Captain Dan's cook " Loucy"
serves up in exquisite style.
About three quarters of ar -hour after
Bird had parted from Gardner, a spken lid light
harouche drawn by two large and power-
ful gray pacers, turned from the plank road,
on to the "Shell," near the gate, bound down
to the Lake. A liveried servant sat to the
left of the driver, back of them on the second
seat of the low bodied, high wheeled carriage
sat a lady -and gentleman, their faces bright
with pleasure.  We know    the party, of
,  course, Bird was the driver. As they turned
out on the road, two light waggons also
drove rapidly on.
"Dere's Grey Eagle and Julia, Massa
Ortin, Dey think dey can give us de go by,
guess dey git fool by'n by when de team
wakes up !" said the servant grinning till he
exhibited all his ivories.
" Yes, there is the Colonel driving Julia
and Charley Pierce driving Grey Eagle
'They are both fast nags!" said Bird.
"Can you beat them Orrin ?" asked Gard
net.
"Pm going to try !" said the other.
-; ' Is not racing veay dangerous where ther
are so many people on the road ?" asked th
lady.
"Not where a team is properly handled !
said Bird-my horses know me-a word front
me will bring them from a run, down int
a walk. -They are \well trained.

liuskied the negro.
They had now passed the toil-gate and
their pace became more rapid. Those.in the
light buggies ahead saw, or rather heard the
barouche coming on at a tremendous pace,
and gave their steeds the lash, supporting
them  with a still and steady rein. The
slower teams on the road were passed as if
they were standing still, while Bird slowly
gained on the two best nags in the city.
Grey Eagle kept the lead-Julia was close
behind, and Bird's splendid team followed
close in her wake.
"Flow fast are we going ?" asked Gard-
ner.
Going it in two forty, sure !" said Bird.
' Bress de lor, we is dat ! Go long dere
you grey niggers !" cried the delighted ser-
vant.
We are gaining-my team will bear the
pace longer than they can !" said Bird, with-
- out turning his eyes. in a few moments
they were at the half-way house-cheers
rose from an hundred lips as they passed the
hotel, the steps of which were crowded with
visitors who had stopped to " wash down the
dust." The horses like those on a race
track seemed maddened into extra exertion
by the cheering-on, on they dashed-now
breaking into a run, but by the voice and
rein, soon brought down to their work. ' As
Bird predicted, however, the heavy team had
the bottom, and gradually gained. Swerving
slightly to the left, Bird opened on the buggy
in which the Colonel sat ; steadily, almost
imperceptibly he gained until at last he was
e clear and had begun to lap with Grey Eagle.
e They were now on the last mile ; the lake
could be seen down the straight avenue ahead
" and the-excitement grew more intense.
o    "Beautiful, beautiful !" cried Mrs. Gard-
o ner, as the barouche swept on and Grey
Eagle dropped behind. "Beautiful indee

OF NEW ORLEANS.

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES


34

Ii  a
E  t.
it:
I
S  t
f1
t F  Ksit
i
j  =I  it
r11~cj
*7

this is the first ride I ever really enjoyed, the
speed of the wind and as smooth as sailing
over waveless water."                  -
Another moment, and they were before the
hotel, and as Bird had said, with a word,
scarcely pulling a rein, he brought his fiery
horses to a stop, so close to the steps of the
ladies entrance to the hotel that they could
step to them without touching the ground.
"You ought to have lived in the days of
the Olympian games, Mr. Bird, so as to have
won the laurels in the Chariot-races at Ro0 e.
I have never seen a driver at once so fearless
so skilful and so graceful as younelf !"
"I'll have to let your husband drive going
up, fair lady, to convince you that there are
even better drivers than myself !"
"I would feel safer when the reins are in
your hands Sir-you know your horses.
What magnificent animals they are, but they
must be tired. I pity the poor creatures--
see how they pant, while the white foam
drops from their mouths.
"My boy will soon cool them ofi but let
us walk in and breathe over a glass of wine."
"Rather let us walk down to the bay. it
looks so beautiful."
"Yes," said Gardner, "let us do so, and if
we can get a boat we'll have a sail. I'll
yield the palm to Mr. Bird in driving, but in
sailing a boat I think I can do as well as
any one !"
"Let me run in and order dinner to be
ready against our return and then I'm with
you !" cried Bird.          ,
"What a noble fellow he is-all heart !"
said Gardner.
"Lie is indeed !" said his wife, her face
beaming with pleasure.
In a few moments Bird returned followed
by a boy who bore some wine and fruit.
"We'll enjoy these," he said "down at
the lake-side, where it is cooler than here."
They were soon seated on the shady side

of the large Bath House, with the bright
waters of the lake dashing up at their feet,
enjoying a glass of Longworths Catawba and
looking out upon the clear blue lake befere
them which was spotted far and near by the
snowy sails of many a beautiful little yacht.
"Ilow I would like to take a sail ?" said
Mrs. G. as she gazed on the lovely scene.
"You shall dear, but wait till Orrin and
me have finished this bottle. It is too good
wine to leave Uncorked ?"
"You had better not drink till we return,
dear husband !"
" Poh-only a bottle, wont phaze me ! I
could drink two and not feel it !"
"Please don't Charles !"
"He can't," said Bird laughing, as he
pushed the half emptied bottle into the lake.
A look of gratitude from her bright eyes paid
him for the act.
"That's a shame to waste such good wine
Orrin !" said Gardner.
"Oh its nothing. There's more like it
where it came from to which we can do jus.
tice at dinner. But now let's get a boat-
there's the Lady of the lake, that little clip-
per sloop at anchor there. She is just the
thing for us-two can manage her-i'll
send up to Dan and hire her. Or we needn't
do that ; here boy, jump into that boat and
row us along side. We can unmoor he:
ourselves-we'll be back in an hour, I told
Louis we must have dinner at five."
The three were taken on board of the
little yacht by the servant, and casting oft
her moorings, [she was fastened to a buoy]
hoisted her mainsail and jib and with a fine
leading wind stood out into the lake. The
wind was fresh, about an eight knot breeze,
just enough. to carry whole sails without
danger. The lake was not however rough,
there being only sufficient swell to make the
boit move lively on the water and fling a
little spray over the party. Gardner took the

OF NEW OIU1&amp;NS.

helm and attended the main sheet, while his I
wife and Bird sat farther forward and to
windward to trim the boat. The lady was
delighted, so were her companions. There
is nothing more pleasant than to bound over
glad waters with a fast craft under you, and
a fine breeze blowing, providing that your
craft is stiff'and the wind steady. But the
Lady of the Lake, though very fast, was a
little coquetish, she had scarcely sufficient
beam, and as the wind freshened and became
a little squally sne laid over at times till the
water poured in over her lee gunwales. This
rather alarmed the lady who begged her hus.
band to go in again. [He however laughed
at her fears, while Bird j ined in her request
and then he prepared to stand in again.
They were four or five miles from the shore
and the wind had freshened a good deal
Seeing that Gardner was going to run her
off before the wind and jibe her, a manoeuvre
not always the safest,'Bird who understood
Boating very well, remonstrated.
"You had better haul her up close on the
the wind and tack her, Charley !" said he.
"In jibing you might heel her over, or at
least carry away something."
'No danger, here she goes! See how
nice I'll do it," said the other, putting up his
helm and squaring off before it.  For a mo
ment the boat ran with lightning speed, her
large mainsail filling to the heavy breeze.
then just as he was ,in the act of jibing, or
letting the boom come over so as to bring the
wind on the other quarter, a heavier gust
struck her. She jibed, but her main sheet
had got foul and did not run through the
block,'she broached too and in a moment she
was over. It twas a fearful moment.  Mrs.
Gardn'er shrieked and clung to the seat
whereon she sat, and as the boat went entirely
over, she of course was under it.  When

But Bird in a moment thought that she might
have got entangled in the rigging ofd the boat,
or having clung to it as she did, and without a
word disappeared in search of her. A long
agonizing moment elapsed ere lie ro-appeared,
but when he did, the drooping form of the
senseless woman was in his arms. Raising,
her head to his shoulder he gained the bow-
sprit of the boat, where resting one arm over
it, he kept her face above the water, bidding
Gardner remain where he was so as to steady
the boat which barely floated.
"Is she dead-my God, is she dead ?"
cried her husband.
"No, her heart beats, she breathes. If
we can hold on a little w~le, help will come.
They must see us from the shore-yes, there
is a sailboat coming off!"
Bird heard a sigh from the lips of the beau-
titull woman whom he strained to his breast,
and then she slowly opened her eye:.
" Where am I ?" she faintly murmured.
"Safe dear lady, safe-help will soon
reach us !" replied Bird.
"Charles, where is Charle?" " Safd also,
clinging to the other end of the boat."
"And you Mr. Bird have saved my life~
the life he all too madly risked !"
I am but too happy in having done it !"
he replied in a low soft tone. Tieir eyes
net and in that look love unutterable was
spoken. Gardner was looking towards the
shore whence that expected assistance was to
come and did not see that glance, nor did he
see Orrin Bird press his burning lips to her
brow. She blushed, but she did not reprove
him. Nor did she chide him that he pressed
her form so closely to his breast. Perhaps
she thought it was necessary to sustain her
so. In about twenty minutes, to them   it
seemed an hour, help reached them from the
shore and they were taken in to the hotel.

Bird rose to the surface both he and Gardner Changes of apparel were soon procured, and
were horrified to find that she did not rise, now thai the danger was past, they laughed

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES


38           THE MYSTERIES AND MISERI ES

OF NEW ORLEANS.                37

lightly at the peril they had encountered,-
and over such a dinner as only Captain Dan
can g .t up in that latitude, they forgot that
" death had stood knocking at the door" that
day. Gardner, as usual, drank deeply, and
when at ten o'clock they drove in, he was
again stupidly, disgustingly drunk, while
Bird was just sufficiently enlivened with wine
to be interesting and pleasant. Dangerous
indeed for her peace and her husband's honor
was-the contrast between Gardner and Bird,
as Fanny was forced to see it. Her hus.
band was obliged to Bird for salvation from
pecuniary ruin, she supposed, she owed him
a life. Ah little did she see through the plot
which was working for her ruin. Little did
she suspect that her husband had been led
into all of his excesses by the man she was
so fast beginning to love. When they arriv-
ed at home, Gardner was so tipsy that he had
to be carried in, and this added to her morti-
fication. She was so put out, that when in
parting, Orrin Bird kissed her hand with
warm and feverish lips, she did not even with.
draw it till the salute had been thrice repeat.
ed. Then, though she blushed and trembled
she uttered no word of reproof. The sCdu
cars arts had already had an effect and though
she had not sinned even in thought, all un-
knowingly her heart was yielding to a new
love. And was this unnatural? No. Who
that is woman and is bound to a man who
neglects her love and charms can be so cold
as not to feel that neglect; who that is wo
man can love him who comes reeling home
in the late hours of the night reeking with the
the sickening fumes of liquor and tobacco
smoke, a living witness of the low debauchies
he has preferred to her sweet company.
Blame not the woman who forsakes such a
man. Woman, like a flower, must be atten.

loveliness and fragrance, as the eve of the
careful gardner is most gladdened by the
beauties he has preserved and developed.
CHAPTER XI
Mr. Malpin was seated with Madame De
PBouligny in the parlor of the latter, and both
were conversing in a low tone, for A dalie,
though not in the room, was near. A ho   ti
of choice wine, taken from a basket which he
had that morning sent around to the Madame,
was on the table, and half filled glasses were
in their hands.
"It is as you say, Sir, time that we plainly
understood each other in this matter, for as
she opposes us both, we can only act in con-
cert, or not act at all. I am ready to hear
any proposition you have to make," said
Madame De Bouligny.
"Then, Madame, I will he candid. You
are well aware of the position of myself in
society, the aristocratic feelings of my family
who would never consent to my union with
an actress, although I love your daughter
well enough, I assure you, to marry her. But
my father, from whom I expect at least a half
million of dollars would disinherit me, and
that would be a serious sacrifice to me. My
present income is large, but even the capital
which I use is his, and could be withdrawn.'
Though he is not a strict man, he is a proud
one, he cares not who I may have for a mis-
tress, but on the point of matrimony he would
be imperative. I can lavish five or six thou.
sand a year on one that I love, and that I love
Adalie, you cannot doubt. But my position
is peculiar. I can be generous, I can be fond
and true to her, but I cannot marry her."
" Yes," said the lady, with a hypocritical

ded and cultivated.  Neglect her and she sigh, "I can see how you are placed. And
dies.  And to him    only who   properly Adalie, on the stage where no one remains
attends to her does she appear in all her with name unstained, cannot, at best, long re-

main unslandered. If she has the name she
might as well yield to har fate, fbr, as [ told
her the other day, it is better to be the mis.
tress of a rich and generous man, than the
wife of a poor one But if I should consent
to this marriage without a ceremony-
" I would immediately make a handsome
settlement on yourself and daughter.  You
rent this house, I believe ?"  o
Yes, Sir, and pay very heavy rent too.
It takes nearly all her salary to pay it."
'he house, newly furnished, shall be
deeded to you, and you shall have a carriage
and horses, and one thousand dollars for mcin
dental expenses,the day Adalie becomes mine."
" You are generous, Sir. 1 believe it is for
the child's own good that I yield my ready
consent. Yes, you shall have her"
"C The next thing is to win her consent.
Her ,dislike for me is an obstacle not easily
to be overcome."
"There is but one way, I will see to that.
She shall be yours. Once yours, she will
always be so,for then she would not dare,with
her pride, to go to the lover she is always prat-
ing about."
"You told me that he is coming on to see
her."

t
P
i
3
i
1
J
y
° -
a

"Yes, so she told me. He has written her."
' Will he be here soon ?
"From what she says, I think in about two
weeks."
"Then no time must be lost. Where is he
now 2"
no In St. Louis."
"1 shall write him a letter to day."
" A letter to him ?  What for ? "
"To tell him to stay away and to stop ad-
dressing letters . to my mistress, that I have
intercepted the correspondence. Lead him
to believe that she is fooling him  and is
already willingly mine."
"A capital plan. Yes, that will keep him
away."

"Provided that he believes the base false.
hood !" said a clear voice at the door.
' Both sprung to their feet in surpise.-
There stood Adalie, her face pale as Parian
marble, her dark eyes flashing with anger,
her pinken nostrils swelling and quivering,
and her lip trembling with scorn.
" I have heard all!" she continued. "A,ll
the kindness, woman, that you intend for your
child, the daughter you would sell like a no.
gt'o sive, to her master. And yst. Sir, who
wear the semblance of a man, you,-who would
ruin a helpless girl, rob her of her only
wealth, her innocence, would begin by damn-
ing her character with the only one on earth
whom she loves. Oh how noble, how brave,
how manly.   Descend to become a base and
common liar. It must be a worthy purpose
which requires such noble means to effect it.
Oh, coward, how  dare you stand there !-
Why do you not sink through the floor under
the weight of shame ! You will write to
him? So wil I, and I will tell him to hasten
here to chastise you as you merit. I fear you
not. I now know what your intentions are
and know that I can foil them. See, here!
[she drew a small, keen dagger from her
bosom] ever since I put my foot on the stage,
at home or abroad, I have worn this. steel
for my pr tector. Waking and sleeping it
is, with me. The man who lays a finger on-
my person, shall feel it to the haftin his het.
A nad should , the worst come to the worst, i
its hollow hilt there is a poison so deadly, tlt
one drop will produce death. Yes, were I
to scatter its contents now in this room, you
would fly from is deadly aroma, or sink
withering to the floor. You may well shrink
back. I do not speak for effect. This pre-
cious friend came from hands t'lanever failed
--from the last scion of the  edicis family,
you know who, mother !"
"She speaks truly!" murmured the mother.

f   '1.
n

} }
R-
s
S t
§
f 4
d
4 sse
-f
1
Y
3
1
.
+4  f
C
i
'z
t
}
t F
k


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
"Adalie, do not keep that terrible weapon. There is an antidote to the poison, and she
Some accident may happen. You do not has sleeping potions."
know so well as I know, hw deadly is that . She arose and hastily put on a bonnet and
poison."                                veil, and taking a parasol in her Iand, she left
"Yes, and on it and this good steel I de- .the house.
pend for protection. I again say that I do  " There is no antidote to cure the wound
not fear you or that'man ! Plot on, I care inflicted by cold steel !" said Adalie, bitterly,
not to hear more now. But beware, beware entering the room when her mother had left.
I say ! The eye of Almighty God is on Suspicion has quick ears ; she had again
you !"                                   overheard enough to put her on her guard
" How beautiful even in her anger !" mur- against new dangers.
inured Malpin, as she retired. " I would die  When Madame de Bouligny left her house
to possess her !"                       she walked rapidly down to Rue D)auphine,
She is dangerous now, but she shall be. and passing up this street a few blocks, sti p-
conqured. She defies me but I can thwart ped before a low, old fashioned French  ld'
her. That dagger must be got away from ing, glanced around to see if she was observed,
her, though."                           then, without knocking, opened the front door
"Can you not get it when she sleeps ?" and disappeared within. We will enter with
asked Malpin.                           her. In the first apartment she entered there
"She never lays down except when. her was no sign to betoken that'the house was
room is firmly fastened on the'inside."  inhabited. The stone floor was covered with
"Cannot some one be concealed in the room dust. She passed over this and knocked at
in her absence ?"                       the back door. A low growl from     some
"She always carries the key with her- fierce animal was heard, and then a shrill
examines the room on her return.  She is voice asked, in the French language, "Who
too cautious."                          is there."
. .. " A friend," replied Madame Do B,i m he
"Can you not administer a sleeping portion.
.:.same language'.
There are powerful drugs which will stupify  dm l"g
"Go away, I have no friend-want none
the senses" for hours."
thesenes fo was.a   h o-      . w   cried the same shrill, unnatural voice. And
" Yes, it was that I thought of. ITwill try h
tf"the growl of the animal within was more
fierce than before.
"But be careful, if she suspected a stupor  "Salvi Medicis, one waits outside whom
coming on she might destroy herself."   you have seen before. Your services are
SWe must risk it."                    needed-I have gold.to require them !"
"Well, depend on my assistance ; com-   "Gold? Gold? gold is precious-I will
mand my purse at all times. But now I must open! Down Bobo, down I say !"
leave you ; business requires it. Another   The last remark appeared to have been
glass of wine and adieu till to-morrow, with- addressed to the animal, for it growled no
out you have occasion to send for me sooner." more. A rattling of chains was heard, and
The gentleman emptied his wine glass and then a bobt or two withdrawn, the door was
left. The lady sat for some time in silent partly opened. A head, a small tawny face
thought, and then muttered : " [t shall be with two eyes glittering like the orbs of an
done. I too must pay a visit to the sybil. enraged serpent looked out, then, the same

OF NEW ORLEANS.

shrill voice cied; "it is well, a woman and
alone. Come-in, no harm shafl befall you it
harm is not intended and I can read your
thoughts."'
The designing woman entered the room
and seated herself on a rickety stool which
the other pointed to. The room was meanly,
but strangely furnished. Over a fire place
in one corner, hung a large iron cauldron
On shelves around were bottles, glass retorts,
chemical apparatus; weapons of various
kinds and nil scattered in indiscriminate dis-
order. In a corner near the door lay a large
black wolf dog, whose red, glairing eyes and
tusky jaws made him look as if he feasted on
human flesh.
But the female who inhabited this strange
apartmnri: was a picture in herself. She
was small, slender, and tawny as a gipsyher
eyes bright and piercing as those of a ba-a
lisk. Her features indicated an Italian de-
scent--that nation  having  a peculierhy
possessed by no other. I1er dress was a
mixture of the peasant costume of Italy and
the Moorish. Her slender waist was em-
braced by the laced bodice of the former;
she wore a shirt of scarlet velvet that only
reached to the knee., But her lower limbs
were covered with the loose troa sers of the
Moorish woman, and her small feet were
thrust into red slippers. On her head she
}   wore a kind of fantastical crown--composed
principally of the faded leaves of the cypress
Poorly furnished as was this room, the open

Y-

door which led to a inner chamber permitted
one to see that it was far better fitted up. In
fact there was a strange contradiction in the
appearance of slovenness and poverty in the.
one and in the luxury and neatness of the
other. The "Sybil," for as such was she
known to the few whom she admitted to her
presence could not have been over thirty five
years of age and were it not for her small
eye, and a serpent like expression in her lace

might have been considered handsome. But
the mark of evil passions was on her-it could
be heard in her shrill, sharp voice, could be
seen in every varying expression ot h r coun-
tenanee
" Well-you have come to me, brought
gold, you say.  What do you want for it ?"
"An antidote for the Poison you gave my
daughter in a dagger's hilt-a portion that
can produce sleep for hours.'
The Sybil looked her steadily in the face
a moment.
"Yes-I see it all !" she murmured. "You
are like the rest, you want gold too. Gold is
precious; gold is precious."
' To be sure it is.  With gold we can get
all we want."
" No-no !" mttered the Sybil. " Not
peace of mind-not peace of mind. But
what do 1 care-you shall have what you
want, but mark my words woman you will
curse the hour you took it from my hand,
curse the day you came to see me. Your
gold, for gold you will get, is stained with
blood-blood of your own race. I see a corse,
two corses, I see a maniac woman, a wan.
dering man accursed upon the earth. The
maniac woman is yourself."
Frighten me not, good Salvi-f righten
me not with such wild prophecies."
"It must be accomplished-yes you shall
have what you want. All is written-all is
written!" muttered the wom n in a low tone.
Then she went to a shelf and took a phial
filled witIi a colorless liquid. " There is the
antidote," she said. Then taking a box, she
said-" here is a powder, tastless as air...-one
grain will make one sleep an hour. Po sleep
longer add a grain for every hour-and fear
not their awakening. Now go -you have
all you seek-you will get more than you ex.
pect."
"Here is pay"-and the widow laid a purse
of gold on the table.

i
I

,


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

OF N W ORLEANS.

"The price of blood-the price of bloi !"
murmured the Sybil as she fixed her gleam-
ing eyes upon it.  When she looked up the
widow  was gone. She    again barred and
bolted the door, and lifting a square stone
from the centre of her floor she cast the purse
down upon a heap of other money already
deposited in the hiding place, rriuitering as sie
did so-' Gold is precious gold is precious.'
t An hour later she had another visitor--one
closely veiled and coarsely clad, yet a close
veil and coarse garments could not conceal
all the beauties of that foIrm, or break the
grace of her movements. It was Adalie.
"My mother has ben here !" she said, d-
ter the Sybil had  cadted her.
" It is written-it is wrima .t' ' said .hi
Sybil in a low murmur.
,c What is written ? tell in, Sali_ .wb
is written?'
" Seek not to know-it will come !  .jtk_
ness is before you-it is written !'"
"You terrify rme, Salvi. Can you sree ito
futurity ?"
"Can I ? Ask what I cannot see.  I see
to that love buried in one grave !"
"Oh Salvi what do you mean-.explain it
to me."
"It is written-it is written,then why should
I pity her." Murmured the Sybil, unheed-
ing the question of the anxious girl.
"Oh Salvi-do speak to rme. My mother
came here for some sing-what was it !"
"Go-go and leave rue young girl your
fate is written !"
" I will not go till you tell me then. I am
brave Salvi-1 fear riot to know it. Reveal
for me the future."
The Sybil shook he r head mournfully.
" Go-go-it is written ? She murmured.
"You said the loved ones shall sleep in theI
same grave."
" It is written-it is written !'"
"Am I one of those ?"

" It is written ! Ask no more or the spirit
of anger will come!'
Adalie went irth. She had learned noth-
lng an i now her soul was wrapped in terror,
"If I am only to die with Eugene,I am still
happy" she murmured.     " But God will
shield me and him. To um 1 look, in um I
trust."
ChIA PTER XII,
It was the sane afternoon-the same hour
when Adalie went fbrth desolate and sick at
heart from the presence of the Sybil, that
Orrin lird entered the parlor of Fanny Gard.
ner. IIe knew that the husband was absent,
'or ho had ot the '' (Coulonel'' to induce Gard..
ner to go out ridin .yith him, well knowing
that he would not return before night and that
thren he would be as usual, drunk-for he had
intimated hi.s wishs on this point to one who
was but to killing to help a man on to ruin
when his own pocket could be benefitted by
it-
Cie fon *Fanny therefore alene, and very
sad and lew spirited. She had been thinking
of her bright visions of et r happiness so
soon overcoued-of the habits of him whom
she had vowed 'o love and honor, and w horn
she could n't honor while he so degraded
himself and her.  Hler lovel Oy es had been
dimmed with tears, but she was beautiful in
her calm sadness, as beautiful as even was in
her bright gayety.
" I'm ver'y glad you have come," said she
after Bird had sa ed himself near her.
Charles has ben gene all day, and I have
the blues. llav eyou seen him ?"
SI saw idm about one hour ago riding out
with Colonl Plmkot--I suppose they were
going to the lake !" replied Bird.
" A md he told me he had business which
would eccupy him all day. ,Oh, Mr. Bird?
mine is a hird fate!"

"Strange that he can neglect such good-t
ness, such beauty" muttered Bird apparently
th himself, but he spoke sufficiently bold force
her to catch his words.
Then turning to her, he said:
" Perhaps he has ridden out on business."1
" No-no," she sighed-" he has no busi-
ness with a roue and gamester like Plumhet.
I know you would extenuate his faults Mr.
Birdhut you can r olonger hide them from me.
I suffer too much from his dissipation and
neglect, not tofeel and know them."
"'Would to God I could remedy them lady.
Heaven knows I have tried."
" I know you have my noble friend !" She
said-' but it is useless to try. Oh that you
had let me peri h when my'life was perilled
by his rash carelessness on the lake !"
" Do not say that. ,.Sweet lady. I would
have perished with you had L not succeeded
in saving you. Earth would be desolate to
me were you not on it. Do not be angry with
me for this rash, this wild declaration, but I
'rust speak or choke. Look up to you with
the pure adoration of a christian for a Saint-
with a hopeless love-a respect which places
you as a vestal on a starry throne ever be-
fore me-but love you. For that love I
have sought to win him away from evil, that
= you might not sufFr-yes while I knew that
he possessed all that rny soul coveted, fir
your sake I. sought to do him good. Forgive
me-be not angry-frown not upon me, but
let me do as I have done still love, still war.-
ship you in silence and despair !"
" My God ! My God !" murmured the fair
woman, trembling, blushing and weeping.
"Oh Fanny be not oflhndod with me !" he
cried, casting himself on his knees before bet
and pressing her hand to his burning lips.
I am not angry-oh, why did I not know
you before I knew him-now it is wrong to
listen to you-I am his w/e."
a Yes-and I shall never marry. You are

the only idol of my heart. Fanny, I can
die, but I cannot'cease to love you. Oh, I
could slay that man for his neglect, yet his
attentions were like death to me. Fanny,
deem it not madness, but to hear you say you
love me-to have one kiss from your lips, I
would forfeit a right to eternal life.
t. Orrin"-she murmured. She had not
withdrawn her hand.
"Fanny-oh, angel ." and he kissed again
that small white hand which trembled in his
grasp. She bowed her head to his shoulder-
tears rained down upon his neck.  Wildly he
raised his face to hers-a thousand kisses he
planted upon those lovely eyes, and strained
her madly to his bosom.
" Orrin, oh, Orri !" she murmured, but
she did not strive to move from his embrace.
"Fanny-Fanny, say but one word, that
you love me-I ask no more ; even death
will be welcome then !"
" Orrin-dear Orrin !" she murmured-
and her burning lips met his. She was lost.
The wife had forgotten her love--her duty ;
she loved another, and had confessed that
love.' The seducer thought he had triumphed.
[His hand was wildly pressed upon her full,
throbbing  bosom.  Then, as the flush of
passion, like an electric shock, flew through
his frame and   eermed to communicate to
hers, she broke from his arms, and threw
herself all sobbing and trembling in a chair
far from his side.
" l Iny_-dear Fonny ! have f oflended
you ?" he asked anxiously.
"No, Orrin-oh, no. I have only offend.
el myself. Sit down; let me get cali. I
am wrong, but I do love you. There is a
bar between us ; let our love be as pure as
it is hopeless. I can no longer love him, but
so long as he is my husband, I will not he a
rathless wife !"
* Angel ! Incomparable woman !" cried
the deceiver. " I honor and love you yet the

{.i.
tq
ri
2tk
f-
"{
'i4

4 1

40


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

OF NEW ORLEANS.

more. Think not my love so gross and
sensual that I would tempt you from your
duty. No; if for a moment while I clasped
your beautiful, glowing form to my heart, a
thrill of passion burned in my veins, it was
but for a moment. One look, one word from
you, would have recalled me to my senses ;
for you who alone could create the feeling,
could chill it with a breath. Fanny, I love
you as you should be loved ; purely and de-
voledly."
" And, Orrin, so will I love you. Some.
thing in my heart bids me hope that I may
yet be yours. Let us love; let us hope !"
" We will ; we will !" and Orrin, now un-
}      rebuked, imprinted a calm and passionless;
xiss on her red, moist lips.
Wily as a veteran warrior, he saw that he
must not advance too rapidly or too boldly;
yet sagacious and experienced as a xetcran,
he felt that his victory was secure ; that the
fortress was secure for him. The outworks
had been taken ; the garrison had been
tampered with ; its former commander had no
influence there. After passing an hour of
calm, yet fond and afectionate conversation,
Bird imprinted a kiss upon the lips of the
wife of his friend, and left. Three or four
hours later, with a loathing heart she received
a drunken husband to her arms.
CHAPTER     XIII.
When Bridget, the bearer of Mr. Flum-
dummery's letter, called on Adalie to deliver
it, she found the eyes of the poor girl red
with weeping.
"Sure, Miss, you feel down-hearted to-day
;    wid something or other !"
"I am not very well, Brtdget."
"The houly angels be wid ye, Miss, ye
don't look so. Sure, its being' up so late

Now, if ye, had a kind, rich husband, he'd
not let ye be after hurtin' yerself so!"
Adalie smiled sorrowfully at the remark of
the kind-hearted girl, but made no reply.
Bridget was troubled, now. She did not
know how to break her errand. At last, she
said :
I've got a letter for ye, Miss'; a letter from
a very good gentleman, who is a leetle too full
of larnin', but he's good-hearted and rich, as
oneself can testify !"
" A letter to me, Bridget ?"
"Yes, Miss, and' a mighty purity letter it
is, too. here it is !"
Adalie opened the letter, read it, first
smiled, then looked more grave and said :-
"You can take a verbal answer, Bridget.--.
Say to the gentleman, that I am grateful for
his good opinion, but must decline the hohor
of his acquaintance,"
" Why, Miss; ye'll be after. killin' the
poor girtleman. lie's dead gone in love wid
you."-
"1 cannot help that, Bridget.   He is
nothing to me."
" But yell write him an answer, jist to
console him for his disappointment, won't ye
now, Miss Adalie, darlin' ? "
" No, Bridget ; I never write to gentle-
men.'
" Nor meself, be the token that I don't
know how, But I pity the gintleran. ie's
a good man, barrin' he's a fool wid his
science. He goes every night to the theatre
to see you dance, and he sighs so mournful
like, when-he tao-s to me about you.  I'm
afraid ye'll be t:e death o' him, Miss."
"No danger ; few men die of love !" said
Adalie, laughing at the droll earnestness of
the girl.
" i've heard o' the like though, Miss.-.
Sure, in the ould counthry there weas Barney
O'Callahan, whose sweet-heart Biddy O'-.

_t
3
s
4
k'
e
r
r
r
T
t

o'nights and dancin' must do ye the harm.- I Toole run off wid the landlord's son, who

never married her at all at all. He took itI
to heart and never held his head up afterwards,
until jist the hour when he died; when he rose'
up and axed for Biddy.  And sure enough,
the poor crater had jist come home, pale and
brokeryhearted, wid a wee baby in her arms
-and when Barney saw that, he gived one
groan and went off as asy as a lamb in the
spring-time.  We gave him   a jolly wake.
And poor Biddy, she died too, shortly afther,
and the O'Tooles sent the baby up to the
landlord's and would'nt own it for their
blood !"
"Were they buried in one grave ?" said
Adalie, abstractedly.
"Who, Miss ?"
"The-two lovers, my girl!'
" Och, no ma'am! Sure and the O'Calla-
hans prayed the curse of God on the O'Toole's,
for Barney was a promisin' lad. I knew him
well, as blithe a boy as ever throd the turf;
and could'nt he handle a shilaleh beautiful ?
Ah, a nice boy was Barney. If I'd been
Biddy O'Toole, no landlord's son should ha
come blatherin' around me wid his soft, de-
savin' tongue, and pocket full o' gould, if
Barney O'Callahan had spoken the word love
in my ear."
" You are right, Bridget. Virtuous love,
even if it is linked with poverty, will render
any maiden happier than gilded crime !"
S rrue, Miss. Sure, when you spake I
think its an angel borrows your tongue for a
while, you say so many good things, and say
'em so swately."
You are a great flattrer, Bridget !" said

must decline the honor of his acquaintance !"
"Och, how bad he'll feel-and that too,
after he gave , me a gould sovereign for
bringin' it to y er ladyship."
"Never mind; here is a gold dollar for
carrying it back."
"leaven bless ye, Miss ; ye are always
too kind to a poor girl like me."
" The poor need kindness more than the
rich, Bridget."
"I wish everybody else was in your way'
o' thinkii', Miss !" said the girl. " What a
blessed world wud this be then, sure. Good-
bye, Miss ; may the houly angels like ye as
well as I do, and keep you from harm."
Good-bye, Bridget-i wish you well."
" Och, I 'm sure you do, and everybody ,
else wid me !" said the honest, warmhearted
creature, as she kft the room.
' Now, I will w rile to Eugene, and bid
him, if he loves me, to hasten to my aid ere
it is too late !'' murmured Adalie. '' Yet,"
said she, after a pause-" that prophecy
The two lovers shall be buic d in one grave.
Suppose he comes only to die, and to die for
me. Yet it were better we both should die,
than I live a being degraded, and he live to
know it. I will send for him ; he shall know
my danger, and I know he will come. Better
that we lay in one grave while loving and
pure, than one should live to hate the other.
That must not be."
The young girl seated herself at the centre
table and hastily wrote a letter, which she
sealed with a beautiful motto seal, its motto
being : "I'll rather die than change." This
having directed, she was about to bear to the

Adalie, smiling at her nive expression.  office with her own hands, for she dared not
" A flatherer, Miss !  Och, it would be trtist another, when her mother entered the
hard to father you. Our Lady in Heaven room.
bless you! But I must be going' back. What  " Are you going out, child ?" asked Ma.
shall I say to the gintleman, please ?"  dame D  B., in a kinder tone than she had
"Take his' letter back, and say that I am used for weeks.
obliged to him for his good opinion, but that I  "i am, Madam I" said Adalie, coldly.

i'1

42

43


r   t
'  '
;
£
L ,c s ,
f
G
.r ..

" Sit down a atornerit, I want to talk t
you.  In my zeal for your comfort, I hav
P .   done very wrong. I was anxious to see ye
rich and comfortable ; too anxious to care fo
the means. j thought that you would ukt
that man, if 3ou once knew him, and 1 wa
cruel ; wicked, to plot as I (lid. Forgive me
forget what is past, and let us be happy onc
more, as we once were."
At an earlier day, Adalie might have boen
deceived; but now it was too late. She kne w
who she had to deal with. But she could
also mieet deception with deception.
'  I do not wish to be on bad terms with
you, mother, but Mr. Malpin must.visit me no
more."
"But, child ; suppose we break off gradual-
4 '   ly.   He has made    many rich   present-,
and   -"
3 lou can return them to him. I have
never received any of them. I am figm in
this ; I. will see him no more."
" Well, child, I will' wr ite him a note ; he
shall not be admitted here again.  Where
are you going ? Iti; iimot time you dre;-sed
for the hreatre-
"I am   only going to the Post offce; I
shall soon return."
After the daughter had gone out, the mother
seated herself with a .satisfied air. " It
works bettr than I thought," she said, "I can
soon get her calm again, and then the sleep-
ing potion administered will win the victory.
I'll see if her pride shall keep us all in
poverty, when wealth is waiting at our docr.
She thinks she is my own daughter - does
not know she is my sister's child, reared as
my own ; but if' she were my own flesh and
blood, .'d do as I am doing. This foolish
sensibility was never miade for folks to get
along in the world with."

o              CHAPTER XIV.
u    In a room in the Planter's Hotel in Saint
r Loui, a young man was seated at a writing
. able. A pile of manuesript before him to
which he added sheet after sheet indicating
that he belonged to that untortiuate class of
emen who are born for the support of publish-
ers-to whom God for some sin of their fore.
others has b:quethed the curse of Genius.
Ihe cuRsE?" asks the reader in astonish-
ment-" the curse of Genus ? "
Aye, and I repeat it, the curse. " Why
is it a curse ? "'-you ask.  First, because
it all unfits one to deal with the cold hearted,
gain seeking, gold-loving worms of the earth,
who, knos'ing no higher aspirations than that
of anasingf gold, h-eding and clothing the
'body, hold in contempt the loftier filings
which are born of the soul-the dreams of
the poet, the sublime studies of the philoso-
pher, the visions of the novelist -the abstrac-
tions of the  matheuatcian.  It leaves its_
owner a srtanger in a woi Id full of people.
lie can hold no converse with kindred spir.
its, for there are none around him. He is
cheated by one, disliked ly another, and the
older he grows, the more he hates the world
ii 'which he lives. Show me a happy au-
thor. IIow  wretched with all his mighty
!abet was Byron. Keats died with a broken
heart.  Shelley lived a life of wretchedness.
Milton was miserable. Burns ived and died
povertystricken, only appreciated after he
was buried.  Walter Scott was harassed be-
-ause he could not fight the world, and though
he made thousands of dollars, others received
afl the benefits. I repeat that in such a
work-a-day world as this, Geinus is anything
but desirable-that an author's life is the
hardest and most unsatisfactory of any other.
The slave of publishers, with a fickle public
to please-critics to pay, envy and malice
all around him, what has he to enjoy?

1,
5

The ale face of the one to whom I have love shall not e harmed and she go unre.
alluded, and his care worn look both indica  venged. She bids me fly to hr.-slow can
ted  on  hi  part any thing  hut happiness.  W ith- I ?  This-i  novel  '  1'ke  Prairie  Belle  "'must
his head bet down over the table, his hand b fished before I t.a handle a dollar, ad
rapidly plying over the paper as if he could then to iet the ca.h for it, it must lil bcrificed
not get his thoughts down half fast enough- at the tnth of its value. But it shall be done.
he looked ir deed weary of life. He was By working ten hours more without ceas-
tall and slender--his fbreheal pale as mar- itg, I can finih -it.p0OldMecimpem  will
ble was high and surrounded by cluttering buy it, as hha sa promoiied-f'or two  ntunred
looks of brown,   his features of Roman dollars. A pretty price for anovel of two hun-
cast, were thin, and wore a severe exures-ion dred actovo pages, which will bring him in
which was heigtened by the heavy   mous- four or five thousand dollars at least.  What
tache on his upper lip. Yet ever and anon a curse is poverty. But I will go.  Adalie,
his expression would change a-i he wrote, my hope, thou shalt not call for me in vain.
Perhaps toen he was living  ini a fanciful One day more mut pass before I can start,
world of his own, feeling each incident and but then rapidly as the bats can bear me
character that he described. If so, white down broad Mississippi's tile I will fly to thy
busied with them, he night be happy, all for- aid."
getful of the outside world. But all too sud.
denly is the author wakened from his sleep  Another day had passed. It was noon and
of fancy by the cold-water-dash of reality, through the broiling  sunshine our author
our friend was interrupted by a nocoi at hia  a:il  loaded to the office of Mr MeScrim.
door. In answer to his bidding a servant pem, the famous publi-her of Western novels.
entered-                             .    That gentleman was eated in his little back
"  ere is a letter for you  Sir ; a dime office, "laying back " in his arm) chair smo-
postage on it please."                    hing a genuine llavana. [ WVho can bettet
" A letter--a dime ?" muttered the author amtrd luxury than theublishr.]  A pile o!
abstractly, fteling first im one pocket and then ' orders " lay before limn---his clerks were
in another for the required coin. At last one busy in boxing up books in the outer officC
of rather larger dimentions was found-a and he had just sent his book-keeper to de
quarter, whimh he handed to the waiter, bid-
ding him not trouble himself about the change posit a thousand dollars, [ his morning ef ycm
mittances ] in the btik. Lie felt very corn
which of course brought him a profusion oflortable. Our author's appearane with hi
p
Irish compliments, which he shortened con- roll of manuscript somewhat discomposed
K      siderably by pointing the waited to the door but did not displease him--because Beverly'
which still stood open.                   works had always sold well. He could affor
Once more alone, he glanced at the super- to treat him politely.
sctiptiou.  From New Orleans-from Ada-
lie,"  muttered. ' From her whom I have    . I'm glad to see you, Beverly, mi boy !" h
eer sec, yet love-my ideal of all that is eeicd with a strong foreign accent.  How
s                         tmes wi ye .
pure and lovely."trtsWIe
Hue opnedo the letter. His brow flushed--  " Busy Sir, busy, thank you. I've finish
his cheek grew red--"God's curse on them !" ed the " Belle of the Prairie" for you."
if they harm her. Eugene Beverly's only    "The deuce ye have. You've been dom'

OF NEW ORLEANS.

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

44

45


'f4#
k' t
tt  '+
46
t_
o

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

quick methinks-. its only four or five days Appleby would consider him one of the "pro-
.sc-                                      fession," however. ]
-h True, Sir, but I have hurried it up-I    " Of course---it is   natural  that you
-have a trip South to make."               should."
"  om it, not agoin to leave us, are ye ? I  "How much was we to pay ye for that
wan't another work, an Indian story o' some work?" asked Mr. McS.
sort bringin' in Kit Carson, for he's the lion  "Two hund           .
4  latelyn"                                        w  hnred dollars, Sir, only was our
agreement."
"I shall not be gone long ; but I have bu-  "Twa hus
sifness to attend to which I must not ne- lert"
glect."                                       -,ht was our bargain Sir."
"Business ! Dy'e mind that now ! ha ! ha !"  Ihat    shor    Sir   ."
cried Mr. McSerimpem with a hearty laugh.   I'    n very short sir, ver short to day. I
"I'ts a new thing for you writers to be iid nt ytak e    itst hindeso"soor.
busmess."Can't ye take leess?"
"           ab     o   ,   tr                      "No Sir--a bargain is a bargain.   Your
fI- Maybe so Sir, but 1    iman a hurry. The CecG    orte mun          il  o jastas .ellua
Haidee goes at four o'clock and I must be   hek olau              dojust as we
ready.  Here is-the manuscript  I'm ready the gold."
for the money."                                             -   y check is od at the
Oh that's the del o' the thinank, but twa hundred doll ars is a pile of
2  "h tat' th dci ' te tingmon...oumoney for a little buandle; o' p3apevri"
authors are always singing out for the money.   you'd like to paper             f
Dy'e know we can get every book that, 's pub.  " Perhaps you'd like to wrt over four
listed in Europe and republish it herep    hundred foolscap pages in four das f
a  nothing?'"rprice?" said Beverly.
"Yes by stealing it from its author."      The publisher made no reply, but took
downhis check    book and in a   wretched
-  e'n isevre, r.     B     l     v     scrawl, which could not easily be counterfeit.
'  Stealing is a hard word." ccle, made out the chck for the -icy.               ev
"_But not misapplied in regard to publish, erly tooktout thian ceklf sthn "oy. ev-
ers.  When they publish a work without hurried awaya
paying its writer, they steal his labor from            ,
him, I care not-who, or where they are, abroad d At  o ur o'clock, he was on board the a -
ora aom                                eoeoftemagnificent River . o  thm.  Packets
or"atoel.      o abound for the "Cresent City."                         Shall we
"s "XVell- -.wel---you authors have your own follow him down and desrb   rpo    h
Opinions, but we publishers differ wi ye! "  River- N      toaa   ncien tri   ts,
[I may here eakthtte" l           bih-    d   -   0     thousand mncipient tourists,
[  my hee remark that the "we publish- and newspaper letrwies1v          loe    h
er " who spoke had originally been a book l     iewsuah setter writers have flooded the
f  :-pedler on the river, which trade htoku  atwhschkehs-tthe              reader ean
4%  edlr o  th rierwhih tadehetook up lessons from  their yarns, and save me the
after getting tired of hod carrying. lie got trouble of "thrice told tales"  And as
a start in that line, and by shrewdness and Euge Beveris   old tasestind we
a speculative gift succeeded in geeting a start will return to our old charaies
which soon made a publisher of him.  I'am                      cr    t.
not sure whether a Harper, a Murray or an

OF NEW ORLEANS.

4:

47

CHAPTER    XV.              room. It will begin to act on our way home
and by the time we have reached the house,
THE PLOT THICKENS.            she will be in our power. The da ger shall
be removed ; I leave her to you, and to your
A week more has passed and still poor generosity, lea e myself and her I"
Adalie is unscathed. Her mother had been   "You shall not be disappointed i i your
very kind, Malpin has not persecuted her expectations, Madame, the deed is ma'cout;
with his visits.  But there is ever a deep I will fulfill every condition. But I acknow.
calm before a terrible storm. She is still on edge I fear her anger when on waking horn
her guard. She knows that the libertine her sleep she will find me by her side !"
once in view of a victim, is like a blood.  " Poh, you are a man, she but a weak girl
hound on the track, he never will leave it. from whom all weapons will be removed.
The mother had changed her place of inter- When she finds it is too late t mourn, you
views with him, she now met him at his will find her gentle as she now- stern; I
rooms to concoct her infernal plans. It was know her nature well."
a week later than the date when she had   "'Be it so, Madame ; at what hour shall I
made friendly advances to her child and be at your house .
pledged herself to cease the odious persecu-  "NAt one, by that time all will be finished.
tion, that she appeased at his rooms, Wlber9 pb We leave the Theatre at twelve generally,
previous agreement he awaited her.       often earlier than that. ~ I have sent every
"It is time we acted," she said, on seeing one away from the house on one pretext or
him. " Adalie has received a tel graphic another, I only shall remain in it."
despatch from Eugene Beverly and he has    That bold, bad man shuddered in spite of
started fo this city. I found it on her table himself to hear how coolly a mother, as he
this afternoon when she had stepped out for a supposed Madame Bouligny to be, could in
moment. She does not know that  am awae cold blood thus doom her child to ruin and
of it, and I think her suspicius of me an plan her downfall. But he wa-s nevertheless
considerably lulled. I have arranged my as firmly bent on the'possession of his victim
plan to administer the sleeping potion to-night, as ever. He had wished to win her by fair
the time is near when you will win your means, but failing in that, was determined to

longcoaeted prize."
" it is time, indeed, if he is so near. But
you must be careful to secure the dogger.
I fear not for myself, but she might take
the poison if she felt that she had inadvert-
antly taken the potion."
" If she does, I have the antidote to save
her. I feel sure of carrying it through. To
make her thirsty I have taken care all day
to have salt fish, of which she is very fond,
on the table. I shall put the powder in the
lemonade, she almost always drinks after she
- is done dancing in the last act, when she
comes tired and breathless to her dressing-

have her by foul.

1'

It was night. Adalie who had been twice
called out to repeat her dances, was very
weary. Hier mother did not offer her the
lemonade as usual, but there it sat on her
dressing-table, and it had been prepared. She
drank of it eagerly, little dreaming of its
contents, though for night after night before,
she had drank water brought to her fresh
from the hydrant by the call-boy, fearful of
some trick by her mother.
"Do hasten to change your dress and let
us hurry home, Adalie, I feel sick and weary
to-night !" said her mother.

I


It!;
  j r
tI
f'i r
d"
. I r .
tt __ s
r;   -

" I will rioth-r," replied the poor girl, "for in her own bosom, was the first act of the
I too am very tired. I shall sleep sweetly woman. 11er next wastto disrobe that peer-
t0-n ii t. -                             less form, and put on the night robe; she
"    ope so," sri l the mother significantly, usually wore. Calmly, oh how edintlyTdid
but the daughter did not no ice her tone, or that unfeeling wretch do all this. No coi
the lek of diaboloical triumph which accom- punctioiis seemed to come over her as she
panned it. In a few momemns they were on bared the pure stainless breast of her who
their ' ny home, Madame t B. pretending to called her mother.  And at last when the
be so lepy that she could scarcely kei p her dark hair of her victim lay spread out in a
pyas op en,                             glorious mass upon her pillow, w hen her peer-
" I too feel so weary and sleepy !" said less limbs had been lail beneath the snowy
Adali- as they entered theiroiiuse -I shall counterpane, she flded her arms over her
sleep sweetly and dream or my Eugene."   innocent hosom, and leaving the lamp burn-
The mother rnde no reply, but as she ing in her room, hurried away.
entered the parlor, threw herself on the sofa  The clock struck one. A step was on the
and pretendled to drop to sleep at once. threshold, the spoiler entered.  Like the
Adahe supposed this steep to be real, and Jews who bought Jesus at the hands of Judas
scarcely felt the rapid stupor that was con- Iscariot, he came bearing money in his hand.
ink ove- her until it was too late. She stag  Like the cursed traitor who sold his Lord
gered drowsily to her own room, and casting and her Master, her hands were outstretched
off her bonnet which she dropped on the ll',or, to receive it. She Was pile no w, though,
she sunk on her own couch all dressed as she and her hand trembled.  Perhaps a dread of
was. For a fiew moments all was still in 'unpendiog evil came over her then, or at
that house except the heavy, breathing of one last tile spark of womanly teeling entered her
who pretended to sleep, and of another who breast.  ut he, was he pale?  No! flushed
really was sleeping under the effects of a with his will hopes, he looked like spine in
powerful drug. Not long, however, did the earnate denonon the eve of triumph. And
woman lay stll. Riing, she hurried to the he looked just what he was.  But it is time
bed-side of the helpless girl, and holding a to draw  the curtain. We cart no loner
lamp over her, examtintd her features. Nev- dwell upon the horrors of a reality.
er hal they looked mere placid or beautiful,
Her rosy lips were parted so as to Cxr'ose her --
beautiful teeth, a sveet smile was resting on                   X
her angelic face. 0 God, had that woman a

;* ' A.
,  ,
Y
}t  ±   7  a
Ji         F3
T:      i
I~y   ,  '
i_ e
i      1
s  f
#   - 'I e
t f       '
}
t ;       -
.,
,r      ,
zf  :
i      ,
}IsP     _
}  gam:
t2 e
l :
;+ i
.
-'   ,s  ;
,,_       -
f,,s    ;.
, r
{         .t
:
s  *g  ,
i  {
a  ;    5
i£;F
}:}  :
3  $    IL  '
s¢  9    {'
i
1Y       ?
va    t+
i
.{ e-Ag  i ..
'z2 3
z 1  3 ryry a      y{
4$ {#
,z
r g     r
:z g ;
,3        x
,ice
t
#   3 ,
y.,.
s
r#   }

"1

Charles Gardner sat alone in his office. It
was in the afternoon. Ils face was pale, and
ever and anon as he held an open letter in
hand, he muttered while he looked upon it,
" It cannot be, it cannot be.  Orrin Bird is
my friend. Fanny, though 1 have cruelly
neglected her, has ever been kind and gentle,
and I feel that she cannot have been unfaith-
ful, even if he were so base as to act dishon.
orably. No, I will not believe this anony-

OF NEW(

THE MYSTERIES. AND MISERIES

rnous scribbler who would arouse my jealousy must press these luscious lips. You must be
It mut be some enemy of Bird's. Yet he all my own."
sems to speak from a certainty . That ring  "1I an, oh, Orrin7, I anm!  and her rolup-
which she wears-he says Bird bought it at tuous bosoml rose and fell with its wild emo-
Guions for her. I remember that she seemed tions, as the lilis of the lake rise and fall
agitated when I first asked her where she got when a storm stirs the waters.
it-and she showed me a note, saying it had  " You must go with me this night. I i
been sent to her anonymously. There is tiud a sate place in or near the city to hide
something in this. I wll see into it. But you  ill his search is over.  ie wil no
will not act hastily or blindly. If, however suspect me, if you disappear, even it he does,
(his face grew dark and his voice husky with I can throw him ofF the track, and we will be
angry feeling as he spake) ': if however it is so happy in our seret home !"
true--if Orrin Bird has betrayed my confi-  "So happy !"sha echoed, hiding her blush.
dence-if he has befriended me     but to ing face on his b sow, and sighing in the
purchase her to his arms, Gad help him- wild intensity of her passion.
I would murder him as I would a serpent    " You will b  ready to-night to fly with
that hal crawled into my bed ! I wi see if min.
bird did purchase that ring. If he did, I will  " Yes, my own one! Anywhere with you,
watch-them and woe, woe to both if they are nowhere without you."
guilty !"                                  " A heavy step warned them  that an in-
gu                              rudE  was at hand. Bird sp ranar into a
Were they ?  Let the reader follow ne trutler                           o
to a scene occurring at that very hour in chair near. Fanny took up a book which lay
the same parlor where last we saw Orii  near her dBoth tried to look calm  and un.
Bird and Fanny Gardner. They were seat- concerned,r ut both   rdere confused.
ed side by side onl the sofa. His arm was  " How are you, B rd, my l near friend
around her slender waist, her hands were he said, in a hollow tone.
.oth clasped in one of his, her head reclined py to see you here-always glad to see you !'
against his shoulder, with her face turned up  "Yo  look unwell, Charles, what is the
towards his, and their lips had met in ardent matter ?" asked his wife, not waiting for
out guilty kisses. Joy unutterable seemed to bird to reply, for she was alarmed at his
beam from their brilliant eyes-their faces looks.
were flushed with the rosy hues of happiness. "Ntig   loenhn-ny1.a              a
"Fanny, you say you love me !" he mur- little feverish. The effect ot sitting up late
mu red in a low, thrilling tone.         at night, and neglecting you.  k ! ha! I
"Love is too cold a word !"' she replied, a poor specimen of a husband. You ought
I I worship, I adore you. I have forgotten to get a better one ; ha! ha !"
my God, I have forgotten all things in my  " how strangely you talk, Charles. Yot
adoration of you, my loved one !" -"must be really unwell."
.' Then, dear Fanny, let us fly from here  Onty a little fever-that's all. Don't be
to some secluded spot, some place where he alarmed-I 'm not going to die yet--not yep.
whom we now both hate, cannot intrude upon "No, nor for many years to come, I hope
our joys. He is no longer your husband-  my dear fellow !" said Bird; "but  ou arnd
I am in the sight of Heaven, I must be, my evidently ill; you        g
own one, all in all to you. He never more send for a physician! .

48

heart, and could she then feel pitiless ? Even
so.  A look of triu;nph sat upon hr r county.
nance. The victim was at last ready for the
sacrifice-the sacrifice on the altar of lust,
coarse, brutal lust. But even in falling to
sleep, A dalie had grasped the dagger Ont
which she depended for protection. Her small
hand was on its golden hilt and it was half
drawn from its resting place in her snowy
boson-. To take it from her and conceal it1

rU'
ORLEANS.                        49

;ia:
'L
'
):'
A s,
.

}s
((6
I
([[
k
s

=
f ",
,,
'C
-
3
.
;'
f


?L'K
,Etr~

OF NEW ORLEANS.

" No; no, I dbn't think I require a physi- At nine o'clock precisely a carriage will stop
Sian to care me. 1 - e only got a pain in the at the nest corner. Be ready, and spring
front part of myhtpd, the front part-ha! into it when the door is opened. I shall be
-ha!"            j                       there and henceforth you are mine !"
The forced laug  of Gardner was percep   "Yours forever!" murmured     the lost
tible to Bird. He knew that something was woman.
out. But he was a man of iron nerve, and   In a few morentsthe -husband returned,
he felt no fear. He had gained one point ; followed by a servant with wine. He was
he knew Fanny would fly with him that more calm now-he had regained his cor-
nrght ; he cared not for risk, if ho could once posure but his eyes were fixed on his wife
possess her for whom he had toiled with as- and Bird, making every glance with that
siduous art so long.                     keen sight which gives jealousy a telotopic
"That ring of yours looks very bright to power. Bird only tasted a glass of wine,and
night, Fanny," continued Gardner.        theta saying that he had an engagement at
"cWhich one, my wedding ring do you the Lake excused himself.
i meanhV asked the wife, trembling, she knew  a"Don't you think-Bird is a very fme fel.
not why.                                low, Fanny ?" asked her husband   f   he
" No-one more valuable--that diamond. had gone out.
Let's see, you never knew who sent it to you,  "lHe has been a very good friend to you,
did you?"                                Charles !"
The face of Fanny grew red as scarlet and  "Yes,and to you Fanny. He saved your
her eye glanced furtively at Bird who re- life once."
rnained entirely composed.                 "lie did--and the day before saved you
"It was sent in a letter anonymously!" she from ruin."
faintly murmured.                          "True--now such services deserve a rich
'       "Anonymously? This sending Anonymous reward, don't they Fanny F'
letters is fashionable. Igot one to-day--ha!  "He sers to be rewarded in the p s
haes!e f                                        tobe ewrdd nihepleasure
ha! a very funny letter-I'll show it to you of having served us. Our friendship seems to
soon, but not now-not yet! Let's have a repay him.'"
bottle of wine-Orrin seems dull."          " I don't understand you, Charles. You
"There is none in the house. You drank talk and act very strangely to-night."
f  the last, last night!"                     "
th8s n                        "Ha .ha ! Do I-1 feel he! he! I feel
"Did I, love?. Then I'll go and order strange. I've a paii in the front part of my
some more. Orrin will take care of you till head. It's funny my love-funny but I feel
I get back-good care-ha! ha !"          as if a pair of horns was growing out there.
"Certainly, I will," said Bird, meeting his A funny idea-- ha I ha ! he ! he !"
glance firmly.                                   "You act as if you were crazy Charles.
"Orrin we are lost. [ie has either found Your laugh is wild and unnatural !"
out all, or suspects us !" cried Fanny pale  "Is it? May be I ought to cry instead of
with terror, as soon as her husband left.  laughing. That might come more natural."
"Yes-something is up, but I care not.   "You are sick, Charles, I know you are
Fanny, you are mine. Fear not, I will pro- --. ou had better go to bed and let me send
tect you.  When he comes back I shall take for a doctor!"
a single glass of wine with him and leave.  "No, you needn't trouble yourself-I'm

going out. I shall take a ride down to the
lake myself to- tight- but I'll be home early
by ten or eleven o'clock my dear. I think
it will do my head gooi.  Horus, eh ! what
a funny idea! ha! ha! he! he !"
CHAPTER XVII.
Immediately after Bird left Gardner and
his wife, he met Malpin. The latter joined
him.
" Well, Orrin, what luck in love matters ?"
he asked.
"1 win my prize to-ight !" said the young
man. "This nii ht she leaves her husband's
house to fly with me. How goes on your
miou~r F'
"The angel is fallen.  Adalie is already
mine !"
"cWhat, willingly ?"
" No matter how, she is mine ! She will
not appear on the stage very soon, I reckon,
though. Her mother told the manager this
morning that she was sick !"
" You pay the doctor's bill, I suppose ?"
" Of course with such a prize I can aflord
it. But you remember our bet?"
" Yes, a supper and all the fixins ! I. will
cheerfully pay it, but let it be a week fron
to night. I want a week to myself. I expect
Gardner will be half crazy when he misses
Fanny, and Ithink he suspects me. L shal
allow him at least a week to cool off on, and
that week I shall spend in consoling Fanny
arid reconciling her to her new home !"
GYou had better beware, Orrin--Gardner
is a desperate man !"
"Yes-but I don't fear him. I can be a
desperate as he is !"
"But he has right on his side! If he shoots
you the public will justify and applaud him
while if you kill him, every voice will b

against you, and would, e 'en if you were
innocent of seducing his wife, were that the
charge against you!"
" True-lI have a great risk to run for my
fun-you have none.    Your girl has not
even a brother or father to avenge her !"
"No, but she has a lover coming out here
L expect I shall be called out, but think I can
punish him. I'm a pretty fair shot, and I
turn my back to no man with the small sword
in my hand."
" Well, if either of us have to fight, as we
know each others secrets, let us each act as
the others second."
I agree to that, Onrin, but it is my opinion
that Gardner, if he finds von out, will not
wait for the formalities of a challenge, he
will attack you wherever he finds you !'
" So much tae better. [ am always armed.
I carry a knife that has been used in many a
bloody fray. It once belonged to Sam Hous.
ton. I shall be cool, he of course will be
excited. There will be no danger of my
coming out second best."
"I hope not, but be careful. A chance
shot or blow o4ten kills the bravest man.
Look at the caee of po ir Ridgely who after
facing showers of shot in the battle fields
of Palo Alto, Resaca (IC la Palira and Mon -
terey, and who had fought through a five
years Indian war.   He died by accident.
And he had fought three or four duels beside.
I don't know why but I feel anxious about
your case. It is not exacly a presentiment,
yet it is a far for your safety."
,  Poh- you'll see it all come out right.
I'll be ready for the supper a week from now.
Bring your friends along and be there. Now
I must go and ike my arrangements."
s " By-the-by !"  aid the other. " But, sup.
pose we go in and smile, b, fbre we part.
" No objections, cimne along."
The two young mere entered a fushionable
e saloon, and called for their liquor.

TiE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES


52

" To the bide !" sold Bird, with a iiie, as
he raised his g-ass to his lips.
"t To the wile ' rsponded Ma 1pin.
Lighting, a cigar each, they regained the
street and separated; to meet once more.
CHAPTER XVIll.
It was morning. Adalie sat alone in her
room. The door was looked on the outside.
She was pale as doth could have made her.
Her great black eyr  were cold and lustre-
less ; gla sy in ths ir icy glare. 1Her lips
were bloodless ; her f;rn;ened rigid and
stifT; as it she had b--'-nu traonrmed to stone.
Her claspei hands rested on her knees ; her
head was slightly bo't d forward. She shed
no tear ; she heaved no sigh ; but she looked
the image of ckspair.
p   The door wan uloited front the ouiide
her mother, or the .oman whom  from child.
hooi up she had called mother, entered, bear-
lug on a salver some coff e anl toast. The
girl did not raise her huad. 11er eyes still
gazed on vacancy. The woman touched her
xi the shoulder and spoke.
Adalie .t
4She started at the touch, and shuddered as
f a slimy serpant had touched her neck.
SA dalie ; here is some coffke. Eat ; you
vill feel letter if you do!''
Adalie looked up, and an expression of
ttcr abhorrence, of loathing scorn, Tethered
a her face, as she g:zed upon that had
roman. Yet she did  ot : pelk.  Volumes
e're concentzatcd in that one loo1. iHr eye1
II ; she looked at the ali or as it she :ou:htd
methimg.
"rThere is no knifehere!" said the woman,1
ith a smile. " I shall not put temptation in
ur way ; you shall live to be happy "
"Happy ." cold, cold and bitter was the

laugh which rang through that roorm, echoing
like l-.ughtor in as.omb.
" happy ! Yes, I shall soon be happy.
It is written ; the lovers shall both lay in
one grave. You need not fear that I. shall
kill myselff- I. wait for my Eugene; he comes
to avenge i-e, to slay the accursed vilain!
Yes, I see him, with anger thironed upon his
brow ; 1 see him  hurl 'tho base rmi i-creant
down-down to hell . Then angels boar us
both away to a happy land -- a happy land
where you may never come. No, fe-ar no
that I shall commit suicide ; I. must wait for
Eugene. Oh ! God, why dd he not come
sooner. lie will weep tears of blood that he
did not, for he loves me ; I know ho loves
me ! But now he will abhor me ! Oh, God,
that will hill roe. Yet it was not my fhult
it was not my fault. He shall inow all, and
then -then I will die. 1 know he will follow
when he has slain the villain who has robbed
him, robbed me. God's ctu   'e rest on hin
and all that he loves on earth !"
Passionately as were her words, the tone
of' Adaie was cold, bitterly, fr'zingly cold.
Uer face was changeless as warble. Never
had beauty been so altered.  Now it was as
if the sculptor's chiasel had moulde I it, and
no life was in it. Oh, msan, man, see thy
wreck, b hold thy ruin I"
That night was an eventful one in the city.
Hundreds who flocked to the theatre to see
their favorite danseuse, heard with sorrow,
that she was sick.
When Gardner returned to his house he
found it empty. A note lay upon lie wife's
dressing table. It wes sealed and  ddrt'ossed
to him, lie broke it opetn, and rr 1:l with
agony as the terrible truth broke upon himit.
When doubting her fidelity, merely droubtrn
it, he had been driven almost to insanity.
But now the doubts were realized. 1r note
was brief, but it was to the point.
"CIALES      oc-I Once loved your-i love you

no more.   I can bear your negect or abuse
no more. Seek me0 not, I on u here I enm
nppr ciai''d'and oprn;-uted. Farewell. T'1't.n
God we are childless !          F
' My God I" he groaned    in his e::ony
" Is she lost foeer ! Fanny, Fang-y , it was
my tault- come bock, I. will for give all, and
he a refoirmed mn 1"
She heard him not. She was away in the
arms of another a lost and ruined wife, a
victim to th  tudied arts of seduction.
For hours that wretched man paced to and
fro in his room, at times cursing the hour
ho was born, then ravig against her, then
cursint with fearful im recations the name
of' Bird, for he had not a doubt that he had
taken her away.   The letter, the ring, hi
frequent viits ad tod himn too plainly b')
whom ho htd been wr ong d
"  lood- lood !" he muttried, ' alone eon
wash out this wrong h-iis  sigrace.  [I-
shall die ! Oh fbr the dawn to come, that I
may seek him   out and slay him. Orri"
Bird, your time has come I .can see through
it all now. The    reledcd friendsh-ihi, the
willingness to loan inc eoney already won
from me, by  cttrnI your associated ! Oh
what a tupe 1. have been! Fann  oor Fan
rwth! heart was pure, it once was all my
own.   Art, his arts and not thine own nature
has caused thy  ii. My God ! And she is
now with him- perhaps reposing in his arms
L shall go mad -L shall go mad -"
" He rushed out into the open air to cool
his ood brow.  A   couple of men w-re
passing as he went rthi.  One of them  to'
tied him as he pas se iusrio dly along, . and
er   j                            -
:ema ed to the other ,
I'l have a nim item for the Pie. in at
or two, I 'il bet !'"
" What about' ?" s-d the other.
F  Only art elopement in married life, kul.
d nya     Ylpeeti     eridlf,-
lowed, most likely. by a street fight, with one
or both parties killed !"

'' Who are they, tell me, old f.1Llv, I'll
heop mum !"'
"I ca ot toll  ot, it would leak out too
-oon. I've wateh'd the u-ties for wee-ks and
f think a ' ten sike' has been made t -oight.
We'11 see in a dy or two. Nous Verrons,
a the Frtich say, I wonder if the Phoenix
is shut up yet."
" Yes----long ago. Only the 0 K. house
s open--'ts go there f.r a dinner-I m dry,
devilish dry.  I always get dry on UCham.
page. Brandy is the only thing to curt
thirM.t It"
"  xct. Switchell ! "
sSuitchell be d-  d, anybody   might
kno  eou waes a yankee."
" Wa'el1., what it L am ? It talked' us yan-
kue-s to imd out things. ITher isn't a ropor.
or in the Cit y  alt, that 's worth a coutien..
al copper that iet-n' a yankee.
'-Pr -at. e omp,-.ny exce pted if you please 1'
said the other testv as they passed on.
" No, I don't except nobody---we know how
to pry into things.  h's born with us -we
uc curiosity-milk when we ae babis, and
cut our eye teeth before we're done sucking.
lout don't get mad with me-I'll give you the
items of tis case at the same time I make
em up for the l'ie, so that you can come out
with 'em the same morning.''
"Do, and I 'll cay nothing against the yan.
; You can't hurt 'em, if you do. They've
ben abused till they'ree got callous."
Our friends, who were reporters for two
popularI daily pIpers, had by this time reach.
rd the 0. K. hottse which they entered for
the purpo. of invoking spiritUal comfort, or.
in the pulance of the day, taking a drink.
Ihbete we will lnve tnhe m for the present, but
not without saying a word or two about re-f
porters.
They are a curious class of bipeds. They
go about ever en the alert for "item8" and

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

a

OF NEW ORLEANS.


t 4'

OF NEW 4

THE MYSTERIES ANI) MISERiES

all is grist to their mill. A street fight, or a
suicide, or a duel is delightful. A  robber
is exo hent, elopnmerit capital, and a murder'
a perfect God srnd. They will stand com-
posedly over the corpse, pencil and note book
in hand. asmong where the dceaied was born
-wh-iher he drain k-b--lnd he an interesting
wife wih sevesraismsl chilren &amp;e.,-without
a shutddr.  It is his business to gather news
and he does it in a business way--except
when he makes news. le don't stick at tri-
fles, though he often makes "a stick" [oftype]
of a tftie.
CIIAIPTER XIX.

Another day rolled on. G rdnar called
early a t the office of Bird, and asked for
him. He received for reply that he had
gone into the country on business that morn
ing, and they did not know how soon lie would
be back.-probably in a week.  He called at
his resnidence, and received the same answer
there. Calmly, but steadily he pursued his
search. Cautiously wording his enquiries,
he endeavored to trace* the fugitives, but
without avail. His friends could see an
alteration in his manner, but when questioned
he only pleaded illness- he told no one of his

wrongs, spoke to no one of his determinations.
Eeven the domestics in his house were told
that their mistress had gone out of town for a
few days. All outwitted excepting the Yan-
kee Reporter from whose pen the following
article emanated on the second day.
' CRIME CON. IN JUGIL LIFE.
"It is rumored that tholovely wife of one
of our most respectable meichar.ts has va-
mosed with a young lawyer of weathh and
high standing in this city.  Whither the
birds have flown no one as yet knows, but
'ore long they doubtless will be discovered

by some gardner expert in finding bird
ne-sts."
Now the said reporter thought this was
excessively witty, but he trembled in his
booteco when he was confronted by Gardner
in the evening, who held a big stick in his
hand and requested the pleasure of five min-
utes private conversation with him.
"Can't you say what you have to say here,
sir ?' said the reporter, glancing from Gard-
nors pale face down to the stick in his hand._
"No sir. You needn't fear me. L.'1l do
no harm--I only want to know how you be-
came informed of the matter alluded to in
your city item column of the paper this
morn inrg."
" Oh ! ab ! accident, mere accident sir.
You see I'm always around. I heard Bird
say he'd seduce the lady, some time ago. I
saw him  buy a ring at Guions for $500.
He said he'd ruin you and get her !"
The ruined man and wretched husband
groaned aloud, forgetting that he had asked
a private interview, and they were still in
the street.
" I saw him night before last with Mal-
pim, and  heard them say  they had a bet
to settle--they are to have a supper  at
the      a week from that. night !
"Are they'?  Thank God I"
"There'll be the place.. I'll have items
then sure-will be eergain to be there !"
muttered the delighted repot ter inaudibly.
Gardner paused a erooment.    Do you
knov where they now are ?" he asked.
"No sir -Guess I can find out if any-
body can, though I
Do so and I will give you a hundred dol-
lars. There are twenTy tr expenses now.
But why did you not tell ;n before ?"
" I did -I- wrote you a letter !_
"You wrote that letter r gncd A FtIENP "
SI did."

"It came too late. They fled the very
night I received it !"
I ctculated as much !"
" My God! why did you not come to me
and tell me all you knew."
"It would have been out of the way of
business and would have spoiled an item.
Besides Mr. Bird carries a kife and I don't
like knives-dot think its a comfortable
way of dying, don't what to be made an item
of myself at any rate ."
"Yes he cariies a knife-is called a fight-
ing man !" muttered Gardener fiercely. But
I'll see if it can protect him !"
" Don't talk in that way before me, Mr.
Gardener-- I might be called on as a wit-
ness you know !"
" Then clear out and don't stand listening
to me !"
" If I. don't look and listen I'd never get an
item," muttered the reporter as he walked otT
" I'll look on Wednesdav night I guess--look
in at that supper I reckon. I wonder what
the bet was about. That's an !em, must find
out! But here's a twenty--by hokee I'll
have a supper, as is. a supper. here goes
for Holbrooks."
CHAPTER XX.
After, Bridget had received her message
from Adalie for Mr. Flumdummery, she
hestened to that gentleman to deliver it. As
she had predicted, he took it "hard."
"The women are all fools"  he muttered.
'Here am I, not five and forty, good looking,
(nobody thought so but himself, by the way)
rica, talented, ambitious and destined to be a
benefactor of the whole world by means of
my genius-here are I, with all of these ad-
vantages, refused even vua intro'diction by a
common actress-a dancing girl."
"Not so common after all, yer honer !

ORLEANS.                              55
She'a a lady every inch of her," c i$Brid.
get, determined to stick up for her  -arite.
"She's a fool-!
" For not havio' yer honer ?"
"Yes is "
"Sure yer honer need'nt feel r  id--if
ye want a wife sq bad sure I'll ha ye and
thank ye in the bargin !"
"I think you had better wait till 1 o year
before you make so bold an oflr, l b  et ! ,
Sure an isn't any other year  :, od as
tape year ?"'
"Maybe so-but I'm busy to-day,  ridget,
cry  rilC irl                           'I.

you may go,
"Thank yer honer. If yer honor tm any
more letters to send, I'd like to be   ' mpost
-j
[Exit B ly.
Flumdummery, Solus. "Well, t dream
is over now. Now   back to stern  walities.
The question is, whether wings cannot he so
applied to the human form, with flexible
spring=. and ligaments of immense strength
and great lightness, so as to eiabh. moan to
y like a bir through the ai'. I thmso in the  ,
aflirmnative. The ancients thoug-ht so -one
of em  tried it but failed. In the Picayune
nere I see that it has been tried there and
partially succeeded. It is tlierefbre left for
in American to complete the exeriment.
They always s do. Watts was the fir:t appli-.
cant of the use of steam in England, but it
was loft to A mEricans to bring it into practi..
cal use. But this flying-oh here is an item
bwaded cni. con., elopement &amp;c. That's} }
flying, but tie wrong kind. Well, I don't
know, but its bettor not to be mariied after
all. I'd be sure to got served , some such
trck-a dancer too, I was a bol to think of
her."
Thus consolinmghimself, Mr. F. commenced;r
a series of drawings calculated to idlustrate4
the use of wings attached to the human body,

54

4 4       i
r

}
}t
i
t
3
1
S
¢
T}
E
L

,f
''_$.
y
;
;
, n
==


!t6                    THE MYSTERIES AND           MISERIES
HLoping he will succeed in his lofty aspira-  "No--I know you are brave, but he might

c   ,
a $
dF
GAF    }
PE
e
Y
i
L; r
k'

Where was Eugene Beverly all this time.
coming down with all the speed that one of
the fastest boats on the Western rivers pos-
sessed. He was rapidly nearing New Or'
leans, visiting it for the first time. With the
eye of a lover of the grand in nature, he gsz-
ed upon the broad rushing waters of the
mighty river, swollen banks full-upon the
vast forests here and there-the neat plant
tions along the shore scarce attracting his eye
at all. The hand of man defaces nature to
the poet's eye. He would see the world as
God made it-not as man improves (?) it.
Oh for me there is nothing like the mountain
crags-the shadowy wildwood-the sylvan
lake-the foaming torrent-the mighty cata-
ract-the sublime ocean. These are as the
Almighty framed them, stupendous, beautiful,
perfect.
i~
Where were Orrin Bird and the lovely, no
longer skinless Fanny?  We will see them.
F. .
In a small neat cottage right in the heart of
the city, attended by a faithful servant of
Bird's, they had passel the hours of guilty
happiness which had intervened after the
flight from her once happy home.
Here, on the morning of the day when
Bird was to give the supper to Malpin, they
were seated side by side, still loving, for pos-
session had not yet cloyed the heart of Bird.
He had just told her of his intention to pass
the evening out. He had not been absent
from her a moment before since their flight.
"Oh, do not go, my only love !" she said
- I  pleadingly. "I fear you will meet him."
* T"''here is little danger--if I do, I do not
fear him!"                .

tions, we will leave him.

OF NEW ORLEANS.

kill you. Oh Orrin, I should die, if you
were to be taken from me. Life would not
be worth keeping now without you.
"Bless you Fanny-you are an angel. If
1 should fall would you revenge me
" Yes, by my fond love, I swear I would !"
" On himr?'"
"Yes on any one. Oh O:rin, such love as
mine is rnadneso !"
"God grant such madness may continue
then, swotest. But do not be fearful--I will,
for your save, be very cautious--had I not
made a positive engagement, I should not
noW go. I hate to leave you for an instant.
L shall not enjoy myself away from you.
Every place apart from you is a desert to me
now. I have never known happiness be-
fore."
"And now-oh shall we always be so hap-.
py, Orrin :u"
"Always, love, always."
God grant it !" murmured the lovely sin-
ner, as she drooped her beautiful head upon
his shoulder, and their lips again met in the
long, sweet, passionate kisses of unsatiated
love.
Here we will leave them, but to meet them
again, though not as now. The sun seldom
shines long on the path of crime, clouds were
already hovering in their horrizon, tinged
with blood-red.
CHAPTER XX[.
It was evening. Our drama is drawing to
a finale. Eugene Beverly was already in
sight of the city which contained the ideal of
all his fancies, the angel of his dreams. Ah
how bright were his hopes. Little did he
dream that ruin baad already darkened over
the temp e of his love. He had her address
in an hour more he expected to be clasped

57

to the virgin boso-n of her whom he loved.
Fearful indeed was to be his disappointment.
Where was Charles Gardener. Lurking
near the Verandah watching the out going
and incoming of every visitor. He was cali
.--calm as a statue and full as pale. his
right hand rested on the hilt of a broad-bladed
knife. His left ever and anon touched the
handle of a colts revolver, which rested in a
belt beneath his loose sackcoat. Suddenly'
man approached him.
"1've found out all, Mr. Gardener !"
It was our Yankee reporter.
" Well ?"
"1 know what the bet of the supper was
for,  Malpin bet fied he would succeed in
seducing the danseuse Mam'selle Adalie be-
fore Bird had seduced Mrs. G. Ilhe bet
was a supper, it is to take place to-night !"
" A nice supper it will be for one I"
' Theyare to meet at the Verandah at
,1 know it."
"They go to the supper room at te !"
"I know that too!"
"I shall be there.  I worked myself into
a n invitation I"
Well--I shall be there, at the right
time without an mvitation.   But as you
value life, not a word from your lips.  No
warning."
" Do you think I'd spoil an item ?" asked
ethe reporter in surprise. " No Sir ! I shall
be there to see all the fun. Got a iiew note,
book on purpose! I io Sir-never fear, I shall
never spoil an item. It's not in the way of,
fbusir'nes i S. r !"
" Weil.-'vemore work     fir you.   Aj
young man is expected hero to-night to see
j this victim  of Malpins-Adalie.   He will
arrive, or has arrived by this time. Go -o
j her house and leave word where Malpin is
to-night. There may be more than one hand
of revenge there !"

"More items, eh ?" and the reporter rub-
bed his hands in glee at the anticipation of a
perfect harvest. "But how'll I kn.ow this
man ?"
"No rnatter--write a note, directed to her,
and state what the supper is given for."
I see !-i'lIl do it of course. Sign it " a
friend" too. But you've never asked where
Mrs. G. lives. I've fournd that out !"
" Right-where is it ?  After I am done
with him, her turn comes
"Anot her item--he-d "HORRIBLE,"mut-s
tered the reporter to himself. Then reply-
ing to the question, he said
" In a neat cottage at the corner of Conti
and Treme !
" It is well.  There are your hundred
dollars. You have earned them. Now keep
what you know, to yourself, and do as I bade
you !"
Certainly, I will. By hokee but I'll
have lots oi items for to-morrow's paper. I'll
be a mile ahead of the rest of the boys."
They separated. One to remain on his
vigil of revenge-the other to warn another
actor in our drama, that it was time for him
to come on the stage. Talking of the stage,
it will be easy for us now to arrange the rest
of our novel as scenes in the last act of a ter-
rible drama. And so we will do.
SCENE FIRST.
Adalie in her chamber--not as we saw
her first, blooming in health and beauty, but
pale, thin-looking as if death's seal was
already stamped upon 'her brow, her lonely
form stretched along her couch like a wilted
lower on its bed. The hour was early eve-.
ning. She held an evening Delta in her hand.
" The Haidee' she murmered,l was tele-
graphed a   passing  Vicksburg yesterday
morning. He is o0 board--I shall see thee
for the first and the last time this night, my

iy  i
a
3i E
f5 vl%
ff ht"
f
fir.
4
°.Y
i'i ,'
. t..
f,
. y{
,4
t
.i
2'
F.
if

=F
j
fY      33
if
S      &amp;;i
fat    r   _

z


I

fit;
tky4

f g
3
r'
l
y    i
}  '-  Z
e ah
f
i+
a  1
t f.
5  .
4   f e

Eugene. I am no longer worthy of you,
but you will avenge my death !"
As she said this, she glneed at a small
vial nbeh see hcld close clinched in her
left hand. It contzincd that deadliest of poi-
ons, which has to antidote, " corrosive subli
mute.'  She couti'ed the moments.  Sod
denly she heard a rnug at the bell.
, It is he ! she screamed, " mother deny
him not, for I am dying -'
"It is only a letter, child !" said the terri-
fled woman, terrified at her own work now
that it is toe late.
Dying, she said, there's another item ."
said the man who handed in the letter, as he
turned away.
She opened the letter. "It is well !" she
cried after she rend it--" this will be good
news for Eugene !
The next moment a quick, hurried ring
was heard at the door.
T his is he I this is he . she screamed--
and fainted.
" It was .!when she came too, his arms
were around her slender form--his kisses on
her lips, his low soft tones were breathing
kindness in her care.
'-O; thank God, you have come-but it is
too late " she marned with a shudder.
" My blessed Adale, my own one, what
do you mean ? Speak -oh Iheavens !-speatk!"
" Look there ! ask my mother ." she cried.
Beverly turn d, and quick as thought she
swallowed the con eats of the phial and dash-
ed it across the room.
" It is done--I have seen you-kiased youl
I am not worthy to live for you Eugene, I
will lie for you. In that letter ace the name
of him who in my slep, a sleep procured by
drugs despoiled me ot my inUocence. Go to
that supper and aveot e me I"
" My God, what have you done ! oh Adalie
I love you not the lea;t. You are skinless !"
"In heart I am-and di ypours Eugene!

1 have taken poison, my life can only count
minutes now. Oh God     less you, we will
soon be united. The Sy bil sail so !,
Eugene Beverly took the letter, glnced it
over, and a strange expression cro'sed his
thee as he read it. H-e put it in his bosom,
then turned to poor Adalie, who wo already
sufleriog the torments of the poiston. 1Her
wretched mother knelt, terror stricken, by the
side of the bed--she knew that there was no
help.
" Oh bless you Eugene-you know not
how 1 have loved you.' mooned to dyg i
girl. " One kiss, one kind word, and 1 die
happy.  You, you are near me. Hold my
hand !"
" Oh God, this is terrible !" moaned the
lover, the almost widowed lover.
The mother could not stand it.  With her
hands ccenched across her bring brows, she
fled from the room and fromfthe house,, fled
to seek her comrade in crime, the seducer of
her child, but she knew not where he was.
In a few moments all wai over.  Adalie' s
last word was her lover's name--her last
sigh breathed upon his lips, her e'yes were
glazed in death whild looking at hm.
She was dead.  He crossed her pale hands
upon her bosom, decently arranged her beau.
tiful limbs, then agpin glancing at the letter,
strode forth, pale and determined, in look and
and in step.
SCENE SECOND.
A supper room gaily lighted. The hour
ten-servanits bearig in a splendid repast.
The guests arrive. The   Colonel' is.there,
so is the '6Mejor'-so aye a dozen riore of
the bloods of the city. Orrin Bird takes the
head of the table--Malpin the foot. Ii a mn-
dest posidien, clee bfore a Iarge plate of
broil ompino, tanLecd on ono sde by a
plate of stipe, on the other by ct. eu ricaseed

frogs, s'ts cur Reporter, waiting for items.
The h ast has hr'n. The guests are do-
lighted. It process. The wine bottles pass
freely. Jest after jest is uttered. Finally
Malpin is called on for a toast. Glancing
archly at Bird, he cries
c'I hive as a toast, our Bet, and the fair
subjects of it I"
" The Bet, the'Bet !" cried several voices
what was it, who won it ?"
"I am here to claim forfeit !" cried a daep
hoarse voice at the dpos, and Charles Gard-
ner was seen to enter.
The Reporter took out his note books-Bird
drew a pistol from his breast and cocked it.
" The bet gentlemen," continued Gardner,
slowly advancing, while every eye was fixed
on his pale stern face,-" was the seduction
of my wife, and, Orrin Bird, I am here to
claim forteit !"
' "Advance one step und L. fire ! " cried
bird.
Gardner made no reply. Bird's hand trem-
bled, but he took deliberote aim at the man
who walked so steadily, so slowly, so fear-
lessly toward him. No one dared to stir-
they scarcely breathed--they felt that this
was a combat in which they ought not to in-
terfere.
" Halt, or you die !" cried Bird.
Gardner still advanced...he was almost in
reach of his antagonist. Bird pulled the trig-
ger. Te percussion cap failed to explode.
quick as thought he thrust his hand within
his vast for his knife, but he was too late.
Gardner leaped like a hungered tiger upon
him, and crc he could even speak, the broad
knife was buried to the hilt in his breast.
"Oh Fanny !" he groaned, and fell back
dead on the floor.
Arrest the murderer !" shouted Malpin.
A dozen sprang forward to seize Gar dner,
but he made no resistance.
S      "I surrender!"r he said.  "I have done

P .
i

OF NEW ORLEANS.

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

a goe deed, I have killed the seducer of my
wife, I will answer to the laws of my coun-
try."
"Cursed murderer !" cried Malpin-"ho
has killed the best rnau'in the city."
"Call no man murderer but yourself!"
said a low voice at his side.
"Who are you, sir ?" he cried, as }ie turn
ed and saw a stranger by his side.
"Eugene Beverley, come to tell you that
your victim is dead-and I am here to avenge
her !"
" Dead?    Adaluj de Bouligny - dead ?"
gasped the astonished man,  "I did not mean
her harm !"
" Liar, tale that !" and as he spoke Bever..
ly struck him with the back of his hand in
his face.
"I am not armed-l will not fight here !"
cried Malpiu. " ilood enough has been
shed. I will render you every chance sir-
but do not fbrce a conflict here !"
" On one condition, I will not 1"
" Name it! I will comply!"
" That we meet to-m orrow morning--meet-;
before she is buried '"
"1 t'shall be so, sir ! Leave your addressF
my friend shall call upon you !"
Eu ene Beverley; at the -St. Louis
Hotel, Royal street."
"It is enough, -nog let me attend to my,
friend!"-
" And I go to attend to your victim, nur;
derer - we will meet in the morning f"
"So be it.'
" Another item; a duel on the tapis; I
rust be there too!" said the reporter glee
fully.
We drop the curtain for this scene.
SCENE THIRD.
The arrangements for the duel had beer
completed.  The Orleans Ball Room    hat

59


60

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

been chosen for the spot, and often has it b.en
used for like purposes. The weap ns were
small swords. With only the surgeon and
three or four witnsses, (the reporter  a-
there, no one knew how he was admitted)
the combatants made their final preparations.
The swords were long, thin rapiers. Etch
second held a similar weapon. Malpin was
cool and collected ; he seemed to value the
life he was to fight for. But Beverley was
flushed and feverish ; he had watched all
night by the dead body of her whom he loved
more than all else on %arth. Yet, his look
was firm and determined : he looked the hate
which filled his soul, when he gazed upon the
victimizer before htrm.
They were stripped to their waits ; leav-
only their shirts between their breasts and the
death.baring blades. They were placed in
position ; the keen weapons put in .their
hands. The salute was gravely given; the
word commence followed.
Then came the struggle for lif and death.
Swift as linked lightning when the storm.
clouds clash in heaven were their bright
blades mingling. Parry and thrust-thrust
and parry-each met the other. Suddenly
the sword flew from the hand of lBeverly-
He stood disarm-d before his foe. Calmly he
folded his arms. lie did not seek to regain
his weapon.
"Strike!F' he cried-" strike and send me
to join your victim, muderer !'
" Give him his weapon. I will not strike
a disarmed foe !" said the other.
Beverly smiled when he again received
his weapon-a bitte smile it was, one that
bade his foe beware.   When again they
crossed their weapons Beaverly pressed mad-
ly on Malpin, and drove hint nearly across
the room. With a heavy cut he beat down
his guard-he made a furious plunge at his
breast--but it grazed Malpins side, and the
sword of the latter was the next moment bu-

ried to the very hilt in the body of the
wretched man.
'B ry menin the same grave with Adalie!"
he faintly murmured, " and died !"
" God forgive me-I nver shall forgive
myself !" groaned Malpin as he knelt by the
side of his second victim. Bat he heard the
tars words of the dy tog nan, and ont the next
day "two lovers were buried in one grave."
SCENE FOUR FH.
Reader-You have gazed on the second
eeae of my tablaux U-and a fearful picture
have you seen. I lft you there gazing on
the dead body of Orrin Bird. Charles Gard-
ter, after committing the deed, gazed with a
look of calm satisfaction on the corse of his
victim. They who had rushed forward to
arrest him for his crime found no opposition-
no resistance from him,.
"I have killed the seducer of my wife"-
he said,- " let the law take its course !"
lie surrendered, and was detained until
Fhe Coroner could summon a jury. This
took-nearly two hours. In the meantime,
whether it was through the instrumentality
of the Yankee Reporter of the Picayune or
others, I know not, Fanny Gaidner had heard
of the deed of blood. nd, when at the still
hour of midnight they had assembled to give
a verdict, 'while under oath they gazed upon
his clady remains, she was flying towards
the spot.
Their deliberations were concluded. The
proof was satisfactory. Their verdict was:
" Orrin Bird has come to his death by the
hinds of Charles Gardner in an affray, on
the evening of      the --th, 1851.  We
return a verdict of WILFUL MURDER."
The coroner on hearing this verdict, called
tpon Mr. Howard, a well known and efli-
cent officer of the Parish Prison, to take
charge of the accused. But while yet the

'
;m
L. .
t  y
5 -f

O? NEW ORLEANS.

voice of the coroner echoed through his hall-
'ere the words of the foreman had ceased to
vibrate upon the ear of the excited listeners,
a shrill, wild shriek, like the cry of a woun-
ded panther, was heard. The next moment.
with garments flowing, hair disheve-lled, and
eyes flashing fire, Fanny Gardner rushed
into the room.
" Were is he? where is he ?" she shriek.
ed.
"Your husband is here Madam !" said the
coroner.
"My husband ! What husband?" The mur-
derer of my own heaven-wedded..
".Orrin ? Show me Orrin-he is not dead
-let me see him !"
Pasing her husband, who stood pale and
trembling  near the corse of the sed icer,
she looked one moment upon the body, t en,
weeping like a suffering child, she fell up n
him and kissed his clay-cold lips.
No one dared to interrupt her sinful, but
natural grief. No one attempted to lift her
up. No one interfered with her criminal,
yet heart-felt sorrow. For a few moments
she thus wept upon the bosom of the dead.
Then she arose. She gazed around her room
with her flashing eyes as if she sought some
one to blast with a glance. He, (Charles
Gardner,) shrunk-shrunk down as if he
wished the earth to open and hide him. Yet,
as her graceful form towered above the rest,
she saw the shrinking man.
".Charles !' she cried in a deep, piercing
tone, "Charles my eye is on you. You are
a murderer, and I have sworn to avenge him!
lie loved me-( loved him, you must die !"
"Fanny-Fanny,"     he  replied-" speak
not of vengeance! I have only slain your se-
ducer !"
"ilMy seducer I" Oh how sneering and hit-
ter were both words and tone as she spoke.
"My seducer !" she reiterated. "Murderer,
if I have been seduced, it was your fatlt,you

61

preferred the gambling table, and the har.
room to our home-vou chose to neglect me
who loved you nore than life-you imtroduced
me to him whom you have slain, and I loved
him ! That if I did so, was your own fault.
You neglected-he seemed to adore me.
When I f und that ny heart was not valued
by you, I gave it to him. 1 gave it vluti.
tarily--heodid not seduce me, I encouroged
him. lie was not to blame, I only amt at
fault. Yet you have slain hien. Finish your
work dastard and kill me ! Here-here is the
bosom which has piliwed your head in faith.
ful days.  Pierce it with your assassin
steel !"

1  '

As she spoke she   tore apart the thin K
co ring which hid her charms from view.
anny," cried the murderer, "oFnnv, I
am nut in fault -.I loved you,[ have revenged
the lo, s of your honor !"         -
"M   hono . Charles Gardner what cared
you for my honor when I was left to pine in
solitude when you wasted your subs'er ce at.
the gaming table. Speak to me now of hon.
or. You ire a murderer. The law   ittj.us-
tify you. You will be acquitted   by the
Grand Jury without a trial. You will be jus-
ified by the people, who do not, as I do know
you. Yet you shall riot be free. Omriti shall-
not be unavenged. On the very mrrig of
the day when you slew him, 1 vowed= if h&amp;
came to harm at your hands to avenge him. I
will do so. Beware of me. He, and he only
was my true husband, for when I was fmced
to have you, I loved him. Remember this
warning. I have sworn, by the love which I
bore to him never to rest till he is reveuged,
and I too am revenged. Go forth, Charles
Gardner-go to be tried for this crimr- they
will acquit you-I will not. When they have
discharged youthen I will fulfill my vow.
Hearken. I will be your deat/h I"
She said no more. Like a trembling cul-
prit as he was, he stood and heard her words.
- n4


TIE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

She oe-r left the body of por Bird until
it Vas  iin the earth. W nen that was done,
she soi :
" T,; ,Est sacred duty is over, I now go
to ave.r thim whom I loved !"
Fany Gardner's voice was never heard
after it}  night in the city of New Orleans.
Aft-: (harles had heard her threats, know-
ing bi a- he did, and supposing that Bird
had fri ;..Is who might revenge his death, he
felt the to was not safe in those latitudes-
So fees he looked with the eye of thought
for aomta- other sphere of action. A new field
of action was at that moment opening. Cuba
and her wrongs was laid like a map before
him. A land where the people were rushed
by the  i- -pot's iron heel-a soil stained with
the blo -of those who had cfilered up their
livEs in it cedom's causes, was before him, and
knowi: ¢ a few of those who, for -God, Liberty
and L =p," would a ise the banner and
draw t   steel he volunteered.
Wit a chosen few he sailed in the " Ada,"
a Balti ore built schooner. There were but
50 me a hoard, but each was a man. Harry
Robin   had charge of them. He gave him
the po :i-en of a first lieutenant, and to him
confide i all his secrecies. His was destined
to act e a tore-runner, or advance band who
f were to be scattered at different points on
the Cury-n coast to meet well known patriots
there, and in concert with them to prepare
forthe Lttding of the larger bodies which mere
follow.  lie himself was to land near Puerto
Princip, arrange with a lare body in that
region. to strike the first blow for Indepen-
dence, aise the free flag ofCuba and call for
aid from those who love the cause of freedom
every" here -the brave, true-hearted Soon  o
America. Tphe plan was well arranged-
confided to a man well fitted to carry it out.
The navigation of the craft was under
charge of a man who was as capable as any
officer who ever trod a deck or drew a sword.

Ton (leawline, (a near relative of " our Char
ley's') had srveh in the Patriot service in
S luth America, and knew how to handle his
craft and to fight her too if it becean: neces-
sary, though the Ada wa; not built as a war
vessel--speed having been more consulted
than weight or strength.  When the Ada
left New Oleans, it was the dead hour of
night. She was towed down to the Bdize by
a steamr engaged expressly for the occasion,
and before dawn was far outsi In of observ.
ing eyes.   And little did Charls Gardner
think that when he left he was v atched by
eyes which once beaming only to give him
pleasure, now gleamed with the deadly fire
of hate, the ever-burning light of revenge-
unsatiated revenge.
After he had been discharged by the Jury,
as she predict d, she had never lost sight of
his movements. Through paid spies and other
means she learned his destination, the duties
which were confided to him and even the
names of his comrades.  At one time, dress-
ed as a boy she even visited the vessel to try
and go in it. It was night, her sex was not
discovered, but the commander said he wanted
" no children on board," and the application
was refused.
But one of the New York steam packets
was to sail in the morning for havana and
this suited her purpose well, for a full pur-
pose of revenge had already entered her
heated brain.  And close upon the heels of
the schooner, following in her wake, the no-
ble steamer dashed in a few hours afterward,
Tihe run from New Orleans to Havana, or
to the Cuban Isle, seldom to a fist veesel with
a fair  id, or to a steamer, occupies mre
than 48 or 50 hours, and in this case, though
the wind was light, only 50 hours had passed
ere the heights of Mariel were in view from
the deck of the Ada. At the same time, a
few miles in her rear a steamer could be seen
rapidly coming down the gulf. Many were

the conj'ctures, and some the fears, a. to what
she would turn out to be, or whether she would
overhaul the Ada before night could close in
and conceal her motion. But as Rohinson
and Clew line could conceal their men and
arms below and had an American Register
and clearane . t board, they hoped even if i
should turn out tO be a Spanish cruiser, to
evade her acrutinv.
As night approached, the wine died away.
leaving the litle clipper becalmed close un-
der the frowning cliffs of Mariel, not far
from Bahieat Honda, where they intended to
land their first party early enough to leave
and pass havana on their way east long be-
fore day light.--
Meantime the strange steamer rapidly ap-
proached, and it was with joy that the eyes
of the tew ho remained above decks on tb
schooner recognized the flags of the Ameri
can mail steamship Ohio-comnmanded too
by one who once before on board ofthe Mex-
ican Patriot brig Guerrero, near that very
spot, gave the Spanish cowards a taste of'
American prowees which they could not ear ily
forget.
On, on se came, close alongside the now
becalmed achoon'r, Ont the deck of the lat-
ter vessel, dr ssed like a merchant sailor,
with two or three others only, stood Charles
Gardeter gazing upi the other craft.
Quick is the eye of love, but quicker than

the lightning's fi4sh and piecing as the war-
rious mteel is the glance of hate. While
Gardener glanced carelessly on the group of
passengers who stood en the ship, he heard
a shrill voice utter his own name.
" Charles Gardener we will meet in Cuba.
Death awaits you there !"
He turned pale-he slhuddered--he recog-
nized in that threatening voice in that out-
stretched and menacing arm, the wife once
loved, the woman now vowed to revenge!
The rteamer swept on, foi Iavanna was

t-ith in wo hours sail, and as the sun sank
redly in the wt, ,igns of a storm  which
woul Mfellow the calm began rapidly to show
themselves.
Lve you ever seen a rtorm, a good heavy
s'orm rite as quick as anger on a high tern.
pered woman's face ? It is qiit j as interest-
Ong, but a little more dangerous. On this
occasion the sun de' eended lizily in a reddish
murky cloud -while the eir\ beaem-n close
and stifling more so than it had been in the
hot noon day. By the time the sun was hid-
den in the west a thick line of bleaky horizon.
tal clouds arose in the north east and rapidly
moved-up toward the zenith, followed by rag,
ged messengers of the gale flying like scared
spectres in their wake.
The shy, but late so clear, became over-
spread in a brief time, and even a landsman
could have foreseen that a gale was brewing
--not one of your cool, w ll made deliberate
stormes that warns you in time for prepara-
tion. but one of those hurry-scurry drunken
devils called "hurricanes" in west 'Indian
latitudes,
" We're going to have a rouser !" mutter--
ed Clewlitc, as he unwillingly gave orders
to furl everything but his foresail which he
close.retf d, so as to work her head ff shore
when the gale struck her. Though there
was not a breath of wind now, a long heavy
swell began to roll in toward the land and to
meet it, he had sweeps got out and pointed his
prow to the northward. But the sweeps were
not needed. The roar of the blast came boom-
ing over the de p,then while the sail first filled
with its breath, the schooner gathered head.
way, It was well she did, for the next mo-
ment a blast came which, had it struck her
on her beam, would have capsized her, or
have blown the masts from their steps. But
as it was, though she seemed for a moment
to stagger and bury under its force, she

'             i   Y  !Y
6 3

OF NEW ORLEANS.

62

r
F'

_
S,  ,fig
.j , ,Y .
'
t '  f ,
)T. 'y.s1 S
f ' siT_
p c
j -^ "
F  .Ay

i
_
,
,:


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

gathered headway and started ofIftlose-hauled
on the wind.
I Well met-I hope she'll keep it up as
well !" muttered the experienced captain.
" If sue can claw off under this gale she is a
star boat !"
"Could we not run into Mariel and lay
there till it is over ?" asked Robinson.
" Yes, and before we were there an hour
a despatch would be oil to Havana to let old
Coucha know that ' a strange, long low, black,
rakish looking schooner' lay in Her Majes
ty's harbor, and it the gale didn't blow us
ashore, we'd have half a dozen steamers after
us as soon as it was over. I'd rather risk
fight. out here at sea !"
" Weil, you know best--but I think the
gale incT eases every moment."
a You are right, it does, but if we can car-
ry sail for four or five hours, we can gain an
offing that will leave us safe at any rate.
This gale rose as the sun went down, it will
fall when it rises. 11 our spars will only
hold, l care not, but it is going to blow great
grins I"s
The gale did in fact increase every me-
ment, and the sea rose rapidly, so high that
the schooner pitched bows under at every
heave, and made but little headway. The
face of Clewline soon wore an anxious look,
and his eye wandered from the compass to
the bending spars, forebodingly.
W here was Charley Gardner all this time?
Pacing the forward part of the deck thinking
of the past---.of her who had followed him
there, and whose warning voice still rung on
his ear, which heard inot, heeded not the wild
whistling gale, the fierce dashing sea.
Robinson, who had heard her words at the
time, asked him who it was, and what she
meant, but Gardner only replied :
"I will tell you another time. It is no-
thing "
Since then he had not uttered a word. As

ni.tht passed o, each moment seemed more
terrible, for with it the gale increased and the
sea arose until the schooner no longer made
headway and could scarcely he kept head to
the wind and waves. ier spars bent and
buckled--her hull creaked and groaned, and
at last it seemed as it the close reefed fbre.
sail would burst from its ropings ana leave
the craft helpless on the water.
Clewline said nothing--his voice could not
have been heard in the tempest, but he stood
stiff and immovable at the helm, bracing his
stalwart frame against the stanchions of the
wheel watchiag his course at the compass,
for now it was pitchy dark upon the waters.
" Would to God the wind would naul !"
he muttered to, himself. " If it does'rrt we'll
see land astern before we do ahead !"
But scarcely had these words left his lips
when a ciaek like the report of a cannon camne
upon his ears, a: d the next moment, as thr.
weather laniards parted, the foremast was
seen to reel arid go :whirling over the side.
The strain had been too great, the taunt
spar had snapped close of' at the deck.
Clewline and one or two of his crew sprane
forward to clear away the wreck ere it dn-
aged the hull, and in a few moments mitd,
lone-but alas the vessel now drifted hip-
lessly toward a rock-bound shore.  Rapid
was she swept in towards the land upo e
heaving sea, the gale still howling abovl he'.
fast hurrying her on to destruction.
The band who feared not death on the b:-
tle field, and who world not have shrunk
from any mortal encounter, were now grosm
ed around the deck, clinging to the shattera
rail in speechless terror. Clewline fne
how faint was their chance of safety. lie
could not let go an anchor, for the fathomless
depths of the gulf stream lashed the very base
of the cliffs before him.
Suddenly the dash of breakers came roll-
ing off upon their ears. Each eye endeavor-

ed to pierce the gloom before them to see
the fearful danger which awaite them. But
least unconcerned of all stood barles Gard-
ner. Her warning voice still -u.ig in his
ear-.
On, on drove the vessel--,the sound of the
gale was now drowned in the dash of the
breakers. Now they could see the. white
mountains of foam before them. All held
their breath, for each knew that death was
before then. No hope for life-- no chance
for escape. The crew made no eflbrt-they
knew that it was useless. One moment of
suspense-and an eternity in that moment,
and then the ill fated bark was lifted high
against the rugged cliT and dashed into
atoms. One shrill wild cry, then all was
hushed.
There ore some men who cannot (lie ua1-
they wish to. Charles Gardner was d hed
by the high crested wave from    the b  v
where he stood upon the very crest of the
cliff  He alone of all that gallant band was
saved.

CHAPTER XXIII.

1V

Once more was Charles Gardner safe.--
Though the storm still raged-though the
linked lightning ran from cloud to cloud-
though the frown of the Almighty God seem-
ed to rest above him, he was ,safe at least
from the peril of the ocean
Left alone upon that desolate rock, with
the wild waters of the ocean dashing madly
against its base, and the hoarse wind of
IHeaven howling over its rugged peak, hat
were his feelings? True, he had anma  of
the country ; he had letters of introduction
and instructions how to act in case he should
fall into the company of condras Partisans,
He had further instructions, which would
guide him to the stronghold of the Patriots in
the island. The last words of his ruined wife

"you have murdered Orrin Bird, I will yet
revenge him," still rung in his ears, an al-
though the vessel which bore her had long
since passed heyound the reach of is eye,
still he fancied that he saw her white sails,
picture like looming up from the dark waters,
and the form of Fanny Gardner-still standing
erect upon the bow, waving her thin hand in
defiance.
For several minutes Gardner stood watch-
ing the fancied vessel, though the t ain was
pouring down in torrents,when a sudden gu3t
f overthrew a coaco tree under which he had
taken shelter, and felled him to the ground,
at the same time sheltering  him, with its
broad leaves from the rain. The shock sud-
den and violent, was not so severe as to se-
riously injure him, and when the squall passed
lhe eiimerged from his temtaporary and unsought
heheltr. A smart breeze had blown up, and
the clouds were moving to the eastward in
huge banks. The stars began to show them.
selves, and by their aid he was enabled to
shape his course.
But he was fifteen miles from the hacienda
de Alvarez, and his path was literally one of
thorns ; for on that structed heath no tree
raised its loftiEst leaf over fifteen feet from the
unfriendly sands, while the norned cactus,
and hundreds of specimens of its kindred
shrubs, covered the ground as thick asy thrif:
ty rye upon a Naw Hampshire side hill farm
-all around as  if for self-protection, with
miniature lances. T through this chapparel
Charles Gardner made his way, torn and
bleeding, and at sunrise found himself up n
the bowler of a small but deep stream the
Rio Sabina. The hacienda de Alvarez was
in sight, and he had no alternative lit to
swim the stream. Accordingly he s cured
his letters of introduction in his hat,and using
a slab of Mahogany, as a means of transpor.
tation for his uniform, easily reached the op.
posite shore.

1

,.
      "
_

64

I? NEW ORLEANS.


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

It was an hour before sunrise when Gard
ner approached the comal of the hacienda de
Alvarez, but he found peons already astir,
and the Major Domo and his underling tal-
leying themoff for the ir respective days werks.
Accosting the Major Domo he learned thet
signor Alvarez would b in his tidie io
half an hour, and ho gluoly accepted and in
vitation of tht fuoctionary to partake of' a
eup of cothe, s on d with a wine glads of
pure cati :n.
Siguor Avarcz s nn made his appearance,
and on r..ceiving and readiiig the letters pre-
ented by Gardner weloms=d him to Cuba
and his haeientda, and ordered a horse, that
the disringuihed stranger might accompany
him in his rile around the hacienda. But
Gardnr weak and ahost exhausted from the
fatigues of the pa t twenty-four hours, plea
ded indisposition, ani was shown to an cit
gant apartment of the mansion.

!lorious inheritarc , Present or absent, the
beautiful G uadaloup was ever in his thoughts;
the subject of his dreams, the object of his ado.
ration.
i must here digress a moment to describe
ti hacienda de Alvarez, which is one of the
ioveliostplantations upon the Queen of the
Antilles. Signor Alvarez was a partisan
with Don Miguel in the ineffectual revolt
agaiutt Don Pedro, in thu one thousand and
sixty seventh (or thereabouts) revolution in
Spain, and finding that resiatauce to the crown
was useless, left Brcelona and the Queen's
watchful lancers to secure a more quiet life
in Cuba. Immensely wealthy, he had pur.
chased the Hacienda do Cordova, and given
it his own name, and until the last three years
had devoted his time and means to its inprove-
mont.  As the traveller approaches the
bt. i nha on the Havaoa road, the eye is
i' rat attracted by the lofty towers of the

After several hours' sleep he arose much' chapel-a  necessary  appendege to every
refreshed and was not a little surprised to find 4ponish hacienda. Arriving nearer, an

every article of dress he culd desire in the
wardrobe. Leisurely taking advantage of
this good fortune Gardner descended to the
drawing room  where he met the Quzenly
Donna Alvarez and her daughter, Guada
loupe, waiting breakfast for him. Coffee was
served, and meats, but our adventurer par-
took of but little of either; for the charming
Guadaloupe, by her simple and unaffcted
manner and artless conversation, engrossed
his every thought, and he began to fedl, for
the first time in his life, the real influences of
love-that love which is heaven-born ; lov-
that is taught rnot by Ovid--love that was
never imagined by Anachreon; pure un-nix-
ed, sincere love. The terrors of' the past
night vanished from his thoughts ; the ana-
themas of Fanny Gardner were forgotten ;
his triumphs, his sorrows were ost in the dim
shadow of bygone time, and h fancied that
he had been awakened to a new being on a

orange grove, covering some two thousand
square acree, is encountered, and as you en-
ter the principal gareta a long linege olive
trees line the elaborately pebbled walk. The
mnsaion need not be des Bribod for any one
who han over visited that lovely island ; but
to those uninitiated, a few words may be ex-
cused. The main residence, with its church
and stables, occupied sonic six acres of land,
while the buildings for the peons (some three
thousand men and woOen) were established
in the rear of the fortifications. No hacienda
in Cuba was better pre pared for defensive
warfare than that of Alvarez, and no better
patriot breathed than its master.
Gardnczr soon discovered that he was in a
tine field of clover for the field of operation,
that best suited his purposes,and his passions
soon overcame the feeling that first took pos-
session of his heart on meeting Guadaloupe
Alvarez. He was an intimate of the family,

harbored as a friend of Cuban Liberty, en-
trusted, if I may use the word, with its choicest
jewel, and doubting the result of the patriot
demonstration determined to make the best he
could of the time thus luckily granted him.
It was evening-one of those evenings
which are only seen in Italy, in he high
lands of Mexico and the Queen of the Antil-
les-when Gardner, seizing the opportunity
afforded by the temporary absence oh' the
Donna Maria Alvarez, proposed to the gen
tie Guadalouape a walk in the orange grove.
We will hear their conversation for a mo-
ment.
" I have never known happiness until this
moment, darest Guadaloupe, never felt,until
this hour, the real promptings of love."
"Sir, you are ardent, we have not been
acquainted but a day.
"A day! There is no time, no space, no
country for love such as mine-may I hope
ouch as ours is, Guadaloupe. You do not
know me. For years-from my boyhood I
have been a stray waif upon the ocean of
fate. 1. have traversed many countries and
have seen what were called the loveliest
women in the world ; but never has my heart
been engaged until J met with you."
"Sir, you flatter me. I am young, know
little of the world ; I am aware that one
older than myself may take advantage of my
ignorance of conversational rules, but you
are a friend of my father, a guest at our ha-
cienda, and I cannot refuse you my confi-.
deuce,"
"Loveliest of creation! doubt not a woid
that I utter, for never was man more sincere.
I love you with all my heart and soul -ny
existence is all centered in you. Say that,
when this ovely country is free from Spanish
rule, -- when I shall have proved mnys-If
worthy of Cuba and you, that ' may hope.
Nay I dwil hope.".

A clattering of hoofs was heard on the
street, and soon of er in the court y ard.
"My father has returned,'said Guadaloupe,
a but he must have met with many friends,
for I discver.some twenty horsemen."
fL rrner looked toward the main entrance
to t:c cmina a sav two companies of Span.
ish lancers, led by Morellia, coming up the
avenue o tu lives.
"-xdaop#. exclaimed he, in terror qI am
lost.  These are the Queens' troops--they
will make me prisoner, and you k:ow the
ftte that is sur to follow the result.''
''Oh this is terrible" exclaimed the infa-
tuated girl--'they will kill you."
"Be that as t may," responded Gardner,
" I shall willingly meet death as I. krw that
your tears will water the thistles .upon my
grave."
Tre sound of marching troops came each
moment neater.
Can I not save you ?" enquir'd the
gentle Guadaloupe.
" How ?"
"I know a way."
* 2       *     C      *

At day break the battalion of lancers quitted
the hacienda de Alvarez well satisfied with
the fare they received, and also well satisfied
that the "Piate" was not a habitant of that
pc incelv plantation.
As the lancers moved off, Guadaloupe
crossed over to the chapel and ascended to
one oft's towers to satisfy herself of their
departure. Here she remained till nhc had
seen the battalion pass down the Havana
road, and disappear in the distance.
'hen quitting the tower, she r turned to
the house, glided so'lly through the long hall
running fiom the front to the rear, ard enter.
ed a small beautiful garden surrounded on
dl Eides by a high, thick wall.
Guadaloupe looking cautiously around,
and, having assumed herself that she was un-

_ k} t
, f
"y    i
, hs,
',  d '
a'     1'
" i
,
,5  f
'
S.   '
ry-
. Z " s
i;+F
}  '' ',
t''  d '
, cr}
4 (
4 .jR
1
f     ,
- Lr }a t.
r P  f  ;.
}  ,.
u  s;
'1 y  kf
s Jt
j# r     =
; ;.}jY
"   is a   ^
/  -

NEW ORLEANS.


OF NEW ORLEANS.              69

pere -ived, she ors-ed o-ye of the gav h-
path; 1 adiug to the left corner of ti gdtf fl
and  drawing aide a portion e    the ivy
which cov 'red the wall, expo-ed a numbd"rt of
j  snmalt holes bored at irr.ular distances in
the lteer, and which, when undisturbed, the
ivy i-ctually screened from view.
The lovely girl, whose features were now
crirm oned with blush e-. cughed three times.
and fixed her eyes upon a portion of the wall
before her, which a moment later opened
from within, and a man stepped forth. It
r was Charles Gardner.
" My sweet love-~my preserver !" he ex-
clainied, passionately pressing the beautiful
maiden to his breast and imprinting a kiss
upon her blushing cheek. " What do 1 not
owe you for having saved me
lush !" returned Guadaloupe, gently
withdrawing from his embrace, " we may be
overhear I, perhaps," she added, dropping her
eyes which were swimming with tears-
" perhaps perceived !"  I
"fBut you are weeping, my beloved one-"
" Must we not part?" returned the maiden,
naive ly, while her beautiful form trembled
with love's tumultuous fire.
" Part !" said Gardner, starting. " Why,
Guadaloupe, why should we part, now that
all danger is over?"
The maiden shook her head. " It is not
all over," she said, tearfully.
"What ! Are the troops still here ?"
"No. They are gone ; but they will soon
return to renew their search. You must
fly1!"
And whither?" asked Gardner, sensitive.
ly alive to his peril.
"To the sea shore, to the n  utains-any
where !" returned  Guadaloupe, trembling
with agitation. " But here -here you must
not remain.   The slaves are keen: crafty
and treacherous, and their argus eyes would
{ be sure to deter Nou!"

i But," cried Grd ner, impetuously, "they
surely would not betray a guest of their mas-
iter's !"
" You do not know them," replied the
young girl, with an air of deep anguish.-
"Their very natures are grasping and per..
fidious. For money they would sell their
very master ?"
"But who," said Gardner, with a smile,
is to offer them money for my betrayal ?"
"The Captain General," returned Guada.
lope, quickly. "The instant the lancers re-
turn with the report that1they have not been
able to find you,Concha will issue proclama-
tion offering a large reward for your capture,
and have it posted on every hill, fhnce and
tree for miles around our hacienda. Yes," she
added, in a voice which appeared to shako her
very soul, "there is no hope -you must fly !"
" My daughter speaks aright," interrupted
a stern voice near them. "Senor Garduer
must fly, and instantly."
It was Alvarez who, having seen the pair
from the window of his chamber, had do.
seceded and quietly approached them.
Guadaloupe blushed still deeperas her glance
met that of her father, upon whose brow hung
a portentous frown.
There is danger then, in my remainingg'
said Grdner, slightly coloring as he caught
the eye of his host.
"My daughter has already explained it to
you !" returned Alvarez, coldly. Then turn.
ing to the trembling Guadaloupe, ho added :
Hence, girl, to your chamber. I will at-
tend to the wants of Senor Gardner, myself.
Begoe !"
The lovely girl flung a despairing look up
at her lover, and then, with towering steps,
retreated from the guard en.
SSenoir, continued Alvcarez, sternly, a
Cu daloupo disopeared, ' your conduct in
attempting to plp  t ih the alheions of my
child, merits my severest coned nation."

" Sir !" returned Gardner, drawing him-
self up.
"Enough!'' returned the Spaiiard, con-
temptuously. "Your airs are thrown away
upon roe. I am an old man, sir, and have
seen too much of the world to be imposed
uponby so miserable an adventurer as your-
self !"
Beware, sir !" c' ied Gardner, bristling
up. ' Such insolence shall not-"
 He paused abruptly, for the eye of the
indignant Spaniard was fixed upon him with
a cold, stony. disdainful glance:
" Go on, Senor !" said Alvarez, with forced
calmness. "You were about to charge me
with insolence, and to threaten me, eke, if l
mistake not. Pray, go on !"
And the tones of his voice indicated the
storm which was working in his breast.
Gardner was silent. He trembled be fire
the stern man before him.
"You have thought better of it !" observ-
ed the Spaniard, at length, in a sarcastic
voice. " You will not threaten ?  You wil
not even trust yourself to speak, would-be
seducer of my child ! Enough," lhe added,
with an effort, "I will not force you to it !
Follow me, and make ready for your deper.
ture !"
So saying, he turned from the garden to
the house, followed by his gust, whose cece;
was pale with the sickly hue of detected
guilt.
The Spaniard led the way to his own
chamber, and pointing to a heap of rough
clothing, observed-
" There is a peasant's sailt. Put it on.
Dioguised iu that, you can traverse the cot:-
try without fear of deteetion."
So Eaying he left the room, and when ii,
returned, he held iO ono hand a moderately
filled purse, and in the oter I kiife.

buy you food, the other will enable you to
defend yourself' in case of attack. Now fol-
low me!"
lie led the way from the hacienda to the
road on the left.
"Now, Senor," he said, sternly, " we are
strangers again.  Go your way. While a
guest under my roof, I could not treat you
otherwise than as a friend. You have your-
self to thank that I am henceforth your ene-
my. Already a married man-i learned it
by one of your letters-you yet (ared to
make overtures of love to my daughter ! Go,
wretch ! If from this hour you are seen in
this neighborhood, you shall be shot down
like a dog ! Go !"
Gardner slunk away like a detected thief,
and striking across the country, started in the
direction of Puerto Principe.
"Curse mys ill stors !" he muttered. "Had
They not brought the old fool upon me so
so on I would, in another minute have per.
suad-ed the lovely Gaudaloupe to share my
IIght ! She is a tempting little piece, and
would console a fellow for theless of twenty
such creatures as Fanny !"
A shudder passed over him as he uttered
this name.
"She has the heart of a tigress," he con.
tinted, " and will not rest till she sees me in
he dust ! She has sworn it, and she is un-
fortnately one of those who keep their
words. But I will not fall an easy prey P
Now that it is in peril, my life appears to me
of inestimable value. I w ill not die till the
la t chance in the great game of existence
s lest. beyond recovery. Let me think-let
me think !"9
il  pyus-ed in his ighlu1t, and striking out
of the. eoad ito an adjoining fi-d, threw
himself at the foot of a wide-branching tree,
who: e broad leaves serve' to screen him from

"Take these,'" hr  id 'toa  goeL s , who the sun, which, evena at that early hour, was
had now completed hi toilt ; " the first wilihot and oppressive.

1) ,

TIE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

:


70                       :THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
" Now, let me reflect," began the fugitive. Principe, with five hundred l)rave men, each
1 I :t here without a friend, and with two one capable of whipping twenty of Concha's
strong and powerful enemies-Alvarez and miserable troops. When he arrives, others
Fanny.   To silence either one of these, a will follow him, and then the luland will be
man wants, in a country like tl s, money in in such a ferment, there will be but little or
ahundince to buy up the serve. of profos- no difficulty in getting of, even if the troops
sional aslassins, or in flutence with the (Cptain.. should prove too iuch for him. A s I can do
Geneml, who has th power tothrow suspect. nothing till then, the only course left me is
ed persons into prison at will.  Ncfw  I have to ~o on slowly to Principe ; and as it is dan-
ntither themeansnorthe inclination tomrnploy gerous to be seen on the high road during
the assistance of assassins, nor influence with the day without a passport; I shall have to
the Captain General, who knoves me only as pursue my journey by night !"
one of the ' pirates' that have threatened to  As Gardner reached this point of his
relieve him of his captain-generalship, and reflections, he heard the sound of approach.
would consequently estimate it as a very ing troops ; a few moments later, a troop of
great pressure to get a single glimpse of me, horse dashed past him iai full gallop.  At
that he might he enabled to give me a seat in glance was sufficient to satisfy him that they
the garote ! Ugh ! the very thought makes were the same he had seen on the evening
my [lood craep! What then is to be done? before at the hacienda.
Let me see. I cannot quit the Island nei-   '- Guadaloupe was right !" he muttered
other now nor at any other time, without a " The rascals have returned in search of me.
passport ; to get that I must expose and give I must be cautious, or I am los I  Which
an account of myself, and that not being pos. way are they turning, 1 wonder -"
sible, they would at once arrest and turn me ie rose and groped his way, on his hands
over to the t-nder mercies of the execution- and knees, to tie fence, through which he
er. Pleag nt prospect! To remain is equal. peered cautiously at the retreating horsemen,
ly dangerous; for in this cursed Island, one between whom and himself uprose a cloud oft
cannot pass from ne town to another with. auffocating dust.
out a passport, and if I go into the next vii- Gardoer continued to watch them till they
lage without one, they will know instantly disappeared at a bend ih the road.
that all is not right, suspect me for one of the ''"They have taken the right," he muttered,
' pirates' whom they are daily expecting, run rising and scaling the fence. "I will there-
me into prison and slaughter me without fore take the left. That," he added, consult-
even a trial ! If I take to the mountains, ing his chart, " will lead ine to Morillo.-
hunger would soon make me food for the From thence I can, work my way to Prin-
vultures. Upon my soul ! it is a pleasant eP-        uiw
prospect I have before me .  .urre let us leave him, fo a while, nd
He shifted uneasily at                              i his position, and bor tetion to Fanny, wtoa wev , lefton
then re:;unld:                          board the steamer bonid to n vana.
Lc Hut sighing will not  nend matters.-
SomcLhing must be determined on. or I may           CH APTE R XX!V.
find mvs-if before I am p -epared for it, in
the hand' 'of tl. accurse' S aniai ds. Let On reaching Havana, Fanny Gardner's
e me. Lopez will lan d shrotly at Puerto first mnovemcent was to sacue 'a  hotel ; her

I

OF NEW ORLEANS.

next to pay a visit to the Captain General,
which she did -on the morning after her ar-
rival.
Concha, the captain general, was sittiuir in
his cabinet, dictatitg a despatch to ooe of
his secretaries, when wor d was brought him
that a lady desired an interview,
"1her name 2"'

71

General, and filling at his feet, " any, I
shall have it !"
I will answer that, madam, when I un-
derstand the actors, the circumstances and
the scene. Rion, and return to your seat.
I catint+': he said gallantly, " permit a lady
to oCCupy so hurmiiiat:ng a posmon, in my
presence . Where did this afflir, ot which
voui1  ak  h   nrc i

"Ssnora Gardner."                     -      '
"At New Or-leans, senor.'
"W~V here is she from ?"'              sAh . lady, for any thing done there, you
" The United States, your Excellency." must apply to the authorities of tht city for
"Show her into the ante-room," said the redress."
Captain General. " Tell her I will be with  " I have applied to them, senor, hu with.
her in a few minutes."                   out e et. They tried him for the hiomicide
When Concha entered the ante room, he and acquitted him."
found himself in the presence of a woman,  " Rut what power can I have ov r him,
whose rare loveliness struck him with sur- lady ?" asked the Captain General with a
prise arid admiration.                   pityung emile, for he began to think that the
" To what, lady," he Jsked, seating him- mind of the beautiful woman hefiro him
self opposite his fair' visitor, " am I. indebt- must be tinged with insanity. " Y ou must
ed for the honor of this visit ?'        be aware that Cuba is not the United  ates!t"
ST oVenireance," was the reply.          "I am sensible of that, senor,"  t turned
The Captain General started.           the blushing woman, intuitively comprehend-
" Did I understand 3ou aright, lady '" he ing his thoughts, "eand for that very reason
said, fixing his dark, thoughtful eyes upon 'have come to you as the only one on earth to
her with an expression of surprise. " You whom I can look for justice."
said t owed the honor of this visit to-"    " Explain, adam !" said Concha, impati.
"Vengeance I" repeated Fanny Gardner, ently. "My titrle is of importance ! I can-
in a tone which car used Contaba to regard her not afford to waste it in enigmas "
with a slight feeling of alarm. -           " A moment, senor! Say that in asking
"In this w man a second Charlotte Cor- your assistance in working out my revenge, I
day ?  A m   to meet the fate of a Marat !" should at the same time enable you to frus-
he muttered, thoughtfully.               rate the designs of the 'pirates' who propose
But noticing that his visitor made no vio- invading Cuba ?"
lent demonstrations, he became reassured,   The evesof theCaptain General, whichhad
and coraposing his naturally stern features been fixed hall absently upon the floor, were
into a smile, he observed--               now raisedsuddenly and thrown full upon her,
You have not told me all, lady! Ven-    " Have you the ability todo that, maday"
geance for what, and on whom ?"           he demanded, quickly.
"On him who murdered my lover I" an       " I have, senor !" returned his visitor, with
sweted Fa'my, her eyes flashing with the  an air of triumph.
memory of the frightf'd scene. "Sty," she   6         Do it, thn," cried Concha, " and name
added, rising and approaching the Captain  youri price."

'  Il _
f
f'4


72

THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

" I only ask, senor, that the assassin of my
laver, once he is in your hands, shall not be
permitted to live an lour; I ask that he may
lie, and that I may be allowed the pleasure
mf witnessing hisodosingstruggles, the triumph
of listening to his last sigh !''
"1 have already publicly announced the
'Manner of the 'pirates' death, madam," said.
the Captain General, shuddering in spite of
himself at the relentless spirit before him,
"and that will render your wish impossible!"
" Wherefore, senor ?"
"They are to be shot, madam--publicly,
at the brow of the castle of Atares. You
perceive, therefore, the unreasonableness of
your proposition. I have no objection to
your witnessing the execution, but it must b e
at a distance. IThere would be danger, great
danger, to your person, in looking at it from
so near a point as would enable you to hear
the man's dying cries. You must think of
something else, madam !"
"If my proposal to deliver these adventur-
ers into your hands, senor, so that you can
crush them and their designs at a blow, be
of any value in your eyes -"
" I do not deny its importance, madam.--
On the contrary I regard it as 6f inestimable
value."
"Then, senor," said the lovely but impla-
cable woman," you can easily find a way to
pay the price I. set upon it."
"Suggest something, madam, and I will
make no effort to fly from it. Your brain, it
one might judge by the clearness of your eye,
just be fertile in expedients. Come, propose
one, and we'll see if it cantot he managed !"
ccDo not men,'' said his visitor, '' some-
times die privately in their dungeons ?'
";I do not deny it, r'adam !" refurned Con.
cha, shining uneasily in his chair before he
basilisk eye.
" For this service then which I propose to
render you," continued the merciless woman

"you could make an exception of him could

I

you not?  You could keep your word with
the others, and shoot them down in public,
while he-le died at the same hour in some
low, dimly lighted dungeon, where no eye
but that of the executioner and mine might
look upon his writhings, where no ear but the
executioner's and mine could hearken to his
dying wail ?"
Yes, madam," said the Captain General,
surveying her with an expression of ill-con-
cealed disgust," that can be done."
Will it be ?" persisted Fanny Gardner,
bendir  her dark eyes upon him with a piti-
less glare.
" It wu..j !" answered Coneha, quickly,
" iris a compact, then ?"
It is "
" And will not be violated-not even so
mich as a hair's breadth ?" continued his
visitor, with an expression of triumph.
"No!" returned the Captain General, shud-
dering at her implacable spirit. "Now, wo-
man, your plan--quick. My time is pre-
cious ."
"Listen, then, senor !"k
"I hear you, madam !"
" This man-this wretch, whose knife is
red with the blood of tny lover, is even now-
in Cuba.'
" how know you that, madam ?" deumandN
ed the Captain. Gneral, with an air of sur
prise.
" On my way to Havana, I beheld him
with fitty others, on board a schooner which
was working its way to Havana."
" Tht is possible, madam. But I receiv.
ed yesterday information-from my spies that
that schooner was destroyed upon our coast,
and that but one of all on board escaped.-
That one has been tracked to a certain plan.
ration whose owner has long been suspected
of harboring thoughts and intentions traitor,
ous to the State."

OF NEW
" You know thit the schooner has been
Wreki, and that all but ono of is living
freight hove perished !" saiidFanny G idner,
i astonishn  t. " You are sure of' ti s ?'
"Quite sure, madam. I had it from my
spies, ho know that to bring me 'false intel
ligence is equivalent to signing their own
death warrant-
u You are well served, senor !" returned
the lady with a smile.
" To the point, madam!" said Concha,
impatiently.
" This one who has escaped, senor-if it
be the man my heating breast assures roe that
it is, you have need to call up all your ener.
gies, all your cunning, or he will yet escape
you !"J
TJhe Captain General's only reply was an
impatient shrug.
"You have no fears-"
" On that point, madam ?  No ! One' on
the Island, he is mine ! There is not open
to him a single avenue by which to eludo oe ;
and once taken, there's an end of him. But
how dors this afTct, the plan you have to
propose ."
"sNot a jot, senor,"  answered  Fanny
Gardner, calmly - " for if it be .he who has
escaped the dangers of the sea, he will, 1
am confident, also avoid capture till the great
body of the liberators arrive !'
And how long will that be, madam ?"
demanded Concha, with an air of renewed
interest.
"A few days, at farthest. Lopez and his
party were to kave New    Orleans on the
twentieth."
"What do you deduce from that, madam ?"
" Tlis. On the arrival of Lopez, he will
join him, and then all danger to him is at an
end."
"Saysrather," observed the Captain Gener-
al, with a grim smile, " that it will be but
just begun. On~a landed n the Isle of Cuba,

iEt  o  o  sr  o       .  _

)RLEANS.                             73
not a man of the pirates shall escape. My
troops are in readiness to march to any given
poimt +tt a moment's notie"
Your troops !" returned his visitor, with
an air of mockery. "Is it on then alone
that you rely ?''
No !" said the Captain General.  " In
ease of necessity-rather than these pirates
should triumph, I would free and let loose
upon them the great horde of slaves which
constitute the largest part of our population.
I would cut them off from all hope of pro-
vision and plunder,, by firing every planta.
tion on the Island. I would -bu', psha ! these
things need not be ! 1 have sufficient confi.
dence in my troops and in the strength of that
part of our people whose interest it is to be
loyal, to defeat-the hopes of the pirates.-
Let them come-they will find that I have
made the preparations requisite to. meet and
destroy them i'"
" But what if they should land at a point
where the people are ready and eager to join
tiem ?"
"Such a step," returned tIle Captain Gen.
eral, " would, I must frankly admit, give me 'p
some uneasiness. But why do you ask that
question ?"
" Because such is the intention of Lopez."
" iH!ow know you that !" demanded Con.
chai.
" I heard it at New Orleans."
' From one likely to know ?" asked the
Ca ptam General, eagerly.
COnola passed his hand over his eyes as if
to sweep off a something which oppressed it.
" At what point does the traitor Lopez pro-'
po-e to debark ?" he asked.'-
" At Puerto Priucipi."
The Captain General started.
S'Then all is lost !" he exclaimed.  "For
there treason riots in triumph, despite of my
best e..rts to subdue. it!  There my best


74            THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

troops are slaughtered by the Creole rebels-
there the people treat my proclamations with
defiance, and my squadrons with death-
there rebellion's insolent flag towers un-
checked- there I am  powerless !  Should
Lopez la:nd there, then indeed the Island will
ere long pass iron the hands of Spain !"
But," suggested his artful visitor, with a
meaning smile, "he need not land at Prin-
eipe P"
The Captain General surveyed her with a
quick, piercing eye.
" What mean you," he demanded, sternly.
"Did you not say that such was the traitor's
designs ?"
I did," returned Fanny Gardner, " and I
said what I know to )e true. But for all
that, I repeat it-Lopez need not debark at
"                        '

f
t
S

the saviour of Cuba !" returned the Captain
General, in a tone of enthusiasm.  "D
this," he added, eagerly, ' and name your
price! Though it were a million, it shall he
paid."
I have already named it," said Fanny
Gardner, calmly.
" The death of your lover's assassin? Oh,
vilhioglv-                           r
His death- in private-with no eye but
mine and that of the executioner, to witneS9
his agony, no ear but the executicie r's and
mine to hearken to iL cries !" p is ed Fan
ny Gardner.
"It is  ranted !" said the Captain (eneraL
"Now, then, madam, your plan ?"
Listen, then," returned the wily woman,
in a whisper.

~rincipe !
The Captain enerctlfixed his eCen u you  The Captain GenerIl heard her to the
he Capitaynindewoman, as ifye    poal end ;,when she had finished, he took her
ead  h very   wsl                      hand, prea hseso  it, and  exclaimed  with  a  smile
edher vrysol
Need not ?' he muttered.              of aperobatiori
" No-that is, unless you wish it .!      " Natu i   erred in makingyos a woman,
"cflow can it b prevented ?"           lady ! You should haye been a fRan1!IA
" HoEanily  it  mprvneinind and heart like yours are worthy of the
Concha glared at her in astonishment.   most exalted station. Your ilan is a bril-
" You are a strange beinge" he observed, liant one, and  shall act upon it at o ne."
slowly. " I know   not for which to set you  The eye of his visitor sparkled with an-
down-a lunatic or' a sybil !"             ticipative triumph.
Fanny Gardner smiled.                    "s From this hour." resumed the Captain
"Say, I could show you a way to lead General, taking a step towards his cabinet,
Lopez   orn his present design," she said; "my doors are ever open to you; and should any
" say, I could teach you the wvay to persua de you ever stand in need f ussstncte ofr an
him fromlanding at Principe where he would kind sovever,' youcan rely upon the firm
be received with open arms by the people, friendship of Concha!di h"
and induce him to debark with his forces at So saying, he waved his hand, and passed
a point where you could so post your troops from the anroot                       -
as to be ceady to receive him?  Say, I could  Fanny
do this," rho continued, in l4ie ininuantig tering-
tone o" a demon, "how would you then re- ".I will ,l on him no again tl le-the
a r?"                            as assist. of my Orrin-lies enaired, helpless
garl 1  e?"a                                    -      I          adnt il hn
"In the light of an enchantress-as one and   ordetrnwd .  ien, and not tll then,
to vhom   imposibiiti's are but trifies--as shall 1 return to the palace *"

CHAPTER XXV.
.Let us now take a flying trip to New Or
leans, and learn what is going:on among those
whom Fanny G rdner had doomed to des
traction,
At on oblong tabl3ecovered with gree
baize and over which maps, "exchanges
and writing impkments are carele sly srea
tored, in the sanctum of the chief editor o
the Ne  Orleans Delta, three persons ar
seated, and discussing the contents of siom
private letters I1 ing open before them. Ii
one of these, we find the editor of the Delta
in the second the captain of the stearne
Pampere, and in the third Lopez tha leader
of the Liberating expedition.
The editor is addressing his compaiions -
Let us throw on an invisible mantle, an
isten,
"There is no good reason, in my opinion
why the steamer should not start to-morrow
The men are all in readiness, the arms, am
munuiton, arid other essentials aboard, and-
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Sigur, interrup
ted Lopez, with an air of impatience. "Bu
I hav already told you that tIto arms are
not of a satisfactory character. An enter.
prise liko ours, should be provided with the
best weapons to be had ithe market. Those
in our hands are, on the contrary, of a very
inferior quality.  I, for one, will not consent
to joopardise the lives of my men with such
miserable afiirs."
"But, general," remonetrated the editor,
"it will not do to lose another day. The
rifles which are coming from the North will
tint be here for fourteen days; and if we wait
till that time who can tell the injury it mey
do to the gallant creoles of Principe, who,
relying upon our hourly arrival, are now
ghting so bravely against the imnenn odd
hurled against them by the Captain (' ne ral ?
Fourteen days, sir- what might not he ppen in

that time? 'The creeos, disheartened by our
non-appearance, may resign themselves to
r. despair, throw down their hopes and their
e arms, and yield themselves to the Spaniards !"'
- " There is more truth than poetry in that,
Mr. Sigur!" observed Captain Lewis, "and
n I think general," he added, turning to Lopez
" "that we might as well give up all idea of the
t expedition, if we have to wait till the arrival
f of the arms promised by our friends at the
e North. The fourteen days thus lost could
e not be returned, and at this juncture, time,
a with our creole brethren at Principe, time is
every thing. It is my opinion that we should
r start without delay !"
r   "Your idea, captain Lewis, is correct,"
said the editor, with a smile of approbation:
- And I think, general," he continued, ad.
d dressing Lopez, "you will agree with us
upon more mature efetion that the arms
,,we have arc at least as good, if not better,
. than those employed by the Spaniards."
"I do not deny that, Mr. Sigur," returned
- Lopez. "But I repeat it,.they should not be
on a par only with those of the Spanish troops
t -they should be superior."v
" What the weapons lack in superiority
will be amply compensated by the superior
courage and intelligenceofour imen !" observed
Captain Lewis.
"I admit-the force of your remark sir,'
said Lopez, " but I remember at the same
time the immense legions which will be op
posed to our comparatively trifling band. To
meet them with any prospect of triumph we
should make up in the character of our arms
what we los, in numbers '
"lut,"said thi editor, "weshall not bo alone
in our combat with Concha's hoat. The
creoles will he with us, and their force is res-
pectable. United, we will oppose to the
Spanish liuen a force which will smite them
with terror."
"Gentlemen," said [LopOz, impatiently, '

a
s
I
y

OF NEW ORLEANS.


76            TILE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

will contest the point noloriger. If you insi.
upon cur ;starting to-monow, tomorrow ho it
then. But bear this in min-d--if the expt di-
tion fail-"
Fail !" interrupted his companions, en
thusiastical'y, "impossible !"
" I was ahut to observe, goentlemen,r' ter
misted the General, calnily, that if the exp -
ditionrshould fail for want of the rittht Iki.,d. o
arms, yo.. must yourselves astinme the r
ponsibility arid the blame.  At for me. hay -
ing entered my protect against this rash hast.",
I now wash my hands of nit"
" But you will costiit to our proceeding
to-mforrow ?' demanded the editor.  -
"I have already .given it," returned the
general quietly. " I will proceed on board
at once, and make my preparationts. At what
hour shall we get up steam?"
" At eleven."
Very well," said the General risin-.-
" You will see everything pared ! The
custom house clearance obtained, and all oth
er necessary papers to enable the steamer to
quit the port without interruption ?"
" Every thing shall be arranged, General,
to your utmost satisfaction," replied the editor.
" Captin Lewis and I understand .how to fix
these matters. We have friends in the custom
house, on whom we can rely."
"Then I have nothing more to say," obs-erv
ed Lopez, quietly. "Adieu i"
And he quitted the apartment.
True to his promise, the editor got every
thing in readiness for the steamer's uninter.
rupted departure, and at the appointed hour
the Pumpero, her decks lined; with five hun-
t dred brave and gallant hearted men, glided
out into the stteam, and struck for Key West
to take in stores.
On reaching Key West, a letter was put
in the hands of General Lopez,who, on open
I ;ng it, read as follows:
"My DEAR FRIEND-1 take up my pen in

haste to inform you, if it is not too late, that
ort' friends have swept every thing before
the i at Pt inip, and have quitted that city
to xtend the revolt. They are now in large
re rrb-rs at Pina del Ry,vwhich, with nearly
the ; hole of that district, is in open and sue-.
ee tul insu rre action. The brave creols need
oily a lit le tiirly a'sitance now to drive
very Spani:.ri front our Island. The troops
ent u. int them thus far have been repulsed
in every instance with greet slaughter.  The
Captain Gen rat suctecly knows from hour to
hour what sa.tp to take next.  His confidence
in his troop i smken.in ca nsqun :tcof their
continu;al dew'rtio to the pat riots, and i tin
il he has a steamier in read inc s in white
to make this efap  the. instant he f. els the
tct plank kicked from under himi.  A des-
patch just r' eived front one of mv corres--
ionden's at Pura del Rey, tells nm" that the
ereoles threaten to he in lavana, in Ie than
fifteen days, provided they receive mn time the
promised: aid of their fiieds in the United
States. I need not add, my old fai nd, that the
sooner you make your appearance with your
forces at PiuS del R'the better it will be for
the cause ofCuhai liberty. Herein Havana,the
Sptniards are trembling with alarm. They
threaten loudly, with their usual bombast, of
their intention; in case the "traitors'' or
pir ates" should make their appearance in
the city ; but it is easily to be seen that they
seek behind a veil of bravado to hide their
fears. Iasten, then, my friend to Pina del
Rey, where ten thousand brave creoles cov-
ered with the laurels of twenty glorious vic-
tories, are eagerly waiting to receive you.
Your friend and fellow laborer in
.       the cause of Cuban freedom,
IGNACio GUERIA."
On reading this Ietter,the eyea of the Gen
eral sparkled. He proceeded to his cabin,
and summoning his officers, laid its contents
at once before them.

I

OF NEW     ORLEANS.7'
'Who is thi.; Guerro ?" r t&amp; d ib- ci mtilce only from Pina del,Rey, the supposed
eicer of  artillery, after th  tournur of eat of insurtetion.
tpplau e which fllos d the rm :ding of de 'l was about eleven o'clock at night. when
note had subihd-                       LYcez had his men detrked.
" Ai old friend and corresponrde'nt of mie.''  A clhar moonliglht gave them  a distant
answered Lptz.  " But I hope, C ilonel Crit view of the town, wi'ich wur wrapped m  a
tendn, .ou don't see any thing suspicious i i C 4 m, U.tbroken silence.
the imelli :_ n  '                          MAriloa stands upon the shore, and has a
" Net at al, G0n .ral," anor' Ith2 coo 'radual rise of about fifty feet from tide
neld, rs ctfully.  '  S  l nr:  as  you  koo  watr mark, and  the  houses are ranged  abel.
him atd. have con(dcf in his statements, it ingly like the steps of an amphitheatre . A
is all sufniint."                        wide avenue runs from the shore up to the
%Va . then igentlemen,'' resured the gen- high road leading to the interior.
ral, " what say you ? Shall we go on accord-  As Lopez threw a calm, searching,. rapid
ing to our original inlention, to Principe, or glance at the town, he fancied he beheld some
follow the advice of this letter and proceed to armed figures watching him from the heights.
Pica del R4-y ?''                        Determined to satisfy liinselt whether his
- " For my part,General" said Colonel Dor- eyes deceived him, or the contrary, he order-
man, the first officer of the regiment ofinfan- ed up a platoon of trusty marksmen, and
try,  I thiulk there can be but one opinion calling their attention to the figures, ordered
upon the suijept."                       them to fire.
And that i-" said Lopez, inquiringly.  The instantaneous fall often of the figures
"That we proceed at once to Pina del Rey," and the rapid flight of abmit thirty others as-
said Colonel l)orman.                     sured him that they were real flesh and blood;
"Is that the prevailing sentiment, gentle- and naturally judging that there were terge
men ?" continued Lopez.                   numbers of a similar character in the n, igh.
The officers bowed in token of assent.  borhood, he resolved to proceed instantly and
Then, gentlemen, beitso. Captain Lewis, attack them.
you will head the steamer for Pina del Rey.''  Turning to Captain Lewis, he observed :
Captain Lewis bowed, and hurried from    " Return, sir, to Key  Vest, for additonal
the cabin. LA few  minutes later and the recruits. The creoles will he disappointed if
Pampero's wheels were ploughingtheir way I show myself with no more than live hun.
through the gulf under a full yressuro of dred men."
steam.                                      " Had I not better wait the result of your
Alas! for the gallant hearts on board the first action, General ?" asked the captain,
trusty vessel. Not one of them ever dream- considerately.
ed that the letter was simply a snare, inven-  "No, sir" returned Lopez, firmly. "I
ted by a revengeful woman, to beguile them am on Cuba's shore for victory, not de-
to destruction !                         feat '"
The stormy condition of the sea prevented  "But the chances of war, General !" said
the steamer from reaching the precise spot Captain Lewis, impressively. "You may be
which her commander had received orders to compiled to retreat."
make for ; but she succeeded in touching at  "Retreat !" repeated Lopez, scornfully,
Moriilo the next adjoining port, and a few " I will never retreat !"

t
;


T8                     THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES'
"1s that your reply, Gnural'"        up the road at an eay march, and in two
" It is sir !"                         hours reached Las Posas.
"And you order rnn.toAdepart o   h         s Lopez entered the town, he was some.
"And you ordr        oe      o           hturprised at the unusual quiet which
"tast ?''                                pervadad it. Save a few cQuntrymen, who
yes, sir !fled as he approached, not a living thing met
"Very sell, General, you shall he obey- his eyes. The houses were open,.but empty.
ed," said the Captain, with a gloomy fore- The- same air of desertion which envelop-
boding, that the step was a wrong one-    rdI Morillo, hung also over Las Posas.
In fifteen minutes the steamer was once   " The people have gone to the seat of in-
more in the gulf, and travelling under a full surrection!" he observed to the officers around
head of steam back to Key \est.
" Cionel Crittenen," said Lopez, address- N lie hd made the same remark of Morillo.
ing th: chief officer of the artillery, "take '  et           f  te nw   will tke
fifty  on and examine the condition of the up our quarters here for the night, ond to
town, . nd in ten minutes bring me your re- morroweve will march for the scene of attlee
p                                              large house on the maie street attracted
As the officer retire), the General, turning his attention, and thither he. iracted  his
to the other members of his stafl, ordered step. 
them  o torm their columns into line.       lhe building was found, on     peton,
This had scarcely ben accomplished, to be tuo mihed with all the furi oe neces-
when Colonel Crittenlen returned.        sary for the comfbrt and convenience of men
" Well, sir ? What have you to report ?'' who, line our adventurers, were not over dif-
" 'this, General. The houses are open, ficult to please.
emp t and deserted. Morillo is without in-  Guards were posted, and allt other essential
habje 1ots."                             precautions taken, and Lopez was about to
" Tety have, no doubt, gone to the seat of follow his officers into the building, when a
battl- ' observed the Ganeral musingly.-,stranger, in the garb of a peasant, wassCen

" I'll push on to the next townk 'oonel. Re-
n:aie here with sixty men, and look after the
baygige. Should anty thieg happen, des-
patch ue a messenger."
" Where shall I send him, G-neral ? You
have not yet told mn the name of the town to
which you are going ?"
" True. i'm too forgetful. It is called
La Posas, and lies off to the left tbout six
miles hence. The high road 'ae are now On
will conduct you to it. Should you not hear
from me in forty eight hours, you w;ill j mO
me instantly with your command. Adieu.
sir !"
So saying, Lopez placed himself at the
head of his troops, and the columns moved

approaching it.
The man advanced cautiously, keeping in
the shadow of a line of low houses, to screen
himself from observation. As he neared the
building, and beheld the free flag of Cuba
that had been flung from tho window over the
main entranco, floating in the moonlight, he
uttered a cry of jv, audr hastening his steps,
stood it a few moments face to face with the
General, who rceonised him at a glance.
" I know that face," said Lopez, with a
mile. " It is my old friend Gardner-is it
In ot ?"
n It is, General," seturned Charles Gard-
tier, for it was he, "and right IJbd I. am to see
you here, Iassure you -

OF NEW ORLEANS.             ) y

"You bring me news, do you not ?" de-
taned Loetz.
" No n- !'' answered Gardner, "except that
our sthooner wa:; wrecked on the cosaa o tihe
night of our arrival, and tht all on board
except myself have perished."
Lopez's ho   darkened.
i Wrhat(b; ags 70y here, tz o, hen heIt o d'
"and in i that gui  ?
lie pointed as he spoke to the peasant dreT;
which i G  u '   . ore.

' The first bhoo i:- eeVr thing !"' mutered
Lopez ; asnd he i ip dte action by an or.
der to lire.
In an instintf, erc the comnd had scarely
ied aw ayon h', hp. a shuot of flame ran
along the fir.-t line- of his colunis, follwand by
a loud roar, rnd a hundred of the e nemy drop.
ped as though sethy it by hitting.
The Spaniards retu raed the fire, but with
little or no effect, and a second line of lam-

" I have  tjst come into th town,'' a  bent light glided along the ranks of the Li-
I  bav  ut jus om  nt hetwn   a-,
t swered the later, " and was .n'  w      uarytors , a mrnom it lat r, and a yell, as oi
e~tt?"    "t my wray to
Prii     t   e     w    oara thousand men in f1ig tful agony, went up
_l'uiipec-, the seat of war, to await vont  ielnr  ihteratigo mseri
rival. I intended to follow the road to Mor.tnling With the rattling of musketry, in
illo, but soehow lost my way."         the disturbed and etmoky air, whioh now
tHe then detailed his adventures from the roared as if the very heavens were cracking
t   s        to             to pieces and coin  down with a wild and
moment of hs shipwreck to the present, onin
tire:, however, that p tof it relatiert Hi. stormy crash.
design upon the daugter of Alvare zThe Spanierda, who had buoyed themselves
V hen he had fluished his narrative, Lopez up on their approach with the idea of sur.
invited him into the house, whe fe arfr ?.jprs-iog and taking the adventurers with but
taking of a slight repast they resigned th  - little resitanee, were staggered at the vie-
solves to repose. .lence of their reception. They hr~d not up to
As Lopez and his companion entered the this moment been on the field scarcely three
building,.s humati figure that had  been minutes, and yet in that bref period at least
crouching, no perceived by the senirIls i  three hundred of their number lay writhing
the shadow of a tree, on the corner of a in agony, and a hundred and fifty stiff in the
street some twenty rods disant, suddenlyc old embrace of death. Nevertheless, they
rose and darted off, muttering :c)ttinued, in compliance with the orders
" Now to convey the tidings of the pirates' of their officers, to pour their leaden hail up.
arrival and po-ition to the General."       the Liberators, without, however, doing
Early on the following morning, while Lo ecnt-h damage to the latter, along whose
pez and his men were breakfasting, a sentry cried ranks that lambent line of light an..
rushed in with the  intelligence that the unued, at steady intervals, to flash, with
Spanish troops were approaching in large a tcility which threatened ere long to maka
numbers.                                     e n'rat of the enemy's entire force.
In  an  distant every  man  seized  his  gu ,  T he battle  raged  for
and at an order from the General, darted out  r,di of - which time theSpa s unable to
from the budg,      front of which they                       Spaniards,       to
e n ire the  pirates" sweeping fire, turned
quickly formed into line.
The columns of the Spaniards moved on their heels, and throwing away every thing
slowly down the street, and at a signal from  likely to impede their flight, retreated with
their leader, halted on reaching the face of all speed, leaving Lopez and his gallant band
the adventurers.

f
f
,
t

-r
;).


80           THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

Fired with enthusiasm at their victory over
a force four times that of their own, the ad.. o
venturers called upn Lopez to lead them on f
at once to the seat of insurrection. The lat-
ter promised to do so at the end of three days, o
trusting that in the meantime the report of ,s h
triumph over the Spayuiards would induce the e
people in the adjoining neighborhood to come
in and swell his raik, which had suffered U
severely in the battle.
On the evening of the second day, a mes. s
senger from Colonel Crinenden made his ap.
pearance at Las Posas, and presented Lopezi
with a note couched in the following words : r
" I have h :ard of your battle and triumph,
and regret that I was not with you to share
in th mn. My mer~ complain bitterly of the
ignoble position i1~ hich they are placed.--
They say they d' not come to Cuba to watch
a deserted town, but to perform their part in
the glorious task of' giing freedom to the-
whole Island.  It is their wish and nine that
we may be permitted to join you.
Yours, faithfully,t
Wit. CItTTENDEN."   t
On reading the note, Lopez took    out
his pencil, and wrote underneath the signa-
ture:
"You have my permission to gratify the
desire of your command. Join me at once.i
Loriaz."   t
On the receipt of this reply, Colonel Crit-
tenden at once took up his march for Las
Posas.  On striking out of Morillo, he found
the highroadguarded on the left by a thickI
wood, and on the right by a high, dense chap.
Faral, which stretched ofn; apparently, for1
miles, and terminated at the sea shore.
He advanced about two miles, and when
within some forty rods of the first bend in th
road, was suddenly startled by the sight ot
about five hundred Spanish troops, their bayo-
nets glistening in the clear moonlight like
blades of silver.

He halted, a d, regardless of the immense
dds against him, instantly drew U) his men.
or battle.
T he Spaniards, strong with a consciousness
f their superior numbers, approached, con-
ident of triumph, and when within about-
ighty yards of the small but heroic band,
tretched their lines across the road, and
;alled upon the Liberators to surrender.
Thirty muskets, each charged with a mes.
enger of death, flashed forth in reply, and
he front ranks of the Spanards were thrown
nto confusion by the falling of their com-
ades.
Another volley of a similar number of
pieces startled the troops out of all notion of
a bloodless victory : for of the sixty shots
hmiled against them, each had either killed
or wounded its man, and the road was already
strewed with the dying and the lead, and the
rir.ringin with the shrieks and cries of the
wounded.
Dropping on their knees while they loaded,
that the balls of the enemy might fly over
them, the heroic band were in a few moments
again prepared to thin the lines of the enemy;
and rising, and each taking a caIn, deliber.
ate aim, they again discharged their pieces,
and then, taking advantage of the confusion
into which their destructive fire had thrown
the enemy,they formed into a serried line, and
bringing down their bayonets, darted forward
with a loud shout.
The cnemy did not wait for the charge ;
but broke and turning on their heel, fled, yel-
ling with terror, back the route by which
they had come.
Crittenden, not deeming it politic to follow
them too far, called off his men from the pur-
suit ; and collecting the baggage which had'
been confided to his charge by Lopez, cairn.
ly resumed his march for Ls Posas-
Lie had not proceeded more than a mile
when he again perceived the enemy moving

down upon him, and this time with an impe-
tuosity which it was plainly evident his stpall
party would find it folly to resist.
Determined, however, not to yield without
a struggle, the gallantsColonel formed his
men into a line across the road, and intrepidly
awaited the enemy, who were approaching at
fullspeed.
In a few moments their columns were with-
in reaching distance, and both parties opened
simultaneously a fierce, destructive fire,
Eight of the small,, brave band fell, and
the Spaniards, uttering loud cries, rushed for
ward with leveled bayonets to charge the re-
mainders
Perceiving that it would be utterly useless
to attempt to withstand the advancing host.
-Crittend en gave the order for retreat, atnd the
small party wheeled to the right and plunged
into the chapparal, whither the enemy did
not attempt to follow them.
Once in the dense chapparal, the brave
Colonel and his no less intrepid band wander-
ed onward for an hour or more, when, deem.
ing themselves safe from pursuit, they drop.
ped down, weary and exhausted, to recruit
their energies for the morrow in a brief sea.
son of repose.
The sun was high in the heavens when they
awoke. As from the character of the chap.
paral, they could hope neither for food nor
water, Crittenden perceived the necessity of
leaving it at once. But to do this was a feat
easier to conceive than to execute.  The
Chapparal was thick, tall, and it was import.
sible to guess which way to steer. Should
he strike to the north, he might wander on for
miles, and instead of reaching a road might
in the end find himself penetrating deeper
and deeper into the unbroken mass. Should
he march to the east, it might lead him to the
very road from which he had fled, which
was no doubt guarded at every step by the
enemy, calmly awaiting his return. Shoulit

he penetrate southward, it might eventuate
in carrying him still further into the heart of
the chapparal. Should he bend his steps
westward, he might bring up at the sea shore.
Turn where he would, bring up where he
might, the chapparal was doubtless surround.
ed on all sides by troops ready to pick oft his
men the instant they should appear in sight.
Nevertheless, to remain in the dense mass
was certain to'entail death on himself and
band iry the most rightful of all its forms-
starvation and thirst! With these reflections
his resolution was instantly take.
"It is better," he said to his officers, "to
incur the risk of being shot by the troops
who are watching for us, than to meet a lin.
gering fate here. Let us strike in a straight
line from where we stand !"
Orders were given to this effect, and thy
band moved slowly in single file to the south.
But after wandering for some hours, they felt
satisfied that they were only penetrating fur.
other and deeper into the thorny mass; and
they halted to recruit their strength, which
had been severely drawn upon in their tramp,
through the stern stalks.
After a brief rest, they struck eastward,
and wandered on till nightfall, with the same
result as before, when the darkness setting in,
they were compelled to desist, and to seek in
slumber a forgetfulness of their hunger anid
thirst.
Early   .the following morning they r
sumed their i amp, and about noon came, to
their great j y, to the road from which they
had retreated. As they approached it, the
foremost of the party   peered cautiously
through the high, thorny stalks out upon the
highway, but instantly drew back his head
with a low moan. The whistling, a moment
later, of a shower of bullets through, the
stalks, followed by a roar of musketry and
the frenzied yells of a thousand Spaniards,
warned the band of the fate of their corn.

I,

0]? NEW ORLEANS.

I


TilE MYSTERIES ANI MISERIES

panion, and compelled thorn to retreat hastily'r
back into the body of the chapptaral.
Critenden, having satisfied himself that
the poor fellow who had been shot was pastl
human aid, and that the road was lined by
blood thirsty troops eager to riddle him in
pieces, resolved to try the remasining route in
hope of reaching the sea shore.s
With this design, he again took up hisc
march, and wandered northward. Thle day
wore on, and as night approached th.y were
still groping their way through the thorny
stalks. At length to their astonishment and
delight the chapparal grew less and less dense.
As they advanced, the stalks gradually d wie
died smaller and sparser. By and bye, they
could hear the faint moaning of the sea.
fe'w minutes more, and they could feel the
bracing breeze from the gulf sweeping around
hem.
It was midnight, as, groping on their hands
and kneesthey emerged from the chapparal.
Looking around they perceived that they
had reached the beach, which was covered
here and there with large ledges of rock.
Mounting on one of the highest of these,
Crittenden beheld, about a quarter of a mile
to the east, a long pier, and behind it a series
of streets, rising one above another in the form
of an amphitheatre. He recognised the town
in an instant ; and descending from the rock,
he observed to his companions:
" Comrades, let us not despair. We are
but a few minutes' walk from Morillo, where,
even though we may not find food to assuage
the anguish of our hunger, we may yet ob-
tai water to cool our parched lips, and re-
vive our fainting forms. Let us proceed,
cautiously. If the Spaniards are not there
to confront us, happiness may yet be ours.-
Courage, comrades--courage !"
So saying, he placed himself at their
head, and the weak fevered band, tottered af
ter him in silence, as he led the way along the

rocky shore to the edge of the town. The
colonel bent his ear to the earth and listened.
The sane unbroken silence, the same air
of desertion which had marked it on the first
approach of the Liberators, reigned in Morillo
still.
Having assured himself that the place was
void of inhabitants, Crittenden signed to his
companions to fellow, and then led the way
to a well, situated on the main avenue near
the heights, which they reached without ob.
ervation and without interruption.
The party was divirfed into lines of six
men cich, and each line approactmd the well in
succession, and drank. Never before dick
Yater o 'orpo to ttee ien such a blessing I
It was to them like the manna sent from
leaven to the Israelites in the wilderness !
But one thing was wanting to complete
their happiness, and repay them for all their
sufferings-a mouthful of food to allay the
clamors of hunger. For two days and two
nights nothing had passed their tips save the
water they had just imbibe d !
Food, however, they well knew, was not
to be obtained in Moiillo. The inhabitants,
on quitting it, had not left a crumb of any
kind large enough to cover the point of a
neeidt e.                         .
The band grew desperate. Their thirst
was allayed, but not the ir hunger, and their
murmurs beesme loud and fierce. Turning
to Colonel Crittenden, they exclaimed-
"Show us food, or lead us where we can
obtain it. We are starving !"
' Comrades," returned the colonel, " had I
the means of showing you food, -would I not
lead you to it without your asking? you say
you are starving. Ami not hungered also?"
" Lead us then where we can obtain it
ourselves !"
" Comrades, whither shall I lead you ?"
"Any where-we care not ! Here we can.
not stay !"

CL

OF NEW ORLEANS.

I repeat it, comrades: Whither shall F
lead you ? to, Las Posas ? The road is lined
with Concha's troops, watching with leveled
musI ets for our appearance. There are ht
fifty one of us, and we are without arms
'Comrades, whither shall I lead you ?"'
" Show us then the route back to our own
country, since the ungrateful roles, instead
of corning to our rescue, abandon us to defeat
and death. Lead us back to our own land !"'
" But comrades, what means haywd for
transportation thither ? Even could we find a
vessel, we should starve ere we reached
borne !"
" We'll run the risk of that! Rather than
starve, .elieat our shoes, and after that cast
lots. Some must die, that the rest may live
Come, lead us home!''
But, how can I lead you home, without
means "
"Comrades !" should a pri:e a }roach.
ing them, " we are saved. There re four
boats down by the pier !"
" Do you hear that, colonel ?" cried the
party, exultantly. " Will you refuse to lead
us now
"No," returned Ciittenden. "Since you
wish it, we will strike for home. Follow te."
And he led the way to the shore. The
private had spoken truly. Therre were four
boats lashed to the pier.
The party   was instantly divided  into
twe°lves ,andeache haded byan ofieor,they en-
tered the beats and pulled out into the gull.
Their strength however,w:as fas leaving them,
and their frenzied hope of running down to
Key  Vest abandoned them ere they had been
two hours on the sea.
Noon approached; the tide was bearing in
towards the shore, and the rowers were too
weak to resist it. The boats drifted with the
waves, and as the sun climbed its way slowl1

here was by;this time scarcely suffielent
sense among the wretched party to render
them ali'e to the horrors of their situation.-
)f the fitr boats C ittendetn's was the only
one whieh could boast of four rowers. The
other, averaged but two each. The great
majority of the crews had succumbed to hun-
ger. SAome lay senseless at the bottom of the
frail barks. Others reclined upon the sides,
one gnawing his shoes ; another slowly chew.
ing up the fragments of his neckerchief; a
third, nursing his tobacco quid to bunt the
edge of his hunger  a fourth, gnawing his
fingers, and :tucking the blood, thus fiintly
assuaging at the same time both his pinching
hunger and his parching thirst. The scene
was horrible ; and Crittendet, himself weak,
pale, nerveless and f verish, placed his hands
before his ey es to shut out the fthight ful sight.
fie was aroused by the report of a gun.-
Looking off in the direction of the eund, he
beheili a war steamer rapidly approaching
him, with the Spanish flag waving at the
mast head 1
" We ore lost !" he murmured. " Even
if we had weapons, we have not strength
enough to use them !'
lis observation was correct. There was
sea0rct ly a man on board the boat capable of
holding uphis head. The faces of the hap-
less party were pale, pinched and lengthened
with suffering and misery. Their eyes were
wild, staring and glassy ; and it required
but half a glance to pet ceive that the poor
fellows were on the verge of ndioss.
Aht !~' murmured the colonel, looking at
them with a shud der, " what hunger and thirst
will do! My heart bleeds for you, rug brave
comrades--my heart bleeds for you!p"
To his own su ilrinrs the gallant officer
gave not a thought. Every faculty was wrapt
at ceatemplnttio of and pity for the misery

up the lorizon, Urttenden fouN  himself 1=;f .is ompan ions.
wandering amid the iek bonding the Island,  The soui nd of oars now greeted his ears,

A.
t

8       r


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

and turnirg his head, he beheld an armed  Crittenden and his brave companions heard
pine   approaching him. ,              the announcement of their fate without the
" Yield !" cried twenty Spanish voices at movement of a muscle.
once.                                     At nine'clock, on the morning of the dayr
"Comrades, do you hear?" said Crittenden, after their arrival at Havana, the order ar-
hoar ely, to his men.                   rived for their transfer from  the steamer to
'I ree or four of them bowed faintly, and the place of execution, and they were march.
a sickly smile of resignation played for an ed down the vessel's gangway, one by one,b
instant around their parched lips,      stripped to trowsers and shirt,some even with-
t Yie ld, pirates !" repeated the Spaniards, out the latter covering, bare headed, hands
and ihe click of musket locks fell on the tightly bound behind their backs, into a ferry
coo ei's car.                           boat, and transported to the foot of the castle of
Would ye fire or' unarmed meni!" shouted Atares, at the head of the harbor, and there
critwnden, with flashing eyes. 'Cowardly landd for slaughcr.
dogs! see you not we are without means of  AU Havana apparently had turned out to
def feec, and perishing u ithi want ! And yet, witness the frightful scene. The plain around
you dare outrage humanity by lifting your was one'derse mass of whites and blacks. All
guns against us! Out,houid! 1 blush for you!" classes and all ranks mingled imdiscriminate.
Silenee,pirate !'" shouted the commander ly, to gloat with wild delight over the brutal
of tIe ptitnce, a spindle-legged offshoot of drama.
the s      ranish breed, standing at the stern, and  In a carriage drawn up in the front line of
ln isinlg hi- hanger arounrtd his head with the spectators, and veiledso as to conceal her
incr dible rapidity to the iurrminent danger of features, might have been seen the pale, set,j
his,  srs, "or I'l cut you to pieces! Should immovable features of Fanny Gardner; her
he lht a finger," he added to his men, " shoot dark eyes peering through the window  at theit
hinm-hoot him dead. !faces otepisoer as the mrhdwt
The pinnace now struck the   boat, and as stern, unfaltering steps to the spot whereon
there  was no   resistance, the miserable they were to die.
"Lie is not ampong them V  ummru

wrrtches-the mtajorhy of them senseless--
were transferred roughly to the former, and
conveyed with all speed to the war steamer,
where they were instantly put in irons, and
buudled down between decks amidst the ape
like chattering of the offeers, and the idiotic
hurrahs of the sailors and marines, who
could not have displayed more bombast had
they captured a whole fleet.
The three remaining boats were also taken,
within an hour or two, and their occupants
hurried on beard the steamer, when the latter
ran down to avana and delivered the pris-
oners with a great lourish of trumpets to the
Captain General, why ordered them to be
publicly -hot, on the following morning.

r"leinoamnthem V site murmured
"And yet but for him, these brave spirits
would not now be on their way to death!
This is the first act isthe tragedy of my ven-
geance! .!
So muttering, she sank musingly back in
the carriage, and from that moment till she
returned to her hotel gave no thought to what
was passing around her-
The prisoners, on reaching the spot des-
ignated for their slaughter, were drawn out
in siXes, and made to kneel, half a dozen at a
time with their backs to the soldiery, who
then shot them down, amid the frantic shouts
of the crowd.
Colonel Critnenuen was, by a species of re-

fined cruelty reserved for the last, that he )inta mous than coward; that word is -San-

might have the double agony of witnesin
the butchery and of hearing the dying crie
of his companions.
When ordered to step forward, he obeyed
with a calm, firm step.
" Turn your back and kneel !" said the
effleer charged with the order of execution
" Neer '" he exclaimed, with heroic in
dignatin. ' An Americ;an keels onldy tl
his God, and alwisJac shis enent!' '
With these words, he braced    himsel
firmly on his ftEet, and controting the troops
with undaunted eye, cried out-
" Minions. of a t ranl, bear this in y our
muemories, as the dying declaration of Will
Crittenden : There is a word in the lexicon
of life more infamous than coward; that
word is-Spaniard! P
.' Fire !" shrieked the oflicer, dancing with
fury.
A line of electric light glided along the-
range of muskets, flowed by a lou , sharp
report. 'wenty balls had been hurled upon
the chivalrous American, and yet his body
still stood up and apparently as firm as be
fore-the cairn smile of defiance and meas
uteless scorn still play ingaround his bold,heau-
titully chiselled lips,now red with blood drip-
ping from h:s split brow !
The cowardly troops rushed forward, and
clubbing their muskets bravely battered down
that proud, mocking head which hung on the
shoulders o -a corse!
The chivlrous American was right. Thle
dastardly soldiers, and the infamous wretches
composing the mulaitude, rttswed forward with
wil, inhuman yells, ere yet his remains had
fairly touched the earth, to mangle, drag and
tear in pieces the bodies of the gallant dead.
Yes, the brave  American was right.-
There is a word in the lexicrn of life more

r I atd

CHAPTER XXVI.

e   Let us now return to Lopez; whom we left
. at Las Posas, and who was wholly ignorant of
the fate of the gallant but unfortunate Colonel,
A fier waiting three days ft r the arrival of
Colonel Crit enden, whose non appearance at
Las Posas was a source of considerable in.
quietude to him, the General despatched a
messenger to Morillo to learn the cause of
his delay.
The messenger had not proceeded many
miles on his route, when he discovered some
ten or twelve hundred troops and a large
number of armed Cubans watching the chap.
paral.  The  g nral appearance of the road
satisfied him that a battle had been fought be.
twetn Critenden and the Spaniards, who had
in the end driven the gallant Colonel to look
for safety in the chapparal.
leaving made these observations, the mes-
senger returned to Las Posas, and gave in
his report to Lopez, who reflected a few mo-
nts, and then resolved to proceed at once
to the Colonel's rescue. 11 is columrns were
s u in riotion, ,iand an honr's march brought
tn in sigit of the enemy, on whom he fell
with such impetuosity that the latter, notwith-
standing their aups-rior force, scattered and
(1d in every direction,
The General's observant eye had detected
among the enemy some Cubans, whose faces
were familiar to hih, and many of whom he
ki new tm1 be pheged to the rising.
The dis:ove ry startled and pained him, as
it was an additional evidence that the Creoles
had no irtienion of comtig up to the work of
the Revolution.
"The traitors !" he murmured fi himself,
" have they lured me into this snare but to

17
II
di

f
"

OF NEW ORLEANS.

84

85


as God is my witness P' replied the Creole,
in a voice quivering with terror
" How comes it," continued Lo .peZ, " that
'I riflo and Las Posas are deserted ?"
"-The inhabitants received orders to that
efT et from  the authorities," answered the

t
t
l

I
}i.
t  z

86

TIlE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

betray me?   At Morillo, I should have found
friends in hundreds, if n t in thousands, and
yet on arriving there, not a Creole press nted
himself. At L.s Posas, I should have be r
welcomed by the revo~lutinisi ; hut yvet, oin
reaching it, I find an itmpty town-the peoi)le

vanish before me, and when at lenth I n man.
yisid, it is not by ihe people, nt by the  '' Whenr fore ''
Dreols, whom I have eomne to releac from  " Becaue your Excellency's arrival at
their bondage, but by legions of Spantards ! Morilo as expectedd.,
S dol n it.  T r , ~o     on s..  "  The  authorities  expected  that, you  say  -"
tory in i' all, w hielh I ed t iathom ! Tn  " Yes, Excellency.'
htter-yes, it is plain -it was a forget y, to  " A i the people~~"
entrap rue. Isee it now, plain as ths sun.  " The people, E'xceilency, were ordered to
light which is oiling b inm. The towns, d-E give the troops very information and assis
-   G       -  tace in their power, relative to your Excel
troops prepared to fall on me in squodrons- lency."
oh ! it is transparent as gslas-rys, it is a  A bitter smile passed over the General's
snare to beguile me to ruin-I am betrayed ! features, as he iuriured-
But by    b     yhm- by whom??"" Did I not guess aright ?           The letter a
snare to lure mec where Concha could be pre.
At this moment some soldierss approached,
d g l t d i armed with all his forces'to reive me!-
"hra it  we  shot ths  racal, Gha rreai,,  F   oo1  -fool, that I was to  give  credence  to  it
"Shall we shoot this rascal, (oeral .  so readily ! My men are lost unt;as I speedily
they asked, saluting  it, a la   iae. betrke my -elf'fron here !  Now, kn ve,"
« lil. let you know presetly," was the he said aloud, "tell me, what forces are in
reply. "Leave him here, and return in ten the neighborhood ?"
minutes."                                   '1 can say nothing definitely, Excellency;
The soldier released their hold of the Cre- but I can tell you what is reported ?"
ole, bowed, and then retired to a distance of'  ' Well, knave, what is reported .'
some twenty yards.                          "It is whispered among the troops whom
"Aprproach," said Lopez, bending his stern, your Excellency,has just defeated, that twelve
thoughtful eyes upon the prisoner, "andl an- thousand will be here before midnight; and
ewer truly, as your life depends upon it, the that before noon to morrow, five thousand
few questions I. shall put to ypu."       more will arrive from Principe !"
" Speak on, Excellen y !" stammered the  " From  Principe ?" repeated Lopez.---
Creole, trembling withfeta.              " Why are tley drawn from there ."
" Where are the revolutionists " demand.  " Bcause, Excellency, they are wanted
aee Lop z, sternly,                  there no longer."
"There are none, Excellency !" answer.    "  What do you mean by that, knave ?"
ed the ma.                               dmoinarded Lopez, bending his stern eyes upon
"1lowa knave ! You are deceiving me ! him, as if he would read his very soul.
Where are ht~e revoltionit  "            "I mean, Excellency,'' returned the pri-
" E4ept those in Principe, I know of none, I soner, "that all is quiet there, and that there

°_

OF NEW ORLEANS.

it n loner                     .87
eists no oner any necessity for the pres.   "Is it your Exellency's intention to kill
en1Co of thf Loos"                   P   )trnC'   tyu C?"Ie       ysiteto       obl
"Yudo)t tmean t1to inform 7Usrffi'   "I s1 me ?
that the r   ti   n o inor  me seriously  "It is !" answered Lopez, with a settled
"te: r    cletnis overi Principe.''     frown.
"Ye    id that take plc"             '    "Then, your Excellency," said the Creole,
6"Soe diday    tane pxce  "           "I will not go into the presence of God with
"WSohbme         oftdhricExcellency."2a lie on my lips."
"WT tareo become of the rvolutionit5 ?"  "Beware, knave !" said Lopez, threaten-
"they are either shot or in prison,'"   iegly.the~en
" Wh~at--all ?"             prison.      mly,
4Alloftbel E"xcellenov1".               " I repeat it. Excellence," persisted the
ey'Creole              "Icc  i
"oThere is, then, no longer a           Creol, "1    v    not lose my chance of
Tionhe"                    g   any revolu- heaven by a lie. Every word I have utter-
"ton   e, Eed                               to your  Excellency, i true  !"
ANone ofceagonyas                        "A re your fingers on the triggers of your
A shade of agony passed over the General's guns ?" said Lopez, addressing the soldiers.
brow. HIfmede a sign for the two soldiers    " Yes, General "
who instantly approached".Co                          tc
"Are your guns loaded ?" demanded Lo     fixing hiss t      ye          C   ope
p:ez.                                        ,      .. ye  teny upon the CreQole,".-;
" es, GenraTh."re is but an instant between you and
"Yes, General."                                                          Y eerniand
etermity P!"
"One of y ou stand on this man's right,    ' I will employ  that inst        -
the other on his left."  .'emly ta                                sant, then, mn pre-
paring to face my God."
The soldiers obeyed,                       "Man," said Lopez, solemnly, ' I am now
"Now,"      . ntimued Lopez, with a gloomy raising my finger.  You are abo, tosak
frown, " r:ise your muskets, press them    fe the last lime,  Let yu e      gout to speak
against the rascal's temples, and when you one of truth. Answer m  th
see my finger drop, blow out his brains !"  would answer the Hol   Trin, in      o
Ir dan iirst nt the miserable Creole com. presence r another monet you wi hose
preended that he was to be shot, and while Have you told me the truth, or that which
every drop},of blood receded from  his y            tldti thtutfalseat ?' c1'i
hisknesshol d  -      om  his face,  false ?
his knees shook and his teeth chattered like  "The truth !" answered the Creole, firml
" ih,n a xcelse it''.h      -     -     " Now I can die without a fear."
O hic hsllnc fear he exclaimed, in a "No," said Lopez, with, a mournful smile,,
voice, which his fears had converted into a "you shall not die--.on the contrary  you
shu°ak, as he felt the cold tubes touching his shall live. It was but a ruse to test the r
uave aieady- far the love of God! mercy! liability of your statements.  Soldiers, with
I have a wife and family wh,7 Icol alone to draw  your weon           drtsf
o                                                yme rea I  M weapons, and depart' s for
tod !--mercy  "-y-!or the love of you," he added to the Creole, "you aro
/ .          --free !"
knaviylece I dr Amvpr z, sternly.  "Now,  Overcome by this unlooked for change in
p my     ger--ere I plunge his prospects, the Creole fell upon  nee;
your bl  k soul into eternity, confess that and  erst into tears.
you   ave been telling me, is    "Rise, sir," said Lopez  respectfully.
fals- !"           "That is  not a  position  for  a  man, su h as
CJS~ZUI  A  m  n n,. ,t.  _ 0


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
y h v p d y u e . i e sir,   a ' d  and  out  off  every  chance  of  escap p.  XW ell,
your have provd falyourself.  Rise,sa      if they take me, they will have to pay the
"return to your famnsy. m  a   estifled to price ?  I'll turn in here !"   -
u, Not tull Yi have am some way toI             itda      esoet        ag    ofe
you my gratitude,"   returned the  Creole.    lie pointe  as he spike, to a large offto
"You have given me my life-I owe you at plantaton, on the road ide,    t   f   o
least gratitude in return."                iA
Let  itu pasreturn." Lozmrnto this he led the way, but had scarcely-
a r Let it pass," sail Lop z, mournfuxlly          e-bmel wente rops           uitig
" [ see the snare into which I have been led, entre e  d   d  en   the htill, qttickd
as well as the ifte which is in store for   :,} laau and descending    he battle
incil'                            vn idPhgreat  mpetiio~ty.  The  battle  was
mpe i!"                    -   .   n    -     /+,      obstin abut at the close of an
" Your Excellency speaks aright,    said         nl )    i        at thei loeader
the Creole, with an expression of symyathy.      the Spaniards, havin lot two hunr
£ Your only hop  lies in reaching the noun    [   l a  tratd~ ban t    t t  eaohun,
tains ! There you   may be able to set the ;     !p n, wtrcatd back b   the pl   ne
troops at defiance !"                      t'hof whicli was eunimatided by a line
But who is t' guide me thither ?" doe t-in          cnoo       e      e      ,
mand d the General.       Atohe sugestid of the Creole gaide, Los
a:i will, your Excellency !'' stcdom           another chain of lofty hilasnsome twen
But should it be discovered, your oom          l      n
would not be less feat ful than mine !"   4        (ldtanst. bo
# i am  aware of that, Excellency ; and       hu withn abou a        e of h eey,
yet, it you accept my humble services, you   un      tr              oion, an  oreed on
hal reach th mountains."                      r    ot from a cross road, bordered on
Enough, sir," said Lrpez, pressing his  ther ids ey thick, dh k woods, and s den
hanu, "I will owe my life to you!"7                Py defupondhe with wild shouts.
z The General now called his officers, and  Lopez defended ainst hime  were too tare
telling them he had discovered that a lar te free areayed agopainl. in wea qt o
number of troops were on their way to at- ion him to hops to prevail. In a quarter of
tack him, ordered them to form  their corn-  n hour his men were in full flight, sen.
mrands into marching order, as it was his in. making  r the wvcod , othes for the first tim
nation to avoid the approaching host, by re- hill, a  he experi e dfr the fitrs
treating to the mountains,                   nce his arrival on the 1Bland, the  t
In a few minutes the small army was in   of defeat.
miotin, and, proceed by the Creole guide,   Perceiving then that his n en, unable
on its way to the mountains.  In three hours withstand  h  th   in  ore    aray
Lopz had reached Pina del Roy, and wao against them, had thtowndl down their are
about to acnd a hill, leading to the moti- and taken to the woods and hills, he gave the
at    oaswhen d at eye of agth  oe detected n  order for retreat to the few remaining around
large body of troop on the plateau at its top . hime, and plungedjato a dep, dense lbr c
With a low groan, he called the attention of the left.
.h J n rlto telg .                      For  four  days  andi nights,  the  uinfrtunate
the eeralto the light. elup moment aN the General and his followers wandered through
pez oiokd .-.epra                     the forest, with no other food than roots,
"Th-ey have auunipateda me at every point ,berre im  idpatis        nwln        a

OF NEW ORLSANS
the morning of the fifth day, he found that of  "Castenada'"  'd   L
his compamlionsbut six remained around him: proLchirng himquietlyp
the others having groped their way through    On heatng his name uttereth
the devious w innings of the wood in search of t ra   ringol  arond  buttererceivreoe
an aveue ofescpe.                              rned lowly around ; but on perceiving
"(Come, comrades," he said, with a sigh, -      ath epe.tscale fdh ig, he sprang to hi
Slet us quit this forest in which to inenmain -  a 1 dng pressioan  delighted surprise e
to starve,  ant go in sear h of food'    -  n      edong  hi and to the fugitive chief,
" Yes'' observed Charles Gardner  oe o           e                    companions t
the six, anythingg is better than this.
"Let as go, then. "                      .   me in,p he said, hastily, as he led th
The   ieptto            f tay into house.                 " This is no time for ex
Looked outcattiously ue o the road. No    p1 nations. I know-all; and while I regret
leasd mosgt, atio y  tepped rorth. Ne turn afliirs have taken, I will do my best
Asisihttaea they ppedeforthed.pot            concealment and soften the sternness
As  iy  ntredupn t.'highway, ti. of your position."
held proclamatios posted upon thetIn' '.7   '"lBravo !' W
bordering the tog a thousanddoub          hn cumpatnions  This d Chareles Gardnerto
loons a full pardon arnd a free passage to thefl  after anu''s       reoleisatrmp
own euntry to such of hisfollowers as wouhi  led % but knon
abandon Lopez and deliver him   ul) o to t;   mp', hearuha whatas passing in the
govermem.                                     mpa    ' d hltatthat oerat,e would have
'There camradas,"osaid the generalpoinl g      ta erIa cnductethe paryto
a ith a quiet smile, to the bills, " thereis  eh  er aon   dct the  paort to a spacious
ance for you to becotne rich and to see      unbed onthe second v   td of the builynhd t
yourselves against all danger !"             he            th  at    the ha nd a
Ah !" said Gardner, " you know  with s    rstantial meal, and then   th s   , a
w  hat safety you ca toshow us the opportunity  ps niqea, ta then       left them, atf
I b er e is not a mant of us but would die           q  stte might enjoy a few
The i nofot-hours of tranquil and refreshing repose.
"hou  d                                    On quitting his uts,asteada closed the
huld  allit bhO ur destiny to escep.:in d oo r, adcefully ble  t nteou.td
,lefe'y to the Utioted States," return            decend     t the   i   n the outside,
you will not find me ungrateful.  But houer       +    -while a' devi  e pla e pcmuttered
is a hacienda with whose owner 1 am     c  lieps
tainted. Let us see what sort of a recep.     F
tion he will give to usir-ates."                  fortune plays into my hand. I'll pocket
Is he a creole, General?"               the rwad olrd for( the credulous fool's  tc
"  capture.  Men may call me villain, traitor, th
pleted themselves to the rising.  Let's:-e. 0; bd .   u    hat care   ? The thousand
,shat he'll do for us, now that there is danger oos that I shall get for delivering him
o himself in harboring                   1 and  bs copanions up, will console me for s n_
heus!'I all.' that the world mayra gls                            e     e
Ihey catered the large, open gate of the I them laugh  at wn ay say agamst    e      n
, nknton, ed on proceeding to the house    'With thi     b
beh1ld the proprietor stretched ur'on a cane cofee planterr a eaftion thetraherous
:Jtee on th pzz  leisurely smokinga cigar.! book, and scraledoi ea folm     or


00                     THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
"The traitor Lopez ad six of his fellow take us at once where we shall be free from
pirates are at my hacienda, whither they the presence of this reptile !" c
came in search of food and shelter, and which  " It is my business, sir," said the com nan-
I promised them in order that I might the der," to convey you at once to Havana. So
bled to deliver them  up to the far as my own feelings are concerned, I would
ofiersbeo her most Christian Majesty the rather as a soldier have taken you in battles
Queen, and thus prove the sincerity of my than to be indebted for your capture to thi
loyalty to the noble government under which man," and a3 he spoke the officer turned his
I have the honor to live.                eyes full upon the coffee planter, who shrunk
JosE ANToNIO CASTENADA."    like a detected thief from his glance, " whon
This note he despatched by a peon to the from my innermost soul I despise ."
nearest Spanish outpost, and in less than an So saying, he made a sign to his men, and
neaestSpaishoutost an  m  esstha anthe prisoners were led from the apartment
hour five hundred lances made their appear-ow the dpr were  d  a waont
n~uc at he pantaz~ndown to the door, where stood a wagon, iqto
axce at the plantation.                  which they were hurried with but little cere-
The treacherous host conferred a few min-
utes with the commander of the troops as to mon y, n  rvnfo    h   lnain
the best mode of capturing the fugitives a  I will take this opportunity ofstating,before
then betmodeoftcapturingutheifugitivs, eand going further, that the host paid, a month or
then, taking with him a quantity of cord, he two laterfor his treachery with his life. He
was found dead one morning, on the side of
Lopez and his companions were wrapt in a the road facing his hacienda, with a knife
deep slumber. Castenada and a. lancer qui sticking in his heart; while pinned upon his
etly approached, seized and bound them, breast, within an inch of the fatal wound,was
while a dozen of the lancers stood by ready a piece of paper containing the following
to pin them to the floor in case they awoke ere significant words:
they were placed by the cords beyond the  "' als blow  to the heart of him  who
power of resistance.                     treacherously delivered up Lopez, the friend
As soon as the operation of tying them was of Cuba.               A Cuzos".
completed, the lancers at a sign from  their  The name or person of the avenger was
commander, gave a loud shout, and the poor never discovered.
betrayed wretches awoke.
Imagine their suprise, indignation and
momentary afiright on discovering themselves        CHAPT 1R.XXVIl"
bound and surrounded by the spaniards ;
and the look of calm  contempt which they   Lopez and his companions were conveyed,
threw upon their treacherous host.       to Havana with all possible speed, and hurl.
"It is all over, comrades !" observed Lo- ed into prison. The intelligence of their
pez to  his companions. "This misertible seizure was instantly posted on every wall
bound has betrayed us! but his black treach- and house.front throughout the city.
ry shall be remembered ; and, whether I    The Spaniards could scarcely credit their
live or die, he shall pay the penalty of hie senses. They were frenzied with astonish(
baseness! "Then turning his head to the com- ment and delight, and  rent the air witW
naer of the lancers, he added-" We are wildest vivas. Unaccustomed to victories of
n.our hands, sir! As you are a gentleman, any kind, either on sea or land, the news of

OF NEW ORLEANS.

g

the capture of so important an enemy as which fast     i -y-
Lopez was so un-:c~loed forta temseal    ,,,,     ezsnsm mmovably to the post -
Lopecies ol'd cr d that the miserable screw with long arms, also attached to t
imbeciles could hardly credit it as rcal; and post. is by a single turn of the wheel behir
t tev         thod were convinced of its it, forced into the neck of the condenne
punge  at once into the most producing instant death.
ridh culous ecsses, and knowing themselves At the appointed hour, Lopez was condtu
tothe inont and mostloathsomeofcowards, ted to the steps leading to the scaffold, whi
they innomely fac'd for a few hours that he ascended with a calm, firm'step. 11
They  cl smteu bat brave after all !    person was enveloped in a cloak, which,
They cl      heir stores, threw  up their he reached the top ofthe platform, the execu
i    P olght processions, ilium- tioner removed, and the unfortunate hero the
nted ther dwellings, laughed, danced, ca- appeared before the vast multitude in the m
pered,    dc, sac, nd went into the most itary uniform in which h  had een tem
ludicrous of deli!ums. The Captain Gener-    lis bearing was calm dignified and htroi
al was not eempt from the general folly.-- Not a muscle quivered,  He look an eri
ie issued proclamations every hour-flatter. fatal chair in which he was so soon to tk
ing the people for their "loyal enthusiasm," his seat, with a quiet and undisturbed  tak
and compn nting7 the Spanish officers for   The death by garote is regarded by Spay
what he satirically termed their "nobleness, iards, as the most infamous f all death
patnoitimsrn ad valor," in routing, slaying and is the mode of punishment to whic their
capturin'fie hundred men with a force on consign thieves and the vilest criminals..
their   own  ie of nineteen thousand!   Judge then reader of the depravity- ofa
he dy following Lopez's arrival at Ha- cha's black, cowardly heart, in sentence
vana, tE deunms were sung in all the church; soldier to the death of a common crina
cannon rosered from ea rliest dawn till dusk; IHis only excuse was that Lopez had
the opulce got p effigies of the captured him tremble; and as a  paniard  mae
hero, and riddled them to pieces with guns gives a man who has caused him neversfor
loaned to th.~e purpose by the govermeat.-- the bitterness of fear, the Captain Genera
heity went mad with Spanish de. avenged himself by taking from  the vetero'
hich mean: the most insans folly.  warrior the right to a soldier's death and cory
r lon et morning of the second day signing him to that of a criminal!
a m'or Loez' arrival all Ha vanatturnzed oaff - Afi
th pi o     eolrf                in    After removing his cloak, the execution
Sto decitn  the Moro  not the head of te bar- took from the condemned General his en,
her, io witosthe execution of the unfortun- broidered coat, his sash, and all the insignia &amp;
deen sentenced to die by his military rank, in token of disgrace.
-ethe l--Lopez, with his hands tightly bound tc
On the large fat space opposite the Moro gether, stepped forward, to the edge of th
castle, a platform ten feet high, was erected. scaff&amp; l, and casting his yes over the mult
Proj etingup through the platform, to a tude, said, in a loud, firnf voice-
height of h it five feet, was a strong wooden  "1 pray the Creoles 4ho have brought m
psth     h was fastened the instrument of to this, to pardon me fo placing confident
death, the gate. A chair is placed against in their professions, as I pardon them for nc
the post, in which the prisoner takes his seat; coming to my rescue when I needed it, fl'
an iron collar is then clasped around his neck, my death will not change the destiny e

..


TiE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
auba! Freedom will yet be hers. Adieu!   As the execution closed and the  multitude
,y beloved Cuba."                      bean to move, Fanny Gardner pulled a small
Turning bis eyes toward the Moro Castle. string which communicated with the driver
e beheld Charles Gardner and a scare or on the box, arid threw herselt back im the
nore of his late companions, drawn up in a carriage. The crack  of a whip followed,
ice upon the battlements, by order of th-e and a moment later the vehicle was dashing
~ptain 0General, that they might have the back to the city w ith the velocity of lightning.
flny of witnes'sng the execution of their be  The carri iye dre w up at the gates of the
ved General.                          palace, into which its fair occupant passed
As herecogfi.Cd them, Lopez bowed, and with firm but hasty stop ,and handing her
..x*laied-                             card to a servitor, was at once shown into
" Adieu, my brethren-adieu!"         the cabinet of the Cap13tain General.
He then stepped back, and calmly seated  " Ah ! fair lady," said Concha, ruboing
imself in the-fatal chair. A priest with the his hands with delight, "your scheme has re-
,rucifix and taper stood on one side of him ; suited most happily. The traitor fell into
he executioner on the other. The df ath col- the snare, and has paid the price of his temer-
ar wvas then placed around the General's ity. What do I not owec you!'
e. The priest now placed the crucifix to  " Nothing but what you can  easily pay,
he General's lips. At the same instant the senor !' returned Fanny Gardner. " You
'xecutioner gave the screw a single turn, and remember our compact ?"
-Lopez was no more !                     " Certainly--to give over to y ou in private
The multitude drew a long breath, and the life of him who slew your lover. But
hen dispersed. Such   calm, unflinching have you not yet abandoned that terrible idea?
heroism in the hour of death staggered the One would not exp'c t to meet so fierce a
ibecile Spaniards, and drove back to their spirit in a woman !"
lack hearts the insulting cheers in which it  "You have had revenge upon your enemy,'
was their purpose to indulge at the close of returned Fanny Gardeer, calndl ; ' and I
he execution; and under the solemn influence now vishthe same upon mne !"
which a brave man's death never fails to im-  " Ard you shall have it, lady !" returned
pose upon a crowd, they retired, thoughtfully Concha. " I am too much elated by the re.
and in silence,                        suit of this affair, t denyyou any thing.
d    d    y  t

Among the spectators, seated in her car-
riage, and veiled as before, was the relentless
Fanny Gardner. Her face was pale, but
calrn. Through her partially drawn aside
veil she looked up steadily at the line of
prisoners drawn up along the battlements of
the More.
S"ie is there !" she muttered, with a cold
smile of triumph, " and little dreaming of her
who brought him there. Charles Gardner,"
she continued, mentally apostrophising the
Dhject of her wrath, "you are looking upon
'fthe light of day for the last time!"

And even if I weie uisposU to no oitw I e 0
you have my word, and I cannot forego that !
The man you speak of--is he among the
prisoners ?'
l ie is, senor. I sw him but now.".
Concha regarded her with surprise.
You saw him- where ?
' Among the prisoners on the battlements
of the Moro."
"AIh! that, indcei ?  His'namne ?1
Charles Gardner."'-
The Captain General surveyed her thought-
fully for a few moments.

OF NEW    ORLEANS.                               93
"lie is a relation of yours ?" he said at make his )reparations. What sort of death
length.                                  is it ti w which you doom this man ?  The
" Were he fify," r tuined the woman,   arote is the one in vogue among us here in
evasively, u inh flasthing eyes, he should Hlavana. It is certain, painful aind infa
die !"moGs
. " I do not doubt it, rn-ddai !" obServed  '' The garote will do, senor
Concha, otdlV. "I understani it all, now !"  "Very wlI. It will take time to put up
ne aded r hinst-I.e   T'his wonui his been the mnehinery 'even for that, I would keep
playing ti+ adulerss ; aI it is her husbid te poor d vii out of the hands of the tiress
on whom -e seeks revenige for his punish- as lotg as possible !'" he added to himself.
ment of     Vler. Poor felow ! I pity him,  IIw long ?'' demanded -heoa
.    demand th woma, hxmng
lie must be- a fellow with a high sense of herV dark eyes upon him as if she would read
honor to iv sl. it the scouniril iwho sedue- his unittetred thoughts,
ed hisit oe. That he did not also kill her,  "Some hour's at l'eat !" returned Coocha.
the brazen di-honiorer of his bed, is also an "But if you desire it, matters shall be hur-
evidence that he is a man of some mnagna- ied.'
nuimity !  nd now I see how it was he per-  " I do desire it !"
rtitt*ed hsct to be in veigled into this miser-  "Very well," said Conchta, coldly. "Then
able ent prse of the seltstyled Liberatorsr. I will give you an order on the governor of
A ma u's dnesnt i t roub es render him rek- the prison, so that you will not be under the
less anl in se enough for any thing.- And necessity of calling upon me again."
o thi shiaiks this realignant tigress, I  So saying he sat down and hastily drew up
must now give the poor devil up ! I would I the order.
could reli ae myself from the painfal neces-  " There," he continued, handing her the
sity-but I cannot consistently : the Jezabel paper, " you may call at the prison at three
has placel me under too important obliga- o'clouc, and show that to the governor."
ton) anu h s'des she has ray word !"       " At three ! not before ?"
Then turning to his auditor, he said :"fThis woman is as blood thirsty as a
" When do you wish this prisoner to be wolf!" niuttered the Captain General to him.
placed at   our disposal, mnadaa !'  self with a shudder. " That, Madit," he
" Now, this instant, senor !"          added aloud, "is the earliest hour at which I'
Cencha shook his head-                 can promise you every thing will be ready.'
" Too soon," he said, coldly.  " Things  a Very well, senor. I must ros ain my
eucot be done in one instant, even in Ha- imptient heart I.  "il now take my l
vana, where we have a habit of doing moat   " Stay !" said Concha, has'ily, as she was
tens with despatch.  If I remember rightly gliding from the room.
you desire no one to be present at the dread  " Well, senor
acene except the executioner and yourself?'  " Is it your intention to remain in Havana
The woman bowed,                       ofter this--after to-day ?"
" Well, instructions have got to be sent to  ' No, senor."
the Governor of the prison, who has in turn  "In that case you will want a passport."
to send his instructions to the deputy, who  " Yes."
will in turn have to give his instructions to  "To save you the trouble and annoyance
the executioner, who wvill in his turn have to of calling for it, I will have one made out


S4            .     TILE MYSTEI1 ES AND MISEIES
yd sent to your lodgings, where you ui find\ himself to the dungeon where the object of
t on your return from the prison."       her hatred lay chained to the wal    t
Thnssno-                               On arriving at the entrance to the cell, the
" One word more. How are you off for governor made a signal to the turkey, who
money 1"                                had also previously received his instruction,
" Why do you ask ?"                    and the latter at once turned the lock, and
"You have rendered me an important Fanny Gardner passed in with a bold, unfa-
ervice, and I shall not rest easy till I have tering step.
discharged the obligation."                She was followed by a tall, lanky, swarthy,
"1 ani not over rich, senor ; but the little copperfaced peon, whose villainous looking
have willsuflice for all my wants  I did not features were an index to his character and
ome here to make a bargain 'with you for profession. It was the executioner.
money, but for vengeance."                 This personage stalked like a spectre into
" That matters not, Mialam.  1 cannot the cell, and quietly took up his position be-
consent to feel myself under an obligatioL to hind a chair fastened to an upright post which
ny one---my nature will not permit it. In stood back and within about three-feet of the
rmy capacity of Captain General I ani an- wall.
horized to p ay in money for all services done  A little to the left of the fatal chair, and
o the government, and I insist upon remu- suspended from the ceiling by three chains,
nerating you for the very valuable hint you hung a triangular shaped burner, so shaded
gave me for the destruction of the invaders as to throw a full, heavy light upon the in-
and the anihilation of their hopes."    strunent of death.
"cSince you insis upua ,  ,' ie "      Stretched upon the floom ;nd hiu d to ihe
I do, Madam "                         wall, to the right of the garote, la y the prone
Act according to your own pleasure, and now somewhat emaciated form of Charles
n"                                  Gardner, who started with an air of surprise
"In that case, Madam, you will find at and terror as the relentless woman who had
your lodgings, on your return from the pris- sworn his death, crossed the threshold of his
on, something else besides your passport. dungeon.
Adieu "                                    "I feared this!" he ,muttered to himself,
"  He waved his hand, and Fanny Gardner "The infamous fury has come to gloat upon
retired from the cabinet for the last time.  my misery!"
Little did he dream as yet that it was to
her he owed his present unhappy position.
"Have you any further ;peed of my servi-
CHAPTER XXVl i               ces, Madam ?" asked the governor.
Fa nny Gardner looked around at the obi
At three o'clock, Fanny Gardner proen- jets in the cell; and perceiving that the fa-
ted herself at the Punta, the leading prison tal chair was prepared, and the executioner
of Havana, and was instantly admitted,   at his post, replied in the negative, and the
The governor having    been previously governor quietly took his departure.
prepared for the visit, by a note from the  "L, madam," said the turnkey, " willre-
Captain General, who had orderedhim to treat main in the passage without. When you
her with the highest respect, led the way wish to retire, pull this string which commu-

OF NEW (liL:A  S.

95

nicates with a bell on the outside, and I will or sunbfring for me.  You are too low, too
unlock the door, which I shall have to fasten worthless! She who forgets what is due to
as -I pass out.                            honor and her own soul by throwing herself
Fanny Gardner bowed          l'v ri sn]  tr. b- 111en11- 1.^.w-e_ -             _
; ndth nxtm        i t~ h eaeru ln ohamsraeinr

ment she was left face to face with the ma
whose dying agonies she had come to orde
and to  vimess.                     .
" What brings you here, madam ?' aske
Charles Gardner, as the key turned in th
ponderous lock.
You !" answered the beautiful but im
placable woman.
1 ?" returned the' prisoner, in a tone o
mockery. "Say rather your own black an
devilish heart; the same base and unprir
cipled spirit which prompted you to forge
your marriage vow and your honor, and t(
take to your auoit rous arms the lust ful hrm
of' a professional sedneer 7 Hence, ad avoi
-my curse !"9
"I will hence when the purpose for which
I have come is accomplished," said the wo
maan, calmly.  As to your reproaches and
your curse, 1 regard them as I do their ut-
terer-with conym'  t !"
"The object for which you have come?"
returned Charles Gjardiner, repeatiig he
word .'" What is that ?"'
^" T  tell you of oy triumph !" answerd
the woman. " "1o tall you that for the mtur-
der of my Oiria, over whose mangled ic
mains I swore to pursue to the death, his as-
sassin, I am now about to consigr, you to an
eternity where you will confront your vie;
tim !1'
"Your triumph !" repeated Charles Gard
tiner, mockingly. " What care 1 for your
trumph, vile, miserable adultress-creature
without character or shame !"
You will care for it soon !" returned the
malignant woman, freezingly.
"No, strumpet! You mistake. It is not
in your power to make rme frel another pang ;
the time is past, when you can create woe

ww il rcorous arms of a miserable liber-
n tine has no power over a heart like mine.
r Go! wretch.   Your power and influence
over me, are gone !"
e "No !" replied Fanny Gardner, "it is not
ie so! She who can make a man suflfr, both
in body and mind, is not withou influence !"
-   " Do you flatter yourself, lost, abandoned
woman ! that you have that power over me?"
f   "I not only think ro-I know it !"
d   "Unlearn it, then, and quickly ; for I tell
. you, hag ! it is not so! The woman, who,
t with brazen effrontery abandons herself to
o shame, and then boasts of it, is not worthy the
thought of a worm, let alone that of a man!
You forget your position !"
" Nay, it is you who forget your own !
But I will bring you to a knowledge of it
quicker than you think !"
The prisoner laughed scornfully.
"Miserable creature !" he exclaimed, "one
would fancy by your language that you had
the power of life and death in your hands !"
" And the fancy would be right," rejoined
his tormentor, with a malignant smile, "as i
hall convince you presently !"
Why not do so now, hag !" said Charles
Gardner, scornfully.
" Because it does not suit my humor ; but
i promise you 1 will cre I take my leave of
you."
" You will ?" said the prisoner, incredu.
lously,
"I will ! you nyay rest assured of it !"
"Why does not heaven smite this brazen
strumpet who stands here boasting of her
shame ?" exclaimed Charles Gardner, fur.
o'usly. -" Away, wretch ! I would not look
upon you. Your presence is worse than that
of' a scorpion !"
" You will not be troubled with me long !


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
And yet you will wi-h it longer !" sai bis'IThen encircliong his neek with the iron heel
tometeIr, fsea-zingly.hnt', the peon g atsrpIlt telti han dite of the wheel ,
j t  Youtr b 'iess  here, JzabI 't "  behind,  and  tranquilly  a wavsited  the  signal
4  To wring your heat t as you have wrung a hen, a itt a single turn, he sholit ii  o the
m ine  '                               'iron  s  r'i1 to  the  priso mer's °pi tne.
min But  I  have  told  you, 1 o nan,  tht atll  '' You  p civ e  mty  m niug  now,  do  you
-  u ever had over me is gone-- tot ?" said te mintenrel  woman, with a tri.
it depart d wit the first nitowldlge 1. had  iphat smit.  I dil nt b ast of my
y o u r   sit-t o e   l"                 p o w e r  w itto u t  a  c  nt siot u lt ett i -  o f  its  )o s se s s .
" You utistake, poor,' helpless man ! My i n. You a're sen-ible of it now--are you
power over you is bitt ju-t begun !"      not ?-,
Again  that  boast, 4yiat  mean  you, wo-.  Charles Gardnr  gard  at  e.  Thouh
an ?ASja brave man, the fhrightiutltes : of his posmon

A  a.-                              jd  hhii fr a  io  t,  FFdr1ve every
i len, a- d vou w ill hear."  .     ape Ialed   t'           , ti   i ve
t   But what if I li eit not ?"pa ticl of' bfood fmnhi          a.
"  Nav, but you  will!''                ' Ia !  ha  !' laughed  his toru-tek i'  while
" Who will make me, mierable hag ! Is a fiendih light glitered in her hod, darkr eye,
t you "                                     " I ait nott without inli net ov r yon, when
it  on                                I can mate your checks pale ant cov-rlike
l      - i t     ..t   l   .- 3t - e a r s ." '  th a t  !  HI I   !  C n a rle s  G a r d ,n  r,  o u  d e e r  o f

1'
Li

" That you will not. You shall listen. l my Orrin, I have yon no!
came hre to speak, and I must be'heard."   A n l the dungeon raung with the loud peals
'" Speak to the walls, then, struipot ! I'l of IrF t'ittrphait1 lnt an;tr
not hve my enses longer profaned by your  ' Fury ! I spit upon you !" anId Charles
ribald tongue !" cried Charles Gardner, put- Gardner, scornfully. " fy what means you
ting his hands to his ears, and bending his have obtained this power, I know not--but
neys to the floor, with an expression of loath- even though it p  laemy life in your hands,
ig.                                     it cannot preserve ou fron my so'"n
The relentless woman surveyed him for a  " As to O'001 scorn, Chtailes  rdoer, 1 do
moment, and then made a sign to the execi- not regard it of any noment. As to the
toner, who approached and bending over the means by which I have your fate at rey dis-
prisoner, quietly unfastened his chains.  ~ )osal, you shall not long ;ermaj in ignorance.
\ What is the meaning of this ?H' denan- From the moment my eye fll upon th' corpse
ded Charles Gardner, shuddering as he felt of my murdered Orrin-On in, whom I loved
the slimy fingers of the peon coming in con- with aI intensity  dcli was equalled only by
tactwithhis wn.my hatred antd scorn for yon-4 swore never
tac with his ownunti I had
"Show him !" said the woman, quietly.  to know again a moment's peace un      ad
The executiont'r threw his long lank, wiry humbled, erushed and brought yon, his assas
arms around the emaciated prisoner, and it, to thi o st. From 1 hot is ant I have
lifting him off his feet, hurried him to the hung li se a blood. hou i upon your track,
fatal chair in which he forced him, after a have wathediI your c  very  itvem in t w ith-a
short struggle, and then  quickly  and  secure ty  P'ee z e _  e .)  You  did  not  the step
bound his arms to the elbows and his extrem- without my knowing it; you did not make a
ties to the legs of thc deathly instrument, movement unmatched by me.  After the

OF NEW OIRLEANS.                  97

murder of Orrin, I was in hopes of seei1
youi convicted and p~un ished accor ding t
your deserts; but your gooi fortune set yo
free, and I was half mad )with t'age and dis
appointment. Upon your acquittal, you hard
ly knew what to do with yourself-the city o
your birth had, as your blood stained brow
was known to all, becottme distasteful to you
and you resolved to move to another scene
While pondering whither you should go, you
fell in with the ran igur, of the New Or
leans )elta, who found it easy to persuade
you into the expedition which he was gettin
up for the invasion o'f Cuba. From that mo-
ment you were doomed---fr'om that instant
my heart bounded with triumphant joy, for
a conception crossed me how I could at length
s bring your proud head to the dust, how I
could crush you like a worm, how I could
hurl You into the same dark eternity to which
you had sent my Orrin !
The eyes of herauditor glared at her as it
they sought to smite her with a look.
"I waited impatiently for your departure,"
continued the merciless woman, "that I
might be sure you were actually on your
way, before 1 should take my premeditated
step. At length, with fifty others, the ad-
vance party of the expedition, you emnbarkd
on hord the vessel which was to transport
you to the Cuban Isle. Thither I resolved to
follow you. The day after your departure, i
took the steamer for Iavaia, to make such
arrangements with the Captain General as
would crush and consign you to a sure, spee-
dy, and ignominious death--death by gar-
ote !"
"Curse you!" exclaimed Charles Gardner,
furiously. "Not content with dishonoring
your husband, you must also crown your in
famy by betraying him to death! 0, wo-
man-woman ! I blush for you--since you
are incapable of blushing for yourself!"
" And who drove mre to it ?" returned the'

g inpassioned creature. ° Who was it, that,
oin wooing me promised me happiin as comt-
u fort and love, and on wedding me, left inc to
- misery, iidigence and neglect ?  Who was
- it that abandoned me, leaving me night after
f night for months, to while away the hours in
loneliness and gloom, as if I had committed
 'ome vile crime, for which desertiont was my
Ptinishiment ?  Who was it that neglected me
for the wine cup and the gaming table, and
- toreed me to seek refuge from my loneliness
and mis ry in a false and disgraceful liason ?
You, Charles Gardner- you ! It was you
- drove me to this ! It was you who, by your
neglect and abandonment, made me learn to
- unlove and abhor you ; it was you who by
0your filthy drunkenness compelled me to re.
gard you with disgust and shame; it was
you who by your utter want of sympathy for
her who had foolishly given you her heart,
confidence and hand, forced her to accept of
your embraces with loathing ; it was you
who brought him to our house whose polite-
ness made up in sosn degree.fot your coarse-
ness, whose kindness   atoned in a great
measure for your brutality, whose love con-
soled me to a certain extent for the misery I
had experienced with you !"
Charles Gardner surveyed her with an ex-
pression of frenzied rage.
" Go on, strumpet !" he exclaimed, fairly
foaming at the lips, " go on-find sonic fur.-
ther pretexts to palliate your shame1"
" I could do it, but I will not," returned
Fanny Gardner. " There is no need of it.
I seek rtot to abate the darkness of my error,
but to show you that the wrongs which led
me to it originated with you ; to convince
you that I appreciated the utter meanness of
your character, and to render you aware that
( am not the easy simpleton for which you
took me."
"No," said Charles Gardner, grating hi
teeth, "you are not a sim'pleton--you are a

{
S


98            TIIE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

r
Y
Y
x
-g _
i
-3
;1
r  "
.Y

OF NEW ORLEANS.                 9
Had you given me your so ijetv and  your Iceive voursn1mn wbl s ,

fiend - and the worst of all fiends-a fiend  "1Has a woman no claims upon the man
proud of your crimes.                    she loves-has a woman no right to her hus-
" That is true," observed his tormnter, band's conpanionship ?  Is it a part of your
" for it was you who took from rme happi. doctrine that a woman must yield tamely to
ness, by your coldness and indiference ; it the desertion, insolence and brutality of her
was you whogave me neglect for the constanuy lord?, Is it one of your sentiments that a
which you promised me ; it was you whon oman has no right to look for happiness, if
withdrew fom me love, and left me -but he to whom she is wedded leaves her to
misery. It was this which forced inc to seek misery ? ' Is it a part of your gospel that a
happiness somewhere else, since you retst d woman is a mere plaything for man to caress
to give it me.  It was this whih forced e if it pleas, and to trample under his foot
into " crime'' as you call it, and it is you when an ugly humor is on him ? Or is she
who shall pay the penalty of my wrongs withi a creature made'like himself of flesh and
your life !" 'blood, gin ed like him                         with intelligence and
"Death and the society of devils, were pre. feeling, and capable as he of returning kind.
ferable to life in a world which you inhabit! ' ness for kindness, love for love, neglect for
" With such views," returned the other, neglect, dishonor for dishonor, faithlessness
mockingly, " you will not consider it cruel i for faithlessness, and ruin for ruin ? Say she
I considerately release you from life oy or is not so strong, is she not yet as cunning-
dering the executioner behind you to dive say he can smite and bruise like some great
the cold screw into your spine !"        brute, can she ndt turn and sting him like an
Gardner turned pale, and was silent,   asp !"
" Ah !" observed the fierce woman, with  Charles Gardner was silent.
a sarcastic smile, you have not yet made up "0," continued the other, "had you but
your mind on that point !  You find it easy, treated me with constancy, instead of neglect
like most men, to talk blusteringly of your -had you ofTered me love instead of brutal.
defiance f death, but you, like most met ty-had   you treated me as an intelligent
again, quail as your last moment approaches! being, and not as a thing without soul or fee-
Miserable braggart-paltry-hearted ,oward!" 'ling-had you given your society to me, to
"Go on, hag! Give vent to all your me who asked, who prayed to you for it, in.
venom ; sate your black soul in the sufThr- stead of to the rumme 'y and the gambling
ings of a helpless man, and then boast of it able, how different,-0, how widely difTer.a
to the world, as you have already paraded ent !-msight have beeni o r positions to-day !
your infamy to me !"                     How many brave men. too, might be living
"You repeat that word as if it disturbed fnd in all the enjoy uent of health, who are
you !"                                   now cold in their inding sheets !"
"It does! What man likes to know, or     The conden9led man gazed at her with an
hear it said, that his wife crowned him with expression less harsh than before. Who can
shame, and herself with infamy !"        say that he was not asonting in his inmost
"Why did    you   not think of that in soul to the truths she was so sternly baring
time? Why did you not think of that when to his view
you abandoned my society for that of the   " had you," continued Fanny Gardner,
rummery and the card table.              "had you but evinced the slighest regard for
The miserable man was silent.          me, Oh how grateful L would have been !

-- ..Jva. ."j1 -  ril.t' -~""t'  in  ime  arousest

love, how deeply happy I should have hen
-how strongly, how truly, how faithfully
I should have loved you in return ! I then
would have been pure, virtuous and happy
to-day, and not the fallen, intfamous, callous
creature that I am ! lhad you given nie
your society, your body would not have been
ruined by rum and debauchery, your wealth
would not have been lost at the gaming table,
your character would nft have been disgraced
by bankruptcy, your wife would not have
strayed from virtue, your honor would not
have been crowned with shame, your hand
would not have been red with blood, your
home would not have been broken up, your
life would not have been in jeopardy, the
brave rme n who were shot a few days ago at
the castle of Atares would not now be in their
graves, and I-I would have been pure and
happy-you, 'prosperous   and  contented !
But you did not !' she added, fiercely, " you
abandoned me, as though I had no claims

upOn you ; and when I attempted to remon- oflred you safety, and invoke the storm,
strate, you laughed at my complaints, sneered which threatened destruction?  Madman!
at my tears; by'your vile, unmanly treatment, you promised me love, and you gave me mis-
you (Irove from out my breast the last spark cry ; you promised me light, and you gave
of love, the last vestige of pride, and every n e darkness ; you promised me happiness,
ray of hope, and forced inc step by step from and you gave me woeo; you promised me
purity to vice, from  virtue  to infamy! honey, and you gave me wormwood !"
Charles Gardner, did you take me for a fool, '.Your bd conduct, madam," said the
to endure all this tamely; did you take me condemned man, "has proved that you de.
for a stone, without pride, or sense, or feeling; served all you received at my hands, and
did you take me for a worm, that you could more !"
tread upon at will; did you take me for a   "And yet there would have been no bad.
dolt that you could vent your unmanly hu- ness in my conduct had yours been good,
mors on, reserving your Pleasant smiles for [lad you been true, I should not have been
your companions of the wine-bibling saloon false' My sins lie at your door !"
and the gamesters' table; did you take me  " Have done, strumpet !" returned Char.
for a dull, senseless, stupid thing that knew les Gardner, furiously, "and do your worst!
not what was due to her as a woimn and is a The pangs of death are preferable to your
wife; did you take me for a poor, miserable tormenting tongue! Kill me, slave," he ad-
creature without the will or ability to avenge dod, to the executioner, "and save me from
my wrongs?   If so,  miserable biinte, undo. the hated speech andpresenceof this woman !"

an adder that Will sting him ! Who smites
my heart, arouses a fury which will not rest
till it has struck him down forever ! Who
steps between me and happiness, awakes a
blood hound which will hang upon his track
till its fangs are in his throat ! Who abuses
my confidence and destroys the fnest feelings
of my heart, disturbs a hornet whose stings
will lash him  into madness.  And you,
Charles Gardner-you, have done all this;
and, fool, idiot that you are, you did it in de-
fiance of justice, reason, prayers and tears!
Where was your heart, that prompted you to
such cruelty-where your mind, that it per-
mitted you to indulge in such folly ? Could
not your reason have told you that she who
could so strongly love, and endure as I once
loved and endured for you, could and would,
if scorned and injured, as strongly hate?
Fool! idiot ! Why did you force the angel
from out my heart, and arouse othe demon ?
Why did you wilfully banish the calm' that


TiE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

100

Ys;u forget," raid the other, tauntingly,
" that he receive  his orders from me, and it
iot    F,   -                          b
"Order him, then, in mercy, to release ma
etI on e from yourV venomous songue .  ti y
worse to me than the hissing of a serpot .!y'
" No, you shall not have that bleaing. x
my v ice is hateful to you, you shall 't
hear it while it pleases rme. I would no-
spare you one particle of agony ; you shall I
drain the bitter cup vhih yourself prepared, f
to the dregs!"
"+ Oh 2' groanedidthe  miserable wretch, i
foaming with fury, " I id wrong in ndt slay-
ing the brazen adulten over the  -ad ear-j
ease of her paramour I'
" It was tot your destiny to do that I'' oh-
sarved the o'her, with an ironic smile.  o
puni- h your mean, small s)u, heaven resrv.
ed you for my hands. It was against me you 
lion{ d, and it is from me 4)m should reaeiv
thu ruireo o1 your puis m1
"Ohs tormentor, would vo   were within
my reach. How quickly Irt .dthe earth of
a monster .
Imiut gall you, poor wretch . to tev
such an inclination, and be w itout the ybility
to gtatify it. Whereas I-I, have bot rt h
will and the means to make you suffer! How
the consciousness of it must aggravate y ou!
It does-does it not ."
The condemned man glared at her; his
eyes were glittering with rage, his lips foam.
irg, and his breathings were hard and fitful.
'  "Your boast, a few minutes since," said
Fanny Gardner, surve) ing her victim, with
a taun ing smile, " that I had neither p°wer:
nor influence over you, was without founda-
tion-you admit it now, do you not ? See
how quietly I have lashed you to madness,
how easily I have taken the calm from your
mind and hurled it ino the stormiest comsmo-
tion, how I have drive! you to tormont an
blind, but helpless rage! Atnd your check

ow pale it is-and your eye, how it rolls in
ts wiidness-.and your frame, how it quivers
beneath the scourging of my tongue ! You
must acknowledge that my influence over
rou is not so very small, since it can move
you thus .'
"Oh! curse you--      -  ou !" groaned
he helpless, miserable wretch, glaring at her'
with a mingled expression of rage and des.
pair.   Were 1 but free from these shackles
fhr one moment-"
" Which you are not, which you cannot
be ! Now, listen, for my vengeance draws
towards its crownisng p~. t tas I who
)laomned the letter r which beguiled Lopez ant
his band to their destruction ; it was I who
plan nd his landing at Bahia lionda ; it was
I who suggested to the Captain General the
details of the snare into which Lopez and his
compaions fell, and which has ended so fa-
tally  f  r  them  all !. ,
Y1en-devil-you ?'
" Even I-.,
' Oh, demon-demon . cried her vicumi ,
with a celd ,huwider. " Why did you this .'
I will tell you wi hy. It was to enuro
your destruction, by cutting thea ofn from
coating to your assistance ; and to neutral.
ize their influence in case y o should suc.
cied in joining them, after your shipwreck
and flight f;omAlvarez 's hacienda. It was
to cut you off at every point, and to render
so important a service to the Captain Gneral,
that im tho event of yofr capture, he should
d liver you over to my vengeance '"
" That vaz your motive in committing 5s
de p, so damning a. piece of treachery -'
said her victim with a shudder.
'It was -'
" Tsen, unhappy woman !" groaned Char
les Ganner, vhitl an expression of deep am-
euiss, " mG  d have merceey ln you, or you
ore u!tdciy lost , For your wrath against
ae, I care not--I could, knowing my owa

OF NEW ORLEANS.

e  ginst you, have willingly pardon d
E   you.   But for your betrayal of those brave,
gallant hearts who gave up home, friends,
con frt, security and country to givetheir
=1chivalrous help to an oppressed and suffl ring'
people-oh ! you are damned to all eternity
thinkk of the ten ithomand relatives those
maogranimrwus nen left behind, whose brows
s   your treachery has clothed with the black
g    badge of mourning-think of the ten thou-
1
sand hearts you have steeped in woe's bitter
h4ys op, by this! Oh! woman - woman,
where obtained you the heart for this un-
paralleled crime V"
'.Jrom you !" replied the infamous crea-
ture, ealmly. " Di I not tell you my ven,
grance was swcepou ?"               '
Cha le Gardner was horrified-he could
not aese ;ar he could only stare at the fiend
who stood before him clothed in the habili-
ments of a wonm rt
a You despise, you h:te mee now -do you
not ?" a id the implacable Fanny, enjoying
his horror
' No," tail the condenmne  man, slowly
sC You are toor f)r gone in wiekedries for tha t.
Your     p:dos crime fills m   with awe.
1   u are to treat in guilt for one s htble
and ohcure s nomyoelt to ettertaiti any feel
ino t or tu a  e nod pity P''
"e recnir my riumph, then ?"
oY- reCgnica rotting bit your tower-
iLg guilt.  Your very aspct makes me
treomle, not for myself, but you ! I have
1oo       O in yon upon tte cief:et of thint-rx ,
S   the  hht bliud, appas Ome!"'
this is a it ns  be !" 8 i tihe f hrfu
onn0.   "   isit is thei trumpi for vhioh I
hove pw nedl my  oeli. hrave d iven even
h u md fom 'our b  rt , I baeh  emade  u
tuddi a   St the imiIe&amp;ntity of the vr nyeence
yu iav? provoked, a   my alumph id com.
Ip 9  hacsn1r  but one thog'm  to
t                              t

101

" What is that ?  Oh, fearful being,1 what
is that ?"
" This: Charles Gardner,farewell !"
And as she spoke, she raised her finger as
a signal to the exeutioner.
The latter gave the wheel a single turn,
and a faint sigh escaped the lips of the con.
demned man. It was the parting between
his body and his spirit. lie was no more!
CHAPTER XXIX.         b
Fanny Gardner gazed upon the corse for
a few minutes, with an air of thoughtful sin
lence.
In that fatal chair sat the clay of him who
in other and sunnier days had won her heart,
and :reathed into her credulous ear profes-
sions of deepest love and constancy. To him
she had confided her chances of life's happi-
ness, in the fhd and firm belief that he would
never prove recrennt to his trust. She had
reposed upon his boson, in the earlier days of
their marria4rs, happy i the thought that he
would adhere, mid storm and sunshine to the
promise he had made her that he would never
love her less, that with the progress of time
his already strong devotion would increase in
its depth and strpnth. But had he kept that
f)ledge ?  No; /it was scarcely made, ere it
was broken I With satiety in passion his love
grew cold, and he abandoned her whom he
had is'suaded to become his partner in the
voyg of life for the vagabond frequenters
of rummler3 ies and gaming hells - replying
with insolent rudeness to her gentle ronon.
trance an I laughing to scorn her mournful
eo5051)0to and ears I
A woeu can forgive everything but in.
difi reduce. That she cannot pardon. To do
hi, csh must be more -than a wonan-she
msot he  m ae l, i{ long as she fecls that


102                    TiE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES
she can say to herself, "I, loves me," all i.='her trust, h r confidence in herself, in man,
safe-she will endure hunger, even blows. and almost in God ! are gone, to return no
But the moment she says to herself,  E i mrc forever ! Fromh that moment she is a
loves me not"-look out for brakers. "RuP - changed being-bankrupt in all that made
ing the Cape" is nothing to the storm sh wil life lovely, she is rich only in a bitterness
raise about him. All that was ever :orod compared with which worm-wood is nectar.
in her, vanishes, and the evil if her ntue She feels blasted and lonely, though sur=
begins to assert its empire. Then look sharp rounded by thousands; she is a beggar,
-poison, knives, treachery b-come the sle though possessing all that wealth can give
companions of her thoughts.    With her her; she is withered, though she be fairer than
thenceforth walks the motto-" Every thing flleen, loveli-r than Proserpine. The worm
for vengeance.' Can she destroy his busi-    her heart- her _anguish is inapprecia.
ness-she'll do it ; can she disgrace his name, .e, and all the world cannot repay her for
cover it with dishonor-she'll do it, can she hr lo-s.
bend his pride, and make him a bggar and a  What wonder, then, that the angel of her
pauper--she'll do it ; can she throw hn on wtce departs, and the evil enters in ?
a bed of suffering, compared with which the  t wonder that she learns to hate with an
tortures of the inquisition are elisium---he'll ;t nsity equalled by her earlier passioi,love!
do it; can she put her heel upon his forehead, Wiit wonder that her proud, sensitive,
and crush him to atoms-show her a way, roused nature thirsts for revenge on him
and she'll do it with a smile.           who has thus dragged her to the well of bitter
And perhaps she is right. In giving her waters ? What wonder that s seeks re-
love to man, she gives it not for a day, not vige on him who has led her int~t this sea of
for a week, a month, or a year, but-fbr fhtfu misery ?    What wonder if she has
ever. Ho promises her his, and as she means no mercy for him whose selfish spirit meanly
to keep her part of the troth, she naturally took advantage of her cotfidenec and gene-
looks to him for a fulfilment of his.  With rosity, to beggar her ?  What wonder if she
her, the love he has proinised her, is her all leads him to woe, who has brought ruin to
She recognises no other property as her own, her ? What wonder if she wrings the base,
but that ! When he takes it from her, con- :roud heart tirat had the cruelty to crush hers?
ceive if you can what must be her agony. What wonder if she riseqj1up in the spirit of
Compared with her the veriest beggar that indignant nature, and cries aloud-' Wefor
importunes passers-by for alms, is a million- woe, ruin for ruih death for death'? Alas-
aire-for the latter has hope to sustain him, she was not the first to lead the way in out_
But with her every thing is lost--she is a rige, in violence, in wrong ?
bankrupt beyond hope-ftor hope is hers no  Man claims the right to avenge his own
longer. All she had in the world was staked wrongs-and why not woman? is it because
upon the honor, the fidelity of him who has she is of that weak sex for whose protection
ruthlessly violated his pledge--losing which, neither rman nor society has rmiadelaws which
she has lost all, every thing ; and not all the will adequately deXfend or aven.  her, that
riches, not all the emblazoned panoply in the she shall have no champion to edress her
world could make up one grain of the rea. wrongs?  Out on such a sentiment! She is
sure of her loss. It is irreparable. With as much entitled to justice in. this matter, as
it all her better feelings have fled, her hopacnnncizeisointh         Trqog

5

OF NEW ORLEANS.               103

of a burglar or a thief. And more so; for
what loss of property will compare with the
less of a woman's happiness ? In the former
case, dollars, if there be a sufficient number,
will compensate the citizen for what he has
sufTred at the hands of the burglar; but all
the dollars in the world cannot restore to a
woman's heart the peace , and happiness of
which she has been robbed.
And what a low-souled hound must that
man be who can prefer the society of the
loafers, thieves and drunkiards which infest
rum holes and gambling hells to that of the
pure, intelligent and loving being whom  he
meanly leaves to pine and weep in her lone-
liness at home ! a What a taste he must have,
and how openly he displays it, by leaving his
virtuous home and publicly entering a rum
mill! What a compliment he pays to his
wife T And what a compliment to lsimself,
that he should have made a selection cf one
whose society has less charm for him th an
the unprincipled wretches that frequent rum
mills !

r

without it, lost ! With it, she is rich, though
hemmed in on every side by the sharpest
talons of penury, and would not exchange
her lot with the royalest queen in the world ;
without, though her home be a palace, and
all the luxuries of earth at her beck, she is
poorer than the poorest.
And he is a brute who says she should put
up with her wrongs without a murmur; he
is a wretch who says she should endure in
silence the base brutality of her betrayer
he is himself a hound who says woman was
made to submit quietly to him who beguiles
her of her only treasure only to gratify his
selfish and hound like nature.
A citizen whose confidence is betrayed and
himself ruined by the duplicity and villainy
of one of hid fellows, would justly deem the
wretch who has undone him as unfit to live,
since the price of his existence is misery to
others ; and society would exculpate him from
all opprobrium, if he should smite the rascal
hip and thigh, and plunge him into fiercest
torture. If he should shoot him down, like a

Ah! it is a little as well as an easy thing, mad dog, in the common highway, "Served
the first step in error-but how difficult to the scoundrel right !" would be the universal
atone, once it is taken ! And its consequen- cry, and justly. For the hound who wilfully
ces, who can estimate?                  betrays the confidence and beggars another,
And it is a little and an easy thing to follow hurling him with villain hand fromthe height
up the path of right, which results ever in of happiness down to the lowest depths of mise-
happiness to all!        .ry, has no more right to live than a wolf, and
And it is a little and an easy thing for man should be slaughtered with as little' remorse.
to keep, in all sacredness and honor, the troth Such men are beasts in their nature -their
he has pledged to her whow he has invited 1o destiny is to ensnare and devour all with
glide with him down the stream of life. lie whom they come in contact, and they should
owes it to himself, as a man of honor, to do be cut down without hindrance.
this ; for it is she who runs the greatest risk  What then is the difference between him
in taking up the voyage.                who betrays and beggars the confidence of
Her ambition is happiness-her only capi. a citizen, and him who betrays and beggars
tal, love, this she invests with a generosity, the confidence of a woman. This: money
f&amp;ankness and confidence which none but a can rep ir the former, but what omn make up
brute would betray. The only return she for the list?
looks for is-his love, which he never tails to  Oh, woman's heart-her peace, her hap-
promise, and getting which she is happy, and piness-is worth more than dollars! And

-       r .  vsrsaa ti. rs way a.. l91dSaVY   Iliv   OL  .  if F3 r3i1./ii

v                                        1   7


THE MYSTERIES AND MISERIES

he who breaks and drives it into crime and
never-dying woe, should be made, in all cases,
to pay pang for pang, misery for misery, and
ruin for ruin, ever more.
Such were the thoughts of Fanny Gard-
ner, as she gazed upon the clay of him who
was once her idol, now the object of her
scorn--the victim in his turn of his victim.
As she brought her reflections to a close,
she gathered her veil over her face, and ap.
proaching the door of the dungeon, pulled
the cord communicating with the passage
without.
A minute later, she passed from the Punta,
and entering her carriage, which stood in
waiting, was whirled off to her hotel.
On entering her room she found upon her

table a passport and a small bag of doubloons.
"The Captain General has kept his pro.
mise !" she muttered. "lHe no doubt con.
siders this gold the price of blood, I do not.
REVENGE was the guerdon for which I bar.
gained-revenge only, and Ihave had it !"
The next day Fanny Gardner disappeared,
and was never again seen in Havana. As
she took the steamer which runs between
that city, New Orleans and New.York, and
did not debark at the crescent city, it is prob.
able that she proceeded with the vessel to the
metropolis of the Empire State, and there
thlew herself into the great whirlpool of so.
ciety, which contains thousands of women of
her stamp.
A

tBE END,

7

104


                                                   
             
         
       
   
