
    ----CITATION----
        Cutler, Lizzie Petit, (1831-1902). Light and Darkness, or, The Shadow of Fate .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6213 wright2-0682
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               LIGHT AND DARKNESS;
               OR, THE SHADOW OF FATE.
               A Story of Fashionable Life.
            
            
               
                  The road to Happiness is open to all, but Error stands at its entrance to
                     entrap those who are weak enough to yield to her wishes, into her own paths,
                     which terminate in the gulfs of Despair and Ruin.
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,
                  
                     346 & 348 BROADWAY.
                  
               
            
            1855.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1855, by D. APPLETON &
                  COMPANY, In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the United States for the
                  Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
            NOTICE.
            The publishers beg to apologise for too many typographical errors in this volume
               owing to the effects of a fire in the printing office during the progress of the work
               but which will be corrected in a future edition.
         
         
            PREFACE.
            I HAVE endeavored in this book to portray the bad not as wholly bad, nor the good as
               immaculate, since of human nature either is rarely or never true. To show how errors
               which seem venial at first, grow into crime when fostered by indulgence, and excused
               on the principle of fatality, or any other pretence by which the perpetrator seeks
               alike to blind himself and others;—to prove that to the ungoverned passions and
               foibles of the many, more than to the baleful crimes of the few, we owe the miseries
               which darken social life; and that the most brilliant gifts of person or worldly
               fortune are so many smiling spells which lure to ruin, those who are the slaves of
               impulse;—to give to each his proper share of blame, making not one the wholly
               sinning, nor the other the wholly sinned against—is the object of the work. The
               writer has endeavored in every scene to veil this moral, and trusts—though not openly
               thrust into notice—it has been sufficiently developed to be visible even in a
               careless perusal, and that the reader will not lay the book aside, feeling that he
               has been unable to derive from it one moral lesson or profitable reflection.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. The shadow mars the light, 9
               
               CHAPTER II. "A brilliant match," 12
               
               CHAPTER III. The world of fashion vs. the world of home, 15
               
               CHAPTER IV. A foreign tour—departure and return, 18
               
               CHAPTER V. The orphan girl, 21
               
               CHAPTER VI. The first mesh in the web of fate, 30
               
               CHAPTER VII. Maiden reveries dangerous things sometimes, 37
               
               
               CHAPTER VIII. The eagle watches over the dove, 40
               
               CHAPTER IX. Visitors, 46
               
               CHAPTER X. Temptation, 50
               
               CHAPTER XI. "Young America" is confidential, 54
               
               CHAPTER XII. The pleasure excursion, 58
               
               CHAPTER XIII. The broken dream, 70
               
               CHAPTER XIV. A scrape with a blackguard—A friend in need, 73
               
               CHAPTER XV. The wild boy's first love—The tempted betrayer, 77
               
               CHAPTER XVI. The wife vs. The idol, 85
               
               CHAPTER XVII. A matrimonial tête-à-tête, 90
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. The glimmerings of destiny, 95
               
               CHAPTER XIX. The astrologer in a new character, 105
               
               CHAPTER XX. "Benedick, the married man," 107
               
               CHAPTER XXI. The orphan's protector—A glimpse behind the curtain, 112
               
               CHAPTER XXII. Love's game of cross-purposes, 118
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. Mr. Fitz Friske is wounded on a tender point—Some account of the
                  life and parentage of the Broadway dandy, 124
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. A glimpse at the arch fiend and his victim—Gussy fulfils her
                  destiny, 133
               
               CHAPTER XXV. Scenes behind the curtain, 134
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. The wife vs. The idol, 137
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. Claude St. Julian to R. Gratton, Esq., 142
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. From the same to the same, 147
               
               CHAPTER XXIX. Claude and Florence, 151
               
               CHAPTER XXX. The wife vs. The idol, 157
               
               CHAPTER XXXI. Florence discovers a secret, 161
               
               CHAPTER XXXII. Judge Woodward and Florence—A dismissal—Good advice—An accident,
                     164
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII. The random shaft cleaves the heart of the dove, 171
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV. The "fast boy" on a "bender," 178
               
               
               CHAPTER XXXV. The archer is wounded with his own shaft, 181
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI. The attempted murder, 187
               
               CHAPTER XXXVII. The deserted, 190
               
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. Chat behind the curtain, 196
               
               CHAPTER XXXIX. The invalid, 199
               
               CHAPTER XL. Reflection and repentance, 204
               
               CHAPTER XLI. The wronger seeks to atone to the wronged—The evil genius again,
                     208
               
               CHAPTER XLII. Friendly offices of Mr. Plumdale, 212
               
               CHAPTER XLIII. The millionaire's bride, 215
               
               CHAPTER XLIV. Mrs. Fitz Friske's first "reception," 217
               
               CHAPTER XLV. The charming of the bird, 222
               
               CHAPTER XLVI. Claude to Florence, 234
               
               CHAPTER XLVII. Florence to Claude, 236
               
               CHAPTER XLVIII. The shadows deepen, 238
               
               CHAPTER XLIX. Harry and Lilian, 242
               
               CHAPTER L. Mrs. De Vere Moreton's fancy ball—A catastrophe, 245
               
               CHAPTER LI. The duel, 255
               
               CHAPTER LII. The crisis of fate approaches, 260
               
               CHAPTER LIII. Severed ties, 264
               
               CHAPTER LIV. The fugitives, 268
               
               CHAPTER LV. The reconciliation, 269
               
               CHAPTER LVI. An interview between two old friends, 273
               
               CHAPTER LVII. Every day events, 276
               
               CHAPTER LVIII. The deserted shrines, 283
               
               CHAPTER LIX. The midnight culprit, 286
               
               CHAPTER LX. The divorce case, 292
               
               
               CHAPTER LXI. The home in Italy, 293
               
               CHAPTER LXII. The shadow of midnight, 302
               
               Conclusion, 310
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Light and darkness, or, The shadow of fate
            LIGHT AND DARKNESS;
            OR, THE SHADOW OF FATE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE SHADOW MARS THE LIGHT.
               
                  
                     "Betray the trust of another, and beware ever after, lest your own be
                        betrayed."
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Why weave a net around the bird
                        That might be happy, light and free."
                     
                  
               
               THE crescent moon of May hung like a jewel of peerless lustre on the blue of the
                  midnight sky, and threw a soft, mysterious spell of beauty over the city of New
                  Haven, which slept beneath its influence, in the hushed and holy repose which only
                  moonlight can give to external nature;—a repose which seems to him who looks upon
                  it as an enchanted slumber, rife with beautiful and glorious dreams.
               Nowhere did the moonlight fall with a softer, more graceful effect, than into the
                  rose-mantled porch of one of the prettiest of all the pretty cottages for which
                  New Haven is noted; into no hearts did its influence sink more deeply than those
                  of the youth and maiden, who stood in that porch side by side. They spoke not;
                  perhaps their souls were too deeply moved for words, for the only sounds which
                  broke the hush of the hour, the gay shouts of some band of college revellers, or
                  the lively tones which ever and anon reached them from some party indulging in the
                  pleasures of a moonlight promenade, were alike unheeded by them.
               There was a striking contrast between the pair, as their forms were clearly
                  revealed by the moonlight against a background of shadow.
               
               What a splendid-looking fellow he was—that youth! I can see him now, with his
                  superb head covered by its cloud of raven hair, half waving, half curling; his
                  splendid and spirited contour of features, classically pale, with those large,
                  glorious dark eyes, lighting up his whole face,—at some times brilliant with soul
                  light, at others softened by the drooping shadow of the lash into a dreamy
                  mesmeric power; his figure slightly above the common height—a model of full and
                  graceful symmetry; all combined with that air of careless grace and haughty
                  independence, often found as the accompaniment of high breeding, but oftener still
                  of that inner consciousness of self-power, which places the possessor above,
                  though mingling with the many.
               The face was not one of unmingled brightness; an expression of melancholy at times
                  shadowed it, which added to the passionate interest of the observer, but was
                  strange to see in one, upon whom nature and fortune had exhausted themselves, in
                  the richness of their gifts. Habitually too, the perfect lip was disfigured by a
                  curve of scorn, but this was half concealed by the thick moustache, and often
                  relieved by a smile of seductive fascination.
               Reader, is the face and form of Claude St. Julian daguerreotyped upon your mind? I
                  hope so, and I wish you to retain the impression, fully and distinctly, in the
                  scenes through which you will follow him; for to his striking appearance, his
                  lightest words and actions owed a power they would not otherwise have
                  possessed.
               For the present, the expression we have described as habitual to him, was lost in
                  the look of deep suspense with which he gazed upon the girl beside him.
               Having nothing of the striking beauty, and air distingué of her companion, she was yet graceful, gentle, and
                  pretty—one of those persons we often meet, and whose characters we can read at a
                  glance; while that of the other was a study for a lifetime.
               Apparently the musings of the young girl were not of the most agreeable nature,
                  for her cheek was cold and colorless, and she trembled perceptibly.
               The long pause was at length broken by St. Julian, who said, in tones low, but the
                  passionate earnestness of which rendered them distinctly audible,—
               "Marion, you have given me reason to believe that you love me; why not confirm
                  your words by your actions? I believe not in this hesitating affection, which is
                  but half love, half calculation. I would suffer no obstacle on earth to tear me
                  from you, and yet, you hesitate to tell me you are mine." "Claude," replied the
                  girl, raising her soft eyes to his face, "have I not given you every proof which
                  the most exacting could require, in thus meeting you without my mother's consent?
                  She, good, trusting mother as she is—thinks me safe, sleeping in my little room
                  yonder," pointing to one which opened on the porch, "when I am with you, listening
                  to vows she has forbidden me to hear." There was a tinge of bitterness, and
                  self-reproach in her tone, and she added passionately, "Ah! Claude, how can you
                  doubt my love, when for you I deceive the best of mothers." As she spoke, tears
                  which sprung from mingled sources, rolled slowly in large drops down her cheeks.
                  "Forgive me, dearest, forgive Claude," said her impetuous lover, encircling her
                  waist with his arm, and drawing her to a seat. Placing himself beside her, he drew
                  her head towards him, until it rested on his shoulder, while she continued
                  sobbing, but resisted not the embrace. A few words of tender soothing followed;
                  Marion's tears ceased flowing, and they sat in silence for some time. "This is not
                  what I came here for to-night," said Claude suddenly releasing her from the arms
                  which had encircled her, and starting to his feet, "what I have to say may pain
                  you, more than what I have already said, but you must hear it."
               He paused, and looked up at the moon, as if to avoid the eager, inquiring gaze
                  fixed upon him, though the expression of his face revealed the tumult of his
                  feelings. At length, he said in tones whose wooing tenderness made words appear
                  gentle, which were in reality, cold and stern:
               "Marion, you must tell me now, that you will be mine in spite of all
                  the powers of earth or—dearly, wildly, as I love you—I leave you for ever."
               Marion gazed wildly upon him, as he uttered the words, as if fearing to trust her
                  ears, then appealingly, as she read his look of determination.
               "In a few weeks your plighted lover will return to claim you as his bride, and
                     then it will be too late—we will be separated for ever. Say, will you be mine, in spite
                  of lover, mother, friend or foe?"
               Still she hesitated; with hands clasped, and face turned imploringly towards
                  him.
               "'Tis well," said he haughtily, folding his arms, and drawing himself up to his
                  full height; "you waver between your own and your mother's choice; such love is
                  not for me, farewell!"
               He turned to descend the steps. With a faint cry she detained him.
               "Oh! Claude do not leave me. I will give up all, yes all beside, for
                  you."
               He turned and clasped her in his arms; her head dropped upon his bosom. The
                  struggle was over, the decision made.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               "A BRILLIANT MATCH."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I' faith 'tis a bonny bride, and a gay bridegroom; but do
                           You think the twain well suited?"
                        
                     
                     —OLD PLAY.
                  
               
               THREE weeks after the interview detailed in the preceding chapter, there appeared
                  in the New Haven, and New York papers, the following announcement.
               "Married on the 23d inst., by the Rev. ——, Claude St. Julian, of New York city, to
                  Miss Marion, second daughter of the late —— Wentworth, Esq., of New Haven."
               Tremendous was the sensation produced in the fashionable world by this
                  announcement.
               "What a match!" was the universal cry. "The idea of the elegant, rich, and
                  fascinating St. Julian, marrying the daughter of a poor widow. If he chose to make
                  such a fool of himself, how could his parents consent to it?"
               The world forgot that his parents had never denied him any thing he chose to take
                  it into his lordly head he must have; that they fondly hoped marriage might settle
                  the wild boy down into a discreet, prudent man; and that the mother of Marion
                  Wentworth, was the old and chosen friend of Claude's mother.
               Mammas frowned, papas shrugged their shoulders, and told their daughters never to
                  despair, their chance would come after awhile; while the daughters wept in secret
                  over the sad fate of the Byronic youth, who had turned the heads of half the
                  school misses in Gotham. Let the world cry out as it would, the match was made; as
                  are many other matches, which are the last that any human being in his sober
                  senses would venture to predict. The spoiled belle passes over eligible after
                  eligible, and links herself for life to some one, upon whom the world would scarce
                  think she would deign to bestow a glance. The gay distingué man of fashion settles down upon some retiring, ofttimes
                  ordinary, woman.
               Claude St. Julian was the only child of wealthy, and aristocratic parents. Of
                  French descent, some of the best blood of the haute
                     noblesse of France flowed in their veins.
               Upon Claude—sole heir to the wealth and honors of their house,—was showered every
                  indulgence wealth could procure, or fancy devise. Naturally brave, generous, and
                  warm-hearted, his very virtues had degenerated into vices under this injudicious
                  treatment. Nature made him almost perfect, but education and the world had used
                  their utmost efforts to spoil her work.
               When a gay collegian at Yale, he met, as we have seen, the quiet, unobtrusive
                  girl, Marion Wentworth. It was strange that the idolized hero of many a gay
                  coterie, should have selected her, as the envied object of his attentions. Perhaps
                  he attributed her reserve to maiden timidity, and it increased his boyish passion,
                  as a breeze, though chilling in itself, fans a fire into fiercer flame. Perhaps
                  her very coldness was alluring to one who turned with wilful caprice from those
                  who seemed to court his attentions.
               He enjoyed the reputation of being the wildest young man in Yale College, nor was
                  it ill deserved, as many a one in that vicinity could testify. Thus, though the
                  welcomed favorite in the most select circles, he would not have obtained the
                     entrée to the quiet and well-ordered home of
                  Mrs. Wentworth, but for the never-forgotten friendship, existing between that lady
                  and his mother. When after a separation
                  of many years, the son of her old friend appeared, with a letter begging her to
                  "watch over Claude and be a mother to him," she could not resist the appeal. She
                  soon perceived the growing empressement of his
                  attentions to her daughter, but knowing she was betrothed to another, she had too
                  much confidence in her truth and firmness of character, to dread any thing from
                  them. Upon Marion's betrothed lover her mother looked with an especial eye of
                  favor, perceiving in the integrity of the young man's character, the best guaranty
                  for the future happiness of her youngest and best beloved child. After graduating,
                  Arthur Warren returned to his home in Virginia, to make preparations for his
                  aproaching marriage. It was during this absence, that Marion attracted the notice
                  of one who boasted, only too truly, that so far as the sex were concerned, his
                  motto was, veni, vidi, vici. Mrs. Wentworth's
                  eyes were soon opened to the real state of affairs. In vain she remonstrated with
                  Marion—in vain represented the wrong she would inflict on her betrothed, and
                  warned her of the dangerous and unsteady character of the man to whose keeping she
                  wished to intrust her happiness. With that spirit of obstinacy often latent in
                  natures seemingly the most gentle, the girl remained immovable. Her invariable
                  reply to her mother's remonstrances was—"I had rather be miserable with Claude,
                  than happy with any other man." "I don't blame Marion," says some young lady
                  reader curling her pretty lip; "I should have liked him too." We dare say you
                  would. There is more than one Claude in the world, and as far as we have had an
                  opportunity of observing, they have no reason to complain that their merits are
                  not appreciated by the fair sex. Mrs. Wentworth went so far as to restrict his
                  visits to intervals like those of angels. She could not have adopted a more
                  effectual mode of inflaming the attachment of the romantic lover, and
                  strengthening his determination to win her daughter, had she been the most adroit
                  manœuvrer that ever laid snares to entrap the heart of an unwary youth "in the
                  knot there's no untying." The result has been shown. In silence and tears, the
                  mother gave her treasure into the keeping of the gay bridegroom. "Of course,"
                  cried the charitable world, "all that sobbing and sighing was put on for effect.
                  Every body knows she must be delighted with the match."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE WORLD OF FASHION vs. THE WORLD OF HOME.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "They tell me thou'rt the favored guest
                           Of every fair and brilliant throng;
                           No wit like thine to wake the jest,
                           No voice like thine to breathe the song!"
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Hast thou forgot the altar where kneeling by my side,
                           Thy vows were breathed to love for aye thy young and trusting
                              bride?"
                        
                     
                     M. S.
                  
               
               BORNE to her splendid home, surrounded by every luxury wealth could give; received
                  kindly by his parents, and idolizing her husband, one might have imagined Marion's
                  lot to be a happy one—but if she herself cherished such a delusion, she was soon
                  to be painfully convinced of its fallacy. Claude had not the most remote idea of
                  relinquishing for her sake the gayeties and pleasures of a city life. He wished
                  her to accompany him into society, and at first she willingly complied; but she
                  soon found that she was but a dim light amid the stars of the gay and fashionable
                  circle into which she was introduced, nor was she exactly comme il faut as regarded fashion and etiquette.
               "What an ordinary little body that dear handsome St. Julian has
                  married!" ran the whisper. "What a pity he married so young! What could have made
                  him fancy her?—only passably pretty, no brilliancy, no manner, none
                  of the je ne sais quoi about her characteristic
                  of the highbred and fashionable woman." These remarks—as such remarks are
                  generally intended to do—reached the ears of the parties concerned, and Claude was
                  deeply mortified. Marion saw it, and this palsied even her natural powers, and
                  gave her the appearance of gaucherie and
                     mauvais honte, those worst of crimes in a
                  "fashionable set." The gay round of pleasure was to her a scene of torture. At
                  last she begged permission to stay at home, saying with a faint smile that nature
                  never intended her for a fine lady, and, therefore, it was impossible she should
                  ever become one. To this Claude somewhat reluctantly assented, but he offered to
                  remain with her, to which she had not the
                  heart to say no. At first he did so with a good grace, but in a short time began
                  to find the "evenings at home" extremely dull; and at last his principal
                  occupation was yawning through the early portion, and then going off to sleep on
                  the sofa, about the hour at which he generally started to some place of amusement.
                  His friends rallied him about getting into bad habits(?). They entertained
                  "serious apprehensions that he was a henpecked husband." Claude declared it was a
                  duty he owed society to go out more, and Marion assented with such an appearance
                  of cheerfulness, that he went his way rejoicing that she was so reasonable, little
                  imagining the pain the effort cost her. She felt painfully her inefficiency for
                  the brilliant rôle which her husband wished her
                  to play. Inferior, in accomplishments, to the elogant women with whom he had been
                  accustomed to associate, she had not the tact which some women possess, of
                  catching intuitively the graces of polished society, and remedying, by the study
                  of a few months, the defects of years. Though pretty, amiable, and well educated,
                  in the every-day sense of the term, she knew she was no match for the brilliant
                  and versatile genius of Claude;—careless as he was of his proud gifts, and making
                  no use of them, save for the enjoyment of society. She loved him because of his
                  irresistible attractiveness—if I may so express it—and because he was her husband;
                  but there were many things about him she could neither sympathize with, nor
                  understand. When throwing off the joyous abandon
                  of his ordinary manner, he revealed the depths of his rich, impulsive soul; when
                  gems of thought, poetry and feeling, flashed like diamonds to the surface; Marion
                  listened, but she was only startled,—she did not comprehend; and Claude saw it,
                  and sighed to think that the wife of his bosom could never be the twin spirit of
                  his soul; that between them, there could never be that mysterious, but delicious
                  communion of heart with heart, mind with mind, which is to love what the soul is
                  to the body,—its eternal and etherealizing essence.
               As time wore on, every day convinced St. Julian more of the terrible truth,—that
                  he had made a mistake in marriage. Then came regrets, that he had married so early
                  and from boyish caprice; then pity for "poor Marion;" then the remembrance haunted
                  him that he had sought her, when he knew her heart was pledged to another; he had
                  caused her to break vows the holiest,—to be undutiful to her only surviving
                  parent, and as these thoughts came with torturing force upon him, he could not
                  repress a pang of self-reproach, for Claude, though an erring and passionate, was
                  far, by nature, from an unprincipled man. In proportion as his heart grew colder
                  towards his wife, his remorseful pity increased; his voice had a softened
                  tenderness in its tone when he addressed her, which her feminine instinct told her
                  was not love, but which was yet painfully sweet to her heart. And is it not often
                  thus? When the heart grows cold and recreant to vows once warmly breathed, still
                  perchance too fondly remembered by their recipient, does not our voice take a
                  kinder tone,—do we not lavish a thousand unnecessary attentions, as if thus to
                  silence conscience, and blind even ourselves to the consciousness of our own
                  falsehood?
               The birth of a little girl, a year after their marriage, had been quite an epoch
                  in the life of the young wife, opening a new fountain of joy and tenderness in her
                  heart; but then, Claude had hoped for a boy, and could not help expressing his
                  disappointment. Poor Marion, she could have wept that it was not in her power to
                  gratify his wish; for, much as she loved her child, her idolatrous love for her
                  husband was before all earthly things beside. Deprived, in a great measure, of the
                  society of her husband; Marion clung the closer to her child, and from the
                  vigilance with which she watched over her, the care with which she shielded her
                  from even the free air of heaven; one might have imagined there was a conspiracy
                  between the powers of earth and air against the life of the babe. Pale and
                  dispirited, she scarcely ever went into gay society, unless urged to do so, and
                  then often making delicate health an excuse for non-compliance. Instead of
                  endeavoring to retain her husband's affection, by conforming as much as possible
                  to his tastes and feelings, she became daily paler, more silent, more
                  uninteresting; yielding herself, without a struggle, to be the passive victim of
                  circumstances.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               A FOREIGN TOUR.—DEPARTURE AND RETURN.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And none would guess, so gay thou art,
                           That thou and I are far apart."
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "You must make
                           That heart a tomb, and in it bury deep
                           It's young and beautiful feelings."
                        
                     
                     BARRY CORNWALL
                  
               
               FOUR years of the married life of Claude St. Julian and Marion Wentworth had
                  passed away, when the former was recalled from his gay career by the death of his
                  parents, who died within three weeks of each other. Whether it was grief for the
                  loss alone of those whom he had loved with all the fervor of his passionate
                  nature, or whether the remembrance of many an anxious, painful hour, and bitter
                  pang his impetuous follies had caused the hearts of those who had lived but to
                  idolize him, mingled with and embittered his sorrow, we know not; but certain it
                  is, that the grief of the bereaved son seemed to pass all bounds. When the first
                  paroxysms of sorrow were over, and the dreary, monotonous period prescribed by
                  fashion for mourning had commenced, he became restless; home was unbearable he
                  must try a year or two of foreign travel; it would brace his nerves and restore
                  his spirits. He expected, as a matter of course, that Marion would accompany him;
                  but as the time drew near, and she made no preparation, and spoke not of
                  departure, he concluded in his own mind, as she was so averse to society and
                  change, she would prefer spending the twelvemonth he designed being absent, with
                  her mother. She had not mentioned such a wish, 'twas true; but then delicacy, or
                  some otherfeeling,—"Marion was so strange"—might have prevented her.
               Acting in accordance with this belief, he one day said to her in a tone of assumed
                  carelessness, as if he took it for granted, and therefore it was unnecessary for
                  her to affirm the contrary: "Marion, would you prefer staying with your mother to
                  accompanying me to Europe? You were projecting a long visit home some time ago;
                  perhaps this would be a good opportunity to make it. She shall not accuse me," he
                  added mentally, "of dragging her from pillar to post, against her will."
               There was none of that oneness of feeling between them which is the
                  soul of the marriage union, and without which, it is impossible to avoid
                  misapprehension, discord and unhappiness. Marion did not feel as a wife should
                  do,—that all which concerned her husband's enjoyment or interest, necessarily
                  involved her own,—yet one could not blame her altogether for this. With the
                  dissimilarity of taste and pursuits which existed between herself and Claude, it
                  could scarcely have been otherwise; unless she had been willing, as she was not,
                  to remodel her nature to his. She had waited for him to request her
                  to accompany him to Europe; a rather unreasonable thing to expect of one who had
                  been accustomed all his life to have his every wish anticipated—and when he did
                  not, she wisely concluded that he preferred her remaining at home. When,
                  therefore, he mentioned, or as it seemed to her, proposed, in a
                  roundabout way the visit to her mother, she replied in calm, measured accents:
               "Perhaps it would be better for me to remain with my mother;" though at that very
                  moment her heart was sinking, dying within her at the thought of parting with him.
                  And these few cold, careless words, sealed the separation between the husband and
                  wife.
               More than two years passed away, ere Claude St. Julian returned to his native
                  land. His heart did not bound with that joyous sense of happiness, which seemed
                  natural in one just returning, after a long absence, to home and loved ones; on
                  the contrary, he felt more like a prisoner who was returning to bondage, after
                  having stretched his parole d'honneur to its
                  utmost extent.
               The year spent by her husband in imbibing the inspiration of foreign lands—in the
                  pleasant and soul-stirring occupation of travel, had been passed very differently
                  by Marion in the quiet cottage at New Haven. When the weary twelvemonth,
                  prescribed as the period of his absence passed away, and brought no Claude at its
                  close; and when month after month passed, and still he came not, hope died in
                     the heart of the wife, and the
                  agonizing feeling which succeeded it, was the conviction of her husband's
                  indifference. Mrs. Wentworth exerted herself the more to make her daughter happy,
                  as she highly resented the absence and neglect of her husband; but she could not
                  resist the temptation—which the best of people often find irresistible—of saying
                  to her repeatedly: "Ah! Marion, if you had only taken my advice,
                     this would never have been."
               Every one who has experienced it, knows what sort of comfort this is,
                  when suffering from the consequences of one's own errors. It was torture to the
                  morbid and irritable feelings of Marion. She had been cold and constrained, but
                  timid and gentle, before; now she became, under the influence of anxiety and
                  disappointment, nervous and fretful. When time writes with the characters of grief
                  and pain, he leaves wearing traces on heart and brow, and Marion changed much in
                  those two years.
               When at last the very day of her husband's return approached, she scarcely knew,
                  such is the perversity of human nature, whether to mourn or rejoice.
               "Had you not better change your dress, for a prettier and more becoming toilet?"
                  suggested her mother, as they were awaiting his arrival.
               "No," she replied sullenly, "what is dress? If he loves me, I will look well to
                  him in any thing."
               From being very neat (for that is a virtue your cold, quiet people often possess),
                  she had fallen strangely into the habit of neglecting her dress—a reprehensible
                  habit in any one, but more particularly in a wife, whose bounden duty it is to
                  contribute to her husband's happiness, by appearing as agreeable in every way as
                  possible. Poor Marion, it must be confessed, had but little encouragement for the
                  task, if task it could be called. In this, as in most other cases of domestic
                  unhappiness, there were faults on both sides, but had either chosen to
                     correct those faults, the other might, in time, have been won over to
                  imitate the example.
               When she heard the well-known footstep echo in the gravel walk, her first impulse
                  was to fly to her husband's arms, but the demon of mistrust held her back; and
                  when he burst into the room, she advanced to meet him almost as if they had parted
                  but yesterday.
               He could not repress a start of painful surprise, as his eyes fell on her faded
                  form. The next moment he had clasped her in his arms; but her cold lips scarcely
                  returned his warm kiss, though it thrilled through and through her frame.
               A moment after he had forgotten her and all else, save his child, a cherub of five
                  years, whose fragile loveliness he gazed on with delight, as he half smothered her
                  with caresses.
               The mother-heart of Mrs. Wentworth sunk within her, as she marked the contrast
                  between the prematurely faded wife, and the brilliant distingué husband, in the very pride and bloom of manhood. She felt
                  for the wife. The world, or at least one half of it, would have pitied the
                  husband, and thought the wife rather to be envied. The next day they returned to
                  New York.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE ORPHAN GIRL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "As fair in form, as warm, yet pure in soul,
                           Love's image upon earth, without his wing."
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "And he, this stern hard man, is he to be the sole protector
                           of so much innocence; such tender, loving helplessness?
                     
                     —OLD PLAY.
                  
               
               FOR the better understanding of this "ower true tale," it becomes necessary for us
                  to dwell at some little length upon the early life of one of its principal
                  characters, one who may perhaps claim the title of heroine, if this book, which is
                  but a succession of life pictures, can properly be said to have a heroine.
               Florence Fulton, the offspring of a romantic marriage—for her mother, a beautiful
                  Italian girl, eloped from a convent with a young American naval officer, for which
                  escapade her father, a haughty old noble, never forgave her,—Florence Fulton was
                  left an orphan at an early age. Her father was by birth a Virginian, and the only
                  relative he had in New York—where he lived when at home—was a bachelor uncle, from
                  whom he had expectations. He died soon after his marriage, and his widow survived
                  him but a few years; drooping after his
                  death, like the flowers of her sunny clime, when transplanted to our less
                  congenial soil. Before her death she wrote to her father, imploring him to receive
                  as her dying charge, the little Florence,—but in vain; if the letters were
                  received, no answer was returned, and she died, leaving to the cold and careless
                  uncle, the care of her darling, then about seven years of age. As may be readily
                  imagined, Mr. Fulton was not the most suitable person in the world to assume the
                  charge of a young lady's education.
               Disobedient and stubborn in his youth, he had mortally offended his father, a
                  rash, impetuous man, who disinherited, and drove him from his house. With a vow of
                  revenge in his heart, Cymon Fulton left the home of his father, and from that
                  hour—forgetting all other aims—he devoted himself to the accumulation of wealth,
                  in which he had so far succeeded as to find himself, at the period to which we
                  refer, one of the wealthiest merchants in New York.
               He lived to see his brother, the favorite son of his father, squander his
                  patrimony, leaving his only child a mere pittance, and requesting, on his
                  death-bed, that his long neglected brother should be the guardian of his boy, then
                  at West Point. Old Cymon, sooth to say, not with the best will in the world,
                  assumed the guardianship; but to do him justice, he saved out of what seemed to be
                  the mere wreck of a splendid fortune, a comfortable independence. Some benevolent
                  person ventured to suggest that perhaps Cymon might have added a few thousands of
                  his own, to the scanty inheritance of the nephew; but this was so totally at
                  variance with the reputation of "the old miser," by which name malevolent people
                  were wont to designate him, that it was at once indignantly put down.
               Estella Fulton, knowing the character of her uncle, and fearing that her child's
                  situation might otherwise be rendered painful, made it her dying request, that,
                  though remaining nominally her guardian, he should give Florence possession of her
                  property at the age of seventeen. To this Mr. Fulton reluctantly assented;
                  reluctantly, because he foresaw the step to be an unwise one. But who ever thought
                  of refusing the request of a dying person, however unreasonable? no matter how
                  much we may have insulted and trampled on their feelings in life, we feel bound
                  when they are dead—and our compliance or non-compliance can affect them no more—to
                  obey their last wishes.
               With a benevolence scarcely to be expected of him, he assumed the entire expense
                  of the child's education; providing her with the best masters at home—for he had a
                  crotchet in his brain, that children were not properly educated at school—and
                  providing every thing necessary for her personal comfort; but beyond this, he took
                  no more notice of her, than if she had been a superfluous appendage to the
                  household furniture.
               The old man had in his stern heart, some ideas of truth and justice; a correctness
                  of principle, joined to great firmness of purpose; but it was almost impossible to
                  break the ice which, through long years spent in the soul-hardening pursuit of
                  gold, had congealed over the warm streams of human affection in his soul.
               He had no kind words, no fond caresses, for the young girl; he seemed to think
                  that if he provided for her mere physical wants—and not too liberally even for
                  those—and attended to her education, he did all that was required of him. He never
                  reflected that there was a pure young soul confided to his care,—to
                  be fitted by him for the sweet, quiet, good paths of life, or the stormy ones of
                  evil. He thought not of the warm heart, craving love as its life; fond words, and
                  kindly tones, as its daily food; which he was chilling by neglect. He thought not
                  of the rich soil of feeling, hopes, and fears, he was suffering to run to waste;
                  find nutriment where it could; or be exhausted by "the mighty hunger of the
                  heart." Oh! how far more precious to the human heart, are kindly tones of
                  love—soul-breathing acts of kindness—than all the worldly benefits which can be
                  heaped upon us, unaccompanied by these.
               Sharing the domestic menage of Mr. Fulton, was
                  an old housekeeper, the fitting prototype of her master.
               Naturally of a shrewish temper, disappointment in early life; had "turned her
                  blood to acid;" and through the distorted medium of her perverted vision, every
                  thing in life wore the darkest and most forbidding aspect.
               Had not Mr. Fulton been previously inclined to be a woman-hater, long association
                  with her, doubtless, would have rendered him so. To him however, except in
                     moments when the violence of her
                  temper overcame her, she was conciliatory and submissive; not that she feared
                  losing her place, for long experience, and prudent management, had rendered her
                  necessary, but that she really stood in awe of his stern dignity of manner. She
                  possessed almost absolute control over the household, lording it over the servants
                  with despotic tyranny, while Florence she alternately petted and scolded. There
                  were few teachers worth procuring who relished the atmosphere of Mr. Fulton's
                  house long at a time. The old man fretted at the annoyance this caused him, and
                  Mrs. Sharp attributed it entirely—when speaking in confidence to her employer—to
                  "the perverse disposition of that spoiled child."
               Partly through the representations, and partly through the annoyance, caused by
                  teachers leaving the house so often, Florence was sometimes left for months,
                  without an instructor. Having few companions of her own age, she was often at a
                  loss for something to beguile the weary hours.
               With a mingling of pride and parsimony, often found in a naturally haughty spirit,
                  which has been compelled for years to struggle with poverty, Mr. Fulton, though he
                  inhabited a richly furnished and elegant mansion, in one of the most fashionable
                  streets of the city, still kept up his habits of self-denial and economy. He saw
                  no company, and his house reminded one of a deserted palace, mournful in its
                  silent splendor. The furniture was old fashioned, 'tis true, and Rumor
                  whispered—but then the dame is somewhat given to lying—that Mr. Fulton had fitted
                  up his house for the purpose of taking to his heart and home (his
                     heart and home) a lady who afterwards deceived him. If so,
                  there was some reason for his aversion to the sex.
               Books were the only resource of the lonely child. She obtained the ingress to a
                  circulating library, from which she procured romances, plays and poems. The
                  natural tendency of a young mind is to such productions as these, rather than to
                  the deeper and graver order of literature.
               There was a grass-plot, or little court it might have been termed, on one side of
                  Mr. Fulton's house, larger than those generally attached to city houses, which had
                  been laid out by the former owner, as a retreat for his leisure moments. It was
                  very private, being separated from the street by a high wall, while a thickly
                  planted row of evergreens shut it out from the view of the house. A more beautiful
                  spot could scarcely have been found. A jet d'eau
                  played in the centre, and threw its sparkling waters in diamond drops around; its
                  gushing music falling sweetly on the ear. The turf spread like green velvet
                  beneath the feet, and the ground was laid out so as to form undulating falls,
                  serving as delightful seats under the shade of the evergreens in summer. The most
                  beautiful flowers the clime would afford lavished their fragrance on the air, and
                  the few birds who, leaving their rural homes, found their way to the populous
                  city, made this their chosen retreat, until the place was vocal at times with
                  their wild-wood notes. And what is so sweet as the note of a bird? With what
                  joyous gladness, what soul-waking inspiration it thrills from the ear to the
                  heart! To the tired denizen of the city, what thoughts does the chance note of a
                  bird awaken! Such visions of green fields, and gushing waters, and sweet quiet
                  happiness! Dear birds! Sweet warblers! I love you if it is only for the delight
                  your glad melodies have brought to many a weary heart. A few statues well
                  selected, but marking a voluptuous rather than a pure and classic taste, completes
                  the adornments of the court.
               Shut in from the din and bustle of the great world without, there was a dreamy
                  solitude, a romantic beauty and witchery about this enchanting spot to the orphan
                  girl, whose poetic imagination invested it with all the charms of fairy land. It
                  was her chosen retreat, and became in time, from the force of association, to be
                  regarded almost as her peculiar property; and certainly if any part of the domain
                  appertained to this beautiful fairy-like being, it should have been the spot so
                  congenial to herself. Here, during the bright spring hours, the sunny summer eves,
                  and the calm days of autumn, she would dream away uncounted hours; and sweet
                  dreams they were too, tinged with the brilliant hues of young hope, and borrowing
                  their life from her warmly throbbing heart. Here she would devour the impassioned
                  language of Byron, or linger enraptured over the fascinating pages of Moore, the
                  poet of love. Here, too, she would fly for refuge, when some harsh taunt of the
                  housekeeper wounded her young spirit; or a cold look from her uncle chilled and
                  repelled her. Here she passed many an hour of solitude and tears, when the memory of her mother's
                  love, and her happy infancy, would come with the tumultuous tide of recollection
                  over her, contrasting with her lone and loveless present. Her heart pined for
                  affection, but its mighty craving, yearning hunger, was doomed to be
                  unsatisfied.
               Few know how to pity the orphan. They may feed and clothe the body, but who shall
                  minister to the wants of the soul? Who shall satisfy the cravings after heartfelt
                  tenderness; holy, loving sympathy, in the bereaved young heart? Who shall give the
                  life, the joy, the love, which beamed in the mother's glance; or watch as they
                  would have done who are gone—our lost father, and our cold dead mother—over our
                  erring footsteps?
               Florence sought for solace and enjoyment in those studies which kindle the heart
                  and inflame the imagination. Poetry was her dream—her passion—her delight. Music
                  seemed to breathe the inmost language of her soul; she composed with ease; and
                  with her perfect car, her pieces were generally faultless in melody and time. As a
                  natural consequence of such pursuits, she became a visionary, living in a world of
                  her own, and imagining the world without, of which she knew nothing, the mirror of
                  that which the "young dreams of her heart shadowed forth." Though the niece of a
                  wealthy merchant, and living in the most fashionable street of the great Babel of
                  Gotham, she was as complete a recluse and day dreamer, as if she had been brought
                  up on some lone shore, with nought but nature's loveliness around her. Such is the
                  influence of habit and circumstances over time and place.
               When about fourteen years of age, an event happended to her, which tinged with its
                  own coloring all the hues of her after life. She was one day in Waverley Place,
                  and was about to cross the street, her eyes fixed admiringly on a light and
                  elegant equipage a few doors above, when the fiery horses took fright at
                  something, and escaping from the hands of the groom dashed towards her. So sudden
                  was the movement that she stood paralyzed with terror; the frantic steeds were in
                  ten steps of her, and she could not move; in another instant she would have been
                  crushed under their feet—nay she was already sinking to the earth—when a strong
                  arm was thrown around her, and she was borne to the sidewalk. Half fainting with
                  terror, she looked up at her protector. She would have thought the face, bending
                  over her—the dark eyes beaming light into her own—the lip breathing such low soft
                  words of tenderness, and soothing into her ear—belonged to an angel, but for the
                  mustache shading the curved lip; which certainly realized her idea of a man, more
                  than an angel. If however she still cherished any doubt as to his identity with
                  the habitants of this lower sphere, it was speedily removed, when he inquired her
                  street and number, and sternly reproving the careless groom, who had by this time
                  recovered the horses—which proved to be his own—lifted her into the carriage, and
                  followed himself.
               All this passed like a dream, and, save a murmured reply to his question, she had
                  not spoken a word. Still pale, with heart palpitating with recent terror, she
                  leaned her head against the shoulder of her preserver for support, as the horses
                  dashed rapidly onward. He took her cold hands in his own warm grasp, and softly
                  chafed them; looked down into her eyes; and with a sort of mesmeric influence
                  calmed her. Poor Florence! she never forgot that gaze, until in long after years,
                  she met it once more, fixed upon her.
               A few minutes drive brought them to her uncle's door. She murmured her thanks for
                  his kindness; he assisted her to alight, saw her safe in the walls of home, and
                  was gone. She knew not even his name.
               Around this incident in her life, the enthusiastic imagination of the young girl
                  wove a life-dream of romance and passion. "It was always so in novels: the life of
                  the heroine was saved, and then of course she fell in love with her preserver; and
                  then—after passing through unheard of difficulties—they were married; and
                  then"—why there's an end of it of course. Alas! for the romantic dreams of a young
                  heart in a world like this. Florence was sure he would not leave her thus, and
                  never return; no, he would seek her out, they would meet again, and then—it is
                  impossible to describe the glorious visions she conjured up. Day after day she
                  watched for him, yearning to meet those eyes—to hear that voice once more—(poor
                  child, those eyes had looked tenderly upon her, that voice had spoken kindly,) but
                  he came not. Once or twice he passed her, in the crowded throng of Broadway, but
                  did not perceive her—often she saw him dashing through the streets in the light
                  open carriage, with those same fiery
                  horses—and at last one evening she met him, and as they were brushed against each
                  other in the throng of promenaders, he looked at her, his face lighted up for a
                  moment with pleased surprise, but he did not attempt to recognize her.
               A twelvemonth passed away, and then Florence saw that face no more. She missed it
                  as we miss the one gleam of sunlight which has broken through a day of clouds and
                  gloom. She then concluded that he must have been merely a temporary sojourner in
                  the city, and that she would never see him again; and she hushed the sweet dream
                  in her heart, and, as time wore on, thought of it only when some memory of bygone
                  hours stole over her, as the freshness and sweetness of spring steal upon our
                  senses when inhaling the odor of violets.
               When Florence arrived at the age of fifteen, her uncle, fearing her education was
                  becoming neglected, overcame his prejudices so far as to place her at a
                  fashionable boarding-school. Here she was taught to sing divinely; to speak French
                  and Italian with the sweetest accent in the world; to dance exquisitely; together
                  with sundry other accomplishments, which, if not professedly taught, are generally
                  learned at boarding-schools. Florence profited as much as possible by the time she
                  was at Madame C——'s, and when she left the school, that august personage declared
                  that a more accomplishment young lady had never emerged from the walls of her
                  elegant establishment; an establishment which she boasted had turned out some of
                  the brightest stars of the beau monde.
               
               "Florence," the little orphan girl at old Mr. Fulton's, attracted no attention,
                  not even a passing sigh of compassion from the gay and busy world around her; but
                  the beautiful and fascinating "Miss Fulton," the reputed heiress of the immense
                  wealth of her uncle, burst upon the world, a star of the first magnitude. "True,
                  her uncle was a stingy old curmudgeon; but what of that? he was rich,
                  and she would certainly get all his money." The carriages of the élite of the city, drove in crowds to the door of "the
                  heiress," until the ceremony of calling was accomplished. Invitations were
                  showered upon her, and there were five hundred dear friends, with fashionable and
                  dissipated sons, heirs to nothing, ever ready to chaperone her to places of
                  amusement, and to act the mother towards her, if she should take it
                  into her queenly head to allow them to do so.
               Punctual to his promise, on her seventeenth birthday her uncle told her to
                  consider her property at her own disposal, though nominally he must hold it in
                  trust, as her guardian. He allowed her a suit of apartments in his spacious
                  mansion to get rid of the annoyance caused him by company, and these Florence
                  furnished in the most exquisite style; and here she received and entertained her
                  guests, her uncle seldom interfering, as it was at her own expense.
               
               Plunged into the labyrinth of the fashionable world, with no restraining
                  influence—for Mr. Fulton was nominally a protector, and nothing more—the young,
                  the gay, the beautiful Florence was left. It is needless to say with what zest she
                  entered into the enchanted circle of her new life, its pleasures engrossing for a
                  time every thought.
               We have already seen that from her infancy she had felt the necessity of being
                  loved, belonging to some natures in a much greater degree than others. A person of
                  this description is always more or less fascinating. The very desire of inspiring
                  love gives to the manner those attractive allurements, those sparkling graces,
                  calculated to win it. When united—as in her case—with beauty, quick, impassioned
                  genius, and a gay and sparkling flow of spirits, which could at times be subdued
                  into that gentle and modest reserve which attracts, as it were, by repelling—the
                  feeling acquired all the power of a will, which few could resist. When to all this
                  was added the magic power of gold, we need not wonder that she became
                  the most brilliant star of the New York season—living, breathing and moving in a
                  perfect atmosphere of adoration, false and real. Her entrance into a ball-room, or
                  at the opera, was the signal for a universal sensation among mustaches and
                  lorgnettes. Why did so many sigh in vain? Was it because she had not forgotten the
                  vain dream of her childhood? Was she a coquette? Judging from her reputation, we
                  should say the latter; but time proves all things,—to which trite remark, it being
                  the property of every one, we do not think it necessary to append quotation
                  marks.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE FIRST MESH IN THE WEB OF FATE.
               
                  
                     And this Adonis of the crowd is the idol of my early dreams!
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Thou didst beam upon my vision,
                        A thing of life and light;
                        Like a dream of bliss elysian,
                        In a starry summer's night.
                     
                  
               
               ALL the world—that is all the beau monde—were
                  thronging to the brilliantly illuminated mansion of the Moretons, in Fifth Avenue,
                  in answer to cards received a week or two previous, bearing the important
                  announcement that Mrs. De Vere Moreton would receive Thursday evening.
               The Moretons were the gayest and most fashionable people in New York. Their
                  parties were the most brilliant and recherché,
                  and their reunions the most social and agreeable. Having no children they lived a
                  great deal in society, and were ever ready in any project for amusement, in which
                  was required the important assistance of a married lady and gentleman.
               This winter, Mrs. De Vere Moreton—mind the De Vere, reader—had
                  volunteered to "bring out" from the retirement in which her days had hitherto
                  passed, a young orphan niece of her husband, and this gave her an opportunity of
                  making her house even gayer than usual. To night, a more brilliant circle could
                  scarcely have been selected than that which graced the elegant drawing-rooms,
                  where wealth, taste, and fashion reigned; and beauty, wit, and gayety, threw their
                  charmed influence around.
               Claude St. Julian was one of a group of gentlemen standing near the door of the
                  principal reception room; and, as all of the group will figure more or less in the
                  events of this veritable narrative, we will give the reader a passing introduction
                  to each. The young man leaning against the door with such an air of nonchalance, is Harry Vernon, the only son of the
                  wealthy and distinguished Ex-Governor Vernon.
               He is tall, with a figure splendidly developed, and a pair of magnificent dark
                  eyes lighting up a strikingly handsome face; but the effect of his otherwise
                  prepossessing appearance ance is marred by a look of dissipation, and by his
                  dress, which approaches near enough the "flashy," to outrage the
                  principles of refined taste. Yet, through his assumed non-chalance and reckless
                  defiance of conventional forms, there breathes a careless grace—a frankness and
                  generosity of feeling—which wins the beholder in despite of his own will, and
                  redeems his character, in some degree, from the censure it might otherwise
                  incur.
               The tall young man next him is addressed by Vernon under the soubriquet of "Plum;"
                  his name, however, is Arthur Plumdale. His countenance in repose has a sinister,
                  half-sneering expression, which he endeavors to convert into an expression of
                  careless bonhomme. He laughs often, but to an
                  acute ear there seems in that laugh a sort of lurking devil; yet his conversation
                  is gay and pleasant, and he is doubtless a popular character.
               The young gentleman nearest the door, with the slight, elegant figure, pleasing,
                  though rather effeminate face, and profusion of light brown mustache, wearing an
                  undress uniform, is Lieutenant Minton, of the Navy.
               "Have you been presented to the débutante. Miss
                  Moreton?" said Harry Vernon to St. Julian.
               "No, I have just arrived; and if it would be of any avail, I would put up a prayer
                  to the indulgent gods that I might be spared that task altogether."
               "Why? Is she such a terrible character that you fear to encounter her?"
               "No! would she were; there would be some incentive then to rush to the
                     attack—veni, vidi, vici; but she is, I hear,
                  a little simple country girl, who will answer you in monosyllables, or perhaps
                  make some allusion to 'last term at boarding school,' by way of enlivening the
                  conversation."
               "Pshaw! St. Julian," laughed the good-natured Harry Vernon, "don't wage a warfare
                  against the poor girl for her ignorance. Let's try to 'initiate' her as soon as
                  possible."
               "There is no necessity for the trouble. She is in Mrs. De Vere Moreton's hands,
                  and that is equivalent to saying she will soon be thoroughly initiated into the
                  mysteries of the temple of Fashion."
               "The temple of arts you mean;" put in Arthur Plumdale dale; "of all women I ever saw Mrs. Moreton best
                  deserves the title of Mistress of arts."
               "Mrs. Moreton is divine," lisped the young lieutenant.
               A smile passed through the circle.
               "By the by, St. Julian, you have not met Miss Fulton, the reigning belle of the
                  season?"
               "No, this is positively my first appearance on any stage since my arrival from
                  Europe. I have some curiosity to see her. I understand she is a beauty, a genius,
                  and an heiress—rare combination of gifts to be cursed with,"—he added under his
                  breath.
               "She will be here to-night; I wonder she hasn't come."
               "Oh! Fitz Friske is with her, and he always delays his arrival to the eleventh
                  hour, in the hope of creating a sensation."
               "Fitz Friske!" exclaimed Vernon. "I can't see how she endures that odious little
                  compound of nonsense, affectation, and perfumery."
               "I don't think it is to be wondered at at all," said Plumdale dryly, "he is a
                     millionnaire."
               "Hush! here she is," and at the same moment Florence, the beautiful the
                  magnificent Florence appeared, leaning on the arm of the dapper little exquisite,
                  Mr. Fitz Friske, who imagined that he received a reflected lustre from the star by
                  whose side he moved, and felt his consequence materially enhanced thereby. She
                  moved along with her queenly grace, a half conscious smile flashing in her starry
                  eyes, and playing around the exquisite lip, as she marked the eagerness with which
                  the men pressed forward to catch a look or smile as she passed. In the
                  countenances of many of the women might be traced an expression of envy and
                  discomfiture, which they vainly attempted to conceal; but on she moved unheeding,
                  scattering smiles and gay words, like flowers and sunshine in her path. When the
                  Antinous face and form of Claude St. Julian appeared, as immediately after
                  Florence he threaded his way through the crowd towards his hostess, the women
                  revenged themselves on the men for their admiration of "La
                     belle Fulton." Fans fluttered, sighs were heaved, and hearts
                  palpitated.
               "Who is he?" whispered some one who happened not to know him. "So handsome! with
                  such an air distingué! Oh, he is
                     divine! for heaven's sake tell me who he is."
               "Mr. St. Julian; he has just arrived from Europe, and is a married man," responds
                  some one in great haste, lest the fair querists should "die off" ere the requisite
                  information could be obtained.
               "What if he is married," cries some gay and careless belle, "he is none the less
                  agreeable for that."
               In truth, all were glad to welcome back the gay and popular St. Julian; his
                     naïve wit, his easy and brilliant flow of
                  conversation, his joyous and fascinating manner, rendering him an invaluable
                  acquisition to the world of fashion; that world, whose greatest exertion is to be
                  entertained.
               The pretty little Mrs. Moreton bedizened with lace and jewels, was conversing, or
                  rather prattling in her gay pleasant way, with a knot of beaux and belles, of
                  which she formed the centre, as Claude approached to make his obeisance. Near her
                  stood a pure, pale vision of loveliness, with sapphire eyes and golden hair, in a
                  dress of white crape, unrelieved by ornaments. She seemed to move in an atmosphere
                  of freshness, innocence, and loveliness. This was the young débutante. Bending over her as if in earnest
                  conversation—rare thing for a ball-room—was a stately, noble-looking man,
                  apparently about thirty-five, in whom Claude recognized Judge Woodward, a man no
                  less distinguished for his high intellectual attainments, and the loftiness and
                  uprightness of his moral character, than the gentle dignity and suavity of his
                  manners.
               "Mr. St. Julian, I am delighted to see you," said Mrs. Moreton, graciously
                  extending her hand. "It was getting so late, I feared you would not come."
               "You must have thought I had lost my taste for the beautiful, and my appreciation
                  of every thing that is agreeable, in my foreign wanderings, if you could suspect
                  me of slighting one of Mrs. De Vere Moreton's invitations," replied Claude, with a
                  bow and smile. "I was only delighted at so good an opportunity of meeting with old
                  friends, and getting a peep at the many new stars that have arisen during my
                  absence."
               "And Mrs. St. Julian?" asked Mrs. Moreton, bethinking herself.
               
               "Regrets very much that she is too much indisposed to go out. Magnificent looking
                  woman Miss Fulton."
               "Yes, the belle of the season—a charming girl!"
               Florence was standing near, surrounded by a group of gentlemen. As Claude
                  pronounced her name, her ear caught the sound, and she looked round. Their eyes
                  met. Sudden as an electric shock, the glance thrilled through each. In Claude,
                  Florence beheld the idol of her early dreams, the face and form which had haunted
                  many a pensive hour. The gay laugh died on her lip, and her gaze remained
                  transfixed on his. A moment, and she recovered herself, and continued talking
                  gayly as before. The sensations of Claude were different, yet perhaps akin in some
                  degree to hers. When his gaze first fell on her, he was struck by a resemblance
                  which he vainly endeavored to identify. The noble features, the full and finely
                  curved lip, the cloud of raven black hair, the starry midnight brightness of those
                  deep, dark brooding eyes; all were daguerreotyped in his memory; but the face
                     there, wore not the crimson flush on lip and cheek; nor the
                  expression beaming with the witchery of smiles belonging to Florence. That
                  memory-pictured face, was of a pale, dreamy, poetic cast; saddened as if by early
                  sorrow; dreamy as if a world of untold thought had stamped its impress there, but
                  beautiful beyond any thing he had ever seen before, or since, till now. When their
                  eyes met, that glance, it was the same; and like a flash he
                  identified the brilliant belle with the young girl whose life three years before
                  he had saved, and whose face had often since haunted his idle musings, with a
                  vague admiring interest. Mrs. Moreton laughed as she saw his eyes fixed on
                  Florence.
               "You seem as much struck by our American beauty as if you had never seen the fair
                  ones of other lands."
               "Ah! madam," returned Claude, and with truth, "the fair ones of other lands cannot
                  compare with ours."
               "You have not forgotten how to flatter I see; however, I will not accuse you of
                  flattery, as I cannot take the compliment to myself, being by birth a French
                  woman." (Mrs. De Vere Moreton was the daughter of a French consul, which accounts
                  for the aristocratic appellative prefixed to the Moreton name.)
               "If," replied Claude, bowing, "American ladies take the palm for beauty, French
                  women assuredly bear it off for every grace which charms the senses, or fascinates
                  the heart."
               "Yes," she rejoined, "I do not quarrel with our lot. Fascination is a gift which,
                  for the power it confers, is much to be preferred to mere beauty of form and
                  feature."
               "Who is that rather remarkable looking man immediately behind Miss Fulton? It
                  seems to me I have met him abroad," alluding to a dark foreign-looking individual,
                  with rather a noble air, who moved among the crowd as though "among but not of
                  them," yet whose piercing eyes, seeming to see every where, and read every
                  thought, assured one that he was cognizant of all that was passing around him.
               "Probably you have. That is Signor Basquina, an Italian count, of whom, on his
                  first arrival here two winters ago, we tried to make a lion; but he seems to be a
                  quiet person, with a perfect abhorrence of any thing of the sort. We are perfectly
                  assured of his rank, as there are several gentlemen of distinction in the city,
                  who have met him in his own country."
               "Basquina—I don't remember the name. Excuse me for trespassing so long on the time
                  you owe to others, but 'a looker on in Venice,' you know. Will you allow me the
                  pleasure of being presented to Miss Moreton?"
               Mrs. Moreton graciously complied with his request; and Claude commenced a few
                  words of graceful trifling, answered by "the little country girl," with a grace
                  and ease which astonished him.
               It was remarked by the "numerous circle of her admirers," that "La belle Fulton," was unusually distrait that evening.
               She would rattle on one moment with her usual sparkling gayety, and the next
                  relapse into silence, scarcely heeding the remarks addressed to her, or replying
                  half impatiently, if she did. But then she was continually told that her "dear
                  little caprices," and "spoiled child ways," were so naïve, so piquant, that they only
                  rendered her more charming; so who would blame her for indulging in them? She had
                  met at last the idol of her girlish years, the hero of the impassioned dreams of
                  her young heart. He did not approach her, and this fevered her desire to know him
                  into a passionate wish that he should speak to her, if but one word.
               At length Claude approached Mrs. Moreton to request her to present him to Miss Fulton. She was occupied
                  with some one at the moment, and as he paused to wait until he could gain her
                  attention, a strange sensation came over him, a sensation which we have all at
                  times felt, as if something, so to speak, held us back from some
                  object of which we are in pursuit, or some act we are about to commit. The feeling
                  is often but momentary, and easily shaken off; but is it not in many cases
                  recalled afterwards, as the presentiment of coming events? Perhaps it is the
                  warning shadow, which the wing of our good angel casts over our soul. As he stood
                  thus irresolute, the word "Beware," fell distinctly on his ear. He started and
                  looked around. Signor Basquina had just passed, in low and earnest converse with
                  some one. It was probable some chance word of their discourse which he had caught,
                  and smiling at his own nervousness, he gave his arm to Mrs. Moreton; and the next
                  moment received a bow from Florence accompanied by a beaming glance and smile; and
                  the presentiment banished from his brain.
               "Ah! St. Julian, perhaps you can prevail on Miss Fulton to dance," said Harry
                  Vernon. "I have wasted eloquence and breath in vain. Do unite your exertions to
                  mine."
               "And mine," lisped Lieutenant Minton.
               "And mine," drawled Fitz Friske.
               "I shall only be too happy," said Claude, "if I can be the favored one for the
                  next dance."
               Miss Fulton pouted her pretty lip and looked at him as if to say, "will you
                  torment me too," but she suffered herself to be prevailed on, and the next moment
                  they were in the flying circle of waltzers (polkas were not then in vogue) in the
                  next room.
               "Cool upon my word," said Harry Vernon. "La
                     belle Fulton is spoilt; that's the private opinion, publicly
                  expressed, of Henry Vernon Esq., the most profound thinker of the age. Come, boys,
                  let's take some champagne, and then for the card-room."
               Little recked Florence what they thought or felt. For the remainder of the evening
                  she was "the gayest in the revel; the lightest in the dance." He was
                  by her side at last; his soft tones falling on her ear; his dark eye beaming with
                  glances that said "a thousand things at once," to the love-inspiring orbs raised
                  to meet them; and Florence was in a trance of bewildering delight. We will not
                  detail all the conversation which passed between them in the course of the
                  evening, during which Claude hovered round Florence like a spirit—(was it a spirit
                  of light or of darkness?) We will not repeat the thousand and one pretty things
                  which "the divine St. Julian" breathed; nor the smiles and glances "La belle
                  Fulton" gave him in return. We will not translate the soft-toned good night, nor
                  the sigh which accompanied it. All these bewitching little deviltries, which the
                  monarch of Evil uses to beguile the erring and passionate ones of this world—we
                  will leave to the imagination of the reader, satisfied that the thing will be done
                  ample justice.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               MAIDEN REVERIES DANGEROUS THINGS SOMETIMES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "To think on low soft words,
                           Her ear had drunk that night;—.
                           When her heart beat echo like,
                           And her cheek burnt ruby bright.
                        
                        
                           "Her eyes wear a softer light—,
                           Her cheek a tenderer bloom;
                           As she muses o'er what has been.
                           Or dreams of what may come."
                        
                     
                     L. E. L.
                  
               
               IT was the morning after the party at Mrs. Moreton's, and though the little French
                  clock on the mantel in her chamber had chimed eleven, Florence had not yet risen.
                  The street without was alive and busy, but the blinds of her room were closed; and
                  the curtains drawn, only suffering the morning light to steal in, softened and
                  subdued, so as not to disturb the repose of the sleeper. That room was in all the
                  confusion and disarray consequent upon the lengthened toilet and hasty disrobing
                  of the previous night; but something of the tastes of the occupant might be
                  guessed from its general arrangements.
               Curtains of rich crimson silk swept to the floor; and the carpet corresponded in
                  its gorgeous hues with the curtains. On the toilet-table was a large full length
                  mirror; and the air of the apartment was heavy with the perfumes escaping from the
                  crystal flasks left carelessly open. Above the French bedstead, was raised a
                  slight frame supporting a canopy of
                  crimson silk, and beneath this reposed La Belle
                     Fulton. One rounded arm supported her head, whose dark glossy curls
                  wandered in thick masses over the pillow. Her neck and shoulders were bare, and as
                  her bosom heaved in its restless throbbing, the perfect outline, and tempting
                  roundness of the bust rose to view. She was sleeping, but it was evident from the
                  feverish glow on her cheek, and the unquiet movement of her rich red lips, that
                  her slumbers were by no means deep, or undisturbed.
               What are the dreams beautiful sleeper, which now visit thy pillow,—causing that
                  bosom to heave so wildly,—bringing such a fevered glow to thy cheek,—making those
                  moist red lips quiver,—and the long lashes glisten as if a tear had escaped 'neath
                  their silken fringes? These are the mysteries of woman's heart; let us not raise
                  the curtain which veils the pure, sweet sanctuary from the cold and careless
                  gaze
               At length she moved restlessly, unclosed her eyes, and ringing a small silver bell
                  on the table beside her bed, rose and proceeded to make her morning toilette.
                  Coming out from the bath, lovely and blooming as Hebe, she threw a dressing robe
                  of purple velvet around her, and standing before the mirror proceeded to brush out
                  the long thick glossy masses of her hair.
               Some time elapsed before her maid appeared, but she was not impatient. Her
                  thoughts were wandering; she often ceased her employment, and suffering her hand
                  to wander heedlessly through her curls, seemed lost in thought. At length, when
                  her toilet was completed, and the girl appeared with her breakfast, she scarcely
                  tasted the streaming chocolate and warm rolls placed temptingly before her; then
                  dismissing her as if glad to be alone, threw herself into a fauteuil and abandoned herself to the delicious sway
                  of revery. It was rare to see the shade of thought on that bright brow, but it was
                  there now; and those eyes, of that bewildering hue which is like the bluish jet of
                  the summer midnight sky, had this morning a depth in their light, a soul in their
                  swimming softness, which told that the thoughts burning within, were such as awoke
                  the slumbering echoes of her deepest feelings. Long she sat thus musing. She
                  thought of the party of the previous night, as she had never thought before; of
                  the thousand and one scenes of gayety and excitement, where she had been the queen
                  of the hour. She hailed it as an era in her existence, the first glimpse of a new
                  world that opened fair and bright in the future.
               And the enchanter, whose magic wand called into life these fairy visions in the
                  wayward heart of the spoiled beauty, was Claude St. Julian. As the reader has
                  doubtless surmised she was ignorant of the fact that Claude was a married man, and
                  this will not seem strange when we remember the seclusion in which she lived
                  previous to her introduction into society, that she made her début while he was in Europe, and that though many of
                  her personal friends were his also, she rarely heard his name in the gay and giddy
                  circle in which she moved, save an inquiry as to when he was expected to return,
                  or a regret at his long absence. His wife's name she had never even heard, she
                  being of far too little importance to engross the thoughts or conversation of the
                     beau monde.
               
               We have already told how her romantic young heart had twined itself round her
                  deliverer—how he became the hero of her day dreams, the embodiment of her ideal
                  creations of the good, the noble, the beautiful. And now, when the spring bud of
                  her life had burst into its summer bloom, the fair precocious child ripened into
                  the brilliant and beautiful woman, she had at last met him, and he—HE had reminded
                  her of the past; he had recognized her spite of the changes of time
                  and circumstances; he had told her how her face had haunted his
                  memory for years. Did he love her? and her heart bounded wildly at the thought.
                  No, there was passionate admiration, but no love expressed in tone or manner; but
                  yet there was a link already between them—a link of gratitude and tenderness; "and
                  he may love me yet, if he does not now," she concluded, with the pardonable vanity
                  of her sex and age. A woman of more cautious temperament,—or, perhaps we should
                  say more worldly prudence—would have checked any outflow of feeling towards a
                  comparative stranger; but Florence never took any pains to check her wild and
                  sudden impulses. Unaccustomed from her earliest years to discipline of mind, or
                  heart, she had never learned that such things are necessary to our well-being here
                  and hereafter. Naturally she had a passionate love for the pure, the beautiful, and the true; but this feeling—an
                  unfailing attribute of genius, and an essential element of greatness, if rightly
                  developed and flowing in its legitimate channel—was perverted by education and
                  circumstances, in the absence of higher aliment to support its life, into a mere
                  love of novelty, a craving, intense and continual, after excitement. Alas! for
                  her, the fair young years when the impressions are made, which so materially
                  affect our after life, which give to our matured years the impress of greatness
                  and goodness, or of sorrow and shame, were passed by her amid associations, but
                  little calculated to develope the latent virtue of her nature, or give tone,
                  firmness, and discretion to her character.
               What is like the influence of firm and judicious parents, in moulding the after
                  life of a child? and what more deleterious than the examples and precepts of
                  imprudent and injudicious parents or protectors?
               A ring at the door bell aroused Florence from her revery, and immediately
                  afterwards she was informed that visitors waited below.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE EAGLE WATCHES OVER THE DOVE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "See what a grace is seated on that brow."
                           "'Tis a throne, where honor may be crowned
                           Sole monarch of the universal earth."
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Oh! she was good as she was fair;
                        None, none, on earth above her;
                        As pure in thought as angels are,
                        To know her was to love her."
                     
                  
               
               SWEET Eva Moreton, how shall we describe thee? All things fair, all things pure,
                  "all things lovely and of good report" remind us of thee; and like a lily
                  flourishing in its stainless purity, in the heated atmosphere, and amid the
                  voluptuous growth of a hot-house, so didst thou bloom fair, holy, and serene, in
                  the luxurious and tainted atmosphere of the Moreton mansion, that temple of
                  Fashion and Folly.
               It was in one of the elegantly furnished parlors of this abode that Eva sat some
                  mornings after the party. She seemed intent upon some work with which she was
                  engaged, Lovely indeed she looked as she sat there in her simple morning dress
                  with her golden hair parted from the fair brow, and braided like a crown of glory
                  round her head; her Madonna eyes; her fair transparent complexion, tinged with the
                  faintest blush of the rose; and more than all, the sweet, serene, nay even holy
                  expression of her face, over which seemed evermore to brood the spirit of
                  prayer.
               Mrs. De Vere Moreton (as she chose always to be called) had thrown
                  herself en dishabille on a luxurious lounge, and
                  was chattering away, as fast as usual; apparently more for the pleasure of hearing
                  herself talk, than any thing else.
               "Well," she cried, half laughing, half pouting, "Moreton and I have had what I
                  call a matrimonial tête-à-tête—in other words a
                  quarrel—this morning. He actually tells me that my expenditures are greater than
                  he can afford! How I do hate to hear men get on those everlasting subjects, what
                  they can, and what they cannot afford, just as if they thought we cared. My
                  expenditures! when he will spend more in one night at the gaming
                  table than I do upon my dress, and other necessary expenses, in a year; but men
                  are so selfish, they never think of any body but themselves."
               She heaved a slight sigh and continued: "He can't support such extravagance! The
                  idea! and we living on Fifth Avenue, with every luxury wealth can furnish us. Why
                  did he place me here if he could not keep it up? I am sure I thought he was worth
                  a million, when I married him." Here the embroidered 'kerchief was raised to the
                  eyes of the aggrieved "female." "I wish I had never never left Paris, dear Paris,
                  to follow mon père to this hateful New
                  York,—though to be sure I was quite a child then,—but such a change! with my weak
                  nerves too—it is more than I can bear. I don't think Moreton has any right to talk
                  to me in this way. I shall spend as much as I please, and that isn't all, I shall
                  pout for three days, on the strength of his ill treatment this morning. He will be
                  glad enough to put me in a good humor by that time; even if it costs him a check
                  for a thousand. A vile man!"
               "But, aunt——" commenced Eva.
               "Don't call me aunt, Eva dear, for the love of mercy you make me feel as old as the hills, when in
                  reality I was just five and twenty my last birth-day. But dear me! what am I
                  thinking of—the clock has struck twelve, and Miss Virginia Smith is to call for me
                  in a half hour to go shopping; I shall never make my toilette in that time in this
                  world. There is the most beautiful cashmere at Stewart's, Eva, you ever saw; and
                     so cheap; only five hundred,—trifling isn't it? Mrs. Stewart
                  Graves had one last year not half so handsome, for which she gave a thousand. I
                  must have it, notwithstanding Moreton's foolishness. My expenditures indeed!"
               "A gentleman has called, madam; shall I show him in this room?"
               "Heavens, no! don't let any one catch me in this fix. Ask him in the front parlor,
                  but stay, who is it? How stupid you are, Watson!"
               "It is Judge Woodward, ma'am."
               "Oh! he is a visitor for Eva; let me escape and ask him here. New servants are
                  such bores,"—and she disappeared through the folding doors at one side, as Judge
                  Woodward entered at the other.
               He entered with his usual dignified grace and easy suavity of manner. Eva saluted
                  him with a blush and a smile, and taking both her hands in his own, he seated
                  himself beside her with the privileged air of a relation.
               "And how is my little coz this morning? Not suffering from dissipation I hope; but
                  I need not ask; your blooming looks sufficiently assure me of the contrary. What
                  are you so busy about?" he added, glancing at the embroidery frame. "You seem to
                  prefer 'sober brown,' to the bright buds and flowers ladies are so fond of weaving
                  together."
               "'I am embroidering a shawl for my mother," replied Eva. "I know she will prize it
                  more as my work than any thing I could purchase for her."
               "Just as of old; always thinking of your mother. By the way how do you like
                  yourself in your new character of La belle
                     Débutante? One would imagine, if you are like most young ladies, your
                  head would be so engrossed with the compliments you have received, and the
                  conquests you have made, that you would have no time to think of any thing else,
                  not even la chere mère."
               Eva looked at him in some surprise.
               "You jest, cousin."
               "Oh, of course; I know you are a dear good girl, and it would be almost impossible
                  to spoil you I hope; but seriously," dropping his light tone and looking grave, "I
                  wonder your mother should have thrown you into such a vortex of society and
                  dissipation as you find in this house; nor can I imagine how she could have
                  reconciled herself to placing you in the hands of a woman like Mrs. Moreton. Your
                  pardon for speaking thus of your uncle's wife, but—" at this moment the identical
                  Mrs. Moreton swept into the room, arrayed in the most becoming of morning
                  costumes, completed by the most coquettish of hats, couleur de rose, and after gayly passing the compliments of the day
                  with an air which seemed to challenge the admiration of the beholder, mentioned
                  her engagement, and smiled and bowed herself out with the utmost grace
                  imaginable,—to join Miss Smith, whose carriage awaited her at the door. Judge
                  Woodward looked after the gay little butterfly with a glance of mingled admiration
                  and pity, and resumed his conversation with Eva.
               "I am much attached to your mother, Eva, as you know; I look upon her as the most
                  estimable of women. To her good counsels I trace some of the best impulses of my
                  nature. The knowledge of her excellence has helped to teach me that tender regard
                  for all which concerns the welfare of woman, which I believe I possess in as great
                  a degree as most men. Is it strange then, knowing the careful way in which she has
                  reared you, shielding you from every contaminating influence, striving to implant
                  in your young mind nought but what was holy and true, and beautiful, that I should
                  wonder when seeing her bud unfolding into the flower, with the promise of its
                  bright childhood almost fulfilled—a thing all purity, yet tender, sensitive,
                  susceptible to every passing impression—that she should place you here, where you
                  are surrounded by many temptations, which your young heart may find it difficult
                  to resist?"
               "My dear cousin, you forget my poor mother's situation—a widow, the cares of a
                  family press heavily upon her. The education of her children devolves almost
                  entirely on her; and though competent to fulfil the task, yea, taking pride in it,
                  her duties must at some times prove onerous. At home I have little or no society; our limited
                  means prohibiting us from indulging in the luxurious refinements of the circle to
                  which we belong. My uncle, Mr. Moreton, generously offered to give me every
                  advantage of society in his power, and begged that I would accept his house as a
                  home. Wishing me to see something of the world, knowing that I would have
                  advantages she could not give me, my mother, my dear, tender mother, with many
                  struggles, at last yielded, though I indeed felt, when I parted from her, as if I
                  was leaving my guardian angel. I thought it best that I should come, therefore I
                  murmured not; in fact, I strove to make my mother believe that I looked forward
                  with great pleasure to this visit, and so well did I succeed in this innocent
                     ruse (if deception can be innocent), that I
                  overcame her reluctance, and she parted from me almost cheerfully." Eva wiped from
                  her eyes the bright drops which had gathered and glistened there, as she spoke of
                  her mother, then looking up with a smile bright as sunshine into the grave,
                  thoughtful face beside her, she added, "Cousin, you must have very little
                  confidence in my stability of character, if you think I could so easily forget the
                  precepts of years, and be willing to exchange the happiness flowing from the
                  practice of virtue, for the mere pleasures of fashionable life."
               "Ah! Eva," replied her relative, "when you know the world better, you will find
                  that pleasure can assume many alluring, and seemingly harmless shapes, to woo
                  young hearts to her siren meshes; and that even the firmest and best of us, those
                  who know full well the evil of sin, and its fearful consequences, are sometimes
                  overcome by its potent influence. But God shield thee, dear one, and never mayst
                  thou learn this lesson in the bitter school of experience." And the usually stern,
                  grave man, looked with a woman's tenderness into the fair childlike face upraised
                  to his.
               "I do not think," said Eva somewhat hesitatingly, "that my mother knows the real
                  character either of my uncle or his wife, that is, she does not know
                  that they are the habitual votaries of dissipation. My aunt you know can assume
                  almost any fascination of manner she pleases; and last summer when she paid us a
                  visit at Oakwood, she seemed so pleased with my mother's arrangements, entered
                  with such apparent interest into all the details of our little ménage, and had, to use a common expression, so few
                  'fine lady airs,' that my mother was much pleased with her; and I confess I was
                  never more surprised than when, on coming here, I found how differently Mrs.
                  Moreton managed her own household; but I attributed that in a great measure to the
                  difference in fortune and habits."
               "And would Mrs. Moreton intentionally deceive your mother?" asked Judge Woodward
                  sternly.
               "No, oh no!" replied Eva, earnestly. "I don't think she had any such intention; I
                  think it was from a good-humored wish to put us at our ease, that she thus adapted
                  herself to those around her; and also because her prevailing passion being to
                  please, she felt she could thus render herself most agreeable. With all my aunt's
                  frivolity, I think she is naturally good-hearted. She has treated me with
                  unvarying kindness; only chiding me sometimes for being too timid and
                  retiring."
               "And your uncle?"
               "Is kind too, but let us not speak more of this now."
               "Well, do not blame me for my advice, or my fears rather, Eva. You are just at
                  that critical age when the heart trembles on the turning point between childhood
                  and womanhood; when all things look bright to the ardent eyes and bounding heart
                  of youth; when the dew is freshest on the flower, the hue brightest on the rose.
                  There is reason enough for my fears in a world like this." He paused a moment,
                  then taking her hand caressingly in his own, he continued in soft accents: "Would
                  I could be thy protector, Eva. I have been thinking of marrying of late, wooing a
                  sweet angel to cheer the solitude of my bachelor home; and then, Eva, sharing my
                  home, you would be happy, at least I would use every exertion to make you so. But
                  when I think of asking the bright and beautiful being I love to be the bride of a
                  man many years older than herself, I confess I tremble for the result; yet," he
                  added, after a moment's pause, "after all that has passed between us, I do not
                  know that I have any reason to fear."
               As he spoke, Eva's soft lashes fell, until they swept the down from her cheek; her
                  hand trembled in that of Judge Woodward, and her bosom heaved. Attributing her
                  emotion to mere timidity he smiled, and looking at his watch, spoke of an
                  engagement, and rising rather abruptly, took his leave.
               
               A strange joy, a mingling of hope and gladness, lit up the features of the young
                  girl, as she walked to the window. She stood there with her hands clasped, gazing
                  after the form of Judge Woodward, until she saw him pause before the stately
                  building which claimed old Mr. Fulton as its lord and master, and the fair
                  Florence as an inmate. She then turned away, while a slight shade fell over her
                  before bright face.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               VISITORS.
               "MY dear Florence," said little Mrs. Moreton, running unannounced into the boudoir
                  of Florence with the freedom of an intimate friend, "you will join us in a
                  pleasure party to-morrow, will you not? It was made up very suddenly. We wish to
                  take advantage of this lovely weather. We are going to Gov. Vernon's country
                  seat—beautiful place—bowers, and fountains, and statues, and all that, and we will
                  have such a delightful boat-ride on the Hudson. It is just two hours ride from the
                  city Mr. St. Julian has a beautiful yacht, which he places at our disposal, and we
                  will return by moonlight."
               "There is no necessity for your looking so entreatingly at me," laughed Florence.
                  "You know you may always count on me in any thing which promises amusement. But we
                  are to go to Gov. Vernon's. I should prefer the party being somewhere else."
               "Oh! because you think you will be persecuted all day long by Harry Vernon; but,
                  my dear Florence, it would be the same case any where, and permit me to say," and
                  Mrs. Moreton looked keenly into her friend's face, "I think it extremely strange,
                  that he should thus persevere in his attentions, unless he receives some
                  encouragement."
               "Ah! Mrs. Moreton"——
               "Don't call me Mrs. Moreton—if I am married, I am nothing but a girl—call me
                  Angele."
               "Well then, Angele, I—I—oh! don't talk to me about Harry Vernon. Why spoil your
                  agreeable visit by dwelling on such a disagreeable subject?"
               "A very good turn off to my insinuation which you could not answer. Ah! coquetry,
                  coquetry," cried the little woman, shaking her head and trying very hard to look
                  grave.
               "But you have not told me who is to be of the party to-morrow," said Florence,
                  anxious to change the subject.
               "Only a few of our set. Let's see, there is Mr. St. Julian of course, we couldn't
                  do without him—what are you blushing about? The Vernons, Harry and Ella; Judge
                  Woodward too has promised to join us if he can find leisure; the Plumdales, Lieut.
                  Minton, and I believe that is all, with the exception of Moreton, myself, you and
                  Eva;" replied Mrs. Moreton, heaping ladies and gentlemen all together, just as
                  they occurred to her, without any regard to precedence or propriety. "Oh no! I
                  forgot Miss Virginia Smith," with a merry laugh as she pronounced her name, "has
                  promised to grace the occasion with her presence."
               "Miss Smith!" echoed Florence. "Of all people on the earth she is the most
                  disagreeable to me. I heard she was to have her portrait done by this new artist,
                  who flatters people, Harry Vernon says, until they don't know themselves. I could
                  scarcely forbear recommending her to have hers taken with finger
                  extended—representing the finger of scorn, you know—pointing at some poor wretch,
                  and a label extending from her mouth, pronouncing a malicious tale on the
                  miserable offender, so that her friends, or rather her foes (the latter class
                  being much the most numerous) may recognize it."
               "A good idea, 'pon my word," laughed Mrs. Moreton. "I can't bear the idea of
                  having her in our otherwise delightful party; but I am compelled to do so. I am
                  her debtor for several invitations already, and she gives clegant soirées, and has such nice people at them, that really
                  one can't afford to slight her. What a bijou of
                  a room you have, Flory. Who sent you this bouquet? Beautiful bouquet!"
               "That is a secret," replied Florence, smiling. "A very charming person though, I
                  assure you."
               "Oh! I can find out; here is the card on the table; permit me," and she read,
                  "With Mr. St. Julian's compliments." "Mr. St. Julian," repeated the little woman,
                  with an air of surprise, and an instant after a smile of peculiar
                  meaning—unobserved, however, by Florence—flitted over her face; it seemed to be
                  the sort of smile that would illumine the
                  features of one who had just lighted on a prize of some description; quick as
                  light it faded away, and glancing at the clock on the mantel—"Bless me, how late
                  it is, and I have a round of visits to pay. Flory, my dear, you are looking
                  lovely. How becoming that morning dress is! you ought to see my new one—delicate
                  lilac. Madame Montard says it is the morning dress of the season.
                     Au revoir, dear;" and thus rattling on
                  without pausing for reply, she at last rattled herself off.
               The boudoir of Florence, if such her favorite reception room might be called, was
                  indeed, as Mrs. Moreton expressed it, a perfect bijou. The tall French windows were slightly open, to admit the
                  balmy breeze, which wandered in laden with the fragrance of hot-house exotics, and
                  bringing to the ear the music of the fountain, plashing merrily without in the
                  autumnal sunshine. These windows were draped by light curtains of crimson silk,
                  over lace of the finest texture. The carpet was soft as velvet, and fairy-like in
                  its fresh and delicate hues—bright buds and blossoms on a ground of white,
                  producing almost the effect of a fine painting. The chairs, sofas, etc., were of
                  crimson and gold, and her favorite fauteuil was
                  a model of luxurious softness and case, seeming as if made to receive in its downy
                  embrace, just such a goddess as she who now occupied it. A small but finely
                  executed group of statuary, occupied a niche in one corner. A few fine paintings
                  adorned the walls (save on one side, which was filled by a splendid mirror), and
                  between these were little stands projecting, each supporting a vase burdened with
                  beautiful flowers, supplied from the conservatory, where she had a small, but rare
                  collection, and arranged by her own fair hands. The marble mantel was adorned at
                  either end by statuettes exquisitely wrought in alabaster, and in the centre stood
                  a petite French clock, of the finest
                  workmanship. Books and musical instruments crowned the decorations of the room. It
                  was differently arranged from boudoirs in general; but that very difference spoke
                  much of the characteristics of the occupant. One might see, at a glance, that the
                  presiding divinity of the temple was not simply a woman of fashion, but of soul
                  and intellect;—too much for the narrow orbit in which she moved. Suspended above
                  the little French clock, and where, by raising her eyes, her glance could be
                  thrown immediately upon it, was a small portrait by one of our finest artists, of
                  one of the first writers of our day. Next in her heart to her early love-dream,
                  dating its birth from the time when her young soul first woke to the power and
                  glory of Mind, was her enthusiastic admiration of this author. She perused his
                  works with the most impassioned avidity;—every word, every sentence, awaking with
                  the magic of the enchanter's wand—with the power of a master, but yet a kindred
                  spirit—the echo of her deepest feelings; until her enthusiasm for his works grew
                  into an ideal, but intense admiration of him, whose thoughts were to
                  her as love-fraught messengers of inspiration. It was not love,—not love for one,
                  the accents of whose voice even she had never heard;—it was a sort of mystical
                  adoration of spirit, a deep heart-filling intensity of Platonic soul-worship for
                  one know, and yet unknown, felt, though unseen.
               It was not a very young, though handsome face, that of the portrait; but it was
                  the wondrous soul within, with which Florence communed, when, with
                  clasped hands and upraised glance, the world of poetry in her own nature welling
                  up from her soul to her lip, and beaming from her lustrous eyes, she gazed upon
                  it. Perhaps it was a feeling more akin to the higher, holier nature of love, than
                  the enchantment which the fascination of Claude St. Julian wove in fatal meshes
                  around the heart of the impulsive girl. It matters not by what means she obtained
                  this portrait; from the distinction of the name it excited no surprise. Not that
                  she would have cared if it had, for she was peculiar for a haughty independence of
                  the opinions of others, (by the way a dangerous quality for a woman to possess,
                  and one which must have been implanted by circumstances, in a disposition
                  naturally all womanly softness,) and never concealed her passionate admiration for
                  the author in question. Some one suggested that were she to make her admiration
                  known, it would not fail to be returned toward one so beautiful and gifted. "No,"
                  replied Florence, with such sad earnestness, it made her listener smile, "I shall
                  probably never meet him; but I will not deny that I think, to be loved, if but for
                  one hour, by a soul like his, would be worth a woman's whole existence."
               But her gaze was not directed to the portrait, as she threw herself back in her
                     fauteuil, and abandoned herself to revery after Mr. Moreton's departure; it
                  rested on the exquisite bouquet of flowers, blooming in a silver goblet on the
                  little inlaid ebony table beside her, while her rosy lips murmured softly, "I
                  wonder if he will come; he promised last night at the opera to do so."
               The words had scarcely escaped her lips, when "Mr. St. Julian" was announced.
               When Mrs. De Vere Moreton left Florence she met Claude coming up the steps. A gay
                  salutation passed between them.
               "What a funny man Mr. St. Julian is," thought the little woman, as she threw
                  herself back in her carriage. "Visiting girls just as if he was an unmarried man.
                  Well, thank heaven, whatever may be Moreton's faults, he does not run after every
                  belle and beauty of the day, as some of these married men do—Mr. St. Julian, for
                  example. However, I dare say, if he would, I should care more about him. There is
                  nothing that provokes a woman into love like a little spirit of rivalry."
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Oh! as the bee upon the flower, I hang
                           Upon the honey of thy eloquent tongue."
                        
                     
                     BULWER
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        A rare and winning grace
                        Of word and look were his.
                     
                  
               
               "I SEE you have not forgotten the book you promised," said Florence, taking from
                  the hand of Claude a splendid copy of Tasso's "Gerusalemme
                     Liberata."
               "No," was the reply; "though the immediate occasion of my intrusion this morning,
                  is to know if you will do me the honor to join the pleasure excursion in my yacht
                  to-morrow?"
               "With pleasure; I have already promised Mrs. Moreton."
               "A thousand thanks. It will indeed be a day of pleasure to me." And he fixed upon
                  her his dark eyes, those eyes which had in their lightest glance more than the
                  fascination of a serpent, with a look which brought the blood to her cheek. A few
                  more words of desultory conversation, and Claude turned to the bouquet on the
                  table. "I see you are cherishing my flowers; how grateful I am."
               "I don't deserve your gratitude; I prize those for the gift, 'tis true, but I am
                  so devoted to flowers that I always cherish them, no matter how profuse. I am sure
                  I would make the world a garden of roses, if I could."
               "May it never prove otherwise than a path strewn with flowers to you," said Claude
                  in a low tone, gazing with irrepressible admiration on the fair, bright being
                  before him. The tone and expression were not to be mistaken for flattery, yet
                  Forence replied, "I don't like flattery, Mr. St. Julian, I am weary of it, believe
                  me; and I think," she added with a charming smile, and the most winning frankness,
                  "we are destined to be very good friends, if you will only promise to be
                  sincere."
               "With the greatest pleasure, provided you will promise not to mistake truth for
                  flattery. But to change the subject, you seem southern in your tastes; there is
                  something which breathes to me of the 'sunny south,' in the very atmosphere of
                  this room. You look, too, like an Italian. You ought to visit Italy, you would
                  like it so much."
               "Oh! yes," replied Florence, all the enthusiasm of her nature kindling at the
                  thought. "Italy is my mother-land, and the land of my dreams. You are just from
                  there, Mr. St. Julian. Do tell me about it; it is the most agreeable topic you
                  could select."
               "I am delighted to hear you say so," replied her companion, who was well aware
                  before that the mother of Florence was an Italian (having heard the romantic
                  history of her parentage), and had touched upon this topic with the magic of the
                  enchanter, because he knew it was calculated to interest and awaken the dormant
                  enthusiasm, which he saw at a glance she possessed. "I dislike to speak of my
                  admiration of that enchanting land—in fact, my enthusiastic preference for it—to
                  most persons, because such things are often regarded as affectation in a travelled
                  man, and I do not wish thus to 'teach the world that I have swum in a gondola;'
                  but I assure you, since returning to this land of prosaic realities, of modern
                  progress, and invention, I often recur longingly to the voluptuous case, and
                  glowing beauties of the land of love and story. Often when indulging in revery, I
                  shut my eyes, and try to imagine myself there again, beneath its moonlit skies;
                  feeling its balmy breezes, and drinking into my inmost being the inspiration of
                  its loveliness."
               
               "And then," said Florence, "its glorious works of art; what food for sublime
                  thought must a poetic mind drink in from these."
               "Yes. I never expect to taste such rapture, that is, rapture so intellectual in
                  its nature, as I have felt in gazing on the old classic ruins of Italy; monuments
                  of the golden age of the past, breathing as they do of poetry, oratory and wisdom.
                  What I have said of the classic ruins is peculiarly true of Rome; but Venice—you
                  would like Venice, with her gondolas, and the songs of the rowers floating over
                  moonlit waters. To a young romantic heart, this is indeed a scene of
                  enchantment."
               "Oh, thus!" said Florence with flashing eyes, "have I pictured Italy a thousand
                  times. And its society?"
               "I like that, too. There are defects of government and religion, but with these
                  the stranger need not meddle. There you find more freedom in society than here.
                  There are not so many of those odious trammels which fetter those who long to
                  wander from the beaten track, to gather stray flowers by the wayside, and embody
                  in the real world the creations of the passionate soul. Love teaches the heart its
                  faith, and needs no mummery of words, to hallow the bright dream which is born of
                  heaven, and is itself a heaven while it lasts. There is no tie there which can
                  fetter the soul, while the pulse bounds, and the heart maddens for freedom." He
                  paused, fearing he had said too much in the excitement of the moment, and that
                  Florence might be shocked by the but halfveiled meaning of his words. But if she
                  was, she did not allow him to perceive it, though she changed the conversation,
                  somewhat, by saying:
               "I shall visit Italy, whenever I can find an agreeable party to join me."
               "An agreeable companion why not say?" said Claude, smiling. "When you go you will
                  probably be accompanied by the chosen of your heart, whoever that fortunate being
                  may be."
               Some feeling she could scarcely define brought a vivid flush to the cheek of
                  Florence as he thus spoke. Was that flush prophetic? Claude continued: "A bridal
                  tour to Europe is just the thing nowadays; and pleasant as it is to roam through
                  Italy's poet-famed scenes alone, I need not tell you how much that charm is
                  enhanced, when our wanderings are shared by one we love."
               "Did you ever experience that pleasure?" asked Florence earnestly, though
                  smilingly.
               "No; though I have often pictured the enjoyment this would afford me, and longed
                  in my inmost soul to realize the vision—this pleasure I fear will never be mine.
                  There are few," he added, "who would sympathize with the emotions I experience in
                  such scenes. It is rarely I meet with one to whom I can unveil my thoughts, and
                  feel assured of sympathy, as in the present instance," and he bowed.
               "Sympathy!" exclaimed Florence passionately, drawn out already by a power she
                  could not resist to the revulsion of hidden sentiments and feelings; thus placing
                  at once in the hands of Claude the master key to her character—"'Tis seldom the
                  heart finds sympathy. If, by chance, its holiest emotions rise to the lip, what is
                  the answer? A cold stare or a sarcastic sneer. But I must not get on this subject,
                  or I shall say too much," she added, checking herself.
               "And I shall listen with such pleasure that I shall overstep all the bounds of
                  etiquette in the length of my visit," said Claude, with a slight smile and a
                  mocking emphasis on the last words, and rising at the same time. "And now instead
                  of the cold 'good morning,' let me say that sweet old word good-by.'"
               "How fascinating he is!" thought Florence as the door closed upon him. "There is
                  something about him so superior to the mass—" and her lip curled.
                  "There is so much congeniality too in our sentiments. Ah! I have met at last the
                  embodiment of my beautiful ideal, but perhaps after all he is not for me, and I
                  ought not to think of him." Alas! slight were the efforts she made to resist the
                  spell which was fast weaving itself around her senses. How could she dash the
                  foaming goblet from the lip, which had so longed for its sparkling draught? She
                  did not seek to do so; her only thought was to revel in the delicious dream while
                  it lasted, no matter what the future might bring forth.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               "YOUNG AMERICA" IS CONFIDENTIAL.
               
                  
                     
                        An unwonted softness, and depth of feeling, comes o'er me when I think of
                           thee, and I could weep at my own falsehood. Do I love thee
                           yet,—and is all beside a dream which I will wake from to curse?
                     
                     JOURNAL OF THOUGHTS.
                  
               
               "BY Jove!" thought Claude as he wended his way through the crowded throng of
                  Broadway, "La belle Fulton is a splendid woman! What an eye she has! how it
                  kindles, flashes, melts, softens, with her feelings! And what lips! I engrossed
                  too much of the conversation this morning, for I wanted to hear her talk; but I
                  could have talked all day just for the pleasure of watching her expressive face.
                  She is very romantic; but I like that in a woman. Heaven save me from those dull,
                  commonplace women, or your soulless fine ladies! I really believe 'la belle' and I
                  will get up a flirtation, if we don't take care. Well, I for one have no
                  objection. But after all, it would be a pity; she is all soul, and if she loved at
                  all, would love to distraction; and if she were to be so unfortunate
                  as to (quite unconsciously to herself) glide into love for me—what then? I am not
                  a villain. But, good heavens! what a fool I am making of myself—thinking of love
                  in such a connection. I, a married man, and she—the greatest coquette in New York.
                  Love! pshaw! when did I have a serious thought about love before? Though I have
                  whispered its pretty nothings in the ear of the high Spanish donna, the dark,
                  passion-eyed Italian, the coquettish, sparkling, brain-turning nymphs of France,
                  and, yes—softly breathed its burning vows to the coy car of many of fair damsel of
                  our own staid Republic: I loved none of them all. Did I ever love
                  poor Marion? I thought I did when I stood on the little moonlit porch of her
                  mother's cottage 'six years agone,' and made her promise to give up all beside for
                  me. Had she refused my request, or rather my order—for I was an imperious boy
                  then—I should have left her for ever, but she wouldn't let me go. Better if she
                  had. Poor Marion! but why the devil should I pity her?—I don't believe she cares
                  for me,—it is very evident in fact from her conduct. Some women marry just because
                  it is the custom to do so. Well, Bob Gratton, my good chum, was right after
                  all——"
               "Health, wealth, women, and wine," cried Henry Vernon, overtaking Claude, and
                  slapping him on the shoulder. "A good motto that, my boy. Let's go in at
                  Delmonico's for lunch."
               "Very well. I am glad you overtook me, Hal; I was on my way home, but
                  however——"
               "Home, the deuce! jolly good fellows, like you, have no business at home. They owe
                  it to the world to be rambling at large, for the benefit of any poor wretch that
                  is so dull he can't amuse himself, and requires an agreeable companion to do it
                  for him—and that is just my case now."
               "By the way," said Claude, as they seated themselves over a lunch served up in
                  Delmonico's best style, "you are of our party to-morrow?"
               "If La belle Fulton will allow me to be her cavalier on the occasion. If her
                  ladyship happens to be in one of her fits of caprice, she will refuse. That woman
                  treats me too badly; I don't believe there is another boy in town that would stand
                  it."
               "You astonish me; I didn't think you were the sort of fellow to let any girl
                  trifle with you," said Claude—his curiosity somewhat aroused—assuming a serious
                  tone.
               "Well, I don't believe there is another girl under the sun that could do it, but
                  she has such a way with her. I would marry that woman if I could, and she is the
                  only being under heaven that could induce me to commit such an act of folly."
               "Don't turn Benedick, Hal, for heaven's sake. If you do, I promise you'll repent
                  it. Matrimony has spoiled more fine fellows than any thing else under the
                  sun."
               "Yes, you are an example of it," replied Hal, coolly; cramming his mouth full of
                  cold chicken, and speaking at intervals. "If such are your sentiments, why the
                  devil did you run your head into the noose, before you had time to taste the
                  blessings of freedom?—though you taste them pretty extensively as it is, I
                  think."
               "No more of that an thou lovest me, Hal. Spare me."
               "But, Vernon, tell me something more of your affair with the Fulton. I feel
                  interested in your success, my dear boy," said Claude, as they emerged from
                  Delmonico's.
               
               "Well, my friend, as 'I do affect thee dearly,' I will even 'cleanse my bosom of
                  its perilous stuff.' The fact is simply this. At one time she is as cold as an
                  iceberg, and the next she treats me in such a way as to clewate me—as Fitz Friske
                  says—to the seventh heaven of felicity. Now I should like to know how I am to act
                  under such circumstances. I am inclined sometimes just to throw up the cards and
                  quit."
               "I should advise you to do so, Hal," said Claude, gravely; "no woman never acts in
                  that way, unless it is from downright coquetry."
               "Were I convinced of that, you may rest assured I should not sail under her flag
                  much longer. But you do not know how I love that woman. Ties I deemed the most
                  sacred have been sacrificed to her. The star of my boyish dream, which has ever
                  beamed the same—lone, bright, and true; the worshipped star from which I never
                  thought to wander—has lost its radiance before the splendor of her beauty. Call
                  you not this love? Or tell me, St. Julian, is it only a passion-dream, fond, but
                  fleeting? After all," he continued musingly, in a tone of deep feeling, and with
                  an expression so at variance with his usual nonchalance, that Claude gazed at him
                  in surprise, "may not the senses be led astray, and the soul forget honor, and all
                  beside, in the intoxication of a false delirium, to find too late, that the
                  holiest impulses of the heart cling to the deserted shrine of its first
                  worship?"
               "First love," replied Claude, as his thoughts recurred to the fading dream of his
                  own youth, "is an idle dream, cherished only while the romance of passion, and
                  imagination, lingers around it, and unable to withstand the commonplace realities
                  of life."
               "No," replied the other, with an enthusiasm which showed that noble feelings
                  slumbered beneath the reckless surface, "the heart may have many dreams, it can
                  have but one true love. Let that come when it will, when the purity of our virgin
                  truth is as yet unsullied, or when the heart turns, wearied with its own
                  fickleness, from many a shrine where it has 'bent the knee and breathed the vow,'
                  to seek some purer fountain at which to quench the unsatisfied soul-thirst, still
                  that is the first, because it is the only real love. Time is the
                  nurse of true Love, but the source of its life is Eternity.
               "Strange doctrine for you, Hal," said Claude, touched in spite of himself by the
                  earnestness of his usually careless companion. "My own heart has often and sadly
                  whispered that your theory must be the only true one. But we are growing
                  sentimental."
               "Yes, and I am forgetting the sage maxim, that 'words were given to conceal our
                  thoughts,'" rejoined Harry, dropping his tone of feeling, as if ashamed of having
                  indulged in it, and resuming his usual expression. "By the way, I promised Arthur
                  Plumdale I would call and see his sisters this morning. He said they were quite
                  lonely—having just parted with a friend who has been spending some time with
                  them—and would be glad to see me. Entre nous,
                  from the scarcity of food and fuel in that quarter, I suspect they were glad to
                  get rid of their 'friend.'"
               "Do you affect the divine Augusta?"
               "No, I like little Lettie better. She is not out yet, and never receives visits
                  from any gentleman except myself—Arthur says—meaning, I suppose, that I should
                  appreciate the compliment."
               "Young Plumdale (not very young either by the way) is a particular friend of
                  yours?"
               "Why yes, what do you think of him?"
               "I can't say I admire him particularly, but as your friend I ought not to——"
               "Oh! that makes no difference. If I like a man, the condemnation of the whole
                  world will not alter my estimation of him. Plum is a good fellow, and a deuced
                  smart one—he can see about as far ahead as any man I ever saw, and, I verily
                  believe, loves me like a brother. He is a little inclined to be 'spongy'
                  sometimes, but he can't help that, poor fellow. It is owing to his
                  circumstances—but here we are at the Irving. Come in, and see how you like my
                  rooms."
               "How the inner life mocks at the outer." Even as I write these careless lines, I
                  feel as if the spell of Death was upon me; I seem to hear his stealthy footsteps
                  in the dark distance, slowly but surely coming. It struggles in my veins—that
                  dread Power of annihilation—with the warm bounding lifeblood of youth. Which shall
                  triumph? Is this death shadow a dream, or a reality? I gaze on the Autumn leaves
                  as on a scroll which memory lays open before me; telling of bright flowers dead in the pathway of
                  life, as of Nature; of bright hopes dying even as these leaves, in a heart too
                  early doomed to taste the bitter fruits of an irrevocable Destiny. The breeze
                  wailing through the forest oaks, whispers—"passing away! all earthly things are
                  passing away;" and I, loneliest of all earth's lonely children, why
                  should I stay? A stray waif on life's wild waters; a single blossom on a leafless
                  tree; clinging dependent, helpless, with naught to rest upon, not even the hope of
                  a "better land." (Can there be a "better land" for those predoomed even on earth
                  to suffering?) My whole soul goes out in the one wild prayer, Sympathy!
                  Sympathy!—where is it to be found? The world courts our society; it woos our
                  smiles; while we minister to its pleasures, while the gay laugh is on our lip, the
                  light word on our tongue, it is willing to share our gayety—for gayety ever throws
                  an atmosphere of warmth and sunshine around it—but the bitter tear, the agonizing
                  moan, bursting from the surcharged heart, and overwrought spirit,
                     these must be suffered alone.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE PLEASURE EXCURSION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              And.—"This is to be a day of pleasure."
                           
                              Iro.—"Yes, but more than pleasure may come of it."
                        
                     
                     OLD PLAY.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "For love is oft a fatal spell,
                           That sweetly soothes but to betray."
                        
                     
                     J. MALCOLM.
                  
               
               BULWER says—and who should be taken for authority if he is not?—that "every thing
                  relating to the author illustrates the book." This is the only apology I have to
                  offer for the egotism displayed in the conclusion of the last chapter.
               Gayly the beautiful Sea-bird flew over the sunny waters of the Hudson, bearing its
                  precious freight of youth, beauty, and gladness. The weather had been balmy for a
                  week; one of those spells which come only with autumn's changing beauty; so soft,
                  so mysterious in their loveliness, that they fill the soul with rapturous dreams;
                  not the less sweet because cause they are sometimes tinged with melancholy. Our
                  gay party of pleasure were grouped on the deck of the yacht, apparently to enjoy
                  the gentle breeze and admire the sublimity of the prospect, which stretches far as
                  the eye can reach on the shores of this magnificent river;—though there were
                  perhaps few who were not engrossed by their own thoughts, rather than the wooing
                  loveliness of Nature. St. Julian was in high spirits; every body pronounced his
                  yacht a perfect bijou of its kind; and there was
                  no quiet pale-face there, with its sad looks, to mar his enjoyment, or check the
                  gay badinage, light repartee, and sparkling conversation, which made him the life
                  of the company. The most versatile of human beings, at one moment he was all
                  gayety, and the next—if the occasion demanded it—some beautiful sentiment
                  pronounced with thrilling pathos, would tremble on his lip; and through all seemed
                  to breathe the soul of feeling, which was the great secret of his fascination.
                  There was nothing which seemed put on for effect; even things which would have
                  seemed bizarre in other men, in him took the charming hues of
                  novelty, joined to that bewitching grace which is so rare a gift. Just now little
                  Mrs. Moreton had seized upon him, to carry her round and show her the appointments
                  of the yacht, upon each of which she pronounced with the air of a connoisseur,
                  much to the amusement of her companion. In the mean time, he cast longing glances
                  towards the spot where, apart from the rest of the party, stood Florence Fulton
                  and Harry Vernon. They were both silent, and one might have imagined their
                  thoughts engrossed by some very serious topic; but Harry was only thinking what a
                  devilish fine thing it was to have a yacht at one's command, and wondering if he
                  could screw "the governor" out of "small change" enough to purchase one; while
                  Florence was watching the dancing waves, and the graceful movements of the
                  Sea-bird as it flew over the waters, while her ear drank in the inspiring strains
                  of the fine band which had accompanied them from the city. To her it was a scene
                  fraught with enchantment. The remainder of the party seemed to be enjoying
                  themselves, each lady with her respective cavalier. Augusta Plumdale, a
                  fashionably dressed, elegant looking girl, was amusing herself at the expense of
                  Mr. Fitz Friske, while affecting to be absorbed in admiration of the pompous
                  little exquisite. Arthur Plumdale dale
                  was playing the agreeable to the best of his ability, to Ella Vernon—a fair
                  dignified looking girl, the exact opposite of her brother—but though generally
                  successful, his efforts seemed not so much appreciated as they might have been in
                  the present instance. In fact, Miss Vernon by no means shared her brother's good
                  opinion of Plumdale, and this that gentleman had discernment enough to see; but
                  still—on the present occasion—he was quite assiduous in his attentions. Lettie
                  Plumdale, a gay pretty romp,—said to be just sixteen—whom her brother had "begged
                  off from her mother for a day's frolic," was chattering away to Lieut Minton, who,
                  if we might judge from the glances occasionally passing between himself and Ella
                  Vernon, would have been better pleased with a different arrangement of affairs.
                  Lastly came Miss Virginia Smith, a tall, thin young lady, of an uncertain age;
                  bearing few marks of beauty, and so flounced and furbelowed, that it really took
                  one's breath away to look at her. Miss Smith might once have had a sweet
                  expression of countenance, but the "disappointments of life" had left legible
                  traces on her features—and the expression now reigning there, was one in which
                  pride, envy, and discontent struggled through the assumed gayety with which she
                  sought to veil them. This interesting specimen of the softer sex, found
                  herself—for want of another cavalier—en
                     tête-à-tête with Mr. Moreton, who seemed as little pleased as his
                  fair friend with the arrangement, and on that account took a malicious pleasure in
                  choosing the subjects of conversation he knew would be east agreeable to her
                  —namely, the charms of younger and fairer women, and the folly of women who were
                     passé seeking the admiration they had lost
                  with their youth; while Miss Smith turned the conversation adroitly, and
                  descanted, in her turn, on the follies of the age, and her horror of dissipated
                  men—particularly gamblers. Of course neither had the most remote allusion to the
                  other;—they were too well bred for innuendo.
               At length the splendid country-seat of Gov. Vernon appeared in sight, with its
                  beautiful grounds and wide expanse of vale, hill, and forest. The grand old
                  mansion, its marble pillars and porticoes gleaming in the sunlight, stood on an
                  eminence crowning the whole. The Vernons boasted that this place had been in their
                  family for several generations, an unusual usual thing in this country. When the
                  Sea-bird was safely moored at the landing of Vernon Place, the party found
                  carriages awaiting them; but as the distance was short to the mansion, many
                  preferred walking, and among these were Florence and Harry Vernon. Bounding on
                  before with the elasticity and gladness of children, they were soon far in advance
                  of their companions.
               "Let us turn into this path," said Florence, as they came suddenly upon one
                  diverging from the road. It was a beautiful, secluded lane, apparently not much
                  travelled—for the grass grew green and fresh, except in the centre—bordered by a
                  hedge of cedar. "Oh! do let us take this path, it is so sweet, so quiet; and I can
                  see, farther on, that it turns into another leading to Vernon House."
               Her companion stammered out an objection; but she insisted, and, as a matter of
                  course, carried her point. Suddenly a turn in the lane brought them in sight of
                  one of the prettiest of cottages, built in the Gothic style, and half hidden in
                  embowering vines. Quantities of perpetual roses bloomed within the tasteful
                  inclosure, in all that rare luxuriance of leaf and flower, peculiar to them in
                  early autumn. The Venetian blinds were closed except at one solitary window, and
                  nought was heard save the clear, thrilling note of a canary, chirping and
                  rejoicing in the bright sunlight streaming into his cage, which was suspended
                  outside of the window. Over this sweet, quiet scene, the autumn sunlight lingered
                  warm and lovingly. Florence burst into an exclamation of delight as she paused to
                  admire its loveliness.
               Suddenly a female figure appeared at the open window. Her dress was slightly
                  disordered, and her thick brown tresses but negligently confined. She was pale and
                  fragile too, but as Florence looked at the fair face with its large, soft brown
                  eyes, beautifully moulded features, and the graceful outline of the perfect,
                  though petite figure, she was struck by her
                  beauty, but more by an indescribable air, or expression, which interested the
                  beholder even in that passing glance. She looked very young, almost childlike in
                  form and feature; but there was something of premature thought and sadness on the
                  brow, which seemed to say that life's mysteries, too early read, had already
                  brought her in their store of patient sorrow. In her arms she held a beautiful boy
                  apparently about two years old, in whose
                  flashing black eyes and fearless expression, Florence recognized such a striking
                  resemblance to the young man beside her, that it startled her. She looked again at
                  the mother; her eyes were fixed on Harry Vernon, and never did Florence forget
                  that look; there was so much of sadness, and tenderness struggling through it.
                  Vernon saw that Florence was startled; his brow crimsoned, and he quickened his
                  pace, saying they must walk faster or they would not overtake their party. At this
                  moment the child in the cottage window for the first time saw, and recognized him,
                  and shouted with glee, as the mother hastily disappeared with him from the window.
                  The lips of Florence were sealed as far as asking questions were concerned; but
                  she could not suppress the feeling of interest awakened in the beautiful secluded
                  cottage, and its lovely habitants.
               "Can it be some poor girl whom Hal Vernon has deceived," thought she, "so fair, so
                  refined-looking, so evidently a lady? How shocking that there should be such
                  things as wrong and deception in the world!"
               They had walked on for some distance without speaking, and the silence commenced
                  to be embarrassing.
               "You wear a shadow on your brow, Mr. Vernon," said Florence at last, scarce
                  knowing what she said, only anxious to break the pause.
               "Yes," he replied, in a low tone of sadness, "and I wear a shadow on my soul, too,
                  which I fear will never disappear. But," changing his tone, "here we are at the
                  entrance of the avenue, and see, they are waiting for us."
               They were gayly rallied for choosing such a secluded walk, and lingering so long.
                  Florence drew up her haughty head, curled her pretty lip, and glanced at Claude.
                  The next moment he was by her side.
               Gov. Vernon came forward to receive his guests. He was a fine dignified specimen
                  of the gentleman of the old school, urbane in manner, and polished in address. The
                  grand old saloon was thrown open for dancing; an elegant collation spread under
                  the trees on the lawn; and those who preferred the beauties of nature to the
                  worship of the fleet-winged nymph, were at liberty to wander over the beautiful
                  grounds, After the party had refreshed themselves with some wine, St. Julian
                  proposed a stroll on the lawn, to which, however, no one assented but
                  Florence.
               "Any body may go who pleases," said Mrs. Moreton, who seemed to constitute herself
                  mistress of ceremonies, "but I prefer dancing. I never did fancy green fields,
                  ducks, geese, and such like rural sights." The gentlemen of the party, with the
                  exception of course of him who had proposed the walk, surrounded Florence,
                  entreating her not to forsake the dance, but in vain; she took the offered arm of
                  Claude. Harry Vernon rose to join them.
               "Come back, Mr. Vernon, we want you in the dance," cried Mrs. Moreton. "Besides,
                  don't you know where there are three in company, one is always de trop?"
               Harry thought he detected a little playful malice in her tone, but as no answer
                  rose to his lip, he obeyed in silence.
               And Claude and Florence were alone—alone with the fair blue sky, and nature in her
                  brilliant autumnal loveliness around them; the soft breeze, wafting the inspiring
                  strains from the band, like fairy music to their ear. A bower at the foot of the
                  lawn terminated their stroll. The silver stream of the Hudson flowed broad and
                  bright before them, and in the dim distance, far and blue, stretched many a
                  mountain height, and many a vale and hill crowned by the magnificent forests of
                  the New World, and glowing with the varied beauty of the season—and over all,
                  lighting up the splendid picture with a dreamy magic effect, smiled the soft hazy
                  sunlight. For a time Florence and her companion were silent; both were
                  enthusiastic lovers of the beautiful, and both felt that the scene could be most
                  eloquently enjoyed in silence.
               At length Claude broke the pause, and as he uttered sentiment after sentiment with
                  that glowing earnestness which is so sure of effect, because it seems to flow so
                  warmly from the heart, and Florence responded, both felt that congeniality of
                  thought and emotion, that eager interest in the other, we are all conscious of,
                  with those whom fate, or perhaps we should rather say our own will, has destined
                  us to love. An hour passed unheeded. St. Julian forgot, in that hour, all save the
                  bewitching woman before him, who exerted her utmost fascinations to charm; he saw
                  only the beautiful mesmeric eyes, beaming with such soul-speaking glances upon
                  him, heard only the music of that thrilling voice, as its murmurs fell wooingly on
                  his ear. He spoke of the never forgotten
                  gotten hour when he had preserved her life, and as he dwelt upon it, the eloquent
                  looks of gratitude he received, filled his soul with passionate delight. Take
                  heed, Florence! You have woven fetters for many a heart, but never did you weave a
                  snare so fatal; never was your own heart, all that is best and dearest in woman,
                  so fearfully interested in the issue, as in this.
               They found on their return the party assembled on the lawn to partake of
                  refreshments.
               "Well I declare," said Mrs. Moreton in a low tone, turning to Miss Smith—who was
                  endeavoring to sweeten her vinegar aspect, and give more fire to her glances, by a
                  glass of that most delicious of cordials facetiously named, by the connoisseurs in
                  such things, par fait amour—"Florence Fulton
                  certainly deserves her reputation as a coquette. Just look how she is flirting
                  with St. Julian."
               "Yes," sneered the maid of the sour countenance, "if Mr. St. Julian was not a
                  married man, I should certainly pronounce them in love with each other."
               "Who is that in love now?" said Harry Vernon, coming up with both hands full of
                  refreshments. "That is always the favorite topic with ladies, especially the
                  unmarried ones," glancing mischievously at Miss Smith, who bridled up, and
                  repeated with malicious emphasis her remarks. The blood mounted to Vernon's
                  brow.
               "I don't think you ought to speak of Miss Fulton in that way in connection with
                  St. Julian, and more than that, it is not so," he said quickly, and with his usual
                  brusque independence. "Miss Fulton flirting with a married man!" he repeated
                  indignantly.
               "La! just listen to Mr. Vernon," cried Mrs. Moreton; "as if married men never
                  flirted. I am sure I see no harm in it. Moreton is at liberty to flirt all the
                  time if he pleases. I wouldn't care."
               "I am aware of that," said her complaisant helpmate, "and that is the reason I
                  never indulge. If I thought it would worry you I would set about it instanta. Here
                  is Miss Smith, who, I have no doubt, would second me in the laudable project."
               This was carrying the war into the enemy's country. Miss Smith bridled up a second
                  time, and looked more indignant dignant than ever, her countenance expressing all
                  the scorn of offended prudery; while Harry Vernon, who stood behind her, drew his
                  face into such comical contortions, that Mrs. Moreton could not forbear laughing,
                  though she turned it off by saying in reply to her liege lord's remark:
               "That shows what an amiable husband you are. You see, Miss Smith, what you will
                  have to expect when you enter the holy state."
               Judge Woodward, who was standing near with Eva Moreton, overheard the remarks on
                  Florence, and a slight frown contracted his brow; but as he glanced involuntarily
                  in the direction where she stood, a deeper, sadder shade followed it, which did
                  not leave his face all day. Eva, who a moment before was laughing and talking
                  gayly, looked up and caught that look of sadness, and her own face in a moment
                  lost its gay expression, like a lake which mirrors every cloud in the heaven above
                  it. As soon as the repast was over, Judge Woodward approached Florence, and
                  requested a promenade with her during the day; as he wished to say a few words
                  intended for her ear alone.
               Florence "did not know; she had promised to dance awhile; after that perhaps—"
                  Judge Woodward bowed gravely. "Enough—I see it is not agreeable to Miss Fulton."
                  She was about to assert the contrary, but ere she could do so, he returned to Eva
                  Moreton's side.
               It might have saved Florence much, had she complied with his request. He intended
                  to tell her frankly the remarks he had heard, so as to put her on her guard
                  against what he chose to believe her blameless thoughtlessness, in permitting Mr.
                  St. Julian's somewhat marked attentions. She would have thus been made aware that
                  the divinity was the property of another lady, a fact of which she was yet
                  ignorant—for as every body took it for granted she knew it, no one volunteered the
                  information, and as for hearing poor Marion's name—pooh! she was scarcely even
                  thought of.
               Repulsed in this first attempt, Judge Woodward made no farther efforts; but he
                  lingered on the lawn with Eva, when the others returned to the house, in low
                  earnest converse. What was it in his words which blanched the cheek of the young
                  girl, and caused her to tremble so she could scarcely stand? Her companion did not
                  notice her agitation, and it was evident
                  she did not wish him to do so; for by a strong effort she recovered herself, and
                  replied in low steady tones to his remarks, and walked slowly but firmly to the
                  house. When they entered the saloon several couples were on the floor waltzing;
                  among them Claude and Florence. Never had Florence seemed in gayer, more brilliant
                  spirits, than on that memorable day. Her eyes beamed with the light of hope—and
                  alas! of a deeper feeling, and her cheek burned with the rose flush of
                  excitement.
               How far different was it with Eva, as she forced herself to look gay and mingle in
                  the quadrilles! (she never waltzed;) how wildly, deeply sad, was the young heart
                  that throbbed in her bosom!
               In the course of the afternoon, Florence found herself again in the bower which
                  had been the scene of her tête-à-tête with
                  Claude, but this time Harry Vernon was by her side. We fear our readers, before
                  going much farther, will agree with the world in pronouncing her a coquette; nor
                  can we, in the case of young Vernon, wholly absolve her from the charge.
               Having at first rather a fancy for him—for his nonchalant independence pleased one
                  whose passion was novelty—she had encouraged his attentions, lavishing smiles and
                  kind words upon him merely for the sake of the amusement he afforded her; and
                  again, when reflection told her that in justice to him she ought to repulse his
                  advances, treated him with marked coldness.
               "Why keep me ever vacillating between doubt and despair? Suffer me to forget your
                  coldness, and to construe your smiles and kind words, as proofs of some answering
                  feeling! Tell me, Florence, tell me at once my fate."
               There was so much feeling expressed in the intense passionate gaze fixed upon her,
                  that she could scarcely repress a sympathetic shrill of emotion. She hesitated to
                  pain, by speaking the truth, and yet she did not wish to give further
                  encouragement. Thus, there was a silence of some moments. At last, she said,
                  slowly and hesitatingly, "I cannot tell you now, but I will ere long; be patient
                  and wait. I am sure," she added with a smile, "I am not so cruel as to cause you
                  so much anxiety."
               "No, but it has been so long thus. Love cannot live always on dreams and wishes,
                  which may prove fruitless after all."
               "Then wait only a little, a very little longer, and you shall be
                  satisfied. I am not prepared now, I have not tried my own feelings
                  sufficiently,"—she paused suddenly, for on the impulse of the moment she had said
                  more than she intended; more than was actually true; for she left him to infer
                  that her feelings were at least in some degree interested in him. His face lighted
                  up with hope.
               "Why wait longer?" he pleaded.
               "Because I will it!" she answered rather imperiously, "and if you are not willing
                  to do this, give me up now and for ever."
               "Never!" exclaimed her lover, passionately. "And now on what shall love live,
                  Florence; on hope? Fairest, best beloved, say yes!"
               Florence made no reply, but large tears swam in her eyes. She thought of her own
                  feelings, and love teaches sympathy for love.
               Her head drooped until her long curls swept her lap. Interpreting her silence and
                  apparent emotion favorably, and forgetting himself in the excitement of the
                  moment, Harry passed his arm, though with trembling hesitation, around her waist,
                  and imprinted his first kiss on lips which Beauty had moulded for Love.
               'Twas but an instant of bliss, for releasing herself from his embrace she rose
                  haughtily to her feet.
               "You forget yourself, Mr. Vernon. Will you have the goodness, for appearance'
                  sake, to return with me to the house? after which you can dispose of yourself, in
                  any way you may think proper."
               He murmured a thousand apologies, but the haughty beauty was not so easily
                  appeased, and coldly and silently they returned. As they walked on, Harry thought
                  he heard faint cries, and his own name called in a tone of distress in the
                  direction of the river. After seeing Florence in, he hastened hither.
               Lettie Plumdale, the wild romp, tired of dancing, and longing for a run in the
                  fresh air, had lured off Fitz Friske, much against his will, for a ramble. Their
                  peregrinations stopped on the banks of the Hudson, merely, as Fitz Friske
                  afterwards declared, because they could go no farther. He "firmly believed she
                  would have walked to China had there been no obstacle in the way to prevent."
               
               A large apple-tree threw its branches over the beach where the water reached
                  sufficiently to form a sort of marshy sand-bank, but not enough to be dangerous.
                  The apples had been gathered in, save a few, which lingered on the topmost
                  branches of the tree. Lettie espied these, and resolved to have some sport out of
                  Fitz Friske.
               "Oh! Mr. Fitz Friske, there are some nice apples, and I am so fond of
                  them. Do climb the tree and get some for me."
               "I climb a twee!" answered the exquisite, with perfect horror, and
                  looking at Lettie as if he doubted her sanity. "Indeed Miss Lettie, aw, 'pon my
                  soul I couldn't. The exertion is much too great, miss. Climb a twee! Howwible!
                  Just imagine me climbing a twee."
               "Ah! now, Mr. Fitz Friske, that is nothing. In a wild pleasure party like ours,
                  who thinks of ceremony? If Mr. Vernon were here, I know he could do it without any
                  difficulty. But I forget, he is stronger, more active than you."
               "Oh, no!" replied the nettled dandy, "'pon my soul, aw, no one is more active than
                  myself, but aw—"
               "Well," replied his mischievous companion, "I shall not believe in your activity
                  until you display some of it. Come now, Mr. Fitz Friske, see if you can climb a
                  tree gracefully. I consider it quite an accomplishment." Still Mr. Fitz Friske
                  refused, but made several desperate but ineffectual efforts, by throwing into the
                  tree, to bring down the coveted apples. This, however, by no means satisfied
                  Lettie. She insisted that he should climb the tree, till overcome by her
                  entreaties, the unhappy exquisite prepared to execute the "howwible task,"
                  muttering something about "school-girl fweaks!"
               Now Lettie knew there was a branch, which, without great care, he could not avoid
                  stepping on, which was so feeble that it must inevitably precipitate him into the
                  sand marsh beneath; and this was exactly what she desired. Presently his foot came
                  in contact with it;—crash! went the branch, but, quicker than he ever did any
                  thing before in his life, Fitz Friske seized another branch and held on for dear
                  life, and there, no available footing being within his reach, he hung suspended in
                  mid air, shrieking with all his might for Harry Vernon, as though all his hopes of
                  deliverance depended upon the timely succor of that benevolent individual. Lettie
                  was keeping up a chorus of stifled laughter, which she in vain endeavored to
                  convert into frantic shrieks.
               At this juncture Harry arrived in sight; he stopped very deliberately, and stood
                  awaiting the crisis, laughing, as poor Fitz thought, in the most unfeeling way. In
                  another instant down went the unfortunate victim, and there he was—he, Fitz
                     Friske, the perfection of neatness, the prince of dandies, he, who
                  gloried in a faultless costume, and prided himself on the most exquisite of cravat
                  ties—up to his ears in a mud-puddle.
               "Good heavens!" cried Hal, rushing forward as if just awakened to consciousness.
                  "Let me help you out, Fitz. Miss Lettie, you had better return, while I attend to
                  Fitz."
               Lettie returned to the house, where roars of laughter greeted her amusing account
                  of the occurrence; nor did Fitz Friske's appearance, when he again presented
                  himself to public view, tend to lessen their merriment. He was clad in an old
                  green hunting suit of Harry Vernon's, a world too large for his pigmy proportions,
                  and much the worse for wear, into which, after many remonstrances, and as many
                  declarations from Harry that they were the best he had, his wardrobe being in
                  town—all of course a fiction invented for the occasion—the unhappy dandy had
                  permitted himself to be incarcerated. Stifling their laughter, the party crowded
                  around him, tendering their condolence in tones of the utmost commiseration; but
                  nothing would soothe his outraged feelings.
               By the mellow light of the autumn moon, the yacht glided, like a beautiful spirit
                  of the waters, on her homeward way over the bright Hudson, whose dashing waves
                  glittered in the moonlight like a sea of gems.
               The gayety of the party had given way to more subdued feelings, the effect of
                  fatigue, or the hour.
               Vernon and Fitz Friske, the only discontented persons, sat aloof from the others
                  in moody silence; the one meditating on his own ludicrous appearance, the other on
                  the morning fracas with Florence.
               And Florence! St. Julian was by her side; the moonlight, the scene and the hour,
                  adding to the influence of his presence. True, they said little, but their eyes
                  conversed with a world of passion-fraught eloquence.
               
               The very fact, that his lip never uttered what his eyes dared so fully to express,
                  rendered him doubly fascinating to one whose heart, sated with the excess of
                  homage she had received, required seeming difficulties as a lure to passion.
               Alas! even over these happy hours, Destiny, smiling grimly on the future, held her
                  wand of darkness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE BROKEN DREAM.
               
                  
                     
                        "'Tis ever thus, 'tis ever thus; when hope has built a bower,
                        Like that of Eden, wreathed about with every thornless flower,
                        To dwell therein securely—the self-deceiver's trust—
                        A whirlwind from the desert comes, and all is in the dust."
                     
                  
               
               WHAT were the words breathed by Judge Woodward in the ear of Eva Moreton, which
                  caused the cheek of the young girl to blanch, and her lip to quiver? To explain
                  her emotion we must glance back into her former life. In the seclusion of her
                  mother's home, Eva had but little opportunity of mingling in the society of the
                  other sex. Judge Woodward was almost the only unmarried man she could be said to
                  know well. He had been a ward of her father, and in early life had resided with
                  him. Afterwards, when grown to manhood the orphan boy attained in the stern battle
                  of life competency and distinction, it was always a pleasant thing to return to
                  the sweet cottage home where in childhood he had spent such happy hours. Eva's
                  mother was a woman whom of all others he admired, for the virtue and energy of her
                  character; and he loved, too, to watch the sweet blossom which was unfolding its
                  leaves in the sunlight of a mother's love.
               He indeed felt for Eva as an elder brother; watched her progress with the most
                  affectionate interest, and cheered her on in her daily tasks, with such evident
                  anxiety for her progress, that the lonely widow could scarcely be blamed if the
                  hope entered her heart, that in this man, of such sterling worth and distinguished
                  talents, her idolized child might one day find a protector for life; and what more
                  could her maternal heart desire? Insensibly she entertained the hope until it grew
                  into a belief,—a belief strengthened by many expressions falling from Judge
                  Woodward's own lips. True, he was double her daughter's age, but what of that? He
                  was by no means old, and who could not love him—so lofty, so noble? What could any
                  woman desire more?
               Early the young Eva learned to look forward to the visits of her cousin, as the
                  brightest epochs in her quiet life. Cherishing the hope she did, the mother was
                  careful to encourage the growth of first affection in the heart of her child, for
                  she would not have thought of her marrying without love. (She was shockingly
                  old-fashioned in her ideas—don't you think so, reader?)
               Woe was it for Eva that the love thus planted grew with her growth, till it became
                  too firmly planted ever to be uprooted. 'Tis true, as Judge Woodward marked the
                  dawning perfections of her he only thought of as a lovely interesting child, the
                  thought of what a jewel the possessor of such a treasure would wear in his
                  heart—of what she might even one day become to him—came over him; but these were
                  in days when his own heart was free. For some time previous to Eva's visit to New
                  York, his visits to Oakwood had been less frequent.
               Mrs. Moreton knew enough of the heart of man to know that in the busy career of
                  active life, the most constant sometimes forget. In the absence of l'objet aimé, the mind and gradually the heart become
                  filled by scenes and things passing around us. We are almost perforce compelled to
                  think oftener of the present than the absent. Under these impressions Mrs. Moreton
                  resolved to send Eva to New York. She knew that once there, Judge Woodward would
                  be ever by her side, to contribute as much as possible to her enjoyment, and she
                  trusted with a mother's pride, to the attractions of her daughter for the rest.
                  Had Eva known these hidden motives, the probability is, she would have refused to
                  go. With maiden delicacy she would have shrunk from courting the attentions, even
                  of one from whom she had been taught to expect them. Her mother knew enough of the
                  sensitive nature of a young and modest girl, to fear these difficulties, and
                  wisely resolved to say nothing to her daughter on the subject. Mrs. Moreton was by
                  no means, in the general sense of the term, a manœuvring mother, yet in this case, she managed with a skill and
                  address worthy of the most adroit specimens of that exemplary branch of female
                  talent. Her motives, however, were of the purest nature. She believed that by thus
                  acting she could secure the happiness, not only of her daughter, but of one who,
                  as a man and a kinsman, she admired and loved more than all others.
               Agreeably to Mrs. Moreton's anticipations, after Eva's arrival in New York Judge
                  Woodward was all kindness. He seemed to feel himself peculiarly called upon to
                  watch over her. Many persons thought them betrothed; and this prevented Eva from
                  receiving the admiration her beauty and gentle, sweet manners would otherwise have
                  excited; but Judge Woodward always treated these rumors as though they pleased him
                  rather than otherwise. He knew they kept from her side many worthless danglers,
                  whose attentions would really mean nothing; or if they did, it would be harm
                  rather than good to the gentle girl; and he suffered things to go on thus; and Eva
                  lived in the sweet delusion which had been the sunlight of her young years. Little
                  did she dream that the heart of him she loved was preoccupied.
               "How malicious are those remarks on Miss Fulton," was his remark to Eva on the
                  occasion of which we have before spoken. "How can persons speak thus of an orphan
                  girl without protection; for old Mr. Fulton is a mere nominal one? Whenever I hear
                  her thus spoken of I feel how much she needs a real protector. Ah! if I could hope
                  that happy title would one day be mine."
               "Yours!" repeated Eva, and her cheek blanched, and her lip trembled.
               "Yes, mine; is it possible you have not discovered my secret? It was her of whom I
                  spoke, when I said I would woo a sweet angel to cheer the solitude of my bachelor
                  home. Yes, Eva, I have dared to aspire to be the husband, the protector of
                  Florence Fulton, that most perfect of women;" and as he spoke the strong man
                  trembled; his voice was low, and he seemed for the moment as timid and weak as the
                  girl beside him. So much power has the magician love over the most powerful.
               It was strange to Eva afterwards, how she got through that evening. With a
                  fainting heart, a spirit wounded to the quick, she was yet enabled, perchance by
                  that Power which nerves our hearts for the greatest trials, to wear an outward
                  appearance of calmness; and no one noticed her pale cheeks, or saw that her
                  spirits were forced. When the apparently interminable evening was over, and in her
                  own room she was at liberty to give vent to the long pent-up tide of feeling, she
                  wept long and quietly; but oh! what bitter tears. Poor girl! she felt as if every
                  hope in life had fled for ever; for all the hopes of life, the bright promises of
                  childhood, the sweet passionate heart-dreams of youth, were linked with
                     him, and he loved another, and perhaps knew her
                  weakness; and she blushed and trembled with shame at the thought: but the next
                  moment she felt convinced that he had not discovered it, and that, at least, was
                  comfort.
               And then her mother;—her long cherished hopes were to be disappointed too, and now
                  Eva felt as if such hopes were presumptuous; felt ashamed to think her mother had
                  ever entertained views, which yesterday seemed natural and right. Thus do
                  circumstances change the current of our thoughts, even our ideas of right and
                  wrong.
               "What shall I do?" was her despairing thought. To return to her mother her first
                  impulse; but no, she would not fly to that mother, to pour into her bosom a grief
                  that must wake an answering grief in her own. And then, what would people think
                  were she to shorten her visit? What would her aunt and uncle think? No, she must
                  nerve her spirit to bear this trial; she must look upon the happiness of her
                  rival; for she could not doubt that he would be loved in return;—all this she must
                  bear, and give no sign of the agony within. With an irrepressible moan of sorrow,
                  Eva threw herself on her knees, and there pouring out the depths of her tried
                  soul, we will leave her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               A SCRAPE WITH A BLACKGUARD.—A FRIEND IN NEED.
               CLAUDE ST. JULIAN was seated one morning in Judge Woodward's law office. The
                  conversation turned on Harry Vernon.
               
               "It is strange," remarked Judge Woodward, "that a man like Governor Vernon, so
                  exemplary in public and private character, should have such a son as Harry Vernon.
                  His excesses must be a source of great anxiety to his father."
               "I don't know; Harry Vernon is a noble fellow in many respects, though,
                  unfortunately, too wild."
               "He is in a scrape now, that, I fear, will involve him in some difficulty."
               "May I ask what it is?"
               "Certainly. As I heard it, this: He was some time ago at a gambling establishment;
                  and after exhausting his supply of 'pocket change,' borrowed of a casual
                  acquaintance, who, knowing his position, offered to lend it to him. As he seemed
                  to have plenty of 'rocks,' Harry didn't hesitate to borrow a considerable amount,
                  nor did he make any unnecessary exertions to pay. It seems that not long
                  afterwards, the fellow heard in some way that Governor Vernon's affairs were
                  somewhat embarrassed; and had the meanness to use some sneering expression with
                  regard to Harry, and his inability to pay—which every one knows in the public code
                  of morals is considered a much greater reflection than keeping a poor man out of
                  his money, when you have only to make a few pen-strokes to draw your thousands.
                  Harry is going to —— to-night, expecting to meet him, as he is a constant habitué of the place, and I fear it may result in
                  something serious."
               "At No. —— Broadway, is it?"
               "Yes."
               As Harry Vernon entered, that evening, the brilliantly lighted and
                     fashionable gaming establishment of ——, he did not observe that
                  there followed close upon him a stately figure, muffled in a cloak, whose entrance
                  elicited a murmur of surprise from the door-keeper. It was very early; the games
                  had not yet commenced, and only a few loungers were in the room. Harry looked
                  among them for the man he was in search of; but he was not there. A few moments
                  afterwards he entered, and seated himself at the other extremity of the room.
                  Without approaching nearer, in bold, free tones, Harry Vernon called his name, and
                  demanded if he had made certain remarks. The man—who was short, stout, dark, and
                  with something of the tiger glare in his eye—hesitated a moment, and then, as the
                  eyes of some in the room looked fixedly upon him, he answered in the
                  affirmative.
               "Then," replied Harry, "in the presence of every one in this room, I pronounce you
                  a deliberate liar and scoundrel!"
               The man leaped from his seat, and rushed upon him with the spring of a wild beast.
                  Ere he could reach him, a third gentleman stood between them, and seized with an
                  iron grasp his arm. His cloak falling off revealed the features of Judge Woodward.
                  Mr. Augustus Smith started and trembled as he felt that grasp, and met the gaze
                  fixed upon him.
               "Mr Smith," said the judge, calmly and sternly, "you have already been before me
                  for a case of blood and violence; you escaped well then; beware of the second
                  offence. What Mr. Vernon said was true, and you shall here in the presence of
                  these gentlemen apologize to him, or you shall feel the consequences of to-night's
                  ill-doing."
               The little man gulped down his rage with a visible effort; but it seemed that he
                  had no appeal to make against the stern justice of the "dread powers that be."
               Stepping up to Harry after a moment's hesitation, and a deprecating glance at the
                  judge, whose stern gaze was fixed immovably upon him—he spoke a few words, though
                  in so low a tone few could distinguish them. Apparently, however, they were
                  satisfactory, for Harry bowed slightly and turned away.
               Judge Woodward turned to look for the proprietor, but that functionary had been
                  among the missing ever since the august head of his judgeship appeared within the
                  doorway. He then inquired of a waiter in attendance, if he could procure a private
                  room, and receiving a reply in the affirmative, requested Harry Vernon to
                  accompany him to the apartment, into which, with many bows, he was ushered. He
                  obeyed in wondering silence.
               "And now," demanded the judge, "may I ask, Mr. Vernon, if you know the character
                  of the man with whom you have had a rencontre to-night?"
               "No," was the reply; "he is a mere casual acquaintance,—indeed, I never met him
                  any where but here."
               "Then let me bid you beware of him; for though gentlemanly enough in appearance,
                  he is nothing short of a consummate scoundrel. He fears me, for I know him well;
                  the duties of my profession often bringing me in contact with men whose deeds I
                  abhor. Of course you would not put
                  yourself on a level with him, by fighting him, even were he to challenge you?"
               Harry made no reply to this, but eagerly demanded what brought Judge Woodward to
                  such a place.
               "Your own danger. I heard it from a friend of yours, and knowing the influence my
                  name and presence would have in suppressing any difficulty, I followed you here.
                  And now I have one favor to ask——"
               "Command me in any thing, sir; I shall be happy to obey."
               "Then prove it," taking from his purse a roll of notes, "by accepting these, and
                  acquitting yourself at once of all obligations to that scoundrel."
               "A thousand thanks," murmured Harry, "for your generous kindness, but I cannot
                  accept——"
               "Pshaw! that is nothing from me. Do not consider yourself under obligations. Your
                  father, when I was a young and needy aspirant, helped me on in my profession.
                  Believe me, I owe his son this kindness, and if you will not take it as a gift,
                  let it be a loan, and pay it when you please; and now no thanks, but come on and
                  find Smith. I have a few more words to say to him myself."
               They returned to the saloon. Harry succeeded in finding Smith, and discharged his
                  debt to him; and Judge Woodward, then drawing him aside, spoke a few words in a
                  low tone. Harry could neither distinguish the words of the judge, nor Smith's
                  reply; yet there was something dark and sinister in the face of the latter, and
                  his eye fell beneath the searching gaze fixed upon him.
               "You are not going to remain here?" then inquired the judge of Harry.
               "No;" and for once he felt ashamed that he had ever been seen there,—so much does
                  Vice blush in the presence of Honor and Uprightness.
               "Then come with me;" and unheeding the looks of astonishment which the various
                     habitués of the place fixed upon his
                  well-known form, he linked his arm in that of Harry Vernon, and they left the
                  house.
               It must be confessed that the latter felt himself in a strange position, as he
                  walked up street arm in arm with Judge Woodward; and he could not forbear
                  exchanging sundry knowing winks and glances with such of his boon companions as he
                  chanced to meet. He said at length, with some embarrassment,
               "I shall never forget your kindness, sir."
               "Nay, do not think of that; if the scene of to-night can have any effect in
                  causing you to shun such places—and let me add such society—I shall be more than
                  repaid."
               "I was a fool," said Harry, bitterly, "to lay myself under obligations to such a
                  scoundrel. I received from my father quite a large sum, not long since; but I
                  applied it to what I considered a more pressing purpose than my own
                  necessities."
               "Of that you are, of course, the best judge; I know not the purpose to which you
                  refer, nor would I seek to intrude on your confidence."
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE WILD BOY'S FIRST LOVE.—THE TEMPTED BETRAYER.
               
                  
                     
                        "With thee were the dreams of my earliest love.
                        Every thought of my reason was thine."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     "Too early loving, and too foully wronged!"
                  
               
               THE soft sunlight of one of those warm, balmy, autumnal days, which sometimes
                  shine upon us with a seductive and tantalizing sweetness, in this varied and
                  beautiful season, shone brightly and wooingly through the half closed blinds of
                  Rose cottage.
               A child's cradle was drawn near the window, so that the soft south breeze fanned
                  the cheek of the sleeping infant, and played gently among his light curls.
               Seated beside the cradle, singing a soft lullaby, was the lovely, gentle looking
                  being, who had attracted the notice of Florence as she passed the cottage.
               There were traces of weeping on her cheek, and ever and anon tears swam in her
                  eyes, and her voice was choked by emotion.
               The child stirred presently—opened his large dark eyes, and stretched out his arms
                  to his mother. He looked wistfully fully
                  at her, and his bright face clouded as he saw the expression of hers—for how
                  quickly children learn to read expression, long ere they can distinguish words. He
                  seemed to divine the cause too, for he lisped out "Mamma, where papa?"
               "I do not know, my darling," replied the soft accents of the mother.
               "Mamma, papa gone so long! Will papa never come see Harry?"
               "Oh! yes, before long I hope."
               "Mamma, Harry see papa just now;" and he placed his tiny hands over his eyes for a
                  moment, then removing them, repeated with an arch expression, "Harry see
                  papa."
               "In your dreams, dear one, perhaps," murmured the mother; "but even in dreams,
                  that blessing is denied me. Why—why does he stay so long from me? It was not
                  always thus. But there must be some good cause for it; it is not that he loves me
                  less—loves me less, oh! no!" she added, with an expression that seemed to say, the
                  very thought was too keenly fraught with agony to be entertained for a moment.
                  "But have I not his image in my own bright boy? Harry, darling, I should not love
                  you half so much were you not like him; were you not his child—yes,
                     his child, brightest;" and seizing him in her embrace she gazed
                  long and passionately upon him, then half smothered him with kisses. At this
                  instant the sound of horse's feet fell on the gravel without. The door
                  opened—little Harry gave a joyous cry, and the next moment the child and mother
                  were in the arms of Harry Vernon.
               In order to explain the mystery of the cottage, we must acquaint the reader with a
                  little episode in the past life of young Vernon.
               Three years before the date of our story, there lived at the country seat of Gov.
                  Vernon, as a sort of steward or major-domo, a man who enjoyed the full confidence
                  of his employer, and was in every respect save the accident of fortune a
                  gentleman. This man had an only, and very lovely daughter. Her mother died in
                  giving her birth, and we scarcely need add, that this sole pledge of her love was
                  idolized by the father. He gave her every advantage of education in his power, and
                  as she was remarkably quick and attached tached to study, she grew up into a
                  graceful and accomplished girl, the sunlight of her home, and the solace of his
                  leisure hours.
               His leisure hours, however, were few; for his time was almost constantly occupied
                  by his various duties; and his daughter was thus left almost entirely to the
                  charge and surveillance of an aged, infirm, and half-blind grandmother. Lilian
                  Stanley was one, in whose young, precocious heart a well of love bubbled forth,
                  and poured its warm sunny streams on all around her. She was all life and
                  gladness; ever on the watch for every thing which womanly tact could devise to
                  render her father happy; soothing and cheering her aged relative, and flying from
                  these to her books, flowers, and birds, with a song, gushing forth as clear and
                  sweet as that of her own pet warbler. Harry Vernon,—an enthusiastic lover of
                  sport,—in his vacations and whenever he could get leave of absence from college,
                  was in the habit of coming down to the plantation to hunt and fish. They met,—the
                  wild boy, and the lovely, artless girl. Harry had never mingled in ladies'
                  society, and Lilian knew nothing of the world out of her closet and her books;
                  need we say they met but to love. 'Neath the bright starlight, on the lone river
                  shore, and in the deep forest, with no witness to their vows, save the blue heaven
                  above them, Hal wooed and won the maiden's heart. His intentions were purely
                  honorable; but when they reached the ears of his father, he laughed at what he
                  considered his boyish folly, and bade him think no more of it. Gov. Vernon,
                  however, a just and feeling man, had he been really convinced that his son loved
                  truly and honorably, might have, in proper time, been induced to look favorably
                  upon it; but his wife, a high-tempered, haughty woman, scoffed at the idea, and
                  forbade her son on pain of her deepest displeasure ever to see Lilian again. She
                  implored her husband to discharge Mr. Stanley; but Gov. Vernon knew too well the
                  value of the man to whom he could intrust all his private affairs, when he was
                  himself engrossed by the onerous duties of his political career, to hear of this;
                  so he contented himself with adding his command to the mother's interdiction, and
                  thought little more of it. Mr. Stanley, as soon as he became aware of these
                  things, forbade Lilian to receive the visits of Harry. But when were commands like
                     these obeyed? Does not the boy god
                  laugh at bolts, bars, and fetters? and when young hearts throb wildly, warmly for
                  each other will the commands of older and wiser ones, keep them asunder?
               No. It is in the stolen meeting; the whispered vow; the kiss exchanged in secret
                  that love delights. But every one knows that lone midnight meetings, with the calm
                  stars smiling above, and the soft summer breeze wooing to love, are dangerous
                  things. Lilian was sensible of the imprudence, and, young and artless as she was,
                  at length felt that it was a duty she owed herself to cease them. Maddened by her
                  refusal to meet him, and by his passion for her, Harry proposed a clandestine
                  marriage, to which, overcome by his entreaties, she consented. And now came the
                  rub. If discovered, this marriage would, perhaps, cause him to be disinherited,
                  and his own Lilian with himself turned homeless on the world; for such things
                  sometimes happen in this land of strictly republican principles, when wealth or
                  rank stoops to wed with virtuous poverty. At this juncture there was an arch fiend
                  at his elbow, in the shape of an older and intimate friend—one who "knew more of
                  the world" than the boy of seventeen,—to whisper, "Why not get up a little sham
                  affair, which could do no harm to yourself, and would satisfy her? I will assist
                  you in it. These things are done every day. When you are your own man, you can do
                  as you like; but for the present you must take my advice, or give her up
                  altogether; and by heavens! I think the last would be hard to do; for judging from
                  the glimpses I have had of your shy little bird, she is the sweetest piece of
                  flesh and blood I ever saw. Come, my dear fellow, what will you do?"
               Harry Vernon had not been educated, as are few young men of the present day, amid
                  associations calculated to make him look with any superfluous degree of virtuous
                  horror on this proposal; especially, as it seemed to him dictated by the most
                  disinterested motives of friendship; yet some natural feelings of honor made him
                  recoil from it; for the man who could deliberately cherish an evil thought towards
                  the woman he loves, must indeed be the basest of the base.
               But overcome at last by the artful representations of one who possessed more
                  influence over him, than perhaps any one else living, and by the violence of his
                  own passion, he learned to look on this means of possessing the pure, true-hearted
                  Lilian, at first with toleration, and then, as it was nursed by thought and
                  fevered by anticipation, with passionate pleasure. Harry was very wrong in
                  supposing that disinterested motives dictated the advice of his "friend." Far into
                  the future looked that friend, and beheld in dim perspective the wealthy Harry
                  Vernon, the husband of his sister, the tool of himself. Wily fowler as he was, he
                  had already twined his snares around the young eagle, who, unsuspecting treachery,
                  allowed himself to fall into the net without a struggle. Which in the eyes of God
                  was the worst, Harry Vernon, the actual perpetrator of the crime, or his so called
                     friend, who, with the spirit, and art, and perseverance of a
                  fiend, incited the wild, passionate boy to its consummation? For Harry, one might
                  at least plead, in the beautiful language of one tempted and erring: 
                     
                        "Ye know not of the power
                        With which the dark temptation came in some unguarded hour;
                        Ye may not know how earnestly they struggled, or how well,
                        Until the hour of weakness came, and sadly thus they fell."
                     
                  
               
               But for the Tempter—what could be said?
               When Mr. Stanley was absent, heart, soul, and mind engrossed in the interests of
                  his employer; when the good grandmother slept the sleep of age and
                  unconsciousness, on the lone moonlit shore of the Hudson, Lilian and Harry were
                  wedded; and it was by the impious lips of the "friend" (we had almost written
                  fiend) that the sacred ceremony, thus rendered an unholy mockery, was pronounced.
                  But as he clasped his trusting bride to his heart, Harry Vernon cursed himself for
                  the deed he had done; and inwardly vowed to right her at last.
               It was not until the consequences of this imprudent connection became but too
                  apparent in the person of Lilian, that the unhappy girl tasted the cup of woe
                  which the hand of Fate had mixed for her, brimmed to the full with bitterness. Her
                  grandmother died a short time previous to this; but her father, almost
                  heart-broken, raved against God, cursed the child who had brought shame to his
                  house, and bade her follow him for whom she had lost all a father's love, home,
                     honor and peace. Lilian had promised
                  Harry never to reveal her marriage to her father under any circumstances, until
                  he, Harry, was of age; at which time he was to claim her before the world; and she
                  would have borne any thing that could have been inflicted on her, ere she would,
                  by breaking her promise, have involved him in distress or difficulty. Thus her
                  lips were sealed, and she had no appeal to make against the stern displeasure of
                  her father. It was then that Harry procured the cottage where we have found
                  Lilian, and placed the suffering girl there, surrounding her with every luxury
                  that his profuse allowance of money could supply. To this his family had no
                  objection. Unaware that there had been even a semblance of marriage, they were
                  only glad that the affair terminated as it did, without giving them farther
                  trouble. Such was the love and respect which her gentle kindness had procured for
                  her from every servant on the plantation, that never did a word pass their lips
                  calculated to call a blush to Lilian's check. By Harry's orders she was treated
                  with the utmost respect, and to strangers simply spoken of as the lady of the
                  cottage. Few knew aught of the misfortunes of her history, and even these few,
                  aware of the opposition of his parents, believed her to be privately married to
                  young Vernon; for such things will get out, and people chance sometimes to put the
                  most favorable construction on them. As for the grand Babel of New York, where
                  nobody meddles with the other's business, the story had never reached there at
                  all; or if it had, but to be faintly whispered, imperfectly detailed, and dropped.
                  Mr. Stanley resigned his situation, and went none knew whither. Lilian never heard
                  from him now. For a time Hal was perfectly devoted to her, and frequent were his
                  visits to the cottage; but as he mingled more in society, and became more and more
                  associated with gay and dissolute companions, his heart was in some measure
                  estranged from the idol of his boyhood. When he met Florence, his senses became
                  enthralled by her beauty and fascination, and forgetting for the time being all
                  besides, he joined the throng of worshippers that bowed at the shrine of the
                  brilliant belle.
               Alas! for poor Lilian; alas! for man's constancy; he no longer dreamed of one day
                  repairing the wrong he had done her, though he never thought of her without a
                  thrill of mournful tenderness, which he found it impossible to suppress. Lilian
                  lived but in the future, in the time when Harry should call her his own before the
                  world; when the shadow on her own and her boy's name should be removed. For the
                  present—she had always lived a secluded life, and did not mind it now, and she
                  had, she fondly whispered to herself, her child and Harry's love to make her
                  happy. As to change in that love, she shrank from contemplating the possibility of
                  such a thing; yet his long absences, joined to the coldness and silence of her
                  father, caused her much unhappiness.
               Such was Lilian, and such her circumstances, at the time alluded to in the opening
                  of our chapter.
               It was twilight. Harry Vernon was seated by the window in Lilian's pretty little
                  chamber; she was on a cushion at his feet, her elbow resting on his knee, and his
                  boy was in his arms. It was a sweet scene—the still, holy hour; the boy father,
                  his handsome face beaming with pride as he gazed on his child; the loving, tender
                  mother, and the bright, beautiful babe. Oh! that Purity could have shed her halo
                  of heaven light on the brow of the father, as of the mother and child, and added a
                  crowning glory to the picture.
               "How much my boy is like me, Lily," said Harry, fondly; "any stranger could
                  recognize the likeness."
               "Oh! yes; and I am so glad, Harry. I often say I would not love him half so much
                  were he like me."
               "Why not, dearest? I should like him to resemble you,—you who are so lovely," and
                  Hal looked down tenderly and half pityingly on the fair childlike face before him,
                  and bending over, passed his arm around her waist and drew her nearer to him.
               "Oh! no, Harry, not like me, I should then be deprived of so much pleasure. During
                  your absences, which are now so long, and weary, I often turn to my child for
                  comfort—I look into his face, and I think I see your dear eyes gazing on me! and
                  oh! I bless my boy for this;" and she seized and half stifled him with caresses;
                  while he struggled lustily to get back to his father. "He loves you, Harry, more
                  than he does me, I do believe; and, Harry, you have no idea what a little man he
                  is; I cannot chain him to my side. He doesn't care for playthings, but dogs and horses—oh! he
                  dotes on them—just like you;" and she proceeded to relate sundry accomplishments,
                  and wonderful feats of the child,—the detail of which we will spare the
                  reader.
               "Harry," asked the unsuspecting girl, when she had finished her recital, "who was
                  that beautiful woman you were with, the day of the picnic,—when you passed the
                  cottage?"
               A crimson flush mounted to the brow of him who was thus questioned, but he simply
                  replied, "Miss Fulton."
               "I could not help thinking then, Hal," continued Lilian, "how long it would be ere
                  you would walk by my side, and call me 'wife' before the whole world. But the time
                  is not so far off now, is it?—only I have waited so long, I would, my
                  husband, that it were here now."
               "Well, Lily, you know the fatal consequences that must ensue upon such a step,
                  have alone hindered me from long since taking it. It is for your sake, and that of
                  my child, I wish to wait."
               "Yes, Harry, I do not murmur. I will bear on bravely; though, heaven knows, I have
                  sad hours sometimes, when hope seems to faint within me; yet I have never doubted
                  thee, dearest, never!"
               Hal made no reply,—how could he reply to a speech which touched him to the
                  quick,—but drawing her closer to him, he kissed her tenderly, as if thus to stifle
                  conscience.
               And Harry almost forgot Florence, when with Lilian, for no one could
                  see her loveliness, her sweet endearing ways, her gentle, touching tenderness, and
                  fail to love her.
               "Why are you so long, and so often absent from me, persisted she.
               "Why, Lilian, a man"—and he drew himself up with the pride of twenty years on his
                  brow—"a man has many things to engross his time, which you women know nothing
                  about. I don't think you ought to murmur."
               "I do not murmur;" said Lilian, stopping his mouth with a kiss, "but then I have
                  many lonely hours, when you are not with me,—you, Harry, you who are my all in
                  all."
               Harry yawned slightly; the conversation was growing wearisome. Lily perceived it
                  with the quick instinct of her sex, and said no more, but with a sigh rose, and
                  taking her boy, who had fallen asleep in his fathers arms, softly undressed
                  dressed without waking him, and placed him in his little cradle.
               When she again seated herself by Harry's side, in the soft moonlight stealing
                  through the window, he was sitting—his face upturned to the moon—lost in thought.
                  A shade was on his brow, and his large dark eyes seemed filled with a troubled
                  light. To call him from his sad musings, Lilian took her guitar, and striking a
                  few chords, sung, in her sweet-toned voice, the plaintive little air of the Hindoo
                  mother, which accorded well with her own feelings. When she came to the words,
                  "Fairer hands may press thee," her eyes swam in tears, and her voice nearly failed
                  her; but the next verse alluding with such tender pathos to the child, it was
                  Harry's turn. His lips quivered—a peculiar sign of emotion with him—and he leaned
                  his head on his hand, and listened in silence until the song was finished, then
                  drew her gently to him. Lilian wept, and it was no shame to Harry's manliness,
                  that a few large bright drops from eyes, "albeit unused to the melting mood,"
                  glistened amid the brown curls of the head which rested upon his bosom.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE WIFE VS. THE IDOL.
               
                  
                     
                        "Look on this picture, then on that.
                     
                     HAMLET.
                  
               
               OUR readers may think, in the course of this narrative, we have imitated the
                  example of Claude, and neglected Marion shamefully; but the fact is, Marion, with
                  all her troubles and griefs, was such a quiet little being; had so little
                  connection with the sayings and doings of those whose actions it is in this
                  veritable history our buisness to record; that we, like her fashionable
                  acquaintances, have contented ourselves so far with the mere knowledge of her
                  existence; but, like them, must occasionally call for appearance' sake, and to
                  satisfy ourselves that she is still alive. We are far from entertaining towards
                  her, however, the benevolent wishes of many a fair one of the beau monde with regard to
                  the length of her existence; who would give their little fingers were she fairly
                  out of the way, and "that dear St Julian" a widower.
               "Claude, will you stay with me to-day, and watch by Cecy?" said Marion, the
                  morning after the picnic. "I think she is quite sick, and have sent for a
                  physician." "Certainly, Marion dear, we have an invitation to dine out, you know;
                  but I will write a refusal for both, and glad to be rid of it;" and drawing a
                  writing-desk to him, he dashed off a few lines, despatched them, and then followed
                  Marion into the sick room of Cecy. Every one knows the pervading air of a sick
                  room. The quiet hush, the monotonous stillness, the low whispers, the close and
                  darkened atmosphere. "I do not think Cecy worse than usual, Marion," said Claude,
                  as he stood by the bedside of the child, "perhaps a little weaker." "Oh! that is
                  always the way with you," replied Marion, somewhat peevishly. "You
                  never think there is any thing the matter with the child; but any one can see,"
                  she added, in a lower tone, "that she is declining, and I don't
                  believe will be very long in this world; but if she is not, it will be better for
                  her. I am sure I have found it nothing but a vale of tears." "Hush!
                  Marion, don't talk so," said Claude, gently, encircling her waist with his arm.
                  "Are you not happy?" "You know I am not," replied his wife, coldly withdrawing
                  herself from his embrace. "I don't know what I have to make me so, unless it be a
                  neglectful dissipated husband." "Well, Marion, don't let us get on that topic: you
                  know we can't agree; and if I must have a lecture, don't let it be in the
                  sick-room of my child." "Must have a lecture!" repeated Marion, bitterly, "as if I
                  were——" "Dear Marion, I beg you will desist. Say no more now, or I will have to
                  leave the room. Don't you see it disturbs Cecy!" The child indeed (who had smiled
                  faintly, as her father approached her bed in token of welcome) now looked from one
                  to the other, as if annoyed by the conversation. Claude took her hand, and in
                  soft, kindly tones, commenced to soothe her. She listened and repaid him by
                  grateful glances, then lulled by the sound of his voice, sunk into a calm, sweet
                  slumber. He gazed on her, as she slept in her fair angelic beauty; so tender, so
                     spirituelle, like an angel with wings already
                  plumed for heaven; and then at his wife, who was seated on the opposite side of
                  the bed. There was a cold, embittered, almost repulsive expression, on the marble
                  set features of the latter; and in striking contrast to that cold, sad face, rose
                  up one bright, beautiful, tender, wooing in its expression to him; that of
                  Florence. For days he had lived, breathed, moved, in a bewildering spell; the
                  spell which her beauty and fascination had woven round his senses. When conscience
                  rebuked him for this, which it must be confessed was but rarely, he consoled
                  himself with the reflection that it was not to be expected that a man of pasionate
                  impulsive feelings, should resist the blandishments of a woman who exerted herself
                  to the uttermost to charm him, and who boasted that she had "but to look on a man
                  to make him love her." No, he made no effort to resist, but gave himself up,
                  unhesitatingly, to her siren influence. Every passionate feeling in his nature
                  thus kindled, Florence's large loving eyes haunted him; her soft wooing voice
                  echoed in his ear; her image, resplendent in the queenly consciousness of beauty,
                  was before him day and night; and without reflecting that such feelings must be
                  vain, or fatal to both, he gave himself up, soul and body, to the delicious
                  spell.
               Yielding himself to such thoughts as these, he leaned back in the arm-chair, and
                  closed his eyes. The world of the sick room passed from before him, and his senses
                  revelled in the new, vague, and intoxicating realm of imagination and passion.
               Claude sat by Cecy all that day, and attended to her wants, with the careful
                  tenderness and readiness of an experienced nurse,—for in no sphere did that man's
                  ability seem to fail, he was equally at home in all;—and Cecy, who idolized her
                  father, was delighted with his attention. In the evening the physician called, and
                  pronounced her indisposition only a slight attack of weakness. Scarcely had he
                  left, when a note was presented to Claude. It was from Florence, and his heart
                  throbbed as he saw the delicate hand-writing, and opened the neat little envelope.
                  It contained merely her wishes that, if disengaged, he would meet a few friends at
                  her house that evening, "very unexpected," &c. &c. Claude was delighted;
                  'how agreeable, after a long, dull day, spent in a sick room;' and he hastily
                  wrote an acceptance. He then informed Marion of his intention to spend the evening out, but added, that he should be
                  at home early, to which she made no reply,—but coldly turned away to prepare some
                  draught for the child, and Claude went to his room to dress.
               All the guests had arrived, when he found himself in the presence of Florence. She
                  came forward, with her usual beaming smile, and queenly grace to receive him. Mrs.
                  De Vere Moreton; Eva, looking stiller and paler than usual; Gussy Plumdale, and
                  some half dozen gentlemen, completed the party.
               "Well, so you have come at last, Mr. St. Julian," cried Mrs. Moreton. "We have
                  been waiting for you this half hour, to sing a duet with Florence; so now, like a
                  good boy, do go at it at once." Florence seated herself at the harp, and they
                  poured out their rich, musical voices together, in the wild, passion-breathing
                  songs of Italy, and in the touching ballads of our own language.
               "What a pity," whispered Mrs. Moreton, "that Claude St. Julian is married. Would
                  not he and Florence make a nice couple—so well matched in beauty, fascination, and
                  grace?"
               Eva smiled faintly. "That idea would never have occurred to me, knowing Mr. St.
                  Julian to be a married man."
               "What is that you are saying about St. Julian?" said Lieut. Minton, seating
                  himself by Mrs. Moreton.
               The little woman repeated the remark.
               "Ah! that is true," replied the officer, who always made it a point to agree with
                  Mrs. Moreton in every thing. "I never saw two persons better suited to each other.
                  Well, perhaps St. Julian may be a widower, in time for Miss Fulton; she does not
                  think of marrying yet, I suppose, and his wife is in bad health, I heard him
                  say."
               "Heard him say!" repeated Mrs. Moreton. "Did you ever hear him speak of her? I
                  have known him for years, and never heard him call her name three times, and then
                  only when forced to do so."
               "Nor I either," laughed Minton, "but I did happen to hear him say that, one
                  evening."
               "What a poor, low-spirited, methodistical creature she must be;" continued Mrs.
                  Moreton, "never to go out, or see any thing of life. If I had such a husband as
                  Claude St. Julian, he should not go out without me. I would go too, instead of
                  moping at home, giving my husband 'the blues,' whenever he came in the house."
               "Poor thing!" said Eva. "She is devoted to her husband, I have heard; she must be
                  very lonely, so much separated from him."
               "Nonsense! Eva, how you talk. Why, she is not more separated from him than other
                  women are from their husbands. I expect she sees as much, or more of him, than I
                  do of Moreton. I have no doubt if she would be gay, and agreeable, and mingle in
                  society as she should do, that Claude St. Julian would be as devoted a husband as
                  any; for he is a dear, kind-hearted fellow. Why, she does not even return visits.
                  I have been to see her several times, and she has never shown the 'light of her
                  countenance' within my doors, nor do I care if she never does—but do let's talk of
                  some thing more agreeable, for this is not worth wasting breath on;" and she
                  turned, and commenced an animated flirtation with the handsome lieutenant.
               And this was the compassion of the world for Marion,—and thus were
                  the names of Claude, and his wife, canvassed in her own parlors, and by some
                  strange fatality reached not the ears of Florence; but that fatal knowledge was to
                  come full soon.
               Florence could of course devote no portion of time exclusively to Claude that
                  evening. She was the centre and soul of her circle, and diffused
                  gayety, life and animation around her. Her gayety, her brilliant conversational
                  powers, her wit, united to a certain warmth of manner—not approaching to
                  freedom—gave to her coteries their charm; and rendered her reunions, the most
                  agreeable in New York.
               It was a late hour ere the pleasant little party separated. Claude left Florence
                  more fascinated than ever, and there was something in his too expressive tones and
                  glances, that kindled in her heart the belief that she was beloved.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               A MATRIMONIAL TÊTE-À-TÊTE.
               
                  
                     
                        "Now that is just like you, Caudle—always trying to worry my life out
                           about something."
                     
                     CURTAIN LECTURES.
                  
               
               "MY dear, may I come in?" said Mr. Moreton, tapping at the door of his wife's
                  dressing-room. "Certainly," yawned Mrs. De Vere Mereton in reply. It was about ten
                  o'clock in the morning, she was sitting half buried in a fauteuil, attired in a loose morning gown, her feet thrust into
                  velvet slippers, her hair en papillotte—looking
                  not quite so pretty as the Mrs. Moreton of the drawing-room, but still dishabille was not very unbecoming to the off-hand
                  style of the little woman—languidly sipping a cup of coffee, as if the very
                  exertion of raising it to her lips was wearisome.
               Mr. Moreton entered; his face was pale, and had a care-worn expression just at the
                  moment. He was a man who had dissipated much, and it was very visible in the
                  haggard and marked lines of his features. He held in his hand a most ominous
                  looking bundle of papers, which looked suspiciously like that greatest of horrors
                  to many—merchants' bills.
               
               "Oh! Moreton, have you come in to talk to me about expenses, and
                  retrenchments? For Heaven's sake! if you have, spare me this once, for my nerves
                  are not in a condition to bear it."
               "It's useless to talk in that kind of style, Angele," replied he, bitterly. "I am
                  forced to speak on the subject. I suppose you had rather have an execution in your
                  house before you know any thing about it, than to have me 'shock your nerves,' by
                  trying to speak in time. God help women's nerves! I believe they kill more men
                  than any disease you can mention—tormented out of their lives. If women are
                  fretful, and bad tempered,—it's nerves. If you dare to speak to them,
                  and raise your voice a key higher than usual, 'Oh! dear, their poor nerves.' In
                  short, nerves are the excuse for every fault in the female
                  calendar."
               "Moreton, I see no use of your tormenting me in that spiteful way; go on with what
                  you have to say, if I must hear it."
               Thus adjured, Mr. Moreton proceeded.
               "Well, the fact is simply this; I am over head and ears in debt,—and what is
                  worse, I don't see how I am to get out; and if I don't find some means of
                  satisfying the clamors of these hell-hounds," and he clenched the papers, and
                  shook them as if, instead of their bills, he held the unfortunate victims of his
                  wrath in his grasp, "why, I shall have a pack of duns at my door every day. Say,
                  is that a charming prospect?"
               "La! Moreton, where is my fortune? would not that more than pay——"
               "What is the use of asking such foolish questions? As if you did not
                     know that you had spent it long since, on your 'entertainments,'
                  your 'opera boxes,' your 'equipage,' your 'dress,' and the devil knows what other
                  follies. I had just got my father's estate in hand, when I married you (for, as
                  you know, he disinherited Eva's father, my poor brother,—a better fellow never
                  lived, except that he was a little too high spirited for his own good), and now
                  where is it? I tell you I am on the brink of ruin, pretty near
                  insolvent. It is impossible for you to keep up this establishment at this rate.
                  Why, it would ruin a prince! You should have thought of this all along, only women
                  never think of any thing. A milliner's block on their shoulders would do them as
                  much good as a head, so far as thinking goes."
               "Why do you blame me for your loss of fortune?" replied his wife with
                  flashing eyes. "You know you spent it at the gaming table."
               "I beg your pardon, madam, I have lost little at the gaming table. I know enough
                  about that to be fortunate generally. No, it is the other things I have spoken of,
                  that have played the devil with my purse. I know not what to do." And Mr. Moreton
                  folded his arms and was gloomily silent.
               "Oh, I have it!" said his wife suddenly, as if some peculiarly bright idea had
                  occurred to her. "A thought has struck me."
               "Miraculous event!" exclaimed her sarcastic husband, do let us have the benefit of
                  it."
               "Let us give a large, and splendid fancy ball, eh! Moreton."
               
               "Is the woman mad? I talking to her about retrenchments, and she talking about a
                  fancy ball, a thing that would cost three thousand at least!"
               "Oh, but I want to do it for effect, you know, for
                     effect."
               "And pray what effect can that have?"
               "Why, if you give a grand ball, or any thing that requires a considerable outlay
                  of money, your creditors will think you are flush, and not say a word
                  to you."
               "Pshaw!"
               "Now, Moreton, don't 'pshaw' me; you know it's a good idea, and I shall have the
                  ball."
               "Well, you are certainly the most incorrigible——"
               "I don't care, I shall have my fancy ball, and you'll see the good effect it will
                  have."
               "And pray where will I get the money for that?"
               "Where you have often obtained larger sums," replied his wife significantly.
               "Well, we'll see about it. At all events it's not worth while to try to talk
                  reason into you, for that is something nature forgot to put in the composition of
                  women. But where is Eva? I want her to look over these papers, and file them away
                  for me. She is a dear little creature, a woman out of a thousand I think."
               "Moping up stairs in her room, I suppose. I don't know what has come over her of
                  late. She was always dull enough, but she is worse now. I declare it's
                  provoking—every thing seems to conspire against my wishes."
               "What's the matter now?"
               "Ah! Moreton, you needn't speak in that sarcastic tone—you think my vexations are
                  nothing, but they are more than my ner— more than I can bear. Now then, that
                  provoking man, Juge Woodward, just as I thought I had secured him for
                  Eva—decidedly the most desirable match of the day—all at once he takes it into his
                  head to fall in love with that coquette Florence Fulton, who manages to make every
                  man who approaches her, wear her fetters; or tries to do so, at all
                  events,—married or single, it makes no difference with her. I wonder
                     you haven't been caught in her snares before now, Moreton. I
                  actually believe the girl employs witchcraft. I hate to see a woman who cares for
                  nothing but making conquests."
               "Good heavens, Angele! 'Satan reproving sin.' When did you take up your new code
                  of morals? But that is just like women, they always condemn others most for that
                  which they like best themselves. But if Woodward prefers Florence Fulton—who,
                  beautiful, and fascinating as she is, has no occasion for witchcraft to charm the
                  other sex,—what right under heaven have you to object? Besides, I didn't know you
                  took so deep an interest in Eva!"
               "It is not that I take such a deep interest in Eva,—but the idea of a pretty girl
                  like her, staying in one of the gayest, most fashionable houses in New York, under
                  the protection of Mrs. De Vere Moreton, and not securing a desirable
                     parti. It is a reflection on me; and looks as
                  if there was 'something wrong in the state of Denmark.' And then, you know, Judge
                  Woodward never visited us until Eva came here—which was shameful, considering we
                  were connections—and I was very glad to get him in our set; then, to have married
                  him to my protegée would have been a crowning
                  achievement. I should have been proud of it. And then too, I would have had an
                  everlasting claim on the gratitude of Eva's mother, and that would have been so
                  pleasant. I do so like to lay people under obligations, just to make them feel
                  what they owe me. I always feel somehow as if Mrs. Moreton was superior to me, in
                  some way, I can't tell how, I am sure—but I feel it, and that is so
                  disagreeable. But just as I got the affair, as I thought, en train, for Judge Woodward to act in that manner! I declare 'tis
                  shameful! Men are such provoking, unprincipled creatures."
               "Well, my dear, it seems to me you arrogate to yourself, most unreasonably, the
                  right of disposing of Judge Woodward's hand, heart, and worldly goods. One would
                  think he had no right to a voice in the matter. By the way, he first met Florence
                  here. In the name of heaven, couldn't you anticipate the consequences? Why did you
                  have her here so constantly? Re-unions, promenades, opera parties,—nothing
                  complete without Florence."
               "Nonsense! Moreton, don't you know, in order to be agreeable, one must surround
                  one's self with agreeable people? Now a woman like Florence always draws, as it
                  were, a charmed circle around her; and that is the reason I court her society. I
                  am useful to her, and she to me. We radiate light, as it were, one to the other. If I were unmarried it would be a
                  different thing, I should dread her as a rival; but as it is, I only want to
                  attract, for the sake of amusement, and to give my house the reputation of being
                  the most agreeable, as it is the most fashionable in the city."
               "But isn't this selfish?"
               "Selfish? what a question! as if the world was not made up of selfishness."
               "Yes, so I suppose," replied her husband carelessly. "I remember in my young
                  days—when I was a verdant boy—imagining that there might be some such quality as
                  disinterestedness latent in the human heart; but I have often felt since the
                  fallacy of such an opinion."
               "Yes, and made others feel it, I dare say," laughed his wife.
               "Well, if I have, it was only paying them back in kind. If you don't wish to be
                  cheated, be yourself a cheat." And with this laudable maxim, the gaming
                  philosopher was about to leave the room, when Eva entered. The sweet girl came in,
                  and in her usual affectionate, gentle way, kissed her uncle and Mrs. Moreton, for
                  she had not seen them before that morning.
               "I am glad you have come, Eva," said Mr. Moreton. "I want you to go in the study,
                  and look over these papers for me. Find out the sum total, and let me know, will
                  you? there's a darling."
               "Certainly, uncle, with pleasure;" and she took the papers, left the room, and was
                  soon deep in the intricacies of mathematical hieroglyphics, calculations, &c.
                  An odd occupation for a heroine of romance, the reader will say; but Eva was no
                  heroine of romance; she was simply a human being, lovely in form and disposition,
                  fitted to make a gentle, good, loving wife; to make a man happy on earth, and lead
                  him by her gentle example to heaven. 
                     
                        Few are there such on this cold earth,
                        Where false are oft the fairest smiles,
                        And e'en deeds seeming pure, have birth
                        In dark design's deceptive wiles.
                     
                  
               
               "Judge Woodward is a fool to give up such an angel on earth as Eva for any body,"
                  thought Mr. Moreton. "She will be a treasure to any man. I believe if I had
                  married a woman like her, she would have reformed me completely. But pshaw!" he
                  added, supressing a sigh, "there's not one in a thousand like her. I dare say
                  Angele is as good as the 'common run' of women.'" And with this consoling
                  reflection he left the room, much to the relief of his wife, who had been sorely
                  bored by this matrimonial tête-à-tête —which the unsophisticated might have
                  thought calculated to awaken very serious reflections.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE GLIMMERINGS OF DESTINY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           To be callous with the heartless,
                           To be careless with the gay,
                           To be led by passion's impulse
                           From virtue's path astray;
                           These are faults for which I care not—
                           Mine they are, and still will be;
                           But the thought which rends my bosom,
                           Is, that I have injured thee.
                        
                     
                     MS.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Let the false and the guilty take heed how they raise the curtain, which
                           veils the mysteries of the future.
                     
                     THE SEER.
                  
               
               IT was about five o'clock in the afternoon, and Harry Vernon and his friend Arthur
                  Plumdale were discussing sundry interesting topics over a bottle of wine, in the
                  rooms of the former, at the Irving House. (For with the characteristic
                  independence of "young America," and a "fast man" to boot—though, as for that
                  matter, the two terms are almost synonymous—Harry kept his rooms down town, only
                  occasionally condescending to drop in at his father's house in Fifth Avenue, just
                  "to see how the old man and the old woman were getting on." This was the hopeful
                  son and heir of one of the first men in the State of New York. Verily, the saying
                  about the sons of great men ought to grow into a proverb, namely: that relying on
                  the greatness of their progenitors, they are generally good for nothing
                  themselves.) Harry, judging from appearances, was somewhat indisposed on this
                  occasion. He was paler than usual, and reclined on a lounge drawn near the grate
                  in which a bright fire was burning; for
                  though it was only the latter end of October, the weather without was cold and
                  stormy, and but for this cheerful blaze, the room, though thickly curtained and
                  carpeted, and furnished with every imaginable comfort, nay luxury, would have
                  looked dreary. Arthur Plumdale, to whom the reader has already been casually
                  introduced, as one of the most intimate associates of Harry Vernon, was a young
                  man, or rather a ci devant jeune homme, whose
                  fashionable, and somewhat prepossessing exterior, covered a heart destitute of
                  every principle of virtue or honor. A heartless, systematic libertine, a thorough
                  profligate, he yet assumed an air of frankness, cordiality, and good fellowship,
                  which made him popular with men who lived like himself, for the enjoyment of the
                  passing hour; and in the gilded saloons of fashion he was ever a welcome guest;
                  fair women smiled upon him, and forgot that he was any thing save the gay and
                  agreeable gentleman. He belonged to a family which, moving in the first circles of
                  society, managed always to keep up the appearance of wealth, without actually
                  possessing it; no one knew how, and no one cared, so long as the Plumdales gave
                  "delightful parties," and had "elegant people" at them. The daughters were
                  fine-looking, well dressed, and agreeable; the son, the hopeful specimen we see
                  before us.
               Arthur Plumdale was older than Harry Vernon, and though inferior in mind, he yet
                  possessed a degree of shrewdness and cunning, which enabled him to obtain great
                  influence over his generous and unsuspecting friend, whose wild and reckless
                  career was in a great measure attributable to the evil influence of this man—his
                  tempter and initiator into every form of dissipation. It was partly from that
                  fiendish disposition to lure others to ruin, which exists in depraved natures; but
                  more, perhaps, because, by mingling with him in such scenes, Harry could become
                  useful to him, that Arthur Plumdale undertook to initiate him; for the purse of
                  the thoughtless and generous boy was often lightened—paradoxical as the expression
                  may seem—by the weight of Mr. Plumdale's expenses.
               "Was there ever such infernal weather?" said Harry, yawning, and turning over
                  uneasily, after a pause of some moments. "Stir the fire, and pass the bottle,
                  Plum; that's a good fellow."
               Mr. Plumdale submissively obeyed, assenting at the same time to Harry's
                  observation, by the profound remark, that it was "demned uncomfortable,
                  certainly."
               "But," said Harry nervously, replenishing his glass, and swallowing a brimming
                  goblet, "let us return to the subject of which we were speaking just now. Plum, I
                  believe you are one of my best friends; but, by heaven! you have caused me to
                  commit one deed, which has been the source of the greatest unhappiness of my life;
                  the very recollection of which, to use a sentimental expression,"—and he smiled
                  half mockingly,—"has cast a shadow over my young years, which I fear no time can
                  efface."
               "Pshaw! Harry, my dear fellow, that is anexaggeration of virtue worthy the Utopian
                  age, but quite too sublimated for these days."
               "No, Arthur," replied the other, his usual nonchalant expression lost in one of
                  stern mournfulness, "I can be profligate with the profligate; I can be a devil
                  among devils. You know well," he added, with a sort of mocking laugh, "that I make
                  no pretensions to virtue, sobriety, or any of those fine sort of things; but,"
                  resuming his serious tone, "when it comes to seducing innocence—innocence pure and
                  perfect enough for an angel; to betraying one whose dearest, best affections are
                  mine; who, if needful for my happiness, would yield up her own life;—to condeming
                  such a one to years of obscurity and shame—she, who is worthy of all the happiness
                  heaven can bestow; when it comes to this, I must confess, if
                  conscience be a weakness, that I am weak."
               "Why, Harry, you never until of late spoke in this way to me! Has your conscience
                  all of a sudden become tender? I am glad to see it; quite a hopeful sign!
                  Shouldn't be surprised from this change, if we have Harry Vernon, the fast boy, in
                  the Methodist pulpit before long. You'll have me on the anxious bench directly. I
                  should like to see you giving out the hymns," and he snatched a book from the
                  table, bearing some outside resemblance, from its bulk and calf-skin cover, to an
                  old-fashioned Methodist hymn-book, but in reality filled with drinking-songs,
                  etc.; and with the most doleful elongation of visage, proceeded, in a nasal twang
                  that was inimitable, to "give out the hymns."
               "No sneers!" cried Harry, his black eyes flashing fire. "Not even from you will I bear sneers;"—and as
                  Arthur laid his book aside, looking quite penitent, he continued: "I never spoke
                  of it in times past, because I dearly loved Lilian, and consoled myself by
                  thinking that some day I would make her my wife. But now—now I love and would
                  marry another; and what will become of Lilian, poor Lilian, when the story of her
                  shame is revealed, as revealed it must be? Would to God I had never deceived her!"
                  and he covered his face with his hands.
               "Well, my dear fellow, I am sure I am sorry the affair ever happened, if it
                  bothers you so," replied the Evil Genius, endeavoring to screw his face into an
                  expression denoting sympathy; "but it's too late now to make a fuss about it. It
                  is not the first affair of the kind that ever existed by thousands. Pshaw! she is
                  no worse off than she would have been if you had never seen her, and in the long
                  run she may be a great deal better."
               "Well," replied Harry, endeavoring to dismiss the topic from his thoughts by
                  turning them in a channel in which he was even more interested, "I should like
                  devilish well to know how my affair with the fair Florence will terminate. I have
                  been in suspense now just about long enough; and the worst of it is, there's no
                  calculating what she will do with a fellow at last."
               "By the way, Hal, if you are well enough, suppose we go around to the astrologer's
                  in W—— street, and have a consultation, just for the fun of the thing. I have a
                  little affair of my own up street, that I should like to know something about. I
                  am afraid, from present appearances, there is some trouble ahead for me; but,
                  however, I don't mind it much. I will find means to manage the thing in my own
                  favor somehow."
               What is it—a love affair, Plum?"
               "Yes, but not one involving matrimony. Oh, no! you don't catch me running my head
                  into any such fool-trap as that. But it is a love affair, and the
                  heroine is one of the loveliest girls in the city. What do you say to Miss Georgie
                  Watts?"
               "Georgie Watts!" repeated Harry.
               "Yes, the daughter of old Dr. Watts—not the old psalm-singing sinner, but a lineal
                  descendant of his, I've no doubt, frem the odor of sanctity which seems to linger
                  around his worshipful presence. It does me good to see the old fellow rise in the
                  pulpit on the Sabbath, with his face elongated to the precise measure of orthodox
                  sanctity, looking down with calm benignity on his precious flock, who, after
                  playing the devil all the week, come to listen and be edified by the 'savor of
                  life unto life,' on Sunday; ever and anon casting a glance towards where I sit,
                  demurely turning the leaves of Miss Georgie's prayer-book."
               Harry laughed one of his reckless laughs, but then added: "I'll swear, Plum, it is
                  too bad in you to trifle with that girl. Why don't you marry her? She has some
                  money, and is a sight too good for you."
               "Softly, softly, my good fellow; don't be so rough. The girl is rather verdant,
                  considering that she has been brought up in this famous city; and I only wish to
                  teach her a lesson of the world solely for her own profit; a most disinterested
                  motive, you will acknowledge. Were I to marry her, she would curse her stars, and
                  wish me in a considerable warmer climate than would at all suit my health, in less
                  than six months. As it is, I will only carry her through a very quiet, very
                  delightful, and very tender love affair, and whenever our sweet little tie loses
                  its charm, we can just 'dissolve partnership,' and quit good friends."
               "Why, you don't mean to say——"
               "No more, I beg of you, now. I will tell you more hereafter. What say you to the
                  astrologer's?"
               "Oh! I'll go, and put the old fellow to his trumps, to coin a few more lies." And
                  taking the precaution to empty the remaining contents of the bottle, the two young
                  men sallied out. They walked on through the cold and blustering rain, for several
                  blocks, till they came to W—— street, which they turned down, and a few more steps
                  brought them to the door of a large, gloomy-looking tenement, before which they
                  stopped. Their vigorous ring was answered by an old African, whose snow-white
                  head, shining eyes, and ivory masticators, presented a decided contrast to his
                  ebony skin, and rendered his hideous ugliness yet more apparent. There was
                  something so frightful in the leer with which the half-savage-looking creature
                  regarded them, that Harry Vernon whispered, "By heavens! I shouldn't be surprised
                  if old —— has the devil himself in
                  employ; or if this is not him, I'll bet it's the best likeness of him extant."
               There was no light in the entry, though it was now nearly dark, and they were
                  ushered into a large, damp, dreary sitting-room,—almost devoid of furniture, and
                  wholly devoid of fire,—there to wait while the devil,—as Harry persisted in
                  calling him,—announced their arrival.
               They did not wait long, however, before his Satanic Majesty, intruding his visage
                  in at the door, with a grin more hideous than ever, informed them that the doctor
                  would "deceive them perectly, if they would please to follow him." Saying which,
                  he ushered them through several long, narrow corridors, so cold, so still, so
                  dark, that his followers, careless as they were, could scarce repress a feeling of
                  fear, (for the bravest man may tremble at a danger he cannot see,) until he came
                  to a room in the back of the building, before which he stopped, and throwing open
                  the door, showed them into the august presence of Dr. ——.
               However free t he mind may be from superstition on ordinary occasions, when
                  voluntarily exposing itself to the influence of its agents, there will steal over
                  one a creeping feeling of awe, and doubt lest such things may be.
               If such were the feelings experienced by Harry Vernon and his companion before
                  entering the astrologer's presence, certainly their entrance did not tend to
                  diminish it. Seated before a table on which burned a small, though brilliant lamp,
                  the sole light in the room—engaged in consulting various charts and parchments
                  covered with hieroglyphics, which were spread out before him—sat a man, whose age,
                  judging from appearances, must have reached seventy-five years. His snow-white
                  hair and beard reached nearly to his waist, and presented a strange, almost
                  startling contrast to the long robe of sable which he wore, loosely fastened by a
                  girdle around his waist. His face, or what portion of it was not covered by the
                  heavy beard, was white, too, as death; and gleaming out like a lone star at
                  midnight, there shone an eye, black, and piercing as the lightning flash from the
                  surcharged cloud. Beside him was an astronomical globe, to which he occasionally
                  referred. The windows were hung with curtains of a sombre hue; the walls lined
                  with shelves supported books, (in which many a modern ern work of revealed
                  mysteries, was intermixed with curious antiquated volumes,) save on one side,
                  which was hung with a black curtain, through a slight aperture in which might be
                  seen bottles of various sorts and sizes, some containing liquids, ruddy and deep
                  in hue as the ensanguined life-stream; others, clear and colorless as water. It
                  was in the shadow of this black curtain that the astrologer was seated.
               He acknowledged the entrance of the gentlemen, by a scarcely perceptible motion of
                  the head; waved his hand for them to be seated, and as they obeyed him, without
                  speaking a word, he fixed his piercing gaze full upon them. Plumdale winced
                  slightly under the infliction; but Harry gave from his bold, black eyes, a glance
                  free and fearless as his own. After scrutinizing them thus a moment, he looked
                  down, and went on with his occupation "with as much coolness," as Harry said
                  afterwards, "as if we had been two fresh importations from Erin's Isle, in a rich
                  man's house, begging for a place." At length he looked up.
               "You wish to consult me," he said, in low, singularly sweet tones, 'and love is
                  the subject, at least with one."
               The young men started slightly, and answered in the affirmative.
               "You have a clear, bold eye, and a frank, fearless mien, young sir," he continued,
                  addressing Vernon; "what is the date of your birth?"
               Harry informed him, as he affirmed, to the "best of his recollection," and the
                  same question was put to, and answered by Plumdale.
               The astrologer drew a sheet of parchment towards him, and commenced rapidly
                  covering it with hieroglyphics, occasionally referring to the globe. Rapid as were
                  his motions, the process was a tedious one, and the young men found their patience
                  rapidly verging towards the threadbare point, when he laid down his pen, raised
                  his eyes, and once more looked fixedly at Harry. At the moment the eyes of the
                  latter were fixed on a ring of Lilian's, which he always wore; he was thinking of
                  her, and sighed involuntarily. When he looked up, and met the searching gaze fixed
                  upon him, a burning flush rose to his cheek. Without asking further questions, the
                  astrologer then said slowly, and distinetly, and with such sweetness of tone, such
                  feeling, and expression as made his
                  language appear perfectly natural, though it might otherwise have sounded
                  affected: "Young man, thou hast loved; thou lovest still; but she to whom thy
                  earliest, truest vows were plighted, is not the light around which thy heart is
                  fluttering now. She who now enkindles the glowing day-dream of thy young
                  imagination is another,—it may be a brighter, but not a purer, or a truer, than
                  thy first love; but her star shines afar off, bright, but lonely; and
                  though thou may'st worship its beams, the star of her destiny and thine can never
                  be united."
               "Oh! say not so," interrupted Harry, who had listened from the utterance of the
                  first word with the deepest interest, as his flushed cheek told.
               "Would you seek to alter the decrees of Fate?" said the seer sternly. He looked
                  again on the hieroglyphics earnestly, and then continued: "You have a rival, one
                  from whom you think you have least cause to fear danger; but beware of that man;
                  he will snatch the prize from your very grasp, and between you and him there will
                  be blood—yea, a dark and fearful deed of blood. But"—he paused, peered down more
                  earnestly amid the hieroglyphics, and examined the globe long and silently, with
                  the air of one endeavoring to solve a problem—"there are contrary symbols here,
                  tokens at variance with each other," he murmured, as if speaking more to himself
                  than those around him. "Mars looks dark, red, and threatening, and Venus shines
                  out clear, bright, and serene; but Mars is in the ascendant as yet, though there
                  is a probability that their positions may change." He raised his head slowly. "I
                  see a dark cloud overshadowing your fate. It moves slowly onward,—near, and
                  nearer. Should you escape the thunderbolt of that cloud, your destiny may be a
                  happy one. I can see, from the hasty calculations I have made, your danger, but
                  cannot tell positively whether you will escape it or not;—at least, I do not wish
                  to pronounce a doom which there is the slightest hope of averting. Give me time;
                  let me cast your horoscope more fully, and——"
               "Thank you," interrupted Harry; "I have had enough of it. Just despatch my
                  friend's business here—which I fancy will give him small comfort, if you leave his
                  fate enveloped veloped in as much mystery as mine—and we will leave you to your
                  own reflections."
               The astrologer made no direct reply to this unceremonious speech, but turning to
                  Arthur, said, "And now, sir, for you."
               Mr. Plumdale now felt some misgivings as to whether it was not the best policy for
                  him to decline hearing any revelations concerning himself; but a feeling of
                  curiosity made him bow assent, to the last words of the astrologer.
               The latter studied the hieroglyphics again, made some rapid calculations, and as
                  he did so, his brow grew dark as night.
               "Man!" he said suddenly, raising his head, and looking sternly upon Arthur, "has
                  it ever occurred to you, that there is such a thing as
                  retribution?"
               Arthur started, and so confused was he by the abrupt query, that he made no reply.
                  The astrologer continued: "Before me, in the map of your life, I see many a dark
                  scene, and erring deed—affection betrayed, vows broken, friendship deceived, and
                  ruined——"
               "Pause, sir!" said the enraged Plumdale, throwing himself into a threatening
                  attitude; for, though constitutionally a coward, he could not withstand this
                  attack. "I allow no man to impugn——"
               "Be still, Plum!" said Harry, forcing him with ease back into his seat; then
                  whispering under his breath, "Why mind this cursed mummery? for it's nothing
                  more—let him go on." With a smothered curse, Arthur signified his wish that he
                  should proceed. The astrologer, who had risen slowly from his seat—his eyes
                  flashing fire, displaying a figure which, though concealed beneath the sable robe
                  which he wore, was yet commanding, and greatly exceeding the common height—now
                  reseated himself, and, save from the lurking flash in his eye, with every
                  appearance of calmness, continued: "Beware! you are even now rushing on to deeds
                  which will bring retribution on your own head. A dark red circle hovers around
                  your star; ere long that star shall set in blood; yea, in blood and crime—crime
                  the darkest, most soul-revolting."
               "Enough!" said the recipient of these cheering omens of the future, rising
                  hastily. "I will hear no more of this
                  mummery;" and he felt for his purse—which we may here mention in confidence to the
                  reader, he knew perfectly well was empty. Affecting the utmost surprise at this
                  remarkable occurrence, he turned to Harry, who threw down the sum demanded by the
                  astrologer; and looking, it must be confessed, sowewhat more crest-fallen than
                  when they entered, they left the dread presence of the priest of superstition.
               "That confounded old fool actually set my teeth on edge with his nonsense," said
                  Harry, as they once more gained the street. His companion made no reply. Harry
                  turned and looked at him. By the faint light of the street lamps, he could see
                  that his face was pale as death. "Pshaw! Arthur, what is the matter? You surely
                  are not thinking of the astrologer's prediction?"
               "No," replied the other, endeavoring to shake off the gloom which had fallen like
                  a dark cloud upon his spirit. (For once, Fear, beating at the door of his heart,
                  awakened Conscience, as it often does, and for a moment over that callous heart,
                  swept a far-off vision of reformation,—but for a moment.) "No, I am not well this
                  evening. Where shall we go? to H——'s? I'm cursedly hungry, and we get our supper
                  there free, you know."
               "I feel too badly to go any where, or enjoy any thing to-night. Dr. M. will drag
                  me through h—— to-morrow, if he finds I was out in this storm. You had better come
                  and roost with me. We can have a bottle of wine, and a quiet little game all to
                  ourselves before we turn in, and then go to bed, and spend the night like
                  Christians. I have no money to bet at the faro table, having been regularly
                  cleaned out last time. Luck is against me these days. I gave that old dog this
                  evening the last cent I had to save my life."
               "By the way," said Plumdale—for though he had not the most remote idea of paying,
                  it was well to keep up appearances; "that couple of hundred I owe you—I must
                  try——"
               "Oh! never mind, my dear fellow; don't think of it. I guess I can squeeze the
                  governor out of a dime or two, to-morrow. Come on, it's devilish cold."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE ASTROLOGER IN A NEW CHARACTER.
               
                  
                     
                        "There are many men in this world, and many strange ways of living among
                           them."
                     
                     ANON
                  
               
               SCARCELY had the two young men departed, when the astrologer rose from his seat,
                  and ringing a small silver bell beside him, his negro valet made his appearance;
                  the look of half idiotic fierceness and stupidity, which he had worn in the
                  presence of Vernon and Plumdale, gone entirely, and in its place, a look of quiet,
                  respectful attention, and shrewd observation.
               "And now, Cesar," said the astrologer, as that individual followed him into a
                  small dressing-room, neatly fitted up, "now help me to doff my insignia of sorcery
                  for the trappings of the beau monde. I think I
                  shall attend the opera to-night." As he spoke, he hastily divested himself of his
                  long robe, removed his gray wig and beard, and encasing himself in the fashionable
                  garments presented by the valet, stood confessed as the "illustrious Italian
                  exile, the Count di Basquina."
               We have before mentioned the count as figuring, to some extent, in the fashionable
                  world; nothing, in fact, preventing his being a "lion," but his own apparent
                  diffidence, and reserved, melancholy temperament. As to his actual employment, or
                  whether he had any, the world around him never troubled themselves to
                  inquire,—taking it for granted, perhaps, that "his excellency lived on his private
                  fortune." (Private fortune! heaven help the man who has no other means of
                  subsistence, than the private fortune of an Italian nobleman.) He ate and slept at
                  the Astor, and as to what he did beside, it was nobody's business but his own.
                  Perhaps the reader—after his peep behind the curtain—may surmise the cause of the
                  reserve and quietude the count chose to throw around his manner, and his dislike
                  to the publicity which is generally given to the actions of a lion. "Those
                  fellows," soliloquized the count, as he adjusted his cravat before the mirror,
                  "have gone away wondrously edified fied
                  by my divine powers, no doubt; and with their faith in the stars marvellously
                  strengthened by the revelations of to-night. After all, nothing is more likely
                  than that my predictions will prove true. Plumdale, a consummate scoundrel, must,
                  sooner or later, meet with his deserts; what man like him ever came to any other
                  than a bad end?—at all events, I fancy I jarred his nerves a little. Hal Vernon is
                  a good fellow, wild as he is; but I've no doubt his headlong passion for Miss
                  Fulton will lead him into some scrape yet. As for her, I can see her fate, glassed
                  in the mirror of destiny, without the aid of aught but natural eyes. Poor girl!
                  she is not the first star that ever faded in darkness, from the sphere where it
                  once shone brightest amid the bright."
               He completed his toilet and his soliloquy at the same time, and turning to Cesar,
                  said, "And now, my boy,"—he was sixty, at least—"if the No. — Fifth Avenue lady
                  comes to night, tell her I will see her to-morrow at five, P. M. I have not yet
                  collected all the information I want in her case," he added, to himself, "but I
                  think I can do so to-night. Thanks to my free entrée in the fashionable circles, I am generally au fait on most of the topics concerning that
                  important portion of the community, and then to foresee their termination,
                  requires only a certain modicum of reflection and worldly wisdom. 'Tis rather a
                  shabby calling, this of mine, I must confess; but this is a world of deception.
                  People dupe others, and in turn are duped themselves, and we are are all duped, at
                  last, by the great Master Duper, the devil. I am sometimes compelled, in order to
                  satisfy those from whom I gain my bread, to lend my magic aid to some very mean
                  purposes; but then, again, I am enabled to do good acts—or prompt others, by my
                  prophecies, to do them; for, believing a thing is to be so, very often makes it
                  so—and I fancy my accounts will come out about square, in the next world, after
                  all. A few more years in this good city of Gotham, and I shall have accumulated
                  enough to support my barren title handsomely for the rest of my life, and then for
                  'home and native land' once more." Thus saying, the worthy count departed, leaving
                  the castle,—as he chose to designate the old tumble-down tenement,—in the care of
                  the faithful Cesar.
               The count had shown his discernment in selecting Cesar as his trusty valet,
                  steward, and major-domo of "the castle," for, apart from his fitness for the
                  office, there is not under the sun a more faithful and devoted race than that of
                  the negro, if well treated.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               "BENEDICK THE MARRIED MAN."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Was it for this, I hoped and dreamed,
                           And wore thine image shrined in my high heart,
                           Which spurned at all beside?
                        
                     
                     MS.
                  
               
               IT was one of those fair, bright days, which sometimes smile upon us in that month
                  of "cloud and storm," November. Over the ordinarily busy city of Gotham, reigned
                  that solemn air of decorous quiet, which is peculiar to the very atmosphere of the
                  Sabbath. The lofty spire of Trinity seemed to hide its head amid the fleecy clouds
                  which hung suspended from the clear blue sky; as if it sought to bear aloft the
                  rich full notes of music, which swelled through the stately dome below. In one of
                  the richly furnished pews of the church, sat Florence Fulton, and Judge Woodward.
                  The head of the latter was bent reverently, for he was a man of prayer, a man
                  whose religious sentiments were lofty, sincere, and open. Not so with his
                  companion; her eyes wandered over rich velvets and waving plumes, over pious saint
                  and decorous sinner, and at last rested in a dreamy gaze on the stained glass
                  windows, while her ear drank in passionately the rich tide of swelling music,
                  which rolled in waves of melody through the dim arches and proud old dome of
                  Trinity.
               She was aroused from her revery by a slight stir in the aisle; and the next moment
                  she saw Claude St. Julian enter a pew nearly opposite her own,—a lady of small,
                  slight figure leaning on his arm.
               Her features were concealed by the thick veil she wore, but when she removed it
                  after taking her seat, Florence saw that her face was fair, but pale, almost to a
                  sickly wanness; her features delicate,
                  but wearing an expression of listless despondency, painful to look on in one
                  young, and otherwise pretty. She held by the hand a little girl of some five
                  summers, so fair, so bewitchingly beautiful, and yet so fragile, so spirituelle in appearance, that the eyes of Florence
                  wandered involuntarily from the mother, to gaze with delight, mingled with painful
                  interest, on the child. It was the face of an angel rather than a human being, and
                  in that face were mingled all the fairy tints of summer heaven;—the soft, serene
                  blue of the sky in the eyes; the fleecy white, and the rose-tinged hues of the
                  evening clouds in the exquisite complexion; and the golden tints of sunset in the
                  shining hair. It was a feast to the artist soul of Florence, to gaze on the
                  unconscious little being, as she sat there with calm, reverential look, her tiny
                  hands clasping her prayer-book; her childish accents lisping the prayer, a halo of
                  innocence and loveliness encircling her. "Who could they be, that mother and
                  child?" for such was the position they seemed to occupy towards each other.
                  Perhaps the lady was a relative of Claude? perhaps she was a widow? and a pang of
                  jealousy shot through her frame;—for every body knows widows are proverbially
                  dangerous. She glanced at her dress; though grave, almost sombre in hue, it was
                  not mourning; and the next moment she smiled at her own folly, in supposing for a
                  moment that the possessor of that face—with its cold, marble-like features, and
                  listlessly mournful expression—could fascinate the gay, degagé St. Julian. Still she felt aroused within her all the latent
                  power of that feeling, whose fatal indulgence in our first mother, lost Paradise
                  to her unhappy children; and we fear the services of that day were of little
                  profit to Florence. Nor was she the only one in that still, decorous crowd of
                  beauty, wealth, and fashion, by whom the solemn services they had nominally
                  assembled to hear, were unheeded. Many a velvet-robed bosom throbbed with feelings
                  far different from those of devotion—to heaven at least; many a fair head beneath
                  its waving plumes, was filled with far different thoughts from those which the
                  place and occasion should have inspired. Immediately behind that of Florence was
                  the Moreton pew. It was in vain that Eva endeavored to compose her thoughts into
                  their usual serene, devotional frame—in vain that she tried to listen with
                  attentive tive earnestness to those sublime truths, those divine doctrines of life
                  and love, which generally awoke so deep an echo in her grateful heart; with pain
                  she felt her thoughts revert to other and earthly objects,—to objects, too, upon
                  which she, alas! had no right to fix them. Before her was the man who had awakened
                  every feeling of love, her young heart had ever known; and by his side was her
                  rival, her regal charms set off to the greatest advantage by the most tasteful and
                  exquisite toilet. 
                     
                        "That adornment, rich and rare,
                        Which makes the mighty magnet set
                        In woman's form more mighty yet."
                     
                  
               
               She had often heard Judge Woodward express his admiration for a pretty hand. She
                  saw the fair hand of Florence, whose delicate beauty, and soft, creamy whiteness,
                  seemed to woo the beholder to touch its velvety softness,—she saw that little
                  hand—upon which glittered a single diamond of intense lustre—resting coquettishly
                  on the crimson velvet cushion, which enhanced its whiteness; and she saw the eyes
                  of Judge Woodward riveted admiringly upon it. What wonder that the scene swam
                  before her, and a painful sickening sensation thrilled through her whole
                  frame.
               And had she known how little Florence cared for the being beside her, aside from
                  the gratification she felt at the open homage of so distinguished a man; had she
                  known how few thoughts she gave him in return for the devotion he lavished upon
                  her, would it have afforded her any consolation? No, she would but have felt more
                  deeply pained, to see that noble heart sacrifice its dearest feelings—those
                  feelings so lofty, so deep, so true, on an ungrateful shrine. She hoped that
                  Florence loved him—how could she help loving him? was he not the very man to call
                  forth the feelings of her proud ambitious nature; to awaken the love of her warm,
                  enthusiastic heart? And with one sigh for her own lonely life, Eva bent her head
                  on her cushion, and prayed fervently for his—for their happiness.
               The stranger lady noticed the eager, though not impertinent gaze, which Florence
                  fixed upon her; and as she read the manifest interest expressed in that look,
                     particularly for the child, her pale
                  features assumed more an expression of life. Claude, too, saw that gaze; as he
                  marked it, a shade, half of haughty impatience, half of melancholy, swept over his
                  features. As they passed out after the conclusion of the services, Florence, who
                  was on the qui vive, distinctly heard the
                  stranger lady say, in soft low tones: "Claude, who is that beautiful woman who has
                  just passed us?" His reply was lost as the crowd moved between them.
               Scarcely able to repress her impatience until they reached the carriage, the first
                  question of Florence then was—
               "Who was that lady with Mr. St. Julian, at church?"
               "His wife. Have you never seen her before? However, it is not strange, she goes
                  out so little."
               "His wife!" almost screamed poor Florence. "Is Claude—is Mr. St. Julian a married
                  man?"
               "Certainly! Is it possible you did not know it? He has been—but pardon me, you are
                  ill?"
               "No, only a passing spasm at the heart, to which I am at times subject; it will be
                  over in a moment," and she made a violent effort to recover herself; though when
                  she spoke, her voice was changed, and she was pale as death.
               "How long has Mr. St. Julian been married?" she summoned up nerve to say.
               "Oh! some years. It was a boy and girl match, I believe. I am glad to see Mrs. St.
                  Julian out; it is the first time I have seen her at church since their return from
                  Europe; or rather since his return, for she did not accompany him."
               "Did not accompany him?" echoed Florence, almost betraying by her eager questions
                  the interest she felt. "Was he not absent several years?"
               "About three years, I think. Mr. St. Julian has not the reputation of being the
                  most devoted of husbands; so I suppose the separation was not a grievous one, to
                  him, at least."
               "And she—his wife—remained in New York?"
               "No, with her mother at New Haven, I believe. My dear Miss Fulton, you seem
                  interested in Mrs. St. Julian."
               ("Mrs. St. Julian!" what a name that was to her.)
               "No, oh! no; nothing but woman's curiosity," she replied plied, with an effort at
                  equivocation that caused her cheek to burn; and pulling the check-string, she
                  desired the coachman to drive faster, though he was then going at almost furious
                  speed.
               What was the agony she endured in the effort to suppress her feelings during that
                  short ride home! When the carriage stopped at her own door, Judge Woodward
                  assisted her to alight, and was about to follow her into the house, but she could
                  endure his presence no longer.
               "You will excuse me, I am sure!" she said hurriedly. "I am quite indisposed. Any
                  other time I shall be happy——"
               "Of course. Judge Woodward regretted very much that Miss Fulton found herself so
                  unwell;" a stately bow, and he was gone; and Florence breathed freer, and walked
                  with a hurried step to her own room, locked herself in it, and hastily throwing
                  aside her bonnet and mantle as if their weight was suffocating—so hastily, that in
                  removing the former, she pulled down the whole mass of her beautiful hair, which
                  fell dishevelled, but unheeded, around her—she paced wildly to and fro the room
                  for half an hour, without pausing for an instant; her hands clasped tightly over
                  her throbbing bosom, her lips and cheeks scarlet with agitation. How wildly the
                  waves of disappointment and despair rolled through her storm-tossed soul in that
                  wretched half hour, can only be imagined by those impassioned beings, who, like
                  her, have staked the heart's most cherished feelings on the throw of a single
                  die—and, like her, lost. After the first torrent of emotion had subsided, bitter
                  regrets for the manner in which she had acted with Claude, tormented her already
                  distracted brain. Had she not almost wooed him to her side? Had she not evidently
                  in her manner showed the greatest preference for his society—neglected, nay,
                  almost shunned others, when he was near? Had he not, during the short period of
                  his acquaintance with her, been ever by her side, and, though never breathing a
                  word of love, lavishing a thousand lover-like attentions on her? And what would
                  the world say to this marked flirtation with a married man?" But after all, with
                  her usual haughty scorn for the opinions of society, she felt that the "world's
                  dread sneer" was nothing, compared with this sudden crushing of her deepest feelings; this total
                  destruction of the bright hopes which one short hour before were blooming so
                  brightly and freshly around her. Bitter indeed to her was the awakening from
                  love's sweet dream of madness. The lightning blight had fallen on the enchanted
                  garden of the heart's paradise, blasting every bud and blossom there; and now,
                  what was left? Her heart refused to answer the question. Had he not already read
                  her secret? Though lip had not answered to lip, had not her eyes, her tell-tale
                  eyes, returned full often the lava flood-tide which had poured from his own into
                  her inmost soul? Could she but forget it; but sink into a deep, dreamless sleep,
                  to wake utterly oblivious of the past;—of all bygone hopes, of all present
                  feelings, fears, despair!
               Such wild, incoherent thoughts as these, dashed madly and tumultuously through her
                  soul. There was but one resource on earth for her; the sparkling cup of pleasure
                  yet wooed her fevered lip; vanity still whispered, 'Drink, drink deeper still, of
                  the magic draught; it will bring forgetfulness; it must not be said that the proud
                  Florence, the triumphant, worshipped belle, mourns over a broken heart-dream.' No,
                  she must be gay, proud, triumphant still; yea, she must learn to look on him, and
                  tremble not beneath his gaze, thrill not at his touch; and this was the hardest
                  task of all; could she ever accomplish it? Pride, prudence, all that was best and
                  loftiest in woman's soul, must come to her aid. She would avoid him; she would
                  school her look and tone, to be unto him as unto others. And then,
                  when she had untaught her heart its passion-dream, what then? She could not tell.
                  All she knew was, that love for him was guilt; all she felt, was the
                  horror of that word.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE ORPHAN'S PROTECTOR—A GLIMPSE BEHIND THE CURTAIN.
               
                  
                     
                        "What shall be done with this refractory girl?"
                     
                     OLD PLAY.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        'Tis not to thee, 'tis not to thee
                        I look for hope, or sympathy.
                     
                  
               
               IT was several mornings after the events detailed in our last chapter, that
                  Florence sat in her dressing-room, lonely, and unhappy. A thousand varied thoughts
                  swept wildly through her mind. In the midst of these painful meditations, there
                  was a tap at the door, or rather three low, deliberate knocks. "Who can it be?"
                  thought she. "I see no one at this hour; besides, I have given orders to be denied
                  to every one to-day."
               Her languid "come in," was answered by the door opening, and her uncle's entrance.
                  She rose, received him with the utmost kindness, and placed a chair for him.
               "I am happy to see you, uncle. I have not seen you at meals for some days. You
                  have been quite well, I hope."
               "Quite well, I thank you," answered Mr. Fulton, or rather a cold calm voice, for
                  not a muscle of the stern, hard face softened in acknowledgment of his niece's
                  salutation; and but that the lips moved, you would not have known from whence the
                  voice proceeded.
               "What a man you are, or rather what a lump of ice,"thought Florence, as she looked
                  on the cold, world-hardened visage before her, and then at the "customary suit of
                  solemn black," scrupulously neat; for it seemed not even dust could attach itself
                  to Mr. Fulton; in that respect certainly resembling its frail kindred dust,
                  mankind.
               "I have come to speak with you on business," continued her uncle in the same tone.
                  "Mr. Fitz Friske has written me that he intends making you an offer of marriage,
                  and requesting my approbation of the same. What are your sentiments on the
                  subject?"
               "I think Mr. Fitz Friske," replied his niece, with curling lip and flashing eye,
                  "might have contented himself with
                  receiving my answer to his suit, without exposing to others intentions that have
                  no value in my eyes."
               "It is merely the respect due me," replied her uncle; "but you said (if I heard
                  aright) that his intentions had no value in your eyes. Do I understand by that,
                  that you mean to refuse him?"
               "Refuse him!" echoed Florence. "Could you suppose that I would accept him?"
               "And why not? He is, to be sure, the most insignificant little simpleton I ever
                  saw; but then, he has a very large fortune, and you may go farther, and fare
                  worse; you should think of that. I assure you his fortune should form a very
                  considerable item in the calculations of a woman with your habits of outlay."
               "His fortune! And you would have me marry an 'insignificant little simpleton' for
                  his fortune—a man I can neither respect nor love!" said Florence indignantly.
               "Love!" echoed her uncle in a tone of surprise. "And do you feed your imagination
                  with any such absurd idea as marrying for love? I suppose this is the consequence
                  of those foolish romances you are so fond of. When I think of it, I blame myself,
                  that I had not taught you book-keeping, and employed your leisure moments in
                  settling up my accounts, instead of leaving you to pore over such trash. And pray,
                  on whom have your 'maiden affections' centred themselves? On Mr. Vernon, I
                  suppose; I see he is a frequent visitor, and just the sort of fellow to captivate
                  a romantic young lady—a handsome, black-eyed boy. He has only a few small
                  vices—among the number the trifling ones of drinking and gaming; and his father
                  has a splendid estate—in his creditors' books. A fine match, truly!"
               "I assure you, uncle," replied Florence, scarcely able to suppress a smile, "that
                  my aspirations do not tend that way at all."
               "Then if you do not intend to marry Mr. Vernon, upon whom (if I may be permitted
                  to ask Miss Fulton) do you intend conferring that honor? for one
                  might judge, from your conduct, you consider it such. I assure you, it is time you
                  were making up your mind on the subject."
               "I was not aware that there existed any pressing necessity for such a step," said
                  Florence firmly.
               "You were not? Well, then, are you aware, that in the two years you have had your
                  money at your own disposal, you have spent nearly half of it?"
               "I was not," replied she indifferently. "My bills are sent to you, and I hear no
                  more of them. But if I have, you surely have enough to spare," she was about to
                  add, but she checked herself. Her uncle, however, seemed to divine her thoughts,
                  for he answered:
               "You think, I suppose, when that is gone, you will come upon me. Let me assure
                  you, once for all, that you are mistaken. I have other uses for my money; and if I
                  had not, I never liked fine ladies, and never intend to support one. I have worked
                  too hard for what I have, to make ducks and drakes of it, in that kind of
                  style."
               "I assure you," replied Florence ironically, "I have no intention that you should
                  consume it in that way; indeed, I think the operation you speak of would be a
                  difficult one."
               "I did not come here to jest," replied her uncle testily; for in spite of his
                  habitual coldness of manner, he was excitable, as such persons generally are. "My
                  time is valuable. I wish to warn you, Miss Fulton, that it is time you were
                  endeavoring to secure an establishment, suitable to your expensive habits, and a
                  husband to take care of you. You can't go on this way always; and when what little
                  money you have is gone——"
               "It is time enough then to sell myself," interrupted Florence bitterly.
               "Pshaw! you talk nonsense, as all romantic, idle girls do; you could marry well if
                  you would, and more the fool you if you don't do it. You are an orphan, and need a
                  protector. You seem to have a knack of taking in men, though heaven knows how; I
                  have never seen any thing captivating in you—once an awkward, bad child, now an
                  airy, fine lady."
               "Taking in men?" echoed Florence, her fine eyes flashing with scorn.
               "Well, captivating them, if it suits your ladyship better," replied her
                  imperturbable uncle. "It's all the same thing in the long run. But to return to my
                  subject: I have no doubt, if you play your cards well, you will receive an offer
                  from Judge Woodward."
               
               "I have already had that honor," answered his niece coldly.
               "Ah! and have accepted it, of course. I beg your pardon. I didn't know——"
               "I have not accepted him, nor do I intend to do so," she interrupted, firmly. "I
                  shall not marry Judge Woodward."
               "Not marry Judge Woodward!" repeated her startled hearer, now fairly thrown off
                  his equilibrium. "Is the girl mad? Not marry one of the most distinguished men in
                  the State? a man that any woman might be proud to secure; worthy, far more than
                  worthy of you!"
               "It is for that very reason that I do not marry him," she answered with calm
                  dignity. "I do not love him, and I would not wrong such a man, by marrying him
                  without love."
               "Very well," replied her uncle, relapsing into his former cold, stern manner. "Do
                  as you please. Were you my daughter, I should force you into measures, but as it
                  is, I don't care enough for you to make any unnecessary exertions for your
                  welfare. Go on to the devil, if you will; make such a match as your mother did,
                  when she ran off with my harum-scarum nephew, and came to me to be dependent."
               "I am not dependent," exclaimed the orphan girl, her feelings wrought up beyond
                  the pitch of endurance, by her uncle's coarseness and harshness.
               There is no saying where this scene would have terminated, had there not been at
                  this juncture a tap at the door, and the harsh visage of Mrs. Sharp, the
                  housekeeper, intruded itself, to say that a "gentleman on business wished to see
                  Mr. Fulton directly."
               The housekeeper manifested no surprise at the looks and tones of Florence and her
                  uncle. Such things were of too common occurrence to cause surprise, for it was
                  thus, that almost every interview between the two terminated.
               Mr. Fulton left the room, and again Florence was alone. Alone with her crushed
                  spirit, and wounded feelings; alone with her own wild, sad thoughts. She paced to
                  and fro the room, as was her custom when much agitated; her face covered with her
                  hands, while tears coursed through her fingers,—bitter tears, wrung from her very
                  heart depths. Nor were such tears, rare with the gay, the elegant, the admired
                  Florence. So much does "the inner life mock at the outer." With all the adulation
                  lavished at her feet, she was indeed a lonely being,—for whatever the plaudits of
                  the crowd, 'tis to the circle of home, that the heart looks for companionship. In
                  the gentle and kindly influences of home, we seek for happiness—for our dearest
                  meed of approbation—and lonely indeed is he, who has none of these to cheer his
                  way,—to woo his heart from the falsehood, the sin of worldly pleasure, to higher,
                  better things,—to the holy aims, and lofty purposes, which spring to life around
                  the household altar. Alas for Florence, with her warm, passionate feelings, that
                  such a lonely lot was hers!
               She had not even a female friend or confidant to whom she could confide the
                  thousand sentiments and feelings which are ever bubbling up in a maiden's
                  heart,—and for her griefs, where could she turn for sympathy? 'Tis seldom that a
                  woman forms many female intimacies, whose society is courted with avidity by the
                  other sex; perhaps because her time and thoughts are too much absorbed for the
                  formation of those little sentimental friendships, in which young ladies who have
                  nothing else to think of, take such especial delight; perhaps the greater cause
                  may be traced to that secret feeling in the female heart, which prompts the sex to
                  look with coldness, or dislike, on those who have the "balance of power" on their
                  side.
               Reader! do you pity Florence? If you do not, she will not care, for she is too
                  proud to ask for pity; but if you do, we shall be rather grateful than
                  otherwise.
               Her gloomy revery was interrupted by a note from Mrs. Moreton, remonstrating with
                  her, for refusing to attend one of her "evenings," saying she was sure it was
                  caprice, and begging, if she was not too much indisposed, she would alter her
                  resolution, and come.—"I will go," she said, after a moment's thought. "After all,
                  I cannot avoid meeting him in society, and my resolution must be weak
                  indeed, if I cannot stand the test of his presence."
               It was true, as Florence had told her uncle, that Judge Woodward had made her an
                  offer of marriage; not as if sensible of the honor he conferred, by laying at her
                  feet a hand and heart which had been assiduously sought by the most experienced "anglers" of the day,—but with as
                  lowly and reverential homage, as ever knight of old bowed at his lady's shrine,
                  did he "woo this sweet angel, to cheer the solitude of his bachelor home,"—offer
                  his protection, and name, to the lonely orphan girl. "I do not ask you," he said,
                  interrupting the reply which trembled on her lip, "to decide my fate at once,—I
                  dare not hope that you love me now. I know that yours is not a heart to be won
                  without wooing, and you may not have anticipated my intentions; but if, after
                  months of devotion, that heart may be mine, I shall be more than rewarded." And
                  after the interview was over, Florence retired to her room, to weep bitterly at
                  the thought that her wayward heart could give no return save gratitude for the
                  love of one so truly noble. "Oh!" she murmured,—"Oh! that I could love this man,
                  who of all others commands my respect and esteem. I will try to love him, yes, I
                  will try; for I must stifle this unfortunate passion for—for—" she hesitated; not
                  even to herself could she breathe that name—she trembled with agitation. Ah!
                  woman, well may'st thou tremble, when a name has such power as this. "But I feel
                  it is vain," she continued passionately; "never can I feel for Judge Woodward as I
                  have felt for another. For me there can be but one on earth. Every dream of my
                  deep heart, every aspiration of my lone, proud soul, has been his. God created but
                  two souls like ours; why, then, did He permit a cursed fate to separate us—and why
                  should I be doomed to love thus wildly, and, oh heaven! now thus
                  guiltily?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               LOVE'S GAME OF CROSS-PURPOSES.
               
                  
                     Love has many ways to decoy hearts, but perhaps he is ofttimes most
                        dangerous when he seems coldest.
                  
               
               WITH a heavy heart, Florence dressed for Mrs. Moreton's party; yet from some
                  motive of which she was scarce conscious herself, she bestowed more than usual
                  pains on her toilet; and when she finished that important operation, never had her
                  mirror reflected a more beautiful image. There was no gayety on lip or brow; none
                  of that proud, calm, queenly consciousness of beauty in her expression she usually
                  wore; but there was a world of melancholy feeling shining far down in the depths
                  of her dark eyes, a deepened flush on her cheek, a subdued tone in
                  her loveliness (if we may use the expression), that rendered her, if not more
                  striking, certainly more interesting.
               When she made her entrée in Mrs. Moreton's
                  drawing-room, leaning on Judge Woodward's arm, Claude was the first person her
                  eyes fell upon. He instantly approached her; her heart throbbed wildly, and the
                  flush on her cheek deepened; but drawing herself up with a cold bow, she swept
                  past him, made the salutations of the evening, in her usual graceful way, to Mrs.
                  Moreton, and then, unheeding the number of eyes fixed eagerly on her, and the
                  dandies on tiptoe about to encircle her, she moved to the farthest corner of the
                  room, and seated herself—with Judge Woodward by her side—in the recess of a
                  window, on a divan holding but two. This was precisely what the judge liked, for
                  without wishing to monopolize, he yet disliked to stand amid the crowd of
                  dandies—their ages ranging from sixteen up—generally surrounding the fashionable
                  belle.
               Claude followed her with his eyes, and when she turned her own almost
                  involuntarily in the direction where she left him, he was standing precisely in
                  the same spot, his arms folded, his eyes fixed on her with an expression of
                  mingled pain and mystification. She felt a pang of self-reproach as she saw the
                  expression. "I have pained him," she thought. "He does not know the cause of my
                  coldness, and he is innocent of any intentional offence. I ought not to have acted
                  thus;" and she again raised her eyes, which had fallen beneath his gaze, and
                  looked for him, but he was gone. He was standing by Eva Moreton's side, conversing
                  with an air of assumed gayety. "How pretty Eva looks this evening,' said Florence
                  languidly, more for something to say than any thing else, for her usual brilliant
                  flow of conversation forsook her.
               Judge Woodward looked towards Eva, and lovely as he always thought her, he never
                  was more struck by her loveliness ness
                  than to-night; she was attired in a robe of crape of the faintest rose hue, her
                  beautiful neck and arms, fair and soft as the fleecy clouds, wreathed with pearls,
                  and her golden hair braided around the fair Madonna face, the color on her cheek
                  like the inner rose-tint of the sea-shell, and her blue eyes wearing that subdued
                  expression of sadness, like the gaze uplifted to heaven by a penitent in
                  prayer.
               "She is looking indeed lovely," replied Judge Woodward, "and I am glad to see it,
                  for I have of late felt some uneasiness about my dear little cousin; she has been
                  looking pale and sad."
               "Pale and sad!" echoed Florence. "I didn't know any one could look sad in the
                  atmosphere of the Moreton house."
               "Eva, you know, is not very fond of gayety; and she is such a little home-bird, I
                  expect she is beginning to long for the cottage at Oakwood, and her mother's
                  smiles."
               "Ah! yes," said Florence mournfully; "she has a mother," and her large dark eyes
                  filled with tears.
               Her companion looked on her with deep sympathy, and low, earnest tones of
                  tenderness fell from his lips. Florence, whose eyes were still fixed on Eva,
                  started slightly. Judge Woodward's eyes followed hers; and he too was struck
                  painfully by the expression of Eva's face at the moment. Her cheek was white as
                  death, her eyes cast down, and she seemed vainly endeavoring to conceal the
                  agitation she could not control. As she replied to her companion's words, she
                  looked towards Judge Woodward and Florence, and seeing their eyes riveted on her,
                  she blushed like a guilty thing, and turned her head quickly, but continued to
                  listen with absorbing interest to the words of Claude St. Julian. A moment
                  afterwards, the whole expression of her face changed, as her features lighted up
                  with an answering smile to that which glowed on his lips. An instant after,
                  several gentlemen approached and surrounded her, and Florence could see no more,
                  but she was thoroughly mystified. A pang, sudden, sharp, and quick as death, shot
                  through her soul. "What could have been the words of Claude, to Eva, to produce
                  such an effect? Perhaps he is a universal lady-killer," she thought, "and may
                  possess the same power over others that he has over me;" but a moment after she
                  discarded the thought, for it was too utterly at variance with her knowledge of
                  Eva's character to be entertained for a moment.
               "Miss Fulton seems to be carrying on a desperate flirtation with the stately judge
                  to-night," were Claude's words to Eva. "He seems very attentive to her of late.
                  You ought to assert your prerogative, and forbid a flirtation in that quarter. If
                  rumor speaks true, you have the right to do so."
               The color forsook Eva's cheek. "You are mistaken," she said, with an endeavor at
                  firmness; though so unused was she to disguise or dissimulation, that her voice
                  trembled perceptibly. "I know to what you allude. The report is false. My cousin
                  is devoted to Miss Fulton, and intends addressing her, if he has not done so
                  already."
               St. Julian gazed at her for a moment, her death-white cheek, and quivering lip,
                  and said:
               "I am sorry to hear you say so."
               "Why?" asked Eva eagerly.
               "I don't like to say; since, if repeated, he might think it a subject on which I
                  had no right to express an opinion."
               "I shall not mention it," replied Eva; "do tell me why?"
               "Then, simply, because he will not be loved in return; which he deserves to
                  be."
               "Why do you think so?" demanded his listener, quickly.
               "Because Miss Fulton is a woman of too much romance, too much passion—if I may use
                  the expression—to love a man like Judge Woodward. I do not mean to say that he
                  does not come up to her ideal standard—he may be superior to it—but he is not the
                  sort of hero to captivate her fancy. She will not, like some women, worship and
                  venerate him for his superior mental gifts, for Miss Fulton is too peerlessly
                  endowed herself, to bow to any one on that score. Judge Woodward is a strictly
                  practical man; the outlines of his character are strongly and distinctly marked;
                  there is no scope for imagination, or romance, about him. Oh, no! she will never
                  love him—I should sooner suspect her of fancying Harry Vernon—and Judge Woodward
                  will not regret it long; I foresee that also," he continued, looking kindly on
                  her, and smiling one of his ineffably sweet smiles, which always went like a ray of sunshine to the heart. So it
                  seemed to Eva now; for in spite of herself, she felt a thrill of mingled joy and
                  pain at what she had just heard. Claude moved away as other gentlemen
                  approached.
               "I have read one secret in a lady's face to-night," thought he, as he once more
                  stood alone in the crowd. "That poor innocent little girl loves her cousin with
                  her whole soul; and he, he loves Florence. Well, I have shed one ray
                  of comfort on Eva's heart; and it was for this I spoke as I did; otherwise I
                  should not have expressed my sentiments so freely, true as they are. Florence love
                  Judge Woodward? No, a man must have a dash of the Spanish cavalier, dark curls,
                  black eyes, and jetty mustache,"—and he stroked his own mustache complacently,—"to
                  captivate her fancy, and even a slight air of the Italian brigand would not go
                  amiss. I wonder what is the matter with the haughty beauty to-night, that she
                  treats me so coldly. By heavens, I'll not submit to it. Here she has been for the
                  last two weeks playing the fascinating to perfection; lavishing her sweetest
                  smiles and glances on me, to the exclusion of every other aspirant, and now it is
                  'Mr. St. Julian;' and he imitated her haughty bow and manner. "She is a regular
                  coquette, and wants to discover the extent of her power over me. Well, we'll see
                  who will beat in this game. Veni, vidi, vici,
                  has been hitherto my motto; but I have a formidable foe to contend with now, and
                  my own heart is for once in danger."
               Mrs. De Vere Moreton, who had not as yet given up all hopes of Judge Woodward as a
                  prize for her own protégée, did not at all like
                  the aspect of affairs between that gentleman and Florence; so, upon her first
                  disengaged moment, she flew around the room, to the corner where they were
                  ensconced.
               "Florence, love, allow me to intrude upon your sweet solitude; you have been quite
                  long enough immured in this solitary corner. Here are a train of gallant knights,
                  dying with envy and despair, and afraid to approach within the charmed circle; but
                  I have broken the ring. We want some music on the harp. Come forth, and give us
                  the light of your countenance. Judge Woodward will, I am sure, excuse my
                  interrupting your tête-à-tête, but we cannot
                  permit him to monopolize."
               Judge Woodward disclaimed any such intention.
               "Mr. St. Julian, I am just looking for you to sing a duet with Florence;
                  come!"
               "Pardon me," replied Claude, "but——"
               "Oh! no excuses, but come on; you must oblige us."
               St. Julian approached Florence timidly; deferentially he bowed, and said in low
                  tones:
               "Perhaps it would be disagreeable to Miss Fulton for me to accompany her."
               "No! oh, no!" replied she; "but I don't wish to sing to-night, and must persist in
                  refusing. The harp is not in tune, nor is my soul attuned to song," she added in a
                  lower tone, and her eye-lashes drooped mournfully, and her check flushed deeper,
                  but no one noticed it but Claude; and him no look or tone ever escaped.
               "Well, if you will refuse," said Mrs. Moreton, "Mr. St. Julian, give
                  us one of your songs with the guitar."
               Claude did not refuse, for the request was precisely what he wished for at the
                  moment. Song with him was the expression of feeling, and he knew how to make every
                  note, and every word "tell." His voice was remarkably fine, clear and musical, and
                  he sang, too, without affectation. He took the guitar, and striking with a bold
                  hand a few chords, sung with feeling a song, the burden of which was, "wounded
                  friendship, admiration—nay, affection, pure, platonic, spirituelle in its nature, born of the congeniality of mind with
                  mind—thrown back upon itself, chilled and repelled by the sudden coldness of its
                  recipient;" and as he sung, his deep, passionate gaze, unheeding all beside, fixed
                  itself on Florence, and vainly she tried to suppress the conscious blush which
                  rose to her cheek.
               "Miss Fulton," said a low voice at her side, as she was standing in the shawl
                  room, at the close of the evening, awaiting the announcement of her carriage,
                  which she had sent Judge Woodward to see after. She turned; Claude was by her
                  side.
               "Miss Fulton," he said, in frank, though sad tones, "in what way have I offended
                  you? I am certain, from your manner this evening, that I have, though
                  unconsciously, given offence. Let me beg——"
               "No, no, Mr. St. Julian," interrupted Florence, thoroughly roughly ashamed of her coldness, knowing that he
                  could not divine the cause. "I meant nothing, I assure you."
               "Then I am too happy. I may come, then, and read to you to-morrow, the poem we
                  spoke of the other day?"
               She hesitated.
               "Ah! I see," said Claude, looking disappointed, "it will not be agreeable; pardon
                  me."
               "Yes," she replied, scarcely knowing how to act; "yes, it is; you may come."
               "A thousand thanks! Here is Judge Woodward. Good night."
               "Good night;" and she held out her hand with a kind smile, though her heart
                  throbbed, and her pulses beat painfully in the effort to preserve her usual gay
                  self-possession. He took that little hand with a low bow, and the slightest
                  imaginable pressure; but slight as it was, it thrilled burningly through his own
                  veins, and sent a yet more painful throb to the heart of its recipient.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               MR. FITZ FRISKE IS WOUNDED ON A TENDER POINT.—SOME ACCOUNT OF THE
                  LIFE AND PARENTAGE OF THE BROADWAY DANDY.
               
                  
                     
                        "Would that the world had a shorter memory."
                     
                     THE NEW-MADE MAN.
                  
               
               IN a large and handsome mansion, whose aristocratic, or rather fashionable
                  locality, is sufficiently guaranteed when we say it was on Fifth Avenue—in an
                  apartment furnished with more pretensions to gaudy show than elegance—reclined, on
                  a chaise lounge, the élégant Mr. Fitz Friske. This epitome of mankind was attired in a
                  dressing-gown of flowered satin, his feet elevated as high as possible in the air;
                  the stump of a cigar, which had burned itself out, resting, as if unconsciously to
                  himself, between his lips. His attitude was one of extreme dejection, and his
                  thoughts far from agreeable, if we may judge from the expression—no! we beg the
                  little gentleman's pardon, he had no expression—but the general air which reigned
                  about him. His mustache, generally trimmed and arranged in the extreme a la mode, looked neglected, and, to use an expressive
                  phrase, somewhat seedy. His hair, generally so faultlessly arranged, and
                  glistening with Macassar oil, hung negligently around his face; and his cravat,
                  that ne plus ultra of a dandy's ambition, was
                  absolutely awry.
               Occasionally he heaved a deep sigh,—or rather a long-drawn inspiration; and
                  pulling a note from his pocket, read and re-read it. He was the picture of a man
                  who had just received a refusal—a very severe one—from the "idol of his
                  affections."
               "Isn't it too bad, to think that Florence Fulton should treat me so," he muttered,
                  dropping the affected phraseology he used in the drawing-room. "Not that I care
                  much about her, or any other woman; but then she would have made an excellent
                  mistress for this establishment, and it needs one bad enough. What could have made
                  her refuse me? and then so demned cool about it too. The woman must be perfectly
                  heartless, to resist such personal attractions as these;" and he walked up to a
                  large mirror, which reflected a little dapper figure, and a countenance, the
                  insignificance of whose features was rendered more conspicuous by the silly smirk
                  of an overweening self-conceit.
               Mr. Fitz Friske, however, seemed to contemplate the image reflected in the mirror
                  with infinite satisfaction, and to derive much consolation therefrom. "Well, if
                  she won't have me, there are many others who will. In fact, I don't know a woman
                  in New York that wouldn't be glad to be Mrs. Fitz Friske, the wife of the 'man of
                  ton,'"—and he drew himself up, as if the very thought would elevate his pigmy
                  proportions to those of a giant; "saving and excepting the one I had the demned
                  folly to choose out of them all. Who does the woman expect to marry,
                  I wonder?" and he fell into a thinking fit, as if this was a problem difficult
                  indeed of solution. "Well, I give it up for a bad job," he said at length. "I
                  can't imagine what she can be looking for. Refuse me! The more I
                  think of it, the stranger it seems. She must have some secret reason that I know
                  not of. Oh! I have it; it's that cursed soap business my father was engaged in, and be demned to it. I will
                  never get over that; it will be my death yet;" and Mr. Fitz Friske shook his head,
                  and looked as despairing as if already on the verge of the tomb, brought hither
                  solely by the killing reminiscences of the "soap business." It was but too true.
                  The respected parent of the Broadway dandy commenced life a soap-boiler, and
                  continued in this business, finding it lucrative, until he became well known by
                  all dealers in soap—quite an extensive portion of the community—as being the best
                  manufacturer of the article in the city.
               The worthy couple who enjoyed the distinction of having given birth to the
                  illustrious Fitz Friske, hailed as their "own native land," "the blissed ould
                  counthry, Erin's green Isle;" and the name stamped on their joint
                  productions—soap, and their infant hope—was Patrick O'Friske. Time passed on, and,
                  as he passed, threw golden showers into the dirty apron of the soap-boiler. His
                  son, sole heir to the honors of their house, was placed at the best schools. It
                  was the old soap-boilor's system to place him at schools where he would receive a
                  good education, and associate with children of his own rank in life; but the
                  mother entertained higher aspirations for the son and heir of this illustrious
                  house.
               "Suren't, Pathrick, and why shouldn't the precious darlint be put at school, avic
                  the quality? He shall do no less; he shall be with the tong of the
                  city—may the Virgin bless him. Who knows what our little sprig of Ameriky, grafted
                  on the tree of ould Ireland, may come to be yit, in this great counthry. Arrah!
                  Pathrick, ye have no pride of your own, ye have not," and, as usual in such cases,
                  the mother triumphed.
               She very wisely reflected, that if brought up in New York, amid the society and
                  associations surrounding herself and lord, little Patrick would be likely to
                  continue among them all his life; or that, at least, it would be much more
                  difficult to impart to him the polish of refinement, opposed by such influences.
                  So he was placed at a fashionable institution, at some distance from the city;
                  which piece of self-sacrifice on the part of his parents, he repaid when he
                  returned home in the vacations, by snubbing both; affecting the most lordly
                  superiority over them, and looking down with ineffable contempt on the
                  associations of the family roof-tree; all of which Mrs. O'Friske regarded as the
                  most decided manifestations of high breeding and refinement, and rejoiced to think
                  that her dear Paddy had fallen so readily into the manners of the tong. She "always knew her jewel was born for a raal jintlemon, and now he
                  proved it." Her worthy lord and master (in name) was not quite so much rejoiced at
                  these evidences of gentility, on the part of his son and heir, but he merely shook
                  his head, and deprecating a domestic hurricane, remained—perhaps
                  unwisely—silent.
               As Patrick, Jr., grew up to years of maturity, he became more and more ashamed of
                  his father's employment; and, moved by a continual storm of entreaties on his
                  son's part, ably seconded by tears, scoldings, etc., on that of the meek and
                  tender partner of his bosom, Mr. O'Friske resolved to shut up shop, and retire
                  from business. Just as he had reached this glorious era in the lives of all
                  business people, Death called round upon the old gentleman, and politely informed
                  him that his time had arrived to quit all the cares of this sublunary sphere, and
                  betake himself to another; but whether higher or lower, "deponent saith not." Mr.
                  O'Friske, in some doubt—good Catholic as he was—as to whether he should find the
                  other world as agreeable as this, demurred very much at this proposition, and
                  Death, finding him so refractory, dropped his politeness, and took him,—will I,
                  nill I,—not a great deal to the regret of his son, who, if the truth must be told,
                  would have been rather pleased had his "mamma dear" accompanied "the dear
                  departed" on his voyage home; and whose sentiments, had they been sounded on the
                  day of his father's funeral, would have been a decided approval of the Hindoo
                  method of disposing of widows. Thus satisfactorily would he have disposed of the
                  two greatest drawbacks upon his advancement in life—his vulgar parents. They had
                  finished their work, as far as he was concerned; they had given him life—but then
                  this was, it was true, rather a mortifying reflection,—nurtured in love his infant
                  years, showered upon him every advantage in their power to bestow, and now nothing
                  remained but to give him their wealth, and get out of his way. He would have borne
                  the death of both with the serene fortitude of a Christian, and murmured not at
                  the blow, had Providence chosen to
                  inflict it. But Mrs. O'Friske, if not destined to shine in the circles of high
                  life, was to live for many years yot, to watch over the rising fortunes of her
                  "darlint."
               Patrick O'Friske, Jr., was of age at his father's death. He determined to make
                  good use of the large fortune which had fallen into his hands. At first he
                  proposed boarding; he would have rooms down town, at some fashionable hotel, and
                  his mother could board at a more retired private boarding-house; but this last,
                  that lady would not hear to, and for once he found it vain to argue the point. She
                  was determined on having a house "right on Fifth Avenue, among the tong," and there alone would she consent to go; and as she was quite able to do
                  so, having been handsomely provided for by her deceased lord, there was nothing
                  left for Patrick but to acquiesce.
               A mansion was accordingly purchased in Fifth Avenue, and furnished throughout in
                  the most showy and expensive style. To be sure, things were not put exactly in
                  their right places; some articles, whose legitimate sphere seemed to be the
                  chamber, usurping dominion in the parlor, and vice
                     versa; but Mrs. O'Friske was in happy ignorance of this; and "where
                  ignorance is bliss," etc. The O was dropped before the name of Friske, and the
                  youthful aspirant had serious ideas of placing "De" as the prefix there-unto; but
                  at last he decided, in despair of being able to give it the Parisian touch, on
                  Fitz, as having an aristocratic sound; and "Fitz Friske" shone resplendent on the
                  door-plate of the mansion. It is said that society in New York is extremely
                  accessible, and that the door of Fashion yields readily to the golden key of
                  wealth.
               We are inclined, in some degree, to doubt the truth of this assertion; but be that
                  as it may, the young millionnaire was not long in gaining access to the halls of
                  the "upper ten." In this laudable enterprise he was greatly assisted by Arthur
                  Plumdale, who, being a shark that was ever on the look-out for gilded fish,
                  happened to be the first one among the élite to
                  honor our friend with his acquaintance. As long as Patrick was inclined to play
                  the liberal, and be bled freely, without groaning under the infliction, Mr.
                  Plumdale was equally willing to load him with an everlasting weight of obligation
                  by introducing him gradually (only gradually, so as always to leave a corps de réserve, to be paid for in case of need), to
                  the numerous and fashionable circle of his acquaintance. But for once Mr. Plumdale
                  was foiled at his own weapons. A first introduction was all that was required for
                  Patrick; there was a magic sound in the name of "the young millionnaire," which
                  secured him at once a favorable reception, and opened the doors of even the most
                  exclusive—where there were marriageable daughters, or extravagant sons—and there
                  are few families which cannot boast a liberal number of these blessings. He made a
                  brilliant début, and soon became "the dandy of
                  the day." This position once secured, the first efforts of the ungrateful little
                  wretch was to get rid of his expensive friend, for he—Mr. Fitz Friske—was one
                  whose ear was deaf to the calls of the needy, and whose fingers clutched
                  instinctively over every guinea in their grasp, unless that guinea was to purchase
                  a gratification for his own precious self. Not vicious enough to like vice for its
                  own sake; too narrow-minded and cold-hearted to be easily led astray by the
                  follies and temptations, which often lure the generous and unsuspecting to ruin;
                  he indulged in dissipation no farther than the imperial edicts of the autocrat
                  Fashion required. Mothers and fathers admired him in due proportion, and pointed
                  him out as "a good, safe chance—a young man of such exemplary habits," to their
                  daughters, who mentally responded, "horrid little simpleton! I am sure I like that
                  dear, dashing Bob Such-a-one, or that wild scapegrace, Harry Thingumbob, much
                  better; but then—he has the money." Mr. Fitz Friske found much more
                  difficulty than he anticipated in getting rid of "his friend," who had no idea of
                  being thus taken in by his own dupe—considering Patrick as his own property, by
                  the right of precedence,—and who, moreover, entertained such an overpowering
                  affection for that interesting young man, as to lead him to declare, a dozen times
                  a day (in his presence), that he loved him like a brother. No doubt he would have
                  been his brother, if he could; but that being in the course of nature impossible,
                  he was willing, instead, to bear towards him the somewhat less endearing title of
                  brother-in-law Towards this last point the efforts of the whole family were, for a
                  time, directed; but it was in vain that Arthur lavished upon him so many
                  demonstrations of fraternal affection in vain that the mother expressed the deepest interest in him, and begged him
                  always to "feel at home in her house;" in vain that the charming Augusta lavished
                  her most enchanting smiles upon him, and when these failed, as a dernière resort, the tender and budding loveliness of
                  Lettie, the sweet miss of sixteen (or "by'r Lady," twenty), was paraded before his
                  fastidious eyes; the fish would not bite; and at last, in a fit of
                  despair, he was given up for a hopeless case, and in their hearts, no doubt,
                  fervently consigned to the tender mercies of an individual whom it is unnecessary
                  here more particularly to mention, as our worthy and intelligent reader no doubt
                  understands perfectly to whom we allude. His acquaintance with the Plumdale family
                  still continued, as we have seen, on terms of apparent friendliness, though he had
                  long since dropped the intimacy of Arthur, 
                     "Which to him had been once so dear."
                   It was impossible to metamorphose old Mrs. O'Friske into a fine lady, and,
                  after some good-natured efforts, the stars of fashion quietly ceased their
                  exertions, and contented themselves with leaving cards now and then. Occasionally
                  an invitation found its way into her sanctum, but this was rare, for Patrick gave
                  orders to the servants—who were as much ashamed of their mistress as he was of his
                  mother—to bring all such missives to him, and once in his hands, they rarely went
                  farther; and thus he was spared the mortification of seeing her expose herself in
                  the circle where he seemed to be a favored guest. True, there were
                  covert sneers and sly jests, every now and then, but Patrick was content with his
                  lot, and willing to swallow the pill of patronage, however bitter, provided it was
                  administered by the hand of Fashion.
               The reader will pardon this digression, and we will proceed with the soliloquy of
                  Patrick, or Patterson Fitz Friske, as he now wrote his name, much to the disgust
                  of his mother, who thought it quite a compliment to him to bear the name of his
                  patron saint, and insisted on writing her own name with the "good ould Irish O'"
                  still.
               "Yes, it's that demned soap business, I have no doubt. Let's see what she says
                  again;" and for the tenth time Mr. O'—we beg his pardon, Mr. Fitz—Friske,
                  proceeded to abstract from his vest pocket the fatal missive, which had, to use a
                  favorite expression of his mother, "totally discomboborated his narvous
                  system."
               "Miss Fulton is at a loss to imagine how her conduct towards Mr. Fitz Friske could
                  have been misconstrued by him into the slightest encouragement of his addresses;
                  but since Mr. Fitz Friske seems, in some unaccountable way, to have formed this
                  erroneous opinion, Miss Fulton feels it her duty to assure him that he is laboring
                  under a delusion; hoping this will be sufficient on her part, and that this silly,
                  and—Miss F. feels confident—but momentary affair, will soon be erased from the
                  memory of both parties!"
               "Cool, upon my soul! I'll go straight and pop the question to Gussy Plumdale,
                  demned if I don't! I always liked her, only I thought I ought to court Miss
                  Fulton, as it was the fashion, and this is what I get for my pains.
                  Gussy hasn't much money, I guess—which I hate consumedly—but then she is an
                  elegant woman, a nd will grace my establishment—and, moreover, I want to be
                  revenged on that demned Fulton girl!" and he shook his fists in the air in a
                  towering rage. At this juncture the door opened, and a face, jolly, round, and
                  fiery, as a full moon just rising, presented itself in the aperture, accompanied
                  by a form, whose voluminous proportions were clothed in a dress of bright-hued
                  silk, though it was morning; and whose head rejoiced in a cap adorned with
                  multitudinous ribbons, set very far back on a redundance of tow-colored hair. A
                  large gold watch was displayed at her side, attached to a massive chain, and her
                  short, thick fingers were adorned with a profusion of rings.
               This elegant figure planted her arms akimbo, and stared in blank amazement at Mr.
                  Fitz Friske.
               "Arrah, honey darlint, I niver seed ye in such a flustration before. What is the
                  matter, my jewel? Come, tell yer mother, and sure ye know, ye are the light of her
                  eyes, Pathrick;" and with this she proceeded to throw her fat arms around the neck
                  of the refined exquisite, and inflict upon him a motherly—or rather a
                  suffocating—embrace. Mr. Fitz Friske disengaged himself from her arms, with an
                  expression of unmitigated disgust.
               "Mother, will you never cease your odious, vulgar ways? Why should you call me
                  Pathrick? I suppose you wish to make a laughing-stock of me, in my own house."
               
               "Not the least in the world, my darlint," replied his mother, not disturbed in the
                  smallest degree from her equanimity, "but that is the name yer own blissed father,
                  who is in heaven, the saints be praised," and she crossed herself devoutly, "give
                  ye; and that is the name I, for one, shall always call ye by. Ye ought to be proud
                  of it. I remimber well, as though 'twere but yisterday, when his riverence, the
                  praste, handed you to me after sprinkling you with the holy water, and pronouncin'
                  the blessin'. Now says he, Judy, Judy, says he, take him, and may he prove worthy
                  of his name; and ye are ashamed of the name of the Patron Saint of ould Ireland!
                  Shame on ye, say I."
               "Well, for heaven's sake, mother, let the name drop now; but as I said before, why
                  don't you drop your vulgar ways, and try to improve?"
               "How can I improve, Pathrick, when yer high-flyin' set don't visit me often
                  enough, for me to larn how they behave themselves?"
               "You can read, mother; why don't you read?"
               "Read! and do you s'pose I've tiled day in and day out to make a fortin, just so I
                  could sit down and fold my hands, and wear my silks and satins, like the rest of
                  the quality?—faith, and why shouldn't I?—and you think I'm going for to set down
                  now, and bother my eyes over yer books, worryin' my life out with sich trash?
                  Indade, but it's myself that will do no sich thing."
               "Ah! I see you are incorrigible," sighed Fritz.
               "Arrah! now don't be spoutin' your dictionary words, and turnin' up your nose at
                  your poor old mother. It has a natural inclination that way, any how; and if you
                  keep a curlin' it in the air in that kind of style, it will be after looking clane
                  over your head after a while; it will, indade."
               Mr. Fitz Friske deigned no reply to this remark, but proceeded to doff his
                  dressing-gown, and encase himself in more suitable habiliments, brush his hair and
                  his mustache,—his mother looking on, meanwhile, with intense interest—and when
                  these important operations were concluded, after a glance of infinite satisfaction
                  in the mirror, he completed his equipment with the addition of his eye-glass and
                  cane, and, without condescending to inform her of his intentions, left the
                  house.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               A GLIMPSE AT THE ARCH FIEND AND HIS VICTIM.—GUSSY FULFILS HER
                  DESTINY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "The fish is caught! what a beautiful gold-fish!"
                           "Ah! methought a moment since, 'twas scarce worth the bait."
                        
                     
                     DIALOGUE ON ANGLING.
                  
               
               GUSSY PLUMDALE was seated in her handsomely furnished parlor;—we say handsomely
                  furnished, for though an acute and knowing eye might have guessed the furniture
                  bought second-hand at auction, it looked extremely well in the subdued light of
                  the rooms. The young lady's morning toilet, too, was simple and elegant. She was
                  engaged in conversation with a friend, a fair, attractive-looking girl, save that
                  her beauty was voluptuous rather than intellectual, her figure betraying rather
                  too much embonpoint for the symmetry of maidenly
                  beauty, and who had—though she was laughing and talking quite gayly—a sleepy,
                  heavy look about the eyes, and a restless, uneasy expression, visible all the time
                  about her face. Occasionally she glanced nervously towards the door. Suddenly
                  pausing in her conversation, Gussy looked at her friend steadily for a moment, and
                  then said, "Georgie, what is the matter with you? A change seems to have come over
                  you of late. You are not as gay as you used to be, or rather, all your gayety
                  seems forced. You look paler than usual."
               If the face of Georgina Watts was pale a moment before, she could have denied the
                  charge now. A burning flush shot over brow, cheek, and neck, and a erting her eyes
                  from the keen glance of her companion, she rose hurriedly, and drawing her velvet
                  mantle more closely around her, walked to the window, as she answered,
               "Pshaw! Gussy, it is all imagination; changed indeed!—but here is some one coming
                  in; who is it?"
               Gussy rose, and peeped through the blind.
               "My horror of horrors! that odious little Fitz Friske! What on earth can he be
                  coming here for this morning?"
               "I'm sure I don't know; but do let me escape before he is announced;" and hastily
                  kissing her friend, she hurried out. At the parlor door she met Arthur Plumdale.
                     Her face lighted up. "Oh!" she said,
                  "I am so glad you have come; I thought I would not see you. Come with me; I have
                  something to tell you."
               As they passed out, they met Mr. Fitz Friske, whose audible inquiry was for "Miss
                  Plumdale" alone.
               It was not long before Gussy discovered the object of that "odious Fitz Friske's"
                  visit; and the rapid revulsion of feeling which she experienced when she learned
                  his errand, could only be accounted for by remembering that she was a needy and
                  extravagant woman of fashion, he, the fortunate possessor of a large fortune.
               "His vulgar mother, what shall I do with her?—but I mustn't stop for trifles,
                  where a million is in question," were her thoughts, as Mr. Fitz Friske,
                  endeavoring to throw into his face as much of a lover's impatience as he could
                  muster for the occasion, was awaiting—not very anxiously, it must be confessed,
                  for he knew well what it would be—her answer. At length it was faltered forth,
                  with as many sighs, blushes, etc., as were becoming the occasion; answered, in
                  fact, with such well-feigned tenderness, that Fitz Friske felt certain that Gussy
                  must have been secretly dying in love with him, for heaven knows how long; and
                  inwardly reproached himself, for having been thus blind to the merits of one who
                  could so well appreciate his own attractions.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               SCENES BEHIND THE CURTAIN.
               
                  
                     "Child, let that curtain alone! How dare you raise it?"
                     "Because, ma, I heard pa tell you a man might keep out of many a scrape
                        could he only get a peep behind the curtain."
                  
               
               "BREAKFAST waiting this hour, sir," said a very small specimen of the genus homo,
                  dressed in an antiquated suit of blue, to which was attached some faded strips of
                  red velvet, by way of representing the livery of the Plumdale house, and who
                  looked as if the sight of a plentiful dinner had not gladdened his eyes for many a
                  long day—opening the door of Arthur Plumdale's chamber.
               "You villain! how dare you disturb me the third time?" replied that amiable
                  gentleman, rushing out of bed, and launching a boot-jack at the head of the
                  unfortunate delinquent.
               "Please, sir," returned the boy, taking refuge outside the door, through which his
                  voice issued in a weak nasal twang—"please, sir, your mother says, you had better
                  make haste down; she has a surprise for you."
               "Surprise the devil!—if you don't stop your infernal mewing at that door, I'll——"
                  but it was useless to continue the threat; the small boy's footsteps were heard
                  rapidly retreating down the stairs.
               "Well," soliloquized the head of the Plumdale house, as he proceeded to ensconce
                  himself in his sundry habiliments, "it is a cursed hard thing that a man has to
                  get up as cold a morning as this, and dress without a fire. I think it would be a
                  blessed thing if some of that superfluous portion we expect hereafter, could be
                  granted us here sometimes. Poverty is a curse, and I am a miserable
                  example of it,"—and certainly, as he stood shivering in his nether garments, the
                  proportions of his figure, generally full and manly, looking somehow strangely
                  diminished; a bald space visible on the top of his head, generally covered with
                  glossy locks of redundant thickness—his superb mustache and whiskers having, by
                  some unaccountable metamorphosis, changed their position from his face, to a box
                  on the dressing-table—he was a pitiable object to behold; looking at least ten
                  years older than the Mr. Plumdale we have before seen. The toilet, however,
                  effected a material change, and when it was completed, "Richard was himself
                  again," or rather he was himself, and a good deal more.
               With a discontented expression he made his way to the little hole—as he chose to
                  denominate it—in the basement, where the family where at breakfast. Here the
                  aspect of things was more cheerful; a fire burned brightly in the grate, and Mr.
                  Plumdale seated himself at the—it must be confessed—somewhat scantily furnished
                  table, he noticed the look of scarcely suppressed joy which reigned in the faces
                  around. In that of Lettie mischief seemed predominant.
               He cast an inquiring glance upon them, but without deigning to speak, proceeded to
                  gulp down his tea and toast. Finding he
                  did not intend to show any curiosity, if he felt it, Mrs. Plumdale could hold in
                  no longer, and dismissing the thin young man—quite an unnecessary operation, for
                  he was too much absorbed in devouring the victuals with his eyes, to heed any
                  thing else—she made the important announcement that the fish was caught;—the
                  millionnaire had proposed at last.
               Mr. Plumdale nearly leaped from his seat with astonishment and delight. 'A change
                  came o'er the spirit of his dream' in an instant.
               "By heavens! Gussy dear," becoming all at once very affectionate, "that is good
                  news. Proposed at last! Well, better late than never. I only hope that you will
                  not forget your loving brother, when you get that little fool's purse in your
                  hands."
               "Now, brother," broke in Lettie, "gentlemen ought to make money for themselves.
                  Sis' Gussy must bring me out in society, and oh! won't it be nice to make my
                     début in that elegant house in Fith
                  Avenue!"
               "Silence!" commanded her mother, "a mother's claims are before any others; and I
                  have said nothing as yet."
               Augusta bit her lip. "So," she thought, "my family think nothing of
                     my prospects, they think only of themselves; but," suppressing a
                  sigh, "'tis the way of the world. Heaven knows I marry Fitz Friske solely for an
                  establishment, but I am a fortunate woman after all."
               "But what on earth, Gussy, will you do with his vulgar mother at your
                  receptions—which must of course be very elegant?" asked Mrs. Plumdale, with
                  maternal solicitude.
               "Oh! we must manage to get her out of the way somehow. They say Fitz Friske never
                  lets her go out now."
               "I wonder if he has forgotten the day I made him fall into the sand-marsh," cried
                  Lettie, bursting into screams of laughter. "Oh! I never saw such a sight, as the
                  horrid little goose was, in Hal Vernon's old clothes. He ought to borrow that suit
                  for his wedding, Gus."
               Augusta looked furiously at her sister.
               "Lor'! sis' Gussy, you needn't look that way; you laughed more than any of us that
                  day."
               "Silence, Lettie!" said her mother with dignity, "and never let me hear such
                  remarks again, about the affianced husband of your sister."
               'And now, Lettie," said her brother, "if we can secure Hal Vernon at last for you,
                  all our purposes will be accomplished."
               "I fear there is not much chance of that," replied Lettie, her countenance
                  falling.
               "I don't know; there seemed to be as little chance of Fitz Friske a day or two
                  ago."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE WIFE vs. THE IDOL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Oh! I would give the fairest realm beneath the all-seeing sun,
                           To win but such a form as thou might'st love to look
                              upon."
                        
                        
                           "I deemed at last the time might come, when sick of passion's
                              strife,
                           Thy heart would turn with quiet joy, to thy neglected wife;
                           Vain, foolish hope! how could I look upon that glorious form,
                           And think the time would ever come, when thou wouldst cease to
                              charm;
                           For ne'er till then wilt thou be freed from beauty's magic art;
                           Or cease to prize a sunny smile, beyond a faithful heart."
                        
                     
                     MRS. OSGOOD.
                  
               
               FORREST was performing at the Park theatre, drawing nightly crowds of admiring
                  auditors. Claude wished Marion to go, thinking she would find it a pleasant
                  recreation; and besides, every body went to see Forrest.
               "No, she did not like the theatre; and why should he wish to force her to attend a
                  place of which she disapproved so much? Was it a concert, now, she might think of
                  it."
               The discussion dropped. Some days afterwards, her sister came, with her husband,
                  to spend a few days in the city. She manifested all the eagerness of a person
                  fresh from the country for places of amusement. The very first evening of her
                  arrival, she wished to see the great actor in a celebrated piece which he was then
                  performing. She persuaded Marion to accompany her. She hesitated; she had refused
                  her husband so positively; but at last she was overruled, and consented to go.
                  Claude had gone out, and did not return before the last moment to which her
                  impatient friends would consent to wait, and she departed without even informing
                  him of her intention.
               
               The house was thronged to overflowing, and Marion shrank back with her usual
                  timidity, as she encountered the blaze of youth, beauty, and fashion, around
                  her.
               The curtain had risen, and she soon became absorbed in the scene going forward on
                  the stage, when her attention was recalled suddenly by an exclamation from her
                  sister, whose eyes had been busily roving over the house to "see the latest
                  fashions." "There is your husband, Marion, talking to the most beautiful woman I
                  ever beheld! Who is she? and what is he doing there?"
               Marion's eyes, following the direction pointed out, fell on a face and form,
                  glorious in loveliness, as the most inspired creation of the poet; loveliness,
                  too, enhanced by the most exquisite toilet, and all that high-bred grace, that
                  sparkling fascination of manner which is charming in itself, and, united to
                  beauty, irresistible. Marion recognized the lady who had attracted her attention
                  at church, but whose name she could not now recall. In her chaperone she
                  recognized Mrs. De Vere Moreton, with whom she had a slight acquaintance.
               These ladies, or rather the younger and more beautiful, was the centre of a group
                  of gentlemen, but none in that group showed the empressement of manner, the passionate admiration manifested by her
                  husband; it might have been merely a jealous fancy of the wife; doubtless no one
                  else noticed the same thing. The house was brilliantly lighted, and every action
                  was perceptible to her eager gaze; nay, she almost fancied she could hear the
                  thrilling tones of his voice, as he bent over the beauty, until his dark curls
                  almost touched her flowing tresses. With a wild, deep sense of pain throbbing at
                  her heart, a cold chill benumbing her, from her head to her feet, Marion drew
                  slightly back, so that the glare of the gas lights might not fall so directly on
                  her face. In that thronged house, amid the glare, glitter, and strange faces, she
                  saw but two forms; those of her husband, and the lady beside him. To Marion, that
                  envied being seemed to be the incarnation of all the fascinations under the sun,
                  and so she would have imagined any one, who could be the recipient of one look of
                  admiration from him.
               
               "Oh! that I were like her," was the prayer which welled up involuntarily from the
                  tortured heart of the wife.
               Yet the features of Marion, petite and pretty,
                  were perhaps more regularly perfect than those of Florence; but where was the
                  animation, the soul, that lighted up the face of the latter into almost superhuman
                  beauty; the glorious world of intellect and feeling, breathing and speaking in
                  every sparkling glance, in every graceful movement? Ah! this, the magic power to
                  charm, was wanting.
               At length the attention of Florence became riveted on the stage, and Claude,
                  raising his lorgnette, commenced scanning the faces around him. Suddenly the glass
                  was directed full towards the cold, distorted face of his wife. He started with
                  surprise; a look of deep displeasure passed over his face, and with a haughty curl
                  of the lip, and an air of perfect insouciance,
                  he turned to Florence once more, and devoted himself to her with more empressement than ever. Nor did he glance once again
                  towards Marion the whole evening, or, when the to her long and torturing play was
                  over, approach to hand her to her carriage. Mechanically she wound her way through
                  the crowd, leaning on the arm of her brother-in-law, who whispered to his wife,
                  "St. Julian must be a strange sort of husband."
               "Why, Marion," said her sister, as the carriage door was closed upon them, "do you
                  allow your husband to flirt with other ladies, and neglect you in this kind of
                  style?"
               Marion struggled with the emotion which choked her utterance, and replied in a
                  tolerably steady voice, and with an attempt at gayety painfully forced:
               "Oh! sister, you have not a fashionable husband, or you would have become quite
                  accustomed to such things by this time."
               "I thank heaven, then, that I never made a 'brilliant match,' if neglect and bad
                  treatment must be the inevitable consequences," responded her sister, as Marion
                  thought with very little feeling.
               She made no rejoinder; she could not speak. It was not until she reached her own
                  room, that her mortification and wounded feelings found vent in tears.
               Had Claude returned to her side that night, he would have found that her cheek was
                  pallid, and pillow wet; and he might have bent over her in pitying tenderness; for
                  marble-hearted must be the man who can resist a woman's tears. But through the
                  long, lone hours, he came not.
               
               When he met the strained gaze of his wife fixed upon him at the theatre, his first
                  feeling was of displeasure—that after positively refusing to gratify his wishes,
                  she should then come hither unknown to him; the next thought, which followed the
                  first like lightning, was that her motive must be to watch in secret his actions.
                  It was this last thought that curled his haughty lip, as he turned once more to
                  Florence. "Does she imagine that I will submit to this espionage?" he said to himself. "No, by heaven! I will show her that
                  I defy her Argus eyes, watch as she will." As he walked out with the Moreton
                  party, not ten steps behind Marion, a voice hissed in his ear, "Beware!" in the
                  same tone in which he had heard it on the memorable occasion of his first meeting
                  with Florence. He turned fiercely, but recognized no one in the throng pressing
                  immediately around him, but the Count di Basquina, whose attention seemed absorbed
                  in another direction.
               The husband and wife met at breakfast the next morning; she, cold, constrained,
                  silent, but making no allusion to the preceding evening; he, with a look of
                  freezing hauteur marbling his chiselled features, though he was polite and
                  respectful to his guests.
               "By the way, brother Claude, who was that beautiful girl to whom you were paying
                  such devoted attention last night?" said the sister, determined to rally him on
                  the subject. "I told Marion, were I in her place, I positively would not permit
                  it."
               "My actions are independent of the surveillance of any one," he answered
                  haughtily; then, casting a glance of defiance at Marion, he added with much
                  animation, "It was Miss Fulton, the most beautiful woman in New York, and as
                  fascinating in manner as beautiful in person. I admire her more than any other
                  woman I ever met, decidedly."
               Mrs. A—— looked at her sister quickly. Marion rose and left the room. The
                  conversation terminated rather abruptly and awkwardly. That day, and for many days
                  afterwards, there was coldness, sadness, and gloom, even deeper than usual, in the
                  heart of the wife; and a more studied avoidance of her society than ever, on the
                  part of the husband.
               The sister departed, and it was a relief to Marion when she was no longer there to
                  see the state of affairs between herself and husband—her once adored Claude. As
                  she listlessly occupied herself day after day with her child, (poor little caged
                  bird, scarcely permitted to breathe the fresh air of heaven,) it seemed to her
                  that the clear winter sunshine was a mockery, and that the whole earth should have
                  worn a dull, cold, leaden aspect, to suit the character of her own morbid and
                  sombre feelings. Marion's sister was a woman of much stronger mind than herself.
                  She had a good deal of firm, practical good sense. She did not leave without
                  painfully reflecting on the situation of her unhappy sister; but while she blamed
                  the gay and thoughtless husband much, she did not altogether exculpate the
                  wife.
               In her letters to Marion, she implored her to overlook the errors of her husband
                  as much as possible; to endeavor to be gay, agreeable, and affectionate in her
                  manner towards him; to yield more to his tastes and fancies in her arrangements
                  and pleasures, and by thus making his home happy, woo him from other and less holy
                  sources of pleasure. She was sure, she said, that there was a fund of latent
                  tenderness in his nature, which Marion might draw out towards herself if she
                  would.
               "Coldness, reserve, and want of confidence," she wrote, "is surely not the way to
                  attract, or fix the affections of your husband. What was attributable to timidity
                  in the maiden, is chilling and repellant in the wife; and instead of becoming less
                  reserved, it seems to me you are ten times colder, more constrained in your
                  manner, than ever. Ah! Marion, believe me, there are faults on both sides; but
                  learn to correct your own, ere you exact too much from Claude. The happiness of a
                  wife is locked up in the affections of her husband; therefore it is worth a
                  lifetime of labor to her, to retain the love which, once lost, leaves her nothing,
                  so far at least as this world is concerned, to hope for."
               Marion burst into tears over this letter. "How can I be otherwise than constrained
                  in the society of one who I know must feel his superiority over me? A neglected
                  and injured wife! how can I be gay and affectionate?"
               She did not try, but buried the world of idolatrous love which she felt for her
                  husband, deep in her hushed heart, and
                  gazed at him over the barrier which her own reserved silence, or cold reproaches,
                  had fixed between them.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               CLAUDE ST. JULIAN TO R. GRATTON, ESQ.
               
                  
                     "How specious are the excuses of a libertine."
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Marriage is a desperate thing; the frogs in Æsop were extremely wise;
                           they had a great mind to some water, but they would not leap into the
                           well, because they could not get out again."
                     
                     SELDEN.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "It does not appear essential that in forming matrimonial alliances,
                           there should be on each side a parity of wealth, but that in disposition
                           and manners they should be alike."
                     
                     TERENCE.
                  
               
               TO you only, my dear old college chum, the boon companion of many a happy day, the
                  friend of my after years, would I confide the thoughts and feelings which for the
                  last six weeks have attained the mastery over my soul.
               Would to heaven, my dear Bob, that I could have foreseen the future, when, six
                  years ago, in our little room at Yale, you, an older and wiser man than I, bade me
                  beware how I entangled myself too early in the fetters of matrimony. Alas, for me!
                  I had not your cooler judgment. I thought only of the gratification of a boyish
                  passion, and for once Damon differed from his Pythias. You told me that she was
                  far from being my equal in intellect, and in no way congenial in disposition. You
                  told me, as well might the fires of Vesuvius strive to mingle with the eternal
                  snows of the Alpine glaciers, without the destruction of one or the other element,
                  as I seek to commingle my nature with hers, without the destruction of my, or her
                  happiness. As to your assertion with regard to the difference in intellect, I do
                  not pretend to say you were right, but the last was but too true. And here is
                  another triumph for you, in your favorite study, human nature. Oh! that I had
                  believed in your infallibility then. How much it might have saved me. And yet,
                  poor Marion, I sometimes think she loves me still, but cold—Gratton,
                  she is a block of impenetrable marble to me. Were it not for our child, the only
                  link between us, I think our union, save in name, would long since have been over.
                  You know why this is so, for I have before spoken to you of the dissimilarity in
                  our tastes and pursuits, as being the first cause of it; a cause, it seems to me,
                  strangely inadequate, in producing such an estrangement of feeling in a wife
                  towards a husband.
               In spite of this utter dissimilarity in thought and feeling, she cannot accuse me
                  of ever being aught save kind, nay, at times even tender, in my manner towards
                  her; and, in fact, until of late, I have cherished for her some
                  lurking remains of tenderness. She is my wife; there is something
                  sacred in the name, after all; and I would have continued always to love her, if I
                  could.
               It is surely not my fault, if I have been so unfortunate as to meet, too late,
                  alas! a being before whom my very soul bows down, as the embodiment of every ideal
                  creation of loveliness, of womanly perfection, ever formed in my craving heart,
                  since first nature revealed to me the dreamy mystery of the existence of love in
                  the soul.
               When I look upon one who seems to be the concentration of icy indifference, who
                  never addresses me with one accent of tenderness, and think that she
                  alone separates me from a world of bliss, which, save in dreams—dreams which
                  tantalize me to madness—can now never be mine, can I be blamed if I feel the very
                  presence of this being as a weight, an incubus on my very life? Yes, when she is
                  in the room where I am, I feel as if the air suffocated me. But you will say, tell
                  me something of this divinity, of whom you speak so rapturously! Listen, and pity.
                  I know I have weaknesses. I know your firm, strong nature, and therefore, though
                  of no one else on earth would Claude St. Julian ask it, yet of you I beg
                     pity.
               
               Weeks, which seem ages, from the to me important events crowded into their space,
                  have passed since I first met her, who is now the passion-dream of my soul.
               It was a gay and brilliant scene. Lights were beaming, starry eyes flashing with
                  joyous light, music breathing its seductive strains around; all that breathed of
                  life, love, and happiness, shone in that glittering circle. Woman, with "all the
                  charms that nature could lavish, or art adorn," was before me.
               I had just returned, after long absence, and was of course, a conspicuous character, and expected to
                  make myself very agreeable, but I never felt so distrait; never were my efforts at gayety so forced. In vain I
                  endeavored to divert myself with the bewitching coquetries, that fell from the
                  ruby lips, and beamed from the starry eyes around me. Bewitching glances,
                  sentimental whispers, and playful badinage, were
                  alike dull and tame to me. Occasionally my eyes, and I confess my thoughts,
                  wandered towards a brilliant-looking beauty, to whom my attention had been called
                  as the belle of the season; but I had only half made up my mind to be presented,
                  when she raised her eyes, and her gaze fell full, as it were, into my own. Had
                  those eyes,—those deep, glorious, soul-filled eyes,—been the portals of paradise,
                  and I for the first time permitted to feast my ravished soul with a glimpse of its
                  eternal, vein-thrilling, pulse-quickening delights, I could not have felt a deeper
                  thrill than that which went like liquid lightning, to my heart of hearts.
               I have gazed on woman in the sweet freshness of her spring-time beauty; in the
                  matured loveliness of her glowing summer, in all the fascinations of yielding
                  love; but never realized before all that my soul yearned after in its wild, young
                  dreams; in the bright illusions of the golden age of the heart.
               But you will weary of this rhapsody. You will say, "Ah! my dear Claude, you were
                  born under a fiery planet, and this is only one of the momentary ebullitions of
                  your impetuous nature; it will be over in a month." I am not endeavoring to make
                  you believe I fell in love at first sight. It was only—I am convinced—one of those
                  momentary enchantments which sometimes fling their illusive spells over our
                  senses, and fade away like a dream; and probably, had nothing transpired
                  afterwards, to add fuel to the flame, I should soon have ceased to think of the
                  captivating beauty, save as a charming woman, with whom it might be pleasant to
                  while away a passing hour.
               I was presented to her. You may think it fancy, but from that hour, she seemed to
                  single me out from the crowd of her adorers. Her manner towards me was marked by
                  an empressement, a preference, which was
                  flattering in the extreme, coming from a woman like her, and which would have
                  intoxicated many a man of less feverish temperament than myself. She has a
                  notorious reputation as a coquette, and I entered the lists with no deeper
                  intention than a passing flirtation with one who— the malicious declared—sought to
                  entangle all men in her chains. Unheeding the danger I was in, I spent hour after
                  hour at her side. I did not realize in those first delicious moments of
                  intoxication, any feeling of love; it was a spell, an enchantment—I paused not to
                  think what it was; sufficient for me, that I could gaze unchecked into those two
                  glorious worlds—her eyes, where beauty and love have enthroned themselves; before
                  whose mingling spirit I bow in silent worship. I paused not to think of
                  consequences, and if I had, of what avail would it have been? In the midst of this
                  dreamy Elysium, a change, a coldness, came over her manner towards me. At first, I
                  thought it some passing pique, and heeded it little, but I soon found it was the
                  effect of a deeper cause. I have watched her closely, and I know it does not
                  proceed from dislike; no, it is evident, in this studied avoidance of me she has
                  to struggle with herself. The suspicion has crossed my mind, that perchance when I
                  first met her she was not aware that I was a married man; this would account for
                  all; but, by heavens! Grattan, this must not be. Never, until now, did I realize
                  that I loved her. Now, when she avoids me—when a thousand obstacles rise up
                  against all pursuit of her—when my eyes are opened, and reason, duty, every thing
                  bids me cease, for her sake and my own, to think of her;—now it is I feel that I
                  love her with a passion that controls my every thought and action. Her coldness
                  maddens me, and only renders more intense the flame which is devouring me. I
                  cannot stand this. To lose at once all the thousand sweet influences which wrapped
                  my senses for a brief space in Elysium; to feel that the woman I was created to
                  adore might be mine, but for one obstacle; one obstacle, which brings
                  in its train a thousand difficulties in the way of happiness; is it not too much?
                  Who would not curse that obstacle? who would not wish it removed? But these are
                  wild words. I scarcely know what I write; I am feverish and excited. I have seen
                     her, this morning, and her alternate warmth and coldness of
                  manner, has fevered my overwrought feelings into madness. As I have said, it is
                  not the mere charm of her beauty, which
                  has thus fascinated me—I have never worshipped mere beauty more than a passing
                  hour—but it is the fascination of manner, too captivating to be resisted, the
                  mysterious and bewitching soul influences, which I feel in her presence.
               I know that I could win her love; for I know that woman's nature,—deep, romantic,
                  passionate as it is,—even better than my own. Yes, in spite of all, of every
                  thing, I could win her love; and she is one who would glory in sacrificing every
                  thing to the being who could once make her sultana-like soul bow before him. An
                  accidental circumstance has given me a claim upon her gratitude, which I can
                  always urge, should every thing else fail to overcome her coldness. I spoke in the
                  commencement of this letter of having met her for the first time, and to me it did
                  seem as a first meeting; not so to her. Several years ago, when she was quite a
                  child, I had the good fortune to rescue her from a situation of imminent peril to
                  her life. The deep feeling of her woman's nature has exaggerated this trifling
                  service into a debt of never-ceasing gratitude. So, you see, I have always a
                     dernière resort to fall upon, in case of
                  need. But shall I attempt to make her love me? Beautiful, brilliant, admired as
                  she is, shall I tempt her to sully the purity of her maiden faith, by loving me,
                  who can never be to her more than—But pshaw! where am I rambling to? you have,
                  doubtless, long since tired of this epistle, which has grown to a lady-like
                  length. Write soon, and I will report to you faithfully the progress of this
                  affair.
               
                  As ever yours,
                  ST. JULIAN.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And now your matrimonial Cupid
                           Lashed on by Time grows tired——
                           He sighs for freedom."
                        
                     
                     PRIOR
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Mine eyes
                           Were not in fault, for she was beautiful."
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I tell thee I am mad
                           In Cressid's love."
                        
                     
                     IBID.
                  
               
               I HAVE just received your letter—my kind, though severe Mentor—which is little
                  more than a criticism on my own. Two weeks have passed since I last wrote, and I
                  have made but little progress with the fair Florence, but find myself more
                  hopelessly gone, than ever. Your advice may be good, but I fear it is
                  too moral for me. You condemn my course of conduct in
                     toto. You say I ought to shun Florence, and talk about reason, duty,
                  principle; but if you were in my situation, you could no more talk thus, than you
                  could freeze in the crater of Vesuvius. The heart cannot be controlled.
               Talk not to me of the claims of matrimony. Must I be always thwarted, crossed in
                  my every wish, by that damning word? You know my refined, fastidious taste. You
                  know that, with all my adoration of the sex, there are few capable of pleasing
                  long, one who requires that, while the senses are bathed in a sea of voluptuous
                  enjoyment, the soul should not be shocked by any thing gross or sensual, any thing
                  common or sordid.
               
                  You say, that 'tis only in matrimony, that this rational refinement
                  of pleasure can be attained. I, alas! have tried it, and, from bitter
                  experience, deny the assertion. The daily necessities of life, must lift the
                  rose-hued veil, seen through which, our vision of love was so delightful to the
                  senses, so bewildering to the imagination. I like the society of France and Italy,
                  and think their code of morals vastly preferable to our own.
               
               When the glowing life of love is over, the soul should not be bound by the cold and clanking fetters of a
                  legal necessity. No! give me that bridal of souls, which alone is perfect and
                  holy. Separated from the mere forms and conventionalities of the tyrant world, it
                  appeals to the pure, the warm, the immortal portion of our nature, and asks of
                  love but the constancy which needs no fetter in its own undying truth.
               The blood which for thousands of years coursed through the veins of my ancestors,
                  in the genial clime, and beneath the glowing sun of la belle France, has not
                  become sufficiently chilled by a single century, in our more temperate land, to
                  reconcile me to "that dull bondage with which women and fools are content, yclept
                  matrimony." Yet I ought not to speak thus, though 'tis a bitter experience which
                  has taught me my present creed. Linked with a woman whom I really loved,—one
                  suited to me in thought and feeling,—I believe I could have been as devoted a
                  husband as ever lived; but none can know, save those who have felt it, the misery
                  of an ill-assorted marriage. Of what avail is it, that both be amiable, both
                  virtuous, if the essential elements of their natures are so different, that like
                  oil and water, however constantly brought into contact, they must still preserve
                  their separate identity, wholly unable to form a union, save in name?
               Could the eagle be happy, chained to the nest of the dove? the lion to the fold of
                  the lamb? Then God save man and woman from being unequally yoked together.
               But to return to Florence. Her conduct puzzles me; we meet in society necessarily
                  very often; in fact, I believe a mutual friend of ours—a pleasant little woman, by
                  the way—takes every opportunity she can make of throwing us together She must,
                     entre nous, have seen that we fancy each
                  other, or she would not do this. The charms of la
                     belle Florence have been very much in the way in a match which she
                  has been exceedingly anxious to make for a protégée of her own—infer the rest; I
                  don't like to talk about schemes and manœuvring.
               Florence still preserves her coldness towards me, save at times, when her natural
                  manner breaks through this affected constraint; and she is the same fascinating,
                  alluring being as of old. Yes, at times, there is almost a reckless abandon of observation, or consequences, in her
                  manner; then, then do I bask in sunny smiles, and drink the lovelight
                  of eyes, the deepest, the most soul-thrilling, I ever gazed into—and you tell me
                  to shun this. Do you not know that there are some draughts so sweet, that once
                  tasted, we cannot forbear, though we know, to drink is death? Thus it is with me.
                  I am conscious of the danger, but like the inhaler of ether, I have no power to
                  dash from my lips the soul-seducing draught.
               You say, "where is the virtue, the truth, the faith of manhood—cannot these come
                  to my aid?" Ah! where are they indeed? You will confer an everlasting obligation
                  on me by informing me, for in my intercourse with the world, I assure you I have
                  been unable to find them. You, in the calm seclusion of your home, beset by no
                  seductive temptations, free from all the distracting excitements of city life,
                  with nothing to do but to dream and speculate on the sublime theories of truth,
                  and virtue, until their existence becomes to you a reality; you, who, wrapt in
                  calm contemplation, can look "through nature up to nature's God," and put perhaps
                  into practice in your daily life the Divine command, "Be ye holy!" oh! Grattan,
                  you know little the temptations of a career like mine. I, too, once had bright and
                  glorions dreams of virtue—and even now, from my inmost soul, do I reverence, and
                  bow down before the might, the majesty of excellence— yea! even of human
                  excellence—the more so that I see so few examples of it in the world around me.
                  But those dreams, have long since faded with the many other glowing visions of
                  aspiring boyhood. The golden age of the heart, when hope, and truth, and purity
                  shed their heaven-borrowed radiance over the future, passed very quickly with one
                  with whom knowledge of the world was coeval with the opening dawn of manhood.
               I had grown blase, pleasure-wearied, when I met
                  Florence. Fancy had no more dreams for one who had drunk to satiety of every cup
                  of bliss, over which the young imagination loves to linger, in its passionate
                  visions of delight. Woman—the fever dream of my wild and passionate boyhood (as
                  you doubtless well remember, Bob)—the idol before whose shrine I have bowed "in
                  every change of clime, and scene," drunk with the splendor and the glory of her
                  charms—even she could scarce awaken a thrill of delight in my sated soul.
               
               But Florence! she burst upon me like the Eve of a newly created paradise. It
                  seemed to me, as if with the first glance at her, the freshness, the life, the
                  passion, which vitalizes and animates this wondrous creation of soul-filled,
                  mind-deifying beauty, passed into my own exhausted soul. My senses seemed to awake
                  from the trance which had bound them, my heart to throb with the vigor of renewed
                  life; and the passionate blood of other and fresher years, coursed warmly, wildly,
                  as ever through my veins.
               Gratton, she is unlike any other woman under the sun, or rather, she has the
                  varied charms of fifty women embodied in one glorious whole. It is impossible for
                  me to describe her sparkling naiveté, her depth
                  of soul, her wondrous fascination of manner, joined to beauty, which—ye gods!
                  man,—would set your brain in a whirl, as it did mine, at the first glance. It
                  seems to me, that could my pen approach an accurate description of her, the very
                  paper would catch the fire of my thoughts, and burn with a congenial flame.
               My love for her is a new era in my existence; and yet you tell me to shun her! You
                  bid me turn with fevered lip from the one sparkling fountain in the waste of life,
                  which wooes me to its brink. And you expect me to do this? Woman might make such a
                  sacrifice, but man never! And yet I have no evil designs against her peace, her
                  purity—my soul revolts from the thoughts of actual dishonor. But her love—Gratton,
                  I pine, I madden, I die, for that woman's love! and even though fatal to both, her
                  love I must win. I must close this lengthy epistle, for John has announced dinner
                  for the third time—heavens! what a sound to break in upon such a vision as
                  mine—and after that, I am forced to keep an engagement at Mrs. S——'s, which I hate
                  most consumedly, as I shall not see her there.
               I feel devilish badly. It is certainly the worst thing in the world, for man or
                  woman, body, mind and soul, to have no pursuit but pleasure.
               I shall give you in my next—by way of amends for my egotism in this—all the
                     on dits of the day.
               
                  Until then, believe me as ever, yours.
                  ST. JULIAN.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               CLAUDE AND FLORENCE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Lure her not onward, oh! if thou
                           Hast honor—pity—truth!
                           Seek not to cloud with love like thine
                           The fair hopes of her youth.
                           "His soul like bark with rudder lost,
                           On Passion's changeful tide was tost;
                           And oh! when Passion rules, how rare
                           The hours that fall to Virtue's share."
                        
                     
                     SCOTT.
                  
               
               FLORENCE found it almost impossible to avoid St. Julian, thrown together a great
                  deal as they necessarily were in society; and as day after day passed away, in the
                  busy routine of fashion and folly, and he was ever near her, the chain his fatal
                  fascination had woven around her became each day more firmly riveted, and
                  consequently more difficult to break.
               Claude had never breathed to her one word of love, not even in the lightest tone
                  of badinage—better if he had; she would then
                  have felt and shunned her danger; but she believed he dared not thus approach her;
                  and as long as their intercourse was free in word or deed, from aught which the
                  most punctilious could censure, she was content to wander amid flowers, unheeding
                  that serpents might sleep beneath them.
               Not so with Claude; he felt that he had been playing the sighing Strephon, and
                  worshipping in secret long enough, that is, he chose to believe it in secret,
                  though the world had already begun to comment upon his open and undisguised
                  admiration of la belle Fulton; still, so long as
                  he had never disclosed his passion to her, he neither heeded nor cared for the
                  remarks of the world. Like Florence, he scorned the opinions of the many,—better,
                  alas! if they had not, for the weak many often triumph over the great few.
               Strange though it sounds, a woman's seeming coldness often increases a man's
                  passion; that is, if that coldness is at times broken through by a tenderness of
                  look or tone, a passionate abandon which may
                  induce the lover to believe that it is but assumed as the veil of timid love.
               
               Maddened, as he himself expressed it, by the alternate warmth and coldness of
                  Florence, Claude resolved at some favorable moment to pour forth the burning
                  confession of his passion; yet he trembled at the thought. He felt convinced
                  already that she loved him, but whether that proud, high nature, could ever be
                  moved to listen to the declaration of his love, and confess that the feeling was
                  returned, he scarcely dared to ask himself.
               The more he thought of it, the more convinced he felt that such a step on his
                  part, might, in all probability, be one of mortal offence to her; yet still he
                  resolved, cost what it might, to take it.
               A sudden thought struck him, as he lounged back in a huge fauteuil in his dressing-room, the last new novel lying unread
                  beside him, the fire burning low in the grate, the winter sunlight stealing
                  drowsily in through the crimson curtains, and himself, with head thrown back,
                  building castles in the blue smoke-wreaths, which curled upward from his cigar;
                  dreams of blissful moments past, and more blissful ones to come; passionate
                  heart-thoughts revelling in chaotic but fascinating assemblage, in his brain;—we
                  say a thought struck him, the offspring of a thousand others, and the only defined
                  and practical one in the mass.
               "If I could only once bring her to confess that she loves me, I am safe; but how
                  to do this? The moment I say 'love' to her, her pride, her reserve, and all the
                  other humbuggery which women choose to dignify by the name of virtue, will take
                  the alarm; and then—and then, by heaven! I should like to know how I could stand
                  the explosion that might ensue."
               He pondered a moment, and then added, half aloud, "Now, perhaps that would do; I
                  wonder if there are such things? I have heard of them, but have had precious
                  little occasion heretofore, to employ any such means. If such things are in
                  existence, I know where to get them; but then this dear, noble-hearted girl—it
                  would be a pity to resort to such measures to——but pshaw! I am moralizing, which
                  doesn't agree with me."
               The casual observer will think the character of Claude St. Julian a strange
                  mixture of good and evil; but to the careful student of human nature, his heart,
                  with its tangled web of high impulses, and generous feelings, linked with fiery
                  passions, base errors, and theories fatal to truth and virtue, will be laid open,
                  and he can trace its wild and wandering course from the pure years of infancy,
                  when his first errors (fearful thought!) were fostered by parental indulgence, to
                  his wayward, reckless youth, whose uncontrolled impulses, generous though they
                  were, and warm, impetuous temperament, led him into a thousand follies; and from
                  thence to the maturer years of manhood, when, the heir of immense wealth, he was
                  launched into a world which eagerly offered every temptation in its power to the
                  young and gifted St. Julian, and used its utmost efforts to debase all that was
                  left of nobility in his soul. Hearts naturally noble, may become the slaves of
                  passion; may, in moments of excitement, be led to commit crimes the most
                  daring—(unlike your deep and thorough villain, who wraps the mantle of base
                  hypocrisy around him, and commits his fiendish deeds in darkness and secrecy, and
                  whose footsteps can only be traced by the serpent slime he leaves behind him;) but
                  there will be times when such hearts will look back to their first days of purity
                  and peace, and with the recollection of the green fields, and sunny streams of
                  their childhood, will come fond yearnings after, and sad, passionate regrets for,
                  those sweet years of innocence.
               Oh God! it is a sad sight to see a noble soul, ruined by that fiend of fiends,
                  dissipation! Men gaze upon the crumbling ruins which remain of the proud old
                  temples of former times—mere monuments of art, and sometimes of tyranny—and sigh,
                  and sentimentalize, and write poetry over them; and see daily around them, the
                  temples in which God has shrined a soul, perchance a high, generous, and gifted
                  soul, going to ruin, and say no word, extend no hand to save them.
               Perhaps for many a day the good ship struggles against the whirlpool, but at last
                  its powers of resistance one by one give way; all is at length over, and the
                  gallant vessel finds its early grave beneath the surging waters; and people, when
                  too late, mourn "the wreck of a first-rate," and draw their own moral, and turn
                  away, and forget it.
               Though we see no broken column, or tumbling wall, to tell us of ruin; though the
                  haughty form move more proudly ly than
                  ever, and the polished brow bear no letters of fire to stamp the damning tale, is
                  it not true that many a lordly bearing, and form of beauty, conceal a heart which
                  is the sepulchre of hope, truth, and virtue?
               "Why this appeal to our sympathies in favor of the dissipated and the worthless?
                  We feel no pity for such as these; they bring their degradation on themselves."
                  Thus sneers some sober and respectable member of society, whose vices are not
                  those which glare openly before the world, and defy its reprobation! Perhaps that
                  "sober and respectable member of society" may have often turned away unheeding the
                  wail of the orphan, the bitter cry of the widow; may have seen destitution,
                  without relieving it; driven the erring (who, perchance, "by gentle words, and
                  tones of love," might have been recalled), by harshness and scorn, farther onward
                  in the reckless road to ruin; narrow-minded, selfish, and cold-hearted, he may be
                  austere and forbidding in his household—blighting in the bud the kindly
                  sympathies, which should ever bloom freshly around the household altar—and without
                  the walls of that home, living as if life were but a market-day of sale and
                  traffic; yet this man, wraps the mantle of his "respectability"
                  around him, and with Pharisaical sanctity, "thanks his God that he is not as other
                  men."
               There are many like this man in the world; many who have no more sympathy for
                  their erring and unfortunate fellow-beings; but who, in the Dread Judgment, will
                  have much to answer for, in those very errors which here they so harshly
                  condemn.
               The damp, cold grave clods, rest over many a once stout heart, which laid itself
                  down to rest in the weariness of a morbid misanthropy, the broken agony of a
                  feeble and chafed spirit, who, if the gentle spells of love and kindness had been
                  thrown around its lot, might have lived to give love, and life, and joy in
                  return.
               More people die of broken hearts, than the world dreams of. They see the eye
                  losing its light, the cheek its bloom, and the form bowed down beneath the weight
                  of a deep, though speechless sorrow, and they cry out, Consumption! or Heart
                  disease! Ah! it is consumption; a slow consuming of all the bright,
                  the joy-giving, the healthful elements of life, by the corroding canker of misery;
                  it is a heart disease, for the grand organ of life grows fainter,
                  weaker, beneath the agonizing tension, until the last chord snaps, and the weary
                  dream is over; and then, over the quiet grave is shed the bitter
                  mockery of tears—tears! from those who helped to crush the life, out
                  of that now pulseless heart.
               There are none, seemingly, so recklessly defiant of all moral control; so
                  stoically skeptical of all belief in human goodness, as those whose
                  feelings—perchance too warm, too sensitive, too confiding—have been embittered in
                  early years, by the broken faith and cruel harshness of those around them.
               Preach the canting creeds, of worldly hypocrisy, the mockeries of right and wrong,
                  stamped "the opinions of men," to those whose fair, calm destinies, have never
                  taught them their fallacy; but tell not the early darkened spirit—the heart which
                  is the silent sepulchre of its own dearest feelings—of truth, faith, and kindness,
                  it has never met on earth; or if you will, blame them not if the scoffing word,
                  the curling lip, or the scornful laugh, is the only answer you receive. You know
                  not the dark ordeal which has taught that heart its fearful disbelief, in the
                  existence of the good, and the true.
               Heed it not; but be gentle, be kind, be forgiving, and thus prove to the erring
                  one, that such things are; strive with the sunshine of your kindness to melt the
                  ice of reserve, until feelings long frozen, and locked in darkness, gush out warm,
                  free, and unrestrained, and the Prodigal returns to the deserted shrines of his
                  youth, to his first trust in truth, to his earliest hopes of happiness.
               Your pardon for this long digression, most gracious reader, and we will return to
                  the gentleman, whose fascinating society we have—perhaps too long for your
                  patience—left.
               Three years spent in foreign lands—principally France and Italy—taught Claude the
                  fanciful theories—so fatal to all morality—in which we have seen him indulging in
                  his letters to his friend. He had mingled much from his earliest youth with women;
                  he understood their nature well, and to do this, is to have power over them; but
                  in one thing he erred,—he believed that the virtue of most women depended more on
                  the relative warmth, or coldness, of their temperament, than the purity of their
                  principles; yet he drew his opinion
                  from actual experience, but erred in making a few examples, the test of the sex.
                  The character of Florence—mysterious as it might have been to the many—was read by
                  him at a glance. He saw in her a rare, glorious and beautiful woman, with much of
                  heaven in her nature, but with something of this world too. He felt in his inmost
                  soul that the high spirit, the impassioned soul, might be led to err, though even
                  in erring she would be like those fallen angels, who, after darkening their bright
                  plumage with the passion-stain of this lower world, yet retain enough traces of
                  their original heaven to mark them as beings not of the earth, earthy. It was
                  natural that a soul like hers should scorn the adulation of the mass, even while
                  receiving it as her due; but she might—nay she must—find one before whom that soul
                  would pour out all its wealth, and, with blind adoration, hesitate at no sacrifice
                  which it believed to be the will of its idol.
               Did he then, like the cold and cruel voluptuary, deliberately and systematically
                  plan the ruin of his victim? Far from it. With some compunction, with far more
                  hesitation than could have been expected of one tutored in vice, as he had been,
                  he strove in his better moments to persuade himself that a confession of her love
                  was all he sought; that this once gained, he would go no farther. With wilful
                  blindness, even while alluring her to the brink of the precipice, he shut his eyes
                  to the depth of the chasm below. Such thoughts as these, however, came only to
                  silence the whisperings of conscience, for at other times he felt that the crisis
                  of the future must rest with her alone; if it was to be a sacrifice of passion on
                  the shrine of purity, she must make it in opposition to the hopes, the prayers,
                  the pursuit of his guilty love. It was thus,—but we are weary of this theme; we
                  turn from it with a sense of relief, leaving our readers to pursue for themselves
                  the progress of the net, which fate seems determined to weave for the unfortunate
                  girl, feeling assured that they will join us in the wish that she may escape its
                  meshes at last.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               THE WIFE vs. THE IDOL.
               
                  
                     
                        And think'st thou—peerless as thou art,
                        That I can smile on thee,
                        Whose smile has lured the heart, whose love
                        Belongs 'fore heaven to me?
                     
                  
               
               IT was an unusually clear bright morning, in early December, that Florence
                  Fulton's carriage stopped before the elegant mansion in Waverley Place, which was
                  designated as the "at home" of the St. Julians. The footman's ring was answered by
                  the announcement that the lady of the mansion was in, and would be happy to see
                  Miss Fulton.
               There was an air of quiet, which was for the moment refreshing, but which the
                  visitor felt must grow monotonous in a short time, reigning through the spacious,
                  and elegantly furnished rooms. There was only a small fire burning in the grate in
                  the apartment to which she was shown, and Florence drew her rich velvet mantle
                  more closely around her; but as she gazed around, a glow of delight succeeded this
                  first chill.
               The carpet, curtains, etc., were, though rich, sombre in hue, for Claude left
                  these minor details to Marion, and she seemed, from appearances, to endeavor to
                  make every thing in life present as gloomy a coloring as possible;—but relieving
                  these with the taste of an artist, and a poet, her husband had ornamented the
                  spacious rooms, with statuary and paintings.
               There was an exquisite copy of the Medicean Venus, before which hung a veil of the
                  thinnest rose-colored silk, which, while it half concealed, gave to the marble the
                  glowing hues of life; a sleeping Cupid, by Canova, reposed in a niche; flowers, so
                  arranged, as to seem to spring freshly around it.
               Here slept in sunshine, one of Claude Lorraine's exquisite landscapes, which to
                  gaze on, was to lose the soul in dreams of some bright, far-off land, where all
                  was peace, purity and love,—so inseparably are pure and holy thoughts linked with
                  nature's wild and sunny beauty. There a group of Titian's—"faces that seemed to combine the
                  loveliness of all lands,"—looked out fresh and glowing from the canvas.
               Here, too, the divinely beautiful faces of Raphael's Madonna, and her wondrous
                  Child, wooed the observer to adoration.
               Florence was lost in a trance of delight, from which she was aroused by the
                  entrance of Claude St. Julian's wife. Reader, have you ever felt, in meeting with
                  a person of cold, forbidding manner, a sudden chill run through you,—felt at once,
                  and for ever, that there could be no warmth of feeling, no congeniality between
                  you? Thus felt Florence, as she returned the constrained and distant bow with
                  which Marion greeted her.
               Could she have read the war of emotions beneath that calm exterior, she might have
                  pardoned what she almost felt inclined to construe into a deliberate repulse. It
                  would be vain to attempt to describe the feelings of the wife, as she gazed upon
                  the brilliant and beautiful being, upon whom she had seen her husband lavish the
                  most passionate admiration; the most open and devoted homage. The scene at the
                  theatre once more swam before her eyes, and a world of emotion rose chokingly in
                  her throat, impeding the utterance of the few constrained and monosyllabic
                  sentences, which she felt, through politeness, compelled to address to her
                  visitor.
               Nothing of the unfavorable impression produced by Marion's reception was visible
                  in the manner of Florence, as with perfect ease, and her usual graceful
                  fascination of manner, she proceeded to converse on the general topics of an
                  opening acquaintance.
               She determined, however, to make the visit as short as possible, and was about,
                  after the lapse of a few moments, to rise and take her leave, when the
                  folding-doors were opened suddenly, and the little cherub face of Cecy, surrounded
                  by its halo of golden curls, peeped in, and the next instant she bounded into the
                  room, forgetful or heedless of the presence of a visitor. Florence greeted the
                  lovely child with enthusiasm, and in a moment they struck up a lively
                  acquaintance, and were conversing as if they had been companions of a
                  life-time.
               So delighted was she with the child, that she half forgot the coldness of the
                  mother; and as for Cecy, as she gazed into the beaming face bending over her, she
                  felt, with a child's ready intuition, that she might love and trust it. At length
                  Florence rose once more to leave, and and as she made her adieu, begged that Cecy
                  might be sent round to see her sometimes—declaring that she had fallen perfectly
                  in love with her; to which Mrs. St. Julian, touched on her tender point,
                  graciously consented.
               Cecy ran after Florence to the door.
               "You must come and see us often," she cried. "I love you. What a beautiful little
                  carriage, and what pretty black horses! Oh! mamma, I wish I could take a ride with
                  this sweet lady."
               "Oh yes! let her go," pleaded Florence eagerly; "I will be delighted to take her,
                  and will soon bring her back."
               "Oh! no, Miss Fulton, I couldn't think of such a thing. Cecy, come in directly;
                  you will catch your death in that draught."
               "Oh! mamma, just one ride. It is so bright out."
               "Cecy, are you deranged? Come in, I tell you."
               "Nonsense, Marion, let her go;" and Claude St. Julian appeared. A bright flush
                  shot over his face as he bowed to Florence, but with his usual ease he said,
               "Let me assist you to your carriage, Miss Fulton. My little Cecy shall have her
                  ride, if you say so, and I will go too, to take care of her. Run, Cecy, put on
                  your cloak and mufflers."
               "My pretty blue cloak, papa; and white hat and plumes?"
               "Oh! yes; look as pretty as possible."
               "Dear papa!" and off she bounded. A moment after, spite of her mother's
                  remonstrances, she was in her father's arms, and in the carriage; which flew off
                  at a rapid rate. Yet there was scarcely reason for the bitter, vengeful feeling,
                  with which Marion turned from the door.
               It was more than Florence anticipated—perhaps more than she wished for—the ride
                  with Claude. She said little to him, but so charmed the child by her caresses and
                  attentions, that the little girl never felt so happy; and when after a ride down
                  Broadway, and round the park, they returned, and Florence set St. Julian and his
                  child down at their own residence, Cecy cried out as she parted with her:
               
               "Dear lady! do come to see Cecy every day. I love you so much! You are so bright,
                  and so beautiful, just like my papa."
               St. Julian laughed, and his eyes flashed.
               "To be like 'papa,' is the highest perfection to which mortal can attain in her
                  eyes,'" he said, as he bade Florence good morning.
               When Florence concluded to waive ceremony, by calling on Mrs. St. Julian—when the
                  civility ought first to have been extended by that lady to herself—it was with the
                  magnanimous intention of seeing Claude's wife, hoping that feelings of sympathy,
                  and friendship, might be awakened towards her; and that these new feelings would
                  serve as counteracting influences to the fatal passion, which still grew
                  triumphant in her heart. But when she left her, how changed were her feelings!
                  True, sympathy was awakened, but it was sympathy for Claude, instead of his
                  wife.
               "Good heavens!" she thought, "what strange freak of destiny could have linked the
                  high-souled, impassioned St. Julian, to such a cold, selfish being? a mere
                  soulless automation! Poor Claude! it must be sad, indeed, to call such a woman the
                  companion of his bosom."
               And such is the effect of manner. Many a friend has been lost or won, by this
                  potent spell. If you would carry about with you a talisman to charm all hearts,
                  let your manner be winning, cordial, and affectionate. If you come in contact with
                  a person not exactly your "equal in society," do not pass them with a cold and
                  slighting sneer. Even if you are a slave to the sordid, heartless
                  conventionalities of a soi-disant aristocracy,
                  there is no fear that an act of kindness, or politeness, will depreciate you in
                  the estimation of any one whose good opinion is worth having; and the time may
                  come, when you would crawl in the dust for the notice of the very man you now
                  consider an inferior. Such things often happen in this world of chances and
                  changes; more especially in our own land, where there is still enough of
                  "Republican vulgarity" left, to sometimes punish the vices of "the patrician" and
                  elevate the virtues of the "plebeian."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               FLORENCE DISCOVERS A SECRET.
               
                  
                     
                        "Upon her face there was the tint of grief,
                        The settled shadow of an inward strife,
                        And an unquiet drooping of the eye,
                        As if its lids were charged with unshed tears."
                     
                  
               
               JUDGE WOODWARD still occupied towards Florence the position he had of his own
                  accord taken; that of a patient and devoted lover, awaiting the fiat of the
                  mistress of his heart. Yet his was no servile or officious homage; he was not ever
                  at her elbow, lavishing a thousand superfluous attentions, wasting a thousand
                  unmeaning words; duty called him elsewhere; but he strove to show her by a steady
                  and consistent course of conduct, that he regarded her with that deep affection,
                  that protecting tenderness, a man like him must feel for the woman he intended to
                  make the sharer of his destiny.
               Engrossed by a thousand pursuits, varying and frivolous although they were;
                  hearing daily tales of love, until they fell upon her careless ear like the echoes
                  of a familiar song,—and with but little of the importance which would have been
                  attached to them by a person differently circumstanced,—Florence had not so many
                  thoughts to give the intentions of Judge Woodward, as their consequence demanded.
                  Almost unconsciously she permitted the affair to linger, day after day; though her
                  conscience reproached her, at times, for not at once declaring to him what she
                  felt in her inmost soul to be true, that she loved him not, and could never be his
                  wife.
               Our readers are doubtless even now curling their lip, at the idea of a girl
                  brought up in the circles of fashionable life, being guilty of the extreme folly
                  of refusing a man of distinction, for no other reason than the paltry excuse that
                  she could not love him. Yet strange as it may seem, examples even of such folly as
                  this, may be found (though we confess rarely) among the disinterested and
                  unworldly (?) class of people to whom we allude.
               Claude confided to Florence, quite inadvertently of course, his surmises with
                  regard to the state of Eva Moreton's feelings towards her cousin; and she was thus
                  recalled to the consciousness that she
                  was thoughtlessly trifling with the feelings, not only of this noble and honorable
                  man, but perhaps those of a pure and true-hearted young girl, whose happiness was
                  closely interwoven with her attachment for him.
               Naturally generous and warm in feeling, her first resolve on hearing this, was to
                  endeavor to discover from Eva, if possible, without letting her see through her
                  intentions—whether her feelings were really interested in favor of her cousin; and
                  if so, to terminate at once the affair between herself and Judge Woodward. Acting
                  upon this impulse, she threw on her mantle and bonnet, and walked round to Mr.
                  Moreton's, with the intention of paying Eva a visit. Arrived there, she paused not
                  to ring the door-bell, but entered with the freedom of privileged intimacy, and
                  passed up stairs to Eva's chamber. The door was slightly ajar, and as the gaze of
                  the intruder fell on the only occupant of the room, her steps were arrested on the
                  threshold.
               Eva was seated with her side-face towards the door, reading, evidently so lost in
                  the volume before her that she had not noticed the approach of any one. Her face
                  was very pale, and Florence was struck by its expression of sadness. As she
                  scanned the pages upon which she was intent, the silent observer marked a solitary
                  tear steal down her wan cheek, and as she did so a pang of self-reproach smote
                  her. "Can I," she thought "be the cause of this sadness?" then advancing into the
                  room she made her presence known.
               "My dear Eva," greeting her with an affectionate embrace, "I fear I have intruded
                  on your meditations."
               "Not at all," replied Eva, hastily wiping from her eyes the errant tear, "I am
                  always glad to see you, Florence. I love so dearly to see your bright face, and
                  hear your joyous laugh. It is refreshing to me, who, you know, am rather given to
                  what my aunt calls 'the mopes.'"
               "A most unsentimental name for a young lady's pensiveness," replied Florence; "but
                  be assured if you are troubled with the vapors, I shall do my best to drive them
                  off." And she rattled gayly on, until, in the fascination of her lively and
                  sparkling conversation, Eva's smiles and bright looks returned. "And now," she
                  thought, "to touch on the all important topic, without alarming the delicacy of my
                  sweet friend."
               To do this, required all the address she was mistress of, for she feared to touch
                  on the subject, lest she should thus recall painful reminiscences to the mind of
                  Eva. She hesitated, and had almost resolved to seek no further information, when
                  Eva was summoned by a servant from the room, for a moment.
               Florence picked up the book she had been reading, and commenced carelessly turning
                  over the leaves, when her attention was arrested by the words, "Presented to Eva
                  by her affectionate cousin, and sincere admirer, Orville Woodward."
               It was a volume of extracts from the standard poets, and there were many pieces
                  marked, as if for the perusal of the fair owner. Some of these pieces were marked
                  for their pure and classic beauty of thought and expression; others for their fine
                  moral sentiment; but many breathed the language of deep feeling, pure and hallowed
                  affection.
               One unacquainted with the character of Judge Woodward's feelings towards Eva,
                  might easily have been deceived with regard to the nature of his affection; and
                  Florence thought it very probable that the young mind of Eva herself might have
                  been the victim of such a delusion; yet she felt sure that the object of it never
                  intended or foresaw that he would be thus misconstrued, and she marvelled at the
                  strange blindness of which even the wisest of us are sometimes guilty.
               A moment after, Eva returned. A slight blush tinged her cheek, as she saw the book
                  in the hands of Florence. The latter noticed it, and calling all her resolution to
                  her aid, she pronounced the "magic name," speaking in a casual way, of her
                  cousin.
               With her usual tact and address, and without once seeming to suspect any thing,
                  she drew out, unconsciously to herself, the thoughts and feelings of the
                  simple-minded girl, until she felt more than convinced that the suspicions of
                  Claude were true.
               "Oh! Eva," she thought, "perhaps it may be mine yet to be the instrument of your
                  happiness; if so, how much pleasure it will confer on me." And Florence, with rare
                  generosity, commenced even then, in her own mind, her plans (women are great on
                  plans) for restoring to Eva the affections she imagined had once been hers.
               
               As the two girls sat there, the morning sunlight stealing in upon them, with their
                  arms twined around each other, talking in sweet and kindly tones, an observer
                  could not but have gazed on them with the deepest interest.
               What destiny is reserved for these fair young creatures; the one so brilliant and
                  fascinating, so gloriously beautiful, with such a wild, passionate, yet generous
                  heart throbbing beneath the fair exterior, the other so spotless in her outward
                  loveliness, and inner purity; the one born to make a brilliant sensation, to
                  command admiration wherever she appears, and yet formed to be the light of home
                  too; the other formed for the sphere of home only? Alas! for the magnificent
                  Florence; a home of love, that most precious boon to woman, had been thus far
                  denied her. Must it be ever thus?
               Full of her benevolent intentions, Florence at length rose to go, and with a pure
                  kiss of maidenly affection the two girls separated.
               "Dear Florence," thought Eva, "she is so kind, so affectionate, and so beautiful
                  too; I cannot blame any one for loving her."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               JUDGE WOODWARD AND FLORENCE.—A DISMISSAL.—GOOD ADVICE.—AN
                  ACCIDENT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I could have loved you, oh! so well;—
                           The dream that wishing boyhood knows,
                           Is but a a sweet beguiling spell
                           Which only lives while passion glows:
                           But when this early flush declines,
                           When the heart's vivid morning fleets,
                           You know not then how close it twines
                           Round the first kindred soul it meets!"
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               THEevening after the interview between Florence and Eva, the former was seated in
                  her boudoir; Judge Woodward by her side. The conversation had lingered for some
                  time on different subjects. There was a pause.
               Florence was the first to break the silence; though, as she did so, she averted
                  her face from her companion's gaze. "Judge Woodward, I hope you will not think me
                  taking an improper step, if I tell you that my request that you should visit me
                  this evening, was to terminate the affair now existing between us. You can,
                  perhaps, anticipate what the termination will be."
               She now turned her dark eyes full on her companion's face; he was very pale, and
                  the only words he gave utterance to were, "Go on, let me hear all."
               Touched by emotion which mocked at words, Florence continued: "Believe me, no one
                  can appreciate your love more highly than I do. Lonely and orphaned as I am, I
                  feel that love would have proved an inestimable boon to me, could I have returned
                  it. Would I were worthy to be your wife, but I am not; for oh! if I were, my heart
                  would long since have yielded its all in return for your affection."
               "You do not love me, then?" said he. His voice was low and husky with agitation,
                  and his lip quivered, though he strove to control himself.
               "Oh! do not, do not, I beseech you, grieve for me!" cried Florence, laying her
                  hand timidly on his arm, in the fervor of her entreaty, while large tears swam in
                  her eyes. "I am not worthy that you should waste such feelings on me;" and the
                  proud Florence bowed her queenly head, and pressed back with her slender fingers
                  the heavy tears which sprang to her eyes; feeling at the moment, as if she could
                  have knelt at the feet of the noble being before her, and implored his forgiveness
                  for being thus compelled to wound him. "I am not worthy," she repeated, "that you
                  should waste such feelings on me. Forget me, believe me a base, heartless
                  coquette—any thing you will, so you do not grieve for me. I would not for worlds
                  cause you a moment's pain."
               "No," was the reply; "your very words prove, Florence, that you are not a
                  heartless woman, (I will not use the word coquette, I don't like it,) why then
                  should I strive to be-believe you such? I have loved you as a warm-hearted, true,
                  and lovely woman; let me still, as such, remember you. I can discover from your
                  conduct, that you never, until now, knew the depth of my feelings for you. I have
                  loved you with the feelings which, learning from bitter experience to distrust the
                  world in general, centre all the affection, not belonging longing to God, upon one object; and alas! that
                  lost, where can the heart, widowed of its one treasure, turn for solace? But I am
                  growing sentimental," and he smiled faintly. "Forgive me; I ought not to have
                  expected that a gay and brilliant girl like you, could love a man of my age, and
                  of my sobered feelings, so little congenial with the warmth and gayety of
                  youth."
               "Oh! no," she replied, "speak not thus, it was not this. One younger, fairer,
                  better than I has loved—still loves you;—Eva."
               A moment after, she would have given worlds to recall her words. What right had
                  she to betray her friend's secret. Judge Woodward started. "Impossible!" he said,
                  "impossible! Eva does not love me."
               "I spoke without thinking," faltered Florence, "I meant not to betray—that is—I
                  may be mistaken."
               "You are mistaken in all probability," replied her companion sadly. "If true, I
                  need not say how deeply I regret that she should waste her young fresh feelings on
                  me."
               "Why?" demanded Florence, almost imploringly. "Do you not think you could love one
                  so pure, so perfect, so in every way fitted to make you happy as Eva? I am wild,
                  thoughtless, oh! I am a very faulty being, not worthy your love, but she is an
                  angel! You would be so happy with her!"
               "I know not what the future may bring forth, but I feel now as if my last dream of
                  love was over." He covered his face with his hands, and paused a moment; then
                  continued: "Circumstances in early life prevented my marrying. I was compelled to
                  tread the iron path of destiny, and grapple with the difficulties which
                  encompassed me, alone. Yes, alone; with no home of love to turn to,
                  when, wearied and world-worn, my heart sought some resting-place. I buried the
                  world of feelings, the yearning after sympathy and affection, which at times would
                  rise within me, deep in my own soul, and I struggled on thus for years. As I
                  mingled more and more with the world—as success became mine, and fame followed
                  success, as it always does, I saw that my society was courted by many—I say it not
                  with one particle of vanity, for I cared not for it then, care not for it now. I
                  saw through designs but too thinly veiled; they disgusted me, and I almost
                  resolved never to marry. Of Eva, sweet little Eva, I thought only as a child—a
                  loving and lovely child—who would one day make some one very, very happy, but I
                  scarcely hoped that one could be me. I met you. I saw in you a woman of intellect,
                  soul, feeling;—my God! what mines of wealth to be wasted on the light and
                  heartless circle in which you moved. As I looked on a silent observer, I became
                  interested in you, and—pardon me, Florence—I pitied you; I felt that for you there
                  were perilous quicksands in the ocean of life, and you had, alas! no one to warn
                  you of danger. I felt that it would indeed be to me a grateful task, could I win
                  you from the scenes around you, and place you in a sphere which would call into
                  action the higher and purer qualities of your nature. And thus sympathy grew into
                  a deeper feeling—but 'tis vain to dwell on this; it is all over now.
               "As a lover, I must bid you farewell; but always think of me as a friend. Rely on
                  me, in any hour of need. Believe me, I would be too happy could I in the smallest
                  degree be of service to you; and ere I leave you now, permit me Florence, dear
                  Florence, to repeat, that your situation in life is a perilous one. The very
                  pleasures which smile so alluringly upon you, are so many dangers environing your
                  path. You have every qualification necessary for shining in the world; but I know
                  you well, and I tell you, you will never find happiness in the gay and giddy
                  scenes, in which you mingle;—though you may pursue the phantom until youth, and
                  strength, and hope have fled, and life has no nobler aim within your reach. Then
                  you may perhaps—wrecked in mind and body—live to mourn your folly; or else be one
                  of those miserable beings who, to latest age, haunt the scenes of pleasure like
                  ghosts of the past, wretched monuments of former folly, spending the lasprecious
                  sands in the hour-glass of life on the shrine of vanity,—wasting the scanty
                  modicum of heart which yet remains to them in wretched repinings over past
                  triumphs, and present mortifications, and at last sinking into a sinful grave,
                  whose eternal night, no ray of hope beyond the tomb can illumine. Oh! beware of
                  this. Suffer yourself to forget the idle follies which beset you, and remember
                  that God and heaven should always be uppermost in the mind of woman; thus only can
                  she be, 'lovely, gentle, and of good report.' And now farewell!" he arose and
                  extended his hand with a look of such
                  deep sympathy, such kindly, nay tender interest towards her, beaming in his noble
                  countenance, that Florence, overcome by emotion, could only bow in silence, making
                  a faint effort to smile through her tears. A moment after he had vanished from her
                  sight.
               Instead of feeling elevated in her own estimation by the love of the lofty being
                  who had just left her, Florence felt as if she was unworthy that love; felt that
                  she could not be all that he must have deemed her, when he bestowed his affections
                  upon her, and the thought humbled her spirit in the dust; for there is nothing
                  which brings to a proud, generous heart, so deep a sense of humiliation, as the
                  thought of having received from another an undeserved boon. But she was wrong in
                  thinking that Judge Woodward had estimated her character too highly. He was not so
                  easily deceived. He knew exactly how much of earthly leaven was mingled with the
                  heaven in her nature; and he knew that spite of the shadows on its brightness, her
                  character was one of rare, strange beauty; that in the voluminous depths of her
                  expansive soul, slumbered thoughts and feelings, which only waited to be called
                  forth to create their own world of light and happiness, for all who came within
                  their influence.
               There is no being in existence perfectly unselfish; such a character would be in
                  direct contradiction to human nature. Even our noblest aims and impulses are often
                  deeply imbued with this feeling, which is not censurable, save when it acts to the
                  detriment of others; for who can blame a man for pleasing himself, provided he
                  injures no one else by the operation? Thus, though Judge Woodward himself believed
                  that his feelings for Florence had their first source in the purest, most
                  unselfish sympathy, he was mistaken. Had she been less beautiful, less
                  fascinating, he might perhaps have felt for her a certain degree of sympathy; but
                  he would never have loved, never have sought her as his wife. It was the indirect
                  inference of the happiness such qualities as she possessed, would, in a wife,
                  confer upon him, which roused his feelings to the extent which we have seen
                  towards her.
               We wish that we could portray, fully and justly, the character of the woman we
                  have chosen as our heroine;—its fathomless depths, its lofty heights, the
                  brilliance of its sunlight, the depth of its shadows; but volumes might be written
                  ten, yet scarcely the alpha beta told of that limitless world, her soul.
               Yes, we do not portray her as faultless; there was gloom as well as brightness
                  mirrored in the character of this strangely gifted being. It was like some rare,
                  radiant painting, gloriously, yet darkly beautiful, where blooming vales and
                  soaring heights, bathed in eternal sunshine, contrast with deep, dark ravines, and
                  wildly foaming waters; and where, gaze as long as we will, we can still see, in
                  dim and mysterious perspective, other and more beautiful scenes, making us believe
                  that there is still a boundless world beyond, whose enchantments we have yet to
                  reach; or like some proud temple, in whose shadowy aisles we can dimly trace the
                  inspired forms of beauty, which the genius of the architect and the sculptor have
                  wrought around us; extending far down, until the gaze loses itself in distance and
                  darkness; and here and there lighted up by some stray gleam of sunlight, into the
                  glorious hues of life-breathing loveliness; yet before the treasures of whose
                  inner shrine, is hung a mysterious veil, which the hand of no common intruder may
                  dare to raise.
               Alas! that so gallant a vessel should ride life's stormy wave, without the guiding
                  star of parental love, or the compass of Religion, to point her way over the
                  troubled waters.
               Though Florence had never loved Judge Woodward, she had always felt towards him
                  that reverential, affectionate feeling, which we link with the idea of a
                  protector; and now that the tie between them was broken, it is impossible to
                  describe the strange desolation of feeling which came over her. She had broken an
                  engagement for a gay and brilliant party, to remain at home for this interview.
                  And now that Judge Woodward was gone, she extinguished the gas lights, so that any
                  passing visitor might believe her out, and also because she had an odd fancy of
                  being in the dark, whenever she indulged in sad thoughts. Then, throwing herself
                  into a large chair before the grate, she gazed fixedly into the smouldering fire,
                  which cast a dim, uncertain light through the room, many and sad thoughts rushing
                  tumultuously upon her.
               She thought of Judge Woodward, his noble disinterestedness; and then of Eva, her
                  pure, quiet life, moving amid scenes of
                  fashion and folly—"among them, but not of them;" and she—she the brilliant, the
                  worshipped—almost envied the meek, unobtrusive girl, a fate so different from her
                  own. She thought of the festal scene from which she was now perhaps missed; of her
                  companions, who were moving in the gay dance, with smiles and light tones, though
                  their hearts might be aching all the while; then of Claude—and what wild and
                  varied thoughts of mingled pleasure, passion, and regret, were these—and lastly of
                  herself, solitary and alone. Never did she feel so desolate, so wretched. She wept
                  long and bitterly, and her feelings thus relieved, she sunk into a sort of dreamy
                  slumber.
               In her dreams, it seemed to her that a cherub form, with robes of light, and
                  bright angel wings, and a face like her own dim, though fondly-cherished
                  remembrance of her mother's, appeared before her. The expression of the face,
                  angelic though it was, was sad, as the vision said, in tones of unearthly, but
                  mournful sweetness:
               "My child, you have lost your best friend. 'Tis but an instant that I can stay to
                  warn you, ere I must plume my wings for heaven again; but beware of——" Florence
                  heard not the name; some noise in the street aroused her. She started; the noise
                  continued; there was bustle, hurrying to and fro of fect, and the trampling and
                  confusion of a crowd. Startled by the sound, she went to the window, and raised
                  the sash. As she did so, she heard voices exclaiming, in disjointed sentences,
                  "Judge Woodward!" "Shot!" "How! what is the matter?" "Killed?" "Some mistake!"
               In a paroxysm of alarm, Florence rushed to the front door, opened it, and stood on
                  the threshold. At the instant, a litter passed, borne by several men. It was
                  covered, but she plainly heard suppressed groans issue from it.
               "Good heavens!" she cried to one of the crowd who followed it; "what is the
                  matter?"
               "Judge Woodward is shot, miss!" replied the man, "but he is not dead. I believe
                  they have taken up the man that did it. They are carrying him to Mr. Moreton's,
                  where he requested to be taken, as they live near, and are relations, I
                  believe."
               After this very graphic detail of facts and occurrences, the man hurried on; and
                  shocked, and uncertain what to think, in a chaos of mingled alarm and agony,
                  Florence sought her chamber. More fervently than she had prayed for years, she
                  prayed that night; and it was long after retiring, ere her excited feelings
                  permitted her to seek refuge in sleep.
               Fears for Judge Woodward, mingled with thoughts of the strange vision of her
                  slumbers. It was strange that, much as she pondered over it, it never once
                  occurred to her of whom that warning angel would have bid her beware.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               THE RANDOM SHAFT CLEAVES THE HEART OF THE DOVE.
               
                  
                     
                        "Oh! grief beyond all other griefs, when Fate
                        First leaves the young heart lone and desolate,
                        In the wide world without that only tie,
                        For which it loved to live, or feared to die."
                     
                     
                        "Oh! many a shaft at random sent,
                        Finds mark the archer never meant."
                     
                  
               
               IT was a bright, cold, December morning, and Lilian was seated before a cheery
                  fire, at the cottage, netting a worsted sacque, cherry and white, for little
                  Harry, who was playing noisily on the floor beside her. There was an air of sweet,
                  quiet, home comfort in every thing around; and though, for some weeks past, she
                  had been looking paler and sadder than usual, the fire just now had given a bright
                  glow to her cheek, and she looked quite happy, as she sat there, busily plying her
                  needles, and ever and anon casting a fond glance on the movements of her boy.
               In this pleasant employment, she was interrupted by a tap at the door.
               "Come in," she said cheerfully.
               It was Mrs. Vernon's housekeeper, who had come down from the city to see how
                  things were going on at "the place." She was a very worthy, though, beyond the
                  mysteries of her vocation, by no means a well informed woman; and not having been
                  long in the employ of her present mistress, she knew little of the real situation
                  of affairs.
               
               Lilian, she supposed, was a young widow, residing as a tenant on the estate, and
                  she had come down to make her a friendly visit, pitying, as she said, the
                  "solitude of the poor thing—a widow, and so young, too."
               Lilian was glad to see her, for through her she could hear of Harry, and she
                  always listened with eager interest to the most commonplace conversation, if he
                  was the subject. Seating herself in obedience to her request, the housekeeper
                  commenced a trivial conversation.
               It was Mrs. Burton's misfortune that she had been raised in a village; and having
                  naturally a great propensity (in common with some other, otherwise very good
                  people) for gossip, it had "grown with her growth, and strengthened with her
                  strength," in this congenial atmosphere. She had seen something of Lilian, since
                  her arrival at "the place," and really felt quite interested in the "sweet little
                  lady,"—felt at once that she could confide in her, and was delighted to find some
                  receptacle for her budget of news.
               She had not been long enough in the city to discover that, in order to keep your
                  place in a great house, you must be half blind, three quarters deaf, and wholly
                  dumb, about every thing which concerns your superiors.
               "Well, I declare!" said the garrulous old woman, as she seated herself; "you are
                  the youngest-looking creature to be a married woman, and what's more, a widow, I
                  ever did see in my life. Why, you look just like a child, with those pretty brown
                  curls, all a floatin' round your shoulders, so natural like."
               "I was very young when I was married," replied Lilian faintly; "only fifteen."
               "Mercies on me! for a poor little strip of a child like that to be drawn up before
                  the parson. Well, this is a strange world; there's my daughter Susan, as has been
                  on the look-out for a husband for these seven years past, and not a man has said
                  'peas' to her on that subject yet; and there is no finer girl than Susan, Mrs.
                  Stanley, though I do say it, as ought not to. Well, somehow, some females don't
                  get justice done them in this world."
               Not wishing a discussion on the subject which is now the great leading principle
                  of the "Woman's Rights" Convention—a society then happily unknown—Lilian changed
                  the subject, by asking if there was a probability of Miss Vernon marrying
                  soon.
               "Well, I don't know, but I rather guess not, very soon. Miss Ella keeps her
                  secrets mighty close. I think, however, that she likes Leftenant Minton uncommon
                  well—a mighty pretty and uncommon nice little gentleman, though, to be sure, not
                  such a fine lordly-looking man as her father, or, as for that matter, Mr. Hal
                  either, as visits her sometimes. But somehow, there is a Mrs. Moreton as is always
                  pulling at him, and a flirtin' and cavortin' round him, and a calling him to her
                  side, and a droppin' her fan for him to pick up, and all sich things. I watched
                  her one evenin' at a party at our house, until I was completely disgusted at her
                  ridiklous minervas. I was, indeed, Mrs. Stanley; and says I to Miss Ella
                  afterwards, says I, 'Miss Ella, I despise that little woman, with all her fine
                  airs and graces. She arn't the right sort, sure as you're born, she arn't. What is
                  she always a twistin', and a foolin', and a layin' herself out to 'tract the
                  leftenant for? She is a married 'oman; what on this earth can she
                  want with a beau?' But Miss Ella blushed, and told me not to talk in that way;
                  that it was very common for married women to receive attentions in fashionable
                  siety. So I hushed up, and have never opened my mouth about it sense, and never
                  intend to; but between you and me and the bed-post, I don't like no such doins
                  myself. There is some strange things done amongst the highflyers—at least, it
                  seems so to me; some things that I can't make neither head nor tail of; but I
                  suppose, in course, they know what they are about, and, to be sure, it's none of
                  my business. I have been with the quality all my life, and thought I knowed a
                  mazin' deal about most things; but it seems to me, since I came to New York, I
                  never knowed any thing before, or anyhow I've got to forgit every thing I
                     did know, and commence learning every thing new. It's like a
                  different world altogether."
               Mrs. Burton folded her arms, and gazed abstractedly out of the window, probably
                  absorbed in the most abstruse speculations with regard to the mysteries of
                  fashionable life; then, suddenly aroused by a merry laugh from little Harry, she
                  turned to the child, whom she had noticed but very little tle before, and commenced fondling with him, using
                  the tender words of endearment, common on such occasions. But Harry did not seem
                  to fancy his new friend, for he broke from her, and ran shouting from the room.
                  The housekeeper gazed after him. "Well, I declare," she exclaimed, "if there
                  aren't the greatest likeness to the Vernon family in that child. Are you any
                  relation, Mrs. Stanley?"
               Lillian looked keenly into the woman's face, to see if her question was the result
                  of suspicion; but seeing there only a look of blank unconsciousness, she was about
                  to reply, when without waiting for an answer Mrs. B. rattled on, "Yes, the boy has
                  a noble look, just like the governor—and like Mr. Hal, or Hel, or whatever they
                  call him would have, if he was not so dissipated."
               "Is he very dissipated?" asked Lilian faintly.
               "Dissipated!" replied the housekeeper, raising her hands and eyes, "you never did
                  see such a wild boy. Why, he keeps the governor and his mother always in hot water
                  about him. I suppose he thinks it very great to be what he calls a 'fast boy,' but
                  in my mind he is not much removed from a rowdy. But he's got in love now with a
                  very beautiful lady, and what's more, one with a large fortune; and we all hope
                  she'll marry him, and then he'll settle down, maybe—for matrimony is as good as
                  any straight-jacket for a young man sometimes—but not always—but, good gracious
                  me! Mrs. Stanley, what is the matter?"
               Lilian's work had fallen from her lap; her hands were clasped, her cheek white as
                  death, her eyes fixed on the housekeeper with a wild, almost maniac glare.
               Stifling her emotion as she saw that it was perceived, and determined to know the
                  worst, she repressed with a convulsive effort the wild words that rose to her
                  lips, and said in low, firm tones—firm with the concentrated strength of her whole
                  system, summoned for the giant effort—laying her icy hand on the housekeeper's
                  arm,
               "Tell me, what is it. Hal—Mr. Vernon, I mean,—did you say he was going to be
                  married? I thought—that is I have heard——"
               "Oh! yes," replied the obtuse old woman, forgetting Lilian's apparent emotion a
                  moment before, and not noticing now the bloodless cheek, and quivering lip—"yes,
                  they did say that Mr. Hal had had an affair at one time that might interfere with
                  this one. I only heard it whispered in the house, and did not exactly understand
                  it. I think, though, it was something about his having deceived some poor girl,
                  that he once loved very much. I did hear it hinted that perhaps there might be a
                  private marriage; but John, who has been Mr. Hal's man for some years, when I told
                  him the hints I had picked up, told me 'twas nothing but a sham affair, but I
                  could not get any thing more out of him about it. Indeed, I dont think he knew
                  much, for he owned that he just happened to overhear Mr. Hal talking about it, one
                  day, to that man he's so thick with—let me see, I forgit his name, a long-haired,
                  rakish-lookin' thing, though, as I despises in my sight. Marriage or no marriage,
                  he's courtin' Miss Fulton now, and the family are doin' all they can to make the
                  match."
               Lilian rose, and made an effort to leave the room ere the woman could discover the
                  effect of her words; but the effort, after the prolonged suppression of her
                  feelings, was too much for her slight frame.
               A moan of utter intense agony escaped her—she clasped her hands suddenly to her
                  chest, and the next moment was lying senseless at the feet of Mrs. Burton, a
                  stream of blood gushing from her lips.
               In the one moment of repressed suffering, all the dark deceptive past, all the
                  bitter agonizing present, all her blind confidence, her foul wrong, had burst upon
                  her. The truth flashed like lightning over the naturally obtuse mind of Mrs.
                  Burton.
               "Lord have mercy!" she ejaculated "I have killed her. What a fool I was, not to
                  have guessed all about it—and the boy so like too. What shall I do? oh Lord! what
                  shall I do?"
               She attempted to raise her; the movement roused Lilian; she opened her eyes
                  slightly; "Mary!" she gasped, "Mary!" a fresh mouthful of blood followed the
                  effort, and her eyes again closed in exhaustion.
               Mrs. Burton raised the small light form, as easily as she could, and laid it on
                  the bed, then supposing her request alluded to a servant, rung the bell. A moment
                  afterwards, the woman who had been the attached servant and faithful companion of Lilian, ever since her
                  retirement, entered the room.
               "Good heavens!" she exclaimed, as her eyes rested on her mistress, "what is the
                  matter with Miss Lilian?" Hurriedly and incoherently Mrs. Burton explained the
                  cause of the catastrophe.
               Anger at the woman's ignorance, and want of foresight, overpowered, for the
                  moment, every other feeling in the mind of Mary.
               "Was there ever such a fool?" she exclaimed with flashing eyes. "My poor Lilian!
                  poor dear child!" and she raised her head as tenderly as if she had been an
                  infant, brought restoratives, and bathed her brow, wiped the blood stains from her
                  lips with a snowy cambric handkerchief, and removed as gently as possible her
                  discolored dress, over which the blood had streamed. Lilian faintly opened her
                  eyes.
               "Mary, dear Mary," she said, in her weak tones, as she saw the kind creature
                  bending over her.
               "Dear Miss Lilian, do not speak now. I beseech you be quiet," replied Mary,
                  respectfully but kindly taking the hands of her mistress, and pressing them
                  sympathetically in her own, while tears rained down her cheeks; and turning to
                  Mrs. Burton, who stood a silent spectator of the scene, she said, in a wrathful
                  whisper,
               "And now go—you have done all the mischief you can; perhaps you will have the
                  kindness to send for a physician—and then go home, and tell the Vernons they have
                  killed her. They will be glad to hear it, no doubt, though heaven knows they are
                  not worthy to have her among them. I believe it is all a lie about Mr. Harry; but
                  be that as it may, she is what no one else can be—his wife in the sight of heaven.
                  I can't leave her—go."
               Mrs. Burton obeyed in silence.
               "Oh! Mary, he has done this!" exclaimed Lilian with a fresh burst of agony, "he
                  whom I so worshipped, so trusted,—my child's father."
               "Never mind, Miss Lilian, all will come right at last. Perhaps it is just a story
                  they have raised on Mr. Hal."
               "No! oh no! Mary, I see it all now. I feel it in every pulse of my throbbing
                  heart. I have been deceived. Oh! Mary, I who trusted him so. Let me
                  die, Mary; every effort you make to save me, is cruel and unjust."
               At this moment little Harry ran in, shouting with glee; he paused suddenly as he
                  saw his mother's pale form extended on the bed, and Mary's distressed face. With a
                  child's awe he crept up to the latter, and pulling her by the skirt, exclaimed,
                  pointing to Lilian, with imploring entreaty in his face,
               "Mamma! Mary, mamma!"
               Thinking that the sight of her boy would recall her from agonizing thoughts, Mary
                  raised the child softly on the bed, whispering,
               "Be quiet, Harry, don't say a word; mamma is sick." Harry crawled gently to his
                  mother's breast, and twined his arms softly around her neck, whispering "dear
                  mamma."
               His voice seemed to recall her from the trance of grief into which she had fallen,
                  for she clasped him closely to her bosom, with a sort of convulsive, sobbing moan,
                  though through this scene she had not shed a tear. The shock was too sudden, too
                  crushing in its effect for tears, like the lightning stroke, which blasts in an
                  instant to blackness and ruin the tree it found perchance rich with green leaves
                  and sunnursed blossoms.
               She spoke not a word, and Harry lay quietly by her side till she sunk into
                  slumber, or rather into that heavy state of unconsciousness which mocks sleep, and
                  from which the awakening is to the wretched, oh! how bitter. Harry too, lulled by
                  his position and the quiet of the room, fell asleep, and those two desolate
                  ones—the mother and the child—slumbered in each other's arms while Mary watched
                  beside them.
               And yet were they more desolate than they had been ever?
               No; but until now Lilian had been—oh blessed boon!—unconscious of her
                  desolation.
               It is a strange doctrine, but in this world it is not deception which makes us
                  wretched; it is the awakening from our delusions—the cold and bitter curse of
                     truth—that wrings our heart, and darkens our life.
               As long as we are deceived, we are happy.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               THE "FAST BOY" ON A "BENDER."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Ah me! in sooth he was a shameless wight,
                           Sore given to revel and ungodly glee."
                        
                     
                     BYRON
                  
               
               THE rooms of Harry Vernon were brilliantly illuminated, and the walls rung with
                  merry voices, and ever and anon shouts of laughter. In those rooms, Harry had
                  assembled some dozen of those whom he considered "choice spirits." Mr. Moreton,
                  Claude St. Julian, Lieut. Minton, and Arthur Plumdale, were the only characters
                  belonging to our story present, if we except Mr. Fitz Friske, who, by some strange
                  freak of Harry—as he thought it—had been honored with an invitation.
               Perhaps, had he known it, his presence was rather important to some of the guests,
                  if not to the host; but could he have surmised why, we doubt whether he would have
                  felt particularly complimented.
               Cards were Fitz Friske's aversion, perhaps because he was rather unskilful in the
                  use of them, and at first he was dubious about accepting the invitation; but on
                  reflecting that his inviter was one of the "tong," as his mother
                  phrased it, he returned an affirmative reply.
               Besides the above mentioned, there were present some half dozen young bloods of
                  the city, of the stamp generally designated as "fast men;" youths whose motto like
                  that of Harry Vernon was "Health, wealth, women, and wine," and who, to the honor
                  of their consistency at least, practised very faithfully the principles they
                  preached; bating, in some instances, the first two requisites.
               The reader may perhaps surmise at whose request Fitz Friske was invited, when we
                  state that the gentleman was seated at a whist-table opposite Claude St. Julian,
                  playing against Mr. Moreton and Arthur Plumdale. The other members of the party
                  were seated at another table, with the exception of two or three, who lounged
                  around the fire, smoking, laughing, and talking; and ever and anon, betting at
                  hazard on the games.
               "Boys, we've had enough of whist; let's have a game of bluff, and I'll join you,"
                  said Harry Vernon, dragging up a chair next Fitz Friske.
               This proposal was received with marked approbation; with the exception of a slight
                  murmur of dissent from Fitz Friske, overruled by the clamorous voices around
                  him.
               The others gave up their game, and gathered round this table. Claude St. Julian—of
                  whose vices gaming was not one—gave up his seat, and contented himself with
                  looking on; though, truth to say, he felt a strong inclination to help Fitz out of
                  the scrape, by a few well-timed hints; but that, under present circumstances, was
                  impossible. At first luck varied a good deal around the board;—once or twice, to
                  his infinite surprise, Fitz Friske was the winner to a considerable amount; and he
                  had just begun to plume himself, in his own mind, on his superior skill as a
                  player; and had, moreover, proposed, in the pleasing excitement of the moment, a
                  larger stake than any yet offered; when luck—as luck will do sometimes—turned, and
                  he lost. But this only made him more eager; and with what he fancied was quite the
                  air d' un grand seigneur, when Mr. Moreton—who
                  was the winner—named a larger stake, he assented. A glance quick as lightning, but
                  full of meaning, passed between Moreton and Plumdale.
               Play became more exciting, as the bets were enlarged. Piles of gold and silver,
                  intermixed with notes, gleamed on the board. Bets ran high with those standing
                  round, on the probable issue of the games; and when, at half past twelve, supper
                  was announced, Fitz Friske was a loser to the amount of several thousand dollars.
                  He positively refused all offers of revenge, and with a forcible attempt at
                  indifference, which illy concealed his real chagrin, wrote two checks, and handed
                  one to Arthur Plumdale, the other to Mr. Moreton, each of whom pocketed his
                  respective slip of paper, with perfect sang-froid.
               
               Harry Vernon, too, had been a loser to some extent, but that, as he himself
                  remarked, was a "mere matter of moon-shine."
               Presiding over a table groaning under every delicacy of the season, with the most
                  "choice spirits" around and upon it, Hal was in his glory.
               
               Attired in the flashiest of costumes, his green velvet smoking-cap set jauntily on
                  the mass of brown curls which clustered in "much admired disorder" around his
                  brow; pouring out bumper after bumper of champagne, and proposing toast after
                  toast, which were greeted by shouts of uproarious merriment, he shone forth
                  conspicuous in all the polished elegance (?) of a "fast young man."
               "And now, St. Julian, for an original toast," said Harry, after a long pause,
                  during which the guests had applied themselves with infinite gusto to the
                  delicious viands before them, "Come, my dear fellow, you are always ready."
               "A toast from St. Julian," echoed round the board, as they filled their glasses
                  for another round.
               "We came here for enjoyment solely," replied Claude languidly; "therefore this is
                  no time to be puzzling one's brains for something original, when, in reality,
                  there is nothing original in existence. You know very well what to expect from me;
                  for, 
                     
                        "Wer't the last drop in the well,
                        And I standing on the brink;
                        Ere my fainting spirit fell,
                        'Tis to woman I would drink."
                     
                  
               
               "Why not say, 
                     
                        Wer't the last drop in the bottle,
                        And I just about to sink;
                        Ere my reeling body fell,
                        'Tis to woman I would drink.
                     
                  
               
               There's an original parody for you. Well, here's to the bright eyes, and true
                  heart, of a certain fair angel for me, and let every man drink to the shrine of
                  his worship;" and Harry tossed off a bumper.
               "All women are angels until they are married," said Mr. Moreton sententiously, as
                  he raised his glass to his lips. "Another glass, Plumdale, and enough of this
                  subject, which has worn out with me long since. By the way, have you ascertained
                  what —— will take for those trotters of his? By G—! the most splendid specimen of
                  horseflesh I ever saw. I know their price, but that is of no avail. Fitz Friske
                  purchased them a day or two since."
               "Ah! I understand; wants them for his bridal turnout, I suppose," said Moreton in
                  a lower tone, glancing at Fitz Friske, who sat at the other extremity of the
                  table. "By the way, Plumdale, you sit down and win the money of your
                  brother-in-law elect with a devilish cool face. How can you do it, man?"
               "Nothing more proper;" responded the other with perfect sang-froid. "If I had not won it, somebody else would. Keep the
                  money in the family always, if you can; I am sure that is the motto of older and
                  wiser heads than mine."
               The revel grew louder, faster, and more furious. Claude St. Julian, who had not
                  much fancy for this species of excitement, and Fitz Friske, left early,—as did
                  also Moreton and Plumdale; for your real gambler seldom lingers long enough to
                  lose self-possession over the bowl. It was four o'clock in the morning before the
                  rest of the party separated. Some in a state of maudlin insensibility remained
                  where they were; and the last thing of which Harry Vernon was conscious, was
                  standing on the table amid crashing plates and jingling glasses as he raised aloft
                  a bumper, exclaiming. "Here's to the—the—hic—bright heart, and—hic—true eyes
                  of—of—yours very respectfully H. Vernon."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               THE ARCHER IS WOUNDED WITH HIS OWN SHAFT.
               
                  
                     
                        Have I forgotten thee, whilst thou
                        Didst bleed thy life away for me!
                        Oh! cursed for ever be the spells
                        That first allured my heart from thee.
                     
                  
               
               It was eleven o'clock in the morning, when Harry Vernon found himself, with
                  parched lips and aching brain, on the sofa in the room which had been the scene of
                  the revel of the preceding night.
               His companions, whom he had left when his eyes closed in feverish slumbers, some
                  with their heads on the table, some under it, had either been removed by the
                  servants, or betaken themselves to
                  other quarters. The table still stood in the centre of the room, with its array of
                  crushed plates, broken glasses, carcasses of fowls, wine spilled, etc. Packs of
                  cards were strewn here and there over the floor, chairs upset, and in every
                  position but the right one, a new hat crushed out of all shape in one corner, a
                  splendid black Spanish mantle on the soiled and stained floor in another.
                  Muttering a curse, Harry turned from the scene of ruin, and tried to compose
                  himself to sleep again.
               Of all processes the most annoying, and indeed excruciating, is the intense effort
                  to get yourself to sleep, when the brain is aching, and every nerve in the frame
                  throbbing with the wearing feverish pain, which succeeds intense excitement.
               He was interrupted in this delightful occupation by a rap at the door, and his
                  servant presented himself with a note.
               "What do you mean by interrupting me in this way, you rascal?" demanded Harry in a
                  rage.
               "I am sorry, sir, but this note was left early this morning with a message that it
                  should be delivered immediately. It came from Gov. Vernon too, sir, the man
                  said."
               "It makes no difference with me if it came from the devil; so be off."
               The man laid the note on the table near him, and retreated, muttering, "If it came
                  from the devil you would be sure to attend to it."
               As Harry once more resettled himself on the sofa, his eyes fell on the note.
                  Fancying it a missive from his father, he seized and tore it open carelessly. It
                  ran thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           MY DEAR BROTHER,—I have just heard through Mrs. Burton, who came from
                              "the place" this morning, that poor Lilian Stanley is dangerously
                              ill,—has had a violent hemorrhage of the lungs, caused by hearing some
                              idle gossip from Mrs. B. about a projected marriage between yourself
                              and Florence F.
                           It is thought she cannot possibly recover; for heaven's sake if you
                              can do her any good, go to her immediately. In her delirium she calls
                              for you incessantly.
                           Ma would be exceedingly angry if she knew I was writing ting this
                              note, but you know Harry I never was against Lilian. I
                              only remember her as the bright happy playmate of my childhood, whom
                              "none knew but to love; none named but to praise." Alas for her! she
                              has lost all that was hers of happiness on this earth, and you, my
                                 brother—you are the cause of it. How my heart swells,
                              and my eyes fill when I think of it. No one here knows of this sad
                              accident but me, except Mrs. Burton, who goes back to "the place" this
                              afternoon, and she can surely keep silence until then.
                           You have, of course, heard of the shocking accident to Judge Woodward.
                              His physicians (I learn from pa, who watched by him last night) think
                              he will recover, though his wound is a dangerous one.
                           
                              ELLA.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The note dropped from Harry's hands; he started to his feet, thoroughly roused
                  from his stupor by its sad contents.
               "Great God! my poor Lilian ill, perhaps dying! That infernal housekeeper; if I had
                  the old harridan here, I would tear her limb from limb. And what is this about
                  Judge Woodward?—But I have no time to think of him. I must go to Lilian."
               Old feelings rushed upon him like a flood. All the tender attachment, which, in
                  spite of his passion for Florence, had lain dormant in his heart for his early
                  love, came over him in full force. He thought but of her now; her deep love; her
                  foul wrong, and betrayed trust; and as he thought thus, he groaned in agony of
                  spirit. A few hours later found him with impatient footsteps approaching the
                  familiar little wicket-gate of the cottage. His heart smote him as he saw the
                  knocker of the door was muffled. Opening it softly, he entered. There was an air
                  of hushed quiet, even of gloom, reigning through the deserted rooms, which smote
                  him to the soul with a sense of desolation. No Lilian sprang, with light step and
                  open arms, to greet him now. No joyous shout from his boy welcomed him. In one
                  room he found a fire burnt down in the grate; and the remains of a cold repast, as
                  if the partakers had been hurriedly summoned from, and had not returned to finish
                  it. He was about to hasten to Lilian's chamber, when he was arrested by the
                  entrance of the physician. He was a kind, venerable-looking man, with hair silver
                  white; full of years and skill; and
                  there was a look of painful thought on his brow as he entered; but as his eyes
                  fell on the occupant of the room, an expression of indignation, amounting almost
                  to scorn, swept over his features—too quickly for the other to perceive it. In
                  answer to the anxious inquiries put to him, he replied that Lilian was yet in very
                  great danger, but, without some imprudence, he thought there was hope, every thing
                  depended on perfect quiet, and a careful avoidance of excitement of any kind; and
                  ended by positively prohibiting Harry from seeing her.
               "Would you have her die, and never see me?" cried Hal, with his usual
                  impetuosity.
               "No; but I would not have her pay with her life for the pleasure of a visit from
                  you. And after all, I doubt whether your presence would not cause her more pain
                  than pleasure. I know all, sir!" he added. "Her servant, or housekeeper, a very
                  respectable, worthy woman, by the way, thought it necessary to confide in me, and
                  it was best to do so. You need fear nothing from me, however. I have
                  heard worse secrets than this; and my profession, if not my honor, would compel me
                  to be discreet. I have given her some lulling medicine, and she was sinking to
                  sleep when I left. I never saw a patient," continued the doctor with a
                  contemplative air, "with such weak nerves, that required such powerful narcoties.
                  I thought at one time it would be impossible to produce sleep without giving her a
                  quantity of laudanum which would have been highly injurious to the system."
               At these words, which portrayed so forcibly the distracted state of poor Lilian,
                  Hal hid his face in his hands, and uttered in a suppressed tone, "My God!"
               "It is a pity," said the candid physician, "that people, before they rush into the
                  commission of wrong, do not pause to think of its consequences." The tone was
                  kind, but the words were severe.
               "Oh, sir!" replied Harry, struck to the heart with a sense of bitter shame, "I
                  never intended to wrong her thus. Reckless as I am, I am not a premeditated
                  villain. I was drawn into what I did by another, older, and I thought wiser, than
                  I. That would be no excuse for me now, but it was then, for I was a boy—a wild,
                  thoughtless boy! He did it through friendship for me; thought it for
                  the best, I believe," he added in a lower tone; "but by heavens, if Lilian dies,
                  he shall atone for the wrong with his blood!"
               "And so add murder to the list of your pleasant reflections," replied the
                  imperturbable physician. "A fine way, young man, to atone for a crime. Were I a
                  believer in the old Mosaic doctrine of 'an eye for an eye,' etc., I should
                  recommend you rather to kill yourself than your friend; for it seems she has
                  suffered, after all, more through your agency than his; though I have no doubt
                  that same friend, whoever he be, is as black-hearted a villain as
                  ever lived."
               After this candid declaration of his sentiments, the worthy physician replenished
                  the fire, and left his companion to his own reflections. And bitter reflections
                  were they, as he sat there, with his head drooping on his hands, his elbows
                  resting on the table, mute and motionless. With all his wildness, there was real,
                  genuine feeling, in Harry Vernon's nature. Passionate, and impulsive, he was
                  easily, too easily influenced by those to whom he once extended his confidence.
                  Arthur Plumdale, with his cold, demon-like craft, base cunning, and astute
                  intellect, had long since discovered this trait in the character of his generous
                  and unsuspecting friend; and how he had worked on it, was shown by the whole tenor
                  of Harry's life, from the first date of their intimacy. This mobility of
                  character, this susceptibility to present impressions, even when opposed to other
                  and existing feelings, accounts for his passionate admiration of Florence, even
                  when his calmer, but deeper affection for Lilian, slumbered in his bosom. It was
                  like the fleeting Aurora Borealis, whose brilliance dims the light of the pure,
                  calm stars, though the existence of the one is a few fleeting hours, that of the
                  other eternal.
               Fears for Lilian's life thronged thickly and darkly on his soul; and now, when her
                  very existence hung on a thread; when every moment he expected to hear the damning
                  intelligence that she was lost to him for ever, all his early tenderness revived.
                  How busily, in this hour of solitary musing, into which was compressed the
                  thoughts, hopes, and feelings of years, did memory bring back pictures of the
                  past: of Lilian, in her childlike loveliness, birdlike in her wild, joyous
                  innocence; then, too, those early days of love; their stolen interviews; their plighted faith, when
                  he called upon the calm, blue heaven, and pure, shining stars, to seal his truth.
                  Then, the happy days afterwards, when she was by his side, and the cottage looked
                  so gay; and life seemed so warm, so bright, so happy, lighted by her presence. And
                  now she was, oh God! dying! and his—his victim. He rose, and paced
                  the floor in uncontrollable grief; then, fearing his step might be heard, and, he
                  knew too well, recognized, he sat down again; sat down in that lonely room, with
                  sorrow in his heart, and gloom upon his brow. It seemed to him that the winter
                  sunlight, as it streamed into the room, looked wan and deathlike. Unable to
                  withstand the contending emotions which tortured his soul, he rose at length, and
                  rushed from the house. As he approached the mansion-house, his dogs, familiar with
                  his appearance, bounded forth to meet him; but no caressing hand, no kindly voice,
                  answered their impetuous greetings. As he wound his way through the shrubberies on
                  the lawn, he almost stumbled on little Harry.
               The boy was seated on the long grass, his arm thrown, as if seeking protection—for
                  no one was near him—over the neck of a large Newfoundland dog, which was standing
                  by his side, gazing into his face, with that peculiar canine sagacity, which seems
                  to speak of sympathy. He was evidently weary. Tired of play, and yearning for the
                  sight of his mother, from whom he had been for several days separated, his little
                  heart was full; and as his father came unperceived upon him, he was sitting in
                  silence, but large tears coursing quietly down his cheeks.
               "My boy!" said Harry, in as cheerful a tone as he could assume.
               At the sound of his voice, the child started, and bounded, shouting with joy, into
                  his arms. He was now—so quick is the transition of feeling in childhood—all glee,
                  while the dog gambolled around them, sympathizing in his joy as well as pain. Not
                  caring, in the present state of his feelings, to meet any of the inmates of the
                  mansion, notwithstanding the cold—for the child was hardy, and well wrapped up—Hal
                  carried his boy to the bower at the foot of the lawn.
               It was the same, where he had sat scarce two months since with Florence; and now
                  his spirit chafed, as he thought of that scene. Then, every thing was rich with
                  the glowing tints of autumn, and the soft sunlight looked on as fair a scene as
                  ever smiled beneath its radiance; now, all was bleak, and desolate as his own
                  soul.
               He sat with little Harry in his arms, listening to the boy's lisping complaints,
                  of how "Mary had sent him to Dame Burton, and Dame Burton wouldn't let him go back
                  to mamma," but made little reply; until the child, wearied by his silence, laid
                  his head on his bosom, and fell asleep. He then started with him to the house, but
                  meeting the nurse, who had come in search of her charge, he left him in her care,
                  and slowly and sadly returned to the cottage. There he stayed all that long, lone,
                  miserable night, and morning found him sleepless and unrefreshed. At
                  breakfast—from which he rose after swallowing a cup of coffee—Dr. Moffat strongly
                  recommended him to return to the city, saying, if Lilian by any chance heard of
                  his presence on the place, she would doubtless wish to see him, and the refusal,
                  or granting of this request, would, doubtless, prove injurious to her. In vain he
                  pleaded to stay, that he might at least be constantly apprised of her situation.
                  The doctor was firm. "You must think only of her now, not of yourself," he said.
                  "Sacrifice your feelings to her good. Had you always done so," he added under his
                  breath, "you would have saved her and yourself all this."
               Hal prepared to obey the inexorable mandate, after receiving the promise of a
                  daily report of Lilian's situation, and at the same moment a note was handed him
                  by Mary. It was from his father, desiring his immediate presence in the city.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               THE ATTEMPTED MURDER.
               
                  
                     
                        "'Tis him! 'tis him! could I mistake Lord Albert's hated form!"
                     
                     OLD BALLAD.
                  
               
               OUR readers, doubtless, think it time they were informed of the particulars of
                  Judge Woodward's sad accident, which
                  were briefly these. There was no man in New York, whose name was so great a terror
                  to evil-doers; and perhaps no one experienced this fear, combined with the most
                  intense hatred, in a greater degree than Mr. Augustus Smith, to whom the reader
                  has before had the honor of an introduction. Smith was, in every sense of the
                  word, a bold, bad man. For years he had pursued the path of crime, escaping almost
                  miraculously in several instances, the vigilance of the law, until he almost
                  defied its power. But in this defiance of the "dread powers that be" Judge
                  Woodward was always excepted. His very name fell on Mr. Smith's car coupled with
                  visions of detection, and the most rigorous punishment. The result of feelings
                  like these, in a mind like his, rendered daring by successful crime, may be
                  readily imagined. He resolved to rid himself, and the whole community of
                  Villaindom—for whom he doubtless felt the sympathy men usually feel for the
                  association of characters to which they belong—of this dreaded and powerful foe.
                  'Twas a daring deed, 'twas true, but had he not committed other daring deeds
                  undetected? Why not this? 'Tis useless to trace the dark and winding course of
                  crime in a bad man's mind. Suffice it to say that the scheme once formed, naught
                  remained but the accomplishment. For months Smith was not ignorant of one movement
                  on the part of his intended victim, but no available opportunity presented itself
                  for the execution of his design, until he began to wax desperate, as wiser men
                  than he have done, when delayed in the execution of a favorite purpose.
               After leaving Florence, notwithstanding the absorbing and painful nature of his
                  thoughts, Judge Woodward recollected an appointment he had made for that very
                  evening to call on an old friend, one whose fallen fortunes would not permit him
                  to forget his claim upon his time. After having paid a visit of some length, he
                  emerged from his friend's lodging, into the somewhat obscure street in which they
                  were situated, and turned his steps homeward; walking slowly as if absorbed in
                  thought.
               "Ah! there he is at last;" murmured a figure muffled in a cloak, who, slowly and
                  noiselessly tracked his footsteps, keeping as close in the shadow of the wall as
                  possible, and who—judging from the snowv hair which peeped from between tween the
                  folds of his worn cloak and hat, and his bent form and trembling movement,
                  assisted by a large stick on which he leaned, might have answered the description
                  of some poor beggar bending under the weight of years—"I thought my time would
                  come sooner or later. Just wait till he gets opposite our alley, near my little
                  underground sanctum, christened by boon companion Bill Brown the Rogue's Refuge;
                  and if I don't do for him, there is no virtue in an ounce of cold lead. I hate
                  this pistoling business too, the barkers make such a noise; but then if I were to
                  attempt to fix him with a keener, he might grapple me, and there's no telling then
                  who'd get the worst of it." Scarcely had these half murmured words escaped his
                  lips, when the footsteps of his victim arrived at the fatal spot alluded to. The
                  report of a pistol startled the still night air; Judge Woodward fell, and in
                  another instant Mr. Smith found himself by some mysterious means, minus his
                  disguise, two stories underground, groping through a room which was in utter
                  darkness. He thought he heard a footstep. "I say, Bill, is that you? you must be
                  d—d fond of darkness. Strike a light, and let me see where to hide. I have just
                  finished that cursed piece of business above, and missed the bloodhounds*
                     just about the slickest you ever saw."
               
                  
                  *Police.
               
               The next moment a lantern glared in his face, revealing to his astonished and
                  horrified gaze the forms of some half-dozen policemen. In an instant he was in
                  their grasp, struggling hopelessly to escape. They had made a descent that very
                  night upon the den in question (the existence of which had been hitherto supposed
                  by the gang who frequented it, to be unknown), in search of some malefactor; and
                  by the merest chance Mr. Smith was thus secured, even ere the nature of his crime
                  was known, and merely from the testimony of his own hastily uttered words. The
                  police were however not long in discovering the nature of the "cursed piece of
                  business" he had just finished.
               Many were the curses heaped by Smith on what he now chose to consider the rash
                  desperation of the act he had just commited; but he wound up his disconsolate
                  reflections by exclaiming, "Well, at least I shall not die without my revenge; and
                  I have rid my companions, too of their greatest horror; and after all, there is glory in dying for
                  the good of one's fellow men:" and having delivered himself of these just and
                  patriotic sentiments, he submitted to be led to prison, there to await the penalty
                  of the law.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               THE DESERTED.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "These are words of deeper sorrow
                           Than the wail above the dead."
                        
                        
                           "Fare thee well, thus disunited,
                           Torn from every nearer tie,
                           Seared in heart, and lone, and blighted,
                           More than this I scarce can die."
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               It was midnight in the room where lay the wretched Lilian. After three days of
                  wild, raving delirium, she awoke to consciousness in this lonely hour. A small
                  taper shed its dim light through the room. Overcome by the anxiety and fatigue of
                  the last few days, Mary slumbered in an arm chair near the bed. The physician had
                  retired to rest; leaving directions with her, and an order to awake him if any
                  thing was needed. The past rushed over the memory of the stricken girl, as she lay
                  there in that midnight solitude. She uttered no groan, but wild thoughts of agony,
                  too deep for utterance, swept through her soul. At length all these thoughts,
                  wronged love, dark despair, and the bitter sense of an undeserved shame, which had
                  fallen like a blight on her life, concentrated themselves into one passionate
                  desire; she must write to him; tell him that she knew all; pour out
                  the anguished thoughts which maddened her soul, and then, oh God! bid him farewell
                  for ever.
               She looked around her. Mary's heavy, slumberous breathing told that she still
                  slept. On the table near was the pen, ink, and paper the doctor had used in
                  writing his prescription; and by the taper was a candle and matches. With a
                  strength which seemed unnatural, after the exhausting hemorrhage and violent
                  suffering, with which, for the last few days, her slight frame had been racked—the
                  strength of will and power of feeling triumphing over bodily weakness
                  —she rose from the bed, lit the candle, placed it so that the glare was shaded
                  from Mary's eyes, and seating herself by the table, commenced her harrowing task.
                  Rapidly as lightning, with flushed cheek, and eyes which burned with a wild,
                  unnatural fire, she wrote; ever and anon glancing fearfully around to see if Mary
                  still slept, but determined, even if she awoke, to fulfil her purpose.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           HARRY,—I know all—yes, all!—and had this fair, smiling
                              world, of lying lips and breaking hearts, suddenly passed from before
                              my gaze, and the horrors of the eternal world of darkness arisen
                              before me, the shock would have been as nothing compared
                              to this! Did you never love me? Was it all dark, wicked, demon-like
                              deception throughout? Then God permits fiends to borrow
                              the likeness of angels, to deceive the true and trusting. But I—oh,
                              Harry! what did I ever do to you, that you should single
                              me out for this fell purpose? What but love you, cling to you, forsake
                              father, home—the world—for you! And now (oh! the world of horrors in
                              that word now), what am I—I, who have lain on your bosom
                              in trusting love, who have cradled our child in my arms; who of all
                              the world loved, trusted, looked to you for happiness, and protection?
                              A stricken-hearted thing, bowing in dust and ashes,—in the agony of a
                              shame of which I was as unconscious as the babe which rested on my
                              bosom,—in sorrow from which there is no refuge but the grave. You have
                              robbed me of all trust in human love, of all faith in truth, even
                              Divine truth. There is no home, no hope, no heaven for me
                              now. With my love of you—my trust in you—was linked every pure and
                              religious feeling of my nature. Deceived in that, heaven
                              seems but a fabled spot; religion a delusion, and the name of Divine
                              Mercy a mockery. A fever is in my veins, perchance the fever of death;
                              oh! that it may in mercy be so! What a blessed boon it would be to
                              forget, in the quiet of the grave, this world of deception, crime and
                              suffering. You will say that these are wild words for Lilian,—her whom
                              you were wont to call your "gentle love." Know you not that wrong, and
                              fraud, and cruelty, will transform an angel into a fiend? How can we
                              believe in the existence of honor, truth, or generosity, when we see
                              our every dream of loving hope, and clinging trust, crushed into dust; when we have lived
                              to find all we most cherished, as holiest and best, but a fearful
                              delusion? And my child,—the nameless offspring of shame,—a thing which
                              those who esteem themselves high, and holy, and virtuous, will pass as
                              a blot on the earth's surface,—oh! that his baby heart might be
                              stilled, ere its pulsations have been quickened by the agony which
                              tortures mine. A world of love—the mother's love—rises, and heaves,
                              and surges in restless billows through my soul at the thought of my
                              child; adding new might to the weight of sorrow, which bows me to the
                              earth. As soon as I can, I will leave this place; and oh! Harry, when
                              another claims my place in your heart, when another's smile is the
                              light of your home, and other faces than mine, and that of your baby
                              boy, cluster around you, looking to you for protection, and happiness;
                              when with the anxious tenderness of a husband and a father, you would
                              invoke with trembling lips a blessing on your darlings, praying God to
                              shield their life from storm, and sorrow, and loneliness;—then think
                              of those who are desolate and homeless wanderers, on the face of the
                              earth; think how you have robbed another of the very blessings for
                              which you sue; and that other, one who loved you, trusted
                              you, cared for you, as none other can,—but I cannot linger on this. If
                              I could but believe you wronged! But then your neglect for months
                              past,—this tale coming from one who could have no motive in deceiving
                              me, and who repeated it as the common gossip of the household! And
                              yet, oh! that one glimpse of heaven-light that breaks through the
                              midnight clouds—the hope that you may have been wronged.
                              But no, it cannot be—it cannot be. My words may seem to you wild, even
                              delirious; but as I glance over them, they are to me cold, faint, and
                              meaningless, so dimly do they shadow forth my feelings. I can write no
                              more,—strength, heart, life, forsake me. Harry, farewell.
                           
                              LILIAN.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She folded and directed the blotted scrawl, and rising with an effort, went to the
                  window and raised the curtain. The blinds were unclosed, and she looked out on the
                  mid-night sky, covered with dark threatening clouds; not a star relieving the
                  intense gloom. The keen blast swept, now in fitful gusts, now in melancholy
                  murmurs, through the trees, like the alternate outbursts of grief, and low, faint
                  moans of a breaking heart. As she gazed out on the drear scene, the bitter sense
                  of the desolation without, and within, struck like an icebolt on her heart; and
                  overpowered by the fatigue of her recent exertions, she uttered a groan, and sunk
                  exhausted on the floor. Aroused by the sound from her slumbers, Mary started up,
                  reproaching herself for having allowed sleep for a moment to interrupt her vigil;
                  hurried to the bed, and perceiving it vacant, looked round in wild alarm for her
                  mistress; then perceiving the recumbent and motionless form by the window, she
                  approached and raised her tenderly.
               "I am not insensible," said Lilian faintly. "The boon of unconsciousness is denied
                  me;" and with Mary's assistance she reached the bed, and then her first inquiry
                  was for her boy. Mary explained that he was well taken care of, but was not
                  permitted to stay in the room for fear of disturbing her, as she had been very
                  ill.
               Lilian said no more, but lay in passive silence, her hands clasped, her tearless
                  eyes fixed, but seeing many a troubled vision rise between her and the blank white
                  ceiling, on which they seemed to gaze. There was a look of such marble pallor on
                  the deathlike features, that the solitary watcher in that lonely chamber shrunk
                  appalled from the sight. But this feeling soon vanished in one of pity.
               "Her heart is breaking!" sobbed Mary passionately, "her poor young heart is
                  breaking. Oh! God have mercy on her!" and throwing herself on her knees, she
                  prayed aloud. Attracted by those fervent and impassioned tones stealing through
                  the stillness of the room, Lilian listened. She heard Mary—her own good and
                  faithful Mary—faithful as is devoted woman ever to those she loves—beseech that
                  Power which had brought her out of the ways of darkness; subdued her rebellious
                  heart by sorrows; and brought her out of the depths of despair, into the wonderful
                  light and knowledge of His love; who had poured the oil of consoling love on the
                  wild waves of her own soul; to have mercy on the young desolate being, stricken
                  down by man's wrong and injustice before Him. So impressive was the prayer, in its
                  simple eloquence and trusting faith, that Lilian felt her soul melt within her.
                  The ice of despair, which had gathered coldly and darkly over her soul, melted
                  beneath the influence ence of those
                  God-inspired words. Fearing to interrupt the prayer, she lay without speech or
                  motion, while large tears gathered and rolled down her cheeks. Every tear—wrung as
                  they were from her bruised and wounded heart's core—was a gem, for they bore away
                  in their briny drops, some portion of the grief that burdened her soul. And
                  gently, and surely, as if inspired by the Divine Healer of wounded spirits, came
                  upon her the conviction that there was a Fount of Consolation open for her still;
                  that the God whom in her hour of utter darkness she had cast from her, nay, almost
                  accused of being the author of her misery, waited with open arms for the hour when
                  his stricken and wandering child should seek the Parent bosom, lay her weary head
                  there in childlike trust, and have the protecting wings of Love and Mercy folded
                  around her. She was naturally inclined to religion, as are all women who have her
                  enthusiastic and boundless fund of love in their natures; if they
                  err, 'tis because, unfortunately, their feelings have been warped or forced aside
                  by extraneous circumstances. With Lilian it had been the religion of nature alone,
                  the adoring worship which the young heart pours forth as the natural outgushings
                  of love on the shrine of its Creator; the reverential tenderness of the child for
                  the Father and Protector. She had never realized that she needed the precious boon
                  of the Saviour's redeeming love; never realized the innate sin of her own heart
                  and life; of this she had been heedless and thoughtless. Now as she lay there, and
                  thought of her wild murmurings against Providence, a thousand other offences rose
                  up in her mind's eye before her; and covering her face with her hands, as if to
                  conceal it from the gaze of a justly offended Father, she exclaimed aloud in her
                  agony:
               "Oh God! canst thou ever forgive my transgressions against Thee?" Then as a seraph
                  vision before her, arose the form of the Son of His love; the halo from the
                  Mercyseat encircling the Godlike head; love, pure, perfect, eternal, breathing in
                  the Divine face; and stealing over her soul like far off sweet music, came the
                  memory of the words, "Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe
                  also in me. Come unto me, all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give
                  you rest."
               And Lilian reached out her arms in wild entreaty, towards wards the vision—which
                  to her fevered brain seemed reality—as she murmured, "Blessed Saviour, intercede
                  with the Father for me!"
               O! Jesus of Nazareth! poor and lonely Pilgrim! Saviour of Divine love! bright in
                  glorious mercy at the right hand of the Eternal! how potent a spell-word is Thy
                  name, to the weary and stricken-hearted."
               Mary had ceased her prayer, and stood silently watching the emotions which spoke
                  in the agitated countenance of Lilian. Joy filled the soul of the faithful
                  creature as she heard the last exclamation burst from the lips of her mistress.
                  "He will! He will indeed, Miss Lilian;" and she seized her small white hands and
                  bathed them with her tears. "Like as He brought me out of miry pits and deep
                  waters, and guided me into the way of perfect peace, so will He do by you, Miss
                  Lilian. Trust Him! only trust Him!"
               "Mary, did you ever have grief like mine?"
               "Miss Lilian, am I not a widow, and has not the willow tree waved for many a year
                  over the grass-grown graves of my two children?"
               "Forgive me, that I was so selfish as to forget your bereavement. Poor Mary!" and
                  she placed her hand with caressing fondness on the shoulder of her, who was more a
                  friend than a servant. "Mary, how could you bear all that, and live?"
               "I could not have borne it, Miss Lilian, but the strength of a Higher Power
                  sustained me, and the love of God brought me through, as it will you, Miss
                  Lily."
               "I hope so, Mary. Sing for me, one of those wild sweet hymns you used to be so
                  fond of singing in the long summer days, when you sat with your work under the
                  shade of the trees before the cottage door. Ah! those were happy days!" and she
                  sighed a deep, passionate sigh, as she turned her head quickly away. Mary thought
                  a moment, and then sung in her fine, clear voice, with deep feeling, Moore's
                  beautiful hymn, "Come ye disconsolate." Lilian listened like a child lulled to
                  rest by its mother's lullaby, until she sank into a calm, sweet slumber—the first
                  natural sleep she had known since her illness. Mary bent over her, as she lay in
                  her childlike beauty, over which had passed in the last few days the fearful
                  traces of the woman's suffering. Sorrow was written on the wan cheek; on the pale brow—from
                  which the brown curls were thrown back in careless disorder; on the temples which
                  were slightly indented from recent and severe pain; in the dark blue circles
                  around the eyes; and in the shining moisture trembling on the long jetty lashes,
                  which rested—in striking contrast—on the colorless cheek. Could Harry Vernon have
                  seen her then, what must have been his feelings? Oh man! in the strength of thy
                  proud spirit, in the power and immunity which the world gives thee in matters of
                  right and wrong between the sexes; and oh, woman! in thy fond weakness; thy
                  fidelity unto death; thy self-sacrificing devotion; thy fearful gift of bearing
                  and suffering for him, who sometimes forgets the character of the protector, in
                  that of the false-hearted betrayer—how unequal is thy lot.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               CHAT BEHIND THE CURTAIN.
               "JUST think of it, Moreton, isn't it too much? Gussy Plumdale and Fitz Friske are
                  to be married next week; a succession of brilliant parties will be given of
                  course, and I shall not be able to attend one of them, just in consequence of
                  Judge Woodward getting shot, and being brought here." And she rocked to and fro,
                  in the impetuosity of her feelings, for fashionable women have impetuous feelings
                  behind the curtain, however great may seem their polished indifference in
                  society.
               "It is rather provoking;" was the languid reply of her cara sposa, as he cut the leaves of a new novel, and
                  settled himself more comfortably on the sofa, "but can't you attend any of
                  them?"
               "Nonsense, how you talk! How would it look for me to run here, there, and every
                  where, to every festivity of the season, when Judge Woodward is lying at death's
                  door in my house?"
               "He will be convalescent before long, I guess. His physicians sicians think him in
                  a fair way of recovery now. Where is Eva this morning?"
               "With Judge Woodward. I left her there a few moments ago."
               "Beg pardon, my dear; but do you think it exactly proper to leave a young lady in
                  a gentleman's sick room?"
               "Why, what harm can a man half dead do her? Besides the hired nurse is there."
               "I am not apprehensive that he will do her any harm, dead or alive," answered Mr.
                  Moreton, smiling, though with a slight expression of annoyance; "but regard for
                  appearances you know——"
               "Regard for appearances, indeed! nobody is going there now, but a physician, and
                  they have no right to say any thing, no matter what they think. If you have so
                  much regard for appearances, go and stay there yourself. I have sat there day
                  after day, and hour after hour, until the confinement of the sick room has made me
                  feel wretchedly, and robbed me of all my bloom." And she rose, and gazed into the
                  large mirror which reflected her petite figure
                  in its tasteful demi-toilet. Certainly her cheek looked a little pale,
                  notwithstanding the rose hued ribbons of her morning cap, which were so disposed
                  as to shade her face slightly; but it seemed more the languid hue of dissipation,
                  than the effect of confinement. Mr. Moreton smiled, knowing that his wife had not
                  been in the sick room an hour at a time, any day, spending her mornings in
                  visiting, and her evenings in promenading and shopping—from which Judge Woodward's
                  illness, fortunately, did not exclude her.
               After a pause, he said:
               "Judge Woodward's accident may be fortunate m one way, my dear. It may give you an
                  opportunity of bringing about your favorite project; a match between him and
                  Eva."
               "Oh! there is no danger of that. When Florence Fulton once gets a man entangled in
                  her meshes, he never has eyes or ears for any other woman. She sends here every
                  day to inquire after him, just to make their engagement conspicuous. I don't
                  believe she cares a straw for him in reality."
               "Do you think she cares for any one?" said Mr. Moreton, fixing his eyes with a
                  peculiar expression on his wife's face.
               
               "Yes, I do, Moreton;" and she lowered her voice, speaking with that peculiar
                  expression people always use when hinting darkly at terrible truths, unknown to
                  the many; but which they in their superior wisdom (oftener in their vindictive
                  malice), have been enabled to discover. "I believe she loves Claude St.
                     Julian. You'll see; I wouldn't say it publicly, but——"
               "Pshaw!" interrupted her husband. "All you women adore St. Julian, and you think
                  the darling wears Miss Fulton's chains. That is the reason you are so unmerciful
                  on her."
               His wife tossed her head. "I am sure I have never shown any particular fancy for
                  him, further than always to have him at our receptions, but that is only because
                  he is so gay and agreeable, and helps to make an evening pass off well. Besides,
                  he is one of the 'leaders of the ton,' and it counts to have such
                  persons at one's house."
               "Precisely. You regard him as a sort of ace of trumps in the game of life. Well,
                     hearts are always trumps in his game, I assure you."
               "I know nothing about your odious gambling expressions, but as I was about to say
                  when you interrupted me—which you seem to take particular pleasure in doing on
                  every occasion—I have taken every possible opportunity of throwing Florence in St.
                  Julian's way. I thought Judge Woodward could not be blind to her penchant for le
                     charmant Benedick, and that would be enough for him of course."
               "Or for any other man, I imagine. It certainly showed good principle in you—that
                  manœuvre," he continued sarcastically; "but after all, it was but an indifferent
                  stroke of policy."
               "Why so?"
               "If you don't understand, I shall not condescend to enlighten you."
               Mrs. Moreton sat some moments, puzzling her little brain to solve the problem,
                  with a look of bewilderment on her contracted alias delicate features, which amused her husband excessively; then
                  giving it up for a troublesome operation, and knowing it was vain to apply for an
                  explanation, she changed the subject.
               "By the way, I have not heard you refer to your embarassments lately. Pray, how
                  did you get through them?"
               "A mortgage on the Staten Island property, stopped the mouths of the clamorous
                  wretches for the present, but how I am to get along after a while, without some
                  windfall of fortune, d—— me if I know."
               "Dear me!" said Mrs. Moreton, glancing at her watch and rising hastily, "this
                  conjugal tête-à-tête has been prolonged half an
                  hour. I must really walk or drive for a color."
               "Drive to Madame B——'s fancy store. I observe you always 'get a
                  color' when you go there," replied her sarcastic husband.
               "If there isn't Florence Fulton's carriage!" cried Mrs. Moreton, pausing at the
                  window, as she was sweeping from the room, without condescending to notice her
                  liege lord's last remark; "and as I live! Florence, Ella Vernon, and Licut. Minton
                  getting out of it; so there's an end to my drive."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               THE INVALID.
               
                  
                     
                        "There is something in sickness, which breaks down the pride of manhood,
                           which softens the heart, and brings it back to the feelings of
                           childhood."
                     
                     IRVING.
                  
               
               RELIEVED for the first time for many days, of pain, Judge Woodward sunk into a
                  calm, refreshing slumber, while the hired nurse, lulled by the drowsy atmosphere
                  of the close and darkened room, dozed quietly by the bedside. Relieved by the
                  closed eyes and open mouth of the worthy nurse, and the quiet, regular breathing
                  of the invalid, from any fear of detection, Eva, the ever watchful, stole
                  noiselessly to the bed, and drew aside the curtains, to gaze unchecked on the
                  friend she loved so well; whose danger for the last few weeks had almost maddened
                  her with anxiety. She stood there like a watching angel, bending over the couch of
                  the sleeper; a silent prayer of gratitude for his preservation welling up from her
                  full heart. True, he was spared, as she believed, to love and live for another;
                  yet he shared this world—broad though
                  it was—with her, and the same blue heaven and shining stars looked down on
                  both.
               Suddenly, and without any premonitory movement, the invalid opened his eyes;
                  opened them to encounter those soft, blue Madonna eyes, fixed upon him swimming in
                  tenderness. Hastily, and with a deep blush, Eva dropped the curtains and shrunk
                  from the bedside.
               As Judge Woodward encountered that glance, the words of Florence rushed upon his
                  memory, and as the conviction of their truth burst upon him, the brow of the
                  ordinarily calm, self-assured man, crimsoned with a glow akin to that which
                  flushed the cheek of the modest young girl.
               He had lain so long in one position, that his wound pained him intensely. The
                  pillow had twisted itself awry, too, so that his head rested so uncomfortably, it
                  increased his agony. He could not suppress a groan. Eva heard it, and forgetting
                  every thing else, was by his side in an instant.
               "Let me arrange your pillow," said she averting her eyes, and blushing again, but
                  not shrinking with any affected coyness from the task. He made an ineffectual
                  effort to raise his head, and she was compelled to pass one arm around his neck,
                  and assist him, while with the other she arranged the pillow; then rested his head
                  softly upon it, and bringing cologne, bathed his brow.
               "I feel much better now, thank you," said the gentleman with a grateful look, but
                  with a certain degree of reserve, for the 'dear Eva how kind you are,' which in
                  other days he would have used, died on his lips. Eva said not a word, but
                  tremblingly, and blushingly, retired from the room, after arousing the nurse.
               Judge Woodward saw her no more that day, nor the next, nor the next. He missed her
                  sweet face, her gentle, soothing attentions, bestowed as no one else could bestow
                  them, and the music of her low, kindly tones. Yet it was a sort of luxury, to lie
                  and think of the kindness she had already bestowed on him. The image of Florence
                  yet lingered painfully in his memory, but it was as the remembrance of one loved
                  and lost.
               Men of mature years, however deep their feelings, seldom linger, and reach after,
                  and waste vain thoughts upon that which is beyond their reach. Unlike the
                  impetuosity of youth, which yearns even more fondly for the unattainable, they
                  have learned by experience the philosophy of life; and instead of spending golden
                  hours in vain lamentations over the loss of some favorite object of pursuit, they
                  strive to forget it, or to fill the void by something which is procurable.
                  Spendthrift youth squanders heedlessly its wealth of time, thought, and feeling;
                  but mature years has no time to lose. Possession, not anticipation, is then the
                  motto. Thus, though Judge Woodward had told Florence, and felt his words at the
                  moment, that he believed his last dream of love was over; yet it is not strange,
                  on the principle we have just named, that the consciousness that all thought of
                  her was vain, should work a great change in his feelings towards her. Perhaps too,
                  the new conviction which had burst upon him united in producing the effect,—for
                  what man of his age could be insensible to the charm of being loved by such a
                  sweet fair young creature as Eva,—more especially when wounded by a recent repulse
                  from another. To think that the wealth of love, in that pure, true heart, was all
                  his. It was certainly a consoling reflection. The more he strove to banish the
                  memory of Florence, the more tenderly and fondly he thought of Eva, and the
                  reaction soothed his feelings; it was calm, soft, delicious. It was as if, lured
                  by some fair southern scene of sunlight and beauty, he had roved 'mid flowers,
                  fruits, song and pleasure, until the flowers faded suddenly in his way, the bright
                  fruit pressed to his yearning lips became ashes, and weary and disappointed, he
                  had turned aside to seek some quiet spot for rest; where he had been lulled to
                  sleep by the soft murmur of falling waters, and amid the sweet odor of violets. He
                  did not ask for Eva again, after the little scene we have related; delicacy
                  restrained him, though he yearned for her presence. And Eva,—somebody says "when
                  love dares to creep from his hiding place in the heart of a young maiden, and
                  ventures to peep out at the 'windows of the soul,' and is caught in the very act,
                  timid and shocked, he shrinks back; shutting himself more closely than ever from
                  observation." It seems to me the ancients ought to have created two distinct
                  loves, and not have given Cupid the universal empire. Bright and beautiful, dreamy
                  and poetic, though the boy god may be,
                  there is nothing—there can be nothing—in the masculine world, capable of
                  representing the depth of devotion, the trembling, sensitive, and delicate nature
                  of woman's love; that love whose depth can never be guessed by its outward
                  manifestations; like a fountain underground, still, deep, pure, put unseen. Bright
                  flowers may spring above it, whose fragrance charms the senses, and ravishes the
                  soul; but while we inhale their perfume, we dream not of the depths and purity of
                  the hidden stream which nursed those flowerets into life and gladness.
               Though she did not suspect Judge Woodward of having discovered her secret, (how
                  would she have felt had she known all?) still, when Eva thought of the little
                  incident in the sick chamber—the stolen glance, the discovered watcher,—she
                  blushed, and trembled, and could not prevail on herself to enter the room again.
                  But at last, reflection, sympathy, and it may be some other secret feeling, coming
                  to her aid, she reproached herself for allowing what she called her foolish fears,
                  to interfere with what she chose to consider her duty. The result of these
                  reflections was her return to the sick-room as usual, at stated intervals, to read
                  for and watch by the invalid; greatly to the delight of that gentleman, whose
                  beaming smile of welcome when she entered the apartment, told plainer than words
                  could do, his appreciation of her visits. Day after day passed away, and Judge
                  Woodward became convalescent, and able with some little assistance to reach the
                  back parlor, and there reclining on a lounge, drawn near a cheery fire, with Eva
                  by his side, beguiling the hours,—sometimes by reading the inspired pages of the
                  Book of books, sometimes from some pleasant author—or singing his favorite songs,
                  accompanying her sweet voice with the harp—he began to find his confinement a real
                  luxury, and prolonged it—as Mrs. Moreton thought—to a most unnecessarily
                  protracted period. Irving, our own gifted Irving—every line of whose productions
                  is glowing with the genius and truth of heart inspiration—says that, "there is
                  something in sickness which breaks down the pride of manhood; which softens the
                  heart, and brings it back to the feelings of childhood," and thus it was with
                  Judge Woodward. As he lay in the languor of recent illness—the vigorous blood of
                  health not yet returned to his cheek, shut out from the din and bustle of the
                  world without,—recent impressions were forgotten, and the feelings of past years
                  came freshly back upon him. Once more he was the boy of eighteen, with the bright
                  hopes of life's spring flinging their first fragrance o'er his path—the warm
                  heart-life of youth bounding in his veins; the orphan boy, in the home of his kind
                  guardians, Eva's parents—tossing the lovely babe in his arms, who now sat by his
                  side in the bloom of maiden beauty. Then years had passed, and he was by her side
                  cheering his "little wife," as he was ofttimes wont to call her, in her tasks;
                  making her redouble her efforts in the endeavor to win one smile of approval from
                  him; and as these long vanished memories came back upon him, he thought how
                  unwittingly he had taught Eva to expect the love he had never given. Yes, he had
                  taught her to love him, and his gaze lingered kindly and tenderly upon her. "If
                  the future could atone—" Well, it was a strange situation for a grave and reverend
                  judge, but who can say it had not its charm? However powerful and distinguished a
                  man may be in his public character, he must be indeed unfortunate, if he has no
                  loving heart, no sweet home scenes to turn to, which call forth the better and
                  kindlier feelings of his nature, and assert their sway over the mere purposes of
                  intellect and ambition. God has implanted in every human heart, whether lofty or
                  lowly, in a greater or less degree, a yearning for love and sympathy; and sad
                  indeed must be the destiny—however brilliant it seem—which is deprived of their
                  gratification. Many persons associate the idea of a great intellect with want of
                  feeling,—perhaps because they imagine the myraid tiny links which form the chain
                  of social intercourse, sympathy, and affection, too trivial to engross the
                  thoughts of those whose ideas are perchance to enlighten ages yet to come;—but
                  this proves their own want of judgment, rather than the truth of their theory.
                  'Tis impossible for the minds of the many to conceive, in the remotest degree, of
                  the limitless depth, and power of feeling imprisoned in the souls of the "Mighty
                  Few." What would intellect be without feeling; but as a glorious shrine, unwarmed
                  by the Promethean spark which can alone kindle its cold incense, and send it
                  warmly and freshly forth upon the earth?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XL.
               REFLECTION AND REPENTANCE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "His cup of life was quaffed too quickly, and he found
                           The dregs were wormwood."
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And our house, our old and lordly house; sweet sister, must it fall
                              from
                           Its haught pristine greatness?"
                        
                     
                     OLD PLAY.
                  
               
               UPONHarry Vernon's arrival at his father's house in town, he was informed that he
                  desired a private interview with him, and that he would find him in the library.
                  Anticipating a paternal lecture, but feeling indifferent in the present state of
                  his feelings to any ordinary occurrence, he obeyed the summons. We will not detail
                  at length the protracted interview between the father and son; suffice it to say,
                  that at its close, Harry Vernon left the library a "sadder and a wiser man." The
                  events of the last few days, had done the work of years upon him. It was several
                  days afterwards that he sat alone, in an apartment of his father's house. He
                  seemed to be indisposed, for a dressing-gown was thrown carelessly around him,
                  though it was evening, and the thick curls of his hair hung in tangled masses
                  around his face, which was deathly pale. There was perceptible in every thing
                  about him, that disregard or forgetfulness of appearances, which is always the
                  accompaniment, in minds peculiarly constituted, of mental suffering. We have said
                  his face was deathly pale; and his eyes—those large lustrous eyes of jetty
                  darkness, which gave character to his whole face—burned with a fevered glare.
                  Twilight had gathered in the room, the street lamps were already lighted, and on
                  the passers to and fro the eyes of the young man were fixed, yet he saw nothing
                  without. In his hand he clasped a letter—Lilian's letter,—and ever and anon, as
                  his eyes fell upon it, the full curved lip quivered, the only outward sign of
                  emotion, save that he grew, if it were possible, yet paler. His solitude,
                  absorbing and painful as it seemed, was interrupted by a light step, and his
                  sister stood by his side. "My dear brother," she said, in the kindly tones of
                  sisterly affection, passing her arm caressingly around his neck, and pressing her
                  cool soft hand to his fevered brow, "it is imprudent in you to be sitting up, when
                  you are so much indisposed; had you not better lie down?"
               "I cannot lie down!" replied her brother, turning his dark eyes upon her with that
                  wild gaze from which she always shrunk; "I cannot lie down, and let my very soul
                  be consumed by the burning thoughts within me. My spirit frets and chafes in this
                  inaction like a thirsty tiger in its cage. I have been lying down until I am
                  nearly wearied to death;" and he rose, and paced the room with disordered steps.
                  Ella approached him, and laid her hand on his arm.
               "Harry, sit down, and let me talk to you, and try to be calm, will you not?"
               He turned, and looked at her in silence for a moment, and then, as if won by her
                  look of sympathy, obeyed her request. She seated herself by his side.
               "Try to bear our reverses better, brother. Remember that a Higher Power——"
               "How can I bear them calmly," he broke in impetuously, "when I feel that my
                  reckless course of conduct has contributed, in a great degree, towards bringing
                  these misfortunes upon us?"
               "Oh! no, Harry, not so bad as that. We have all been very extravagant; that fault
                  has not rested solely with you. Besides, you know it is the failure of Smithson,
                  for the large amount for which our father was security, which has involved him in
                  these present difficulties. By a mortgage on Vernon, he can meet his present
                  liabilities, and perhaps, before others become due, make some other
                  arrangement——"
               "You know," interrupted her brother, bitterly, "that in a few months, at farthest,
                  this establishment, and every thing in it, will be sold, and—admitting that our
                  affairs are kept secret until then—how will you feel when our misfortunes are
                  bruited about from mouth to mouth,—when the world begins to sneer,—affect
                  pity,—and call us 'broken down aristocracy?' And supposing my father makes
                  arrangements which will enable us to keep Vernon, how will you feel, Ella, when
                  compelled to leave all the gayeties, and luxuries of city life, and settle down in
                  the country? 'Tis of you, I think, my sweet sister, as well as my dear, my noble
                  father," and he took his sister's hands in his own, and looked earnestly and
                  sorrowfully into her face.
               
               "Do not fear for me, brother! You know I was always fond of country life; besides,
                  I do not expect to be Miss Vernon always," she added, with a smile and a
                  blush.
               "What do you mean, sis? Has Minton——"
               "Hush, Bud!" replied his sister, placing her hand over his mouth with arch
                  playfulness. "Imagine any thing you choose, but don't ask me to explain."
               Hal gazed on her with a faint smile, and bending over, kissed her brow
                  tenderly.
               "I congratulate you, sis. Minton is a devilish good fellow," he added, with a dash
                  of his usual impetuosity, "and I don't know any one I would give you to more
                  willingly; but," and his voice changed, "when he knows your altered
                  prospects?"
               "I would spurn him from my side, if I thought he could be influenced by such
                  motives," answered Ella proudly.
               "There are few disinterested men in the world, my little sis; however, Fred.
                  Minton seems to be, and I dare say is, an honorable fellow. I hope you may be
                  happy, sister; but I, my God! I am miserable, and doomed to be the source of
                  misery to all who love me." Again the dark cloud which had momentarily passed from
                  his brow, settled with increasing gloom upon it, and rising with folded arms, he
                  paced silently to and fro the room.
               "Read that!" he said at length, suddenly pausing before his sister, who was
                  regarding him with silent anxiety, and drawing from his bosom Lilian's letter,
                  which he had hastily thrust there on her entrance,—"read that, and tell me if I
                  have not cause for the hell within my soul! A man who could read, unmoved, the
                  agony expressed in that letter—knowing himself to be the cause of it—must be
                  nearly allied to a demon."
               Ella read the letter, and ere she finished, her tears were dropping fast and
                  thickly upon it.
               "How you have deceived her. Poor, poor Lilian!" she exclaimed, as she returned it
                  to her brother. "And what will you say to her now, Harry?"
               "Say to her? I will offer her all I have to give, if God do not curse me by
                  inflicting her death on me, as the punishment of my crime. Yes, even if she dies,
                  she shall know first that my hand, my heart, my home, are all hers, though I do
                  not deserve that she should accept the offering."
               "My noble brother! your own true high soul spoke out then. You are worthy of any
                  woman, spite of your faults. But—our mother, Harry—the world——?"
               "Curse the world! Let it say what it will, I don't care; and as for my mother, she
                  helped to make me what I am; she crossed me in my love for Lilian; now let her
                  take the consequences. As far as she is concerned, I wish they were worse; though
                  I dare say they will hurt her confounded pride enough as it is."
               "Oh! brother, don't talk so. Remember she is your mother. She thinks it so unkind
                  that you never go in to see her—or at least very rarely—when you know she is not
                  able to leave her room."
               "I don't want to see her. I am not fond of hysterics, and scenes, and all those
                  fine lady antics mother is so fond of getting up."
               He turned to leave the room; Ella stopped him.
               "One word," she said; "tell me, is there not something of an engagement existing
                  between Florence and yourself?"
               "There is," he replied, coldly and briefly.
               "Then how will you act towards her if——"
               "I don't know, I can't think of her now. If Lilian will receive me, I belong of
                  right to her alone. If not, it matters not much what becomes of me. But don't fear
                  for Florence, sis; I don't think she cares much for me." He turned again to leave
                  the room, but paused on the threshold.
               "I will make you a promise, sister. A great change has come over me, in the last
                  few days, and for the future I shall try to be a better boy." And with a smile so
                  different from his former joyous gayety, that it almost made Ella weep, he left
                  the room.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLI.
               THE WRONGER SEEKS TO ATONE TO THE WRONGED,—THE EVIL GENIUS
                  AGAIN.
               
                  
                     
                        "And thou!—thou!—so wildly worshipped, so guiltily betrayed,—all is not
                           yet lost."
                     
                     BULWER.
                  
               
               HARRY VERNON had gained the solitude of his own room, drawn forth his writing
                  materials, and was seated, his brow resting on his band, lost in thought, when he
                  was interrupted by a tap at the door, followed by Arthur Plumdale's
                  appearance.
               "How are you this evening, my dear fellow? Writing? Don't let me interrupt you.
                  Make myself at home till you finish;" and he took up the "Spirit of the Times,"
                  drew a lamp near him, and soon became apparently absorbed in its contents; though
                  occasionally he looked up, and fixed a keen furtive glance on the agitated
                  features of his companion; who after languidly acknowledging his salutation,
                  commenced writing,—for he felt that the case was one which admitted of no delay,
                  and he was in the habit of treating his friend (or—hanger on, which shall we
                  phrase it?) sans cérémonie. Fearing he might
                  observe his emotion—and men never like to betray their softer feelings to other
                  men—Harry turned, and averted his face from Plumdale, as much as he could, without
                  turning his back upon him. In the indisposition which for the last few days had
                  confined him to his room—for even his robust frame could not withstand the varied
                  and intense excitement, he had recently gone through—Arthur had called constantly,
                  to know if he could do any thing for him, but Hal, though hitherto he had been
                  confidence itself, felt an aversion, for which he could scarcely himself account,
                  to making him the confidant of Lilian's situation. He knew that from him he would
                  meet no sympathy, and he rather, perhaps, dreaded his ridicule. And who does not
                  dread ridicule, that grinning demon, which works us into the belief, often, that
                  our purest and loftiest impulses are ludicrous and absured in the eyes of others?
                  'Tis a most potent instrument of evil, and unfortunately the most high-toned,
                  sensitive tive, and generous natures, are the most susceptible to its
                  influence.
               Harry Vernon had sufficient knowledge of the world not to communicate his
                  pecuniary misfortunes to his friend. Tell a man any thing else with the
                  expectation of meeting sympathy; even though it be some crime you have been led to
                  commit; but never let him know you have been reduced from affluence to poverty, so
                  long as that very inconvenient event can be concealed. If you do, as a reward for
                  your pains, you will find him every day growing a little colder; loosing every day
                  by degrees the links of sociability (we hate to profane that word friendship),
                  until almost unconsciously to yourself, the "my dear fellow, how are you?" slides
                  into the touch of the hat and half murmured "good morning!" We know not why it is;
                  perhaps when they look at you, they see the scarecrow visage of the Giant Poverty
                  peeping over your shoulder, and it scares them; perhaps they are tormented by the
                  idea that you will ask them to lend you money.
               Thank heaven! all men are not alike. There are some who will turn out of their way
                  to say a kindly word, or perform a friendly action for a fellow-being in distress;
                  who delight to bid the drooping heart rejoice, and cause it to forget, for a while
                  at least, that this is not a world of love and charity. 'Tis such examples as
                  these—angel visits though they be, in every sense of the term—that reconcile one
                  to a habitation on this "mundane sphere." Well, the world has spoiled many a noble
                  heart; but strange to say, however much the truth is felt, we only strive to
                  stifle the bitter consciousness, and bow, and smile, and say (in effect), "my dear
                  world, your most obedient servant." But to return to Harry.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "My wronged, but still beloved Lilian! could you read my heart, which,
                              much as it has erred, is still yours, and yours alone, you would not
                              vent upon me such wild words of reproach. I know that I deserve them,
                              Lilian; I do not seek to extenuate my error—the one error of the wild
                              and reckless boy—nor the momentary inconstancy of the man, which has
                              caused both such wretchedness; but I deny that I am your base and
                              deliberate betrayer. It is useless now to detail circumstances, but I
                              feel that you will trust me when I tell you, that I was the
                              unfortunate victim of passion, led on by the representations of another, to the
                              commission of an act, which I have ever since regretted, and intended
                              at the time to atone for, by making you my wife in name, whenever it
                              was in my power to do so.I confess that the charms of another, to
                              whose fascinating influence I was constantly exposed, did for a time
                              lure my heart, or rather my senses, from you, my own sweet, gentle
                                 wife; but 'tis all over now, and would to heaven it
                              had never been. The wanderer returns to you, Lilian, with a heart
                              which bows in the dust at your feet, offering more than its former
                              tenderness, more than the love of the 'olden time.' Let the future
                              atone for the past. To you I offer myself, my name, all that I have to
                              give; for you I would, were it necessary, brave the world, whose
                              opinions I despise. I know that nothing I have to give is worthy your
                              acceptance, but do not refuse me; be your own dear self, gentle,
                              loving, as of old.
                           "The doctor forbids my seeing you. I was aghast with amaze when I
                              received your letter, thinking you not able to write; but a note from
                              Mary accompanied it, saying that the effort had caused you much pain,
                              and you were still too ill to see me. And all this for me. Oh God!
                              Lilian, you may forgive me, but I can never forgive myself. Under any
                              circumstances I should have feared to face you, until I had implored
                              your forgiveness, so much doth 'conscience make cowards of us
                              all.'
                           "Write me but one line, to say I am pardoned, and I will come to you.
                              Until then I await with fearful anxiety the answer which is to decide
                              our future destiny. Lilian, for the last time I implore you, for my
                              sake—for the sake of our boy, which must ever be, come what will, a
                              link of love between our hearts—pardon and receive me; or if you will
                              not, only believe me as of old,
                           
                              "Yours only,
                              HARRY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               He folded and sealed this missive, gulped down a goblet of water—swallowing at the
                  same time the world of emotion which threatened to choke his utterance—and turned
                  to Plumdale, saying with an effort at composure, "And now, Plum, I am ready for
                  you, having finished my little billet-doux."
               'Plum' started as if suddenly interrupted in an article in which he was most
                  deeply absorbed, and replied:
               "I merely looked in upon you, Hal, as I was passing, to ascertain the state of
                  your health; and to ask you, if you felt able, to drive down to-morrow to see some
                  horses Manton has for sale. They would suit you exactly, and the drive would do
                  you good. What say you?"
               "I will go perhaps, but as for buying horses, I am tired of it. I got damnably
                  cheated in the last I purchased."
               "These of Manton's are splendid fellows, I assure you, and they will go cheap too.
                  Splendid establishment to go for almost nothing, as I expect it will. Great many
                  failures now. You heard of Smithson's? By the way, the Governor was somewhat
                  involved in that, was he not? Of course nothing serious to him, though?"
               "I suppose not," replied Hal with a yawn, under which he endeavored to conceal the
                  look of discomfiture which the mention of Smithson's failure had brought to his
                  face; though for once—proving that the most cunning are sometimes at fault—Arthur
                  Plumdale suspected nothing. He had too much confidence in the reputedly immense
                  resources of Ex-Governor Vernon.
               "Well, you look tired, so I'll relieve you of my company and look in at the opera.
                  Give me your letter, I'll drop it in the office."
               "It is of some importance, Plum; you might forget it."
               "Oh! never fear," and he picked it up without looking at the direction, placed it
                  in his pocket, and went off whistling an opera air.
               "Strange," thought Harry, "that Plum should have waited all this time merely to
                  know whether I would drive to-morrow, when he might have asked the question at
                  first, and been off; but I suppose it was merely 'pour
                     passer le temps.'"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLII.
               FRIENDLY OFFICES OF MR. PLUMDALE.
               
                  
                     
                        "Oh hypocrite! most double damned hypocrite!
                        What punishment hath hell for such as thou?"
                     
                  
               
               DID Arthur Plumdale, according to promise, drop his friend's letter in the office?
                  No; he walked with hasty steps to his own house, locked himself in his room,
                  started the fire, settled himself comfortably by it, took out the letter—which was
                  merely sealed in Harry's careless way with a water—breathed on it, and breaking it
                  open, proceeded deliberately to read the contents.
               "Well!" was his comment, as he finished that heart-breathing confession of
                  passion, error, and penitence; 'I always thought Hal Vernon weak, but I never gave
                  him credit for being the consummate fool that this proves him. Send this to her,
                  and there's an end of all my hopes of him as a husband for Lettie, and a tool for
                  myself. I have been bothered enough about that affair with Florence Fulton, in
                  which, strange to say, he never would allow me to interfere. But she has not the
                  most remote idea of taking Hal. I have always seen that 'sticking out.' When she
                  rejects him, then will be the time for Lettie. 'Full many a heart' so forth and et
                  cetera,—but to return to this delectable missive. I have helped the simpleton out
                  of more than one scrape, and I think I'll try to get him out of this, and when his
                  fever fit is over he will thank me for it—that is if I ever tell him my
                  co-operation in the affair, which is not very likely. I can't see what makes the
                  fellow hanker after that woman so. It really looks as if there was such a thing as
                  true love in the world, though, as far as my personal experience goes, I ignore
                  its existence entirely And now for my plan of operation."
               He paused a moment, as if in thought, and then continued talking to himself. "Ah!
                  I have it: if I mistake not, I have some of the lady-bird's handwriting. Let me
                  see if I can't produce a fac-simile." He went to a trunk, and after some
                  rummaging, pulled out an old portfolio, and commenced looking over its contents.
                  "Ah! here it is; never lost any thing in my life."
               He laid it on the table before him, and commenced making sundry efforts to imitate
                  the fair, delicate tracery of Lilian. It was an old but popular song she had
                  copied long ago for Harry, and it had been transferred by him to its present
                  possessor. Little had she dreamed, while tracing those simple lines, they would
                  ever be used as a means of the destruction of her happiness.
               After several ineffectual efforts, and the trial of sundry pens, Arthur succeeded
                  at last in producing a very good counterfeit of her handwriting. Fearing to trust
                  himself to write much, he then drew forth a snowy sheet of paper, and traced
                  thereon with great care the words:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Your wrongs to me, have been too great for forgiveness. I desire
                              never to look on your face again, or to hold any correspondence with
                              you. It will be vain to address any communications whatever to me, as
                              they will be returned unopened.
                           
                              LILIAN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               He folded, enveloped, and directed this, with ladylike neatness—for he was too
                  accomplished in the art of villany to neglect even the most trifling details—then
                  paused, and deliberated a moment. Finally he placed Harry's letter before him, and
                  succeeded to perfection in imitating the dashing off-hand chirography thereof,
                  while he wrote:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR LILIAN,—I think it quite time to drop the little affair between
                              us, and have no doubt upon mature reflection you will agree with me. I
                              have always loved you, and shall continue to do so; and only regret
                              that circumstances compel me to act thus. Any answer to this
                              communication is unnecessary.
                           
                              H. V."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               He then enclosed the first note in one to a confidential friend, whose post-office
                  was the same as that of Vernon Place, requesting him to mail it back to Harry, and
                  giving some trifling but plausible excuse for the request. This done, he surveyed
                  his own note to Lilian, with much satisfaction. "She would tear her heart out
                  after getting that, before she would write him a line. I know women well (I ought to, at least, for I have had
                  sufficient training in that branch of the fine arts) with their 'sensitiveness,'
                  their 'devotion,' their 'truth,' and all the other tomfoolery, which it would
                  puzzle Webster to furnish fine words to express. I suppose now I shall have to
                  scratch off a note to Georgina, to excuse my non-attendance to-night. Hang the
                  girl! I am getting tired of the affair, and must find some way of getting rid of
                  it."
               Thus soliloquizing, he drew forth another sheet of soft, fair note-paper, filled
                  it with the tenderest words of devotion, sealed it with perfumed wax, with the
                  device of a heart pierced with an arrow, directed it to Miss Watts, No. — Waverley
                  Place; and having thus completed his epistolary efforts for the night, rung the
                  bell for the thin young man to whom the reader has before had the honor of being
                  presented; and who served as valet de chambre,
                  butler, footman, groom, and errand-boy, in this august household. He appeared,
                  after some delay, looking, if possible, thinner than usual; with a strip of red
                  velvet on his collar, more faded and dingy than ever (not that this last was any
                  drawback to the effect of his appearance; we hate these distressingly
                     new things). From the extremely audible tone of Mr. Plumdale's
                  somewhat strongly emphasized interrogatory as to the cause of his delay, one might
                  have imagined the thin one to be deaf, in addition to his other misfortunes.
               Without condescending to wait for a reply, he delivered his letters into the care
                  of this distinguished individual, with directions that they should be put into the
                  office immediately. "It is rather a hazardous experiment," thought he, "but
                  'ventures make merchants.'"
               Whether by some providential chance the whilome errand-boy lost the letter to
                  Lilian, in his hurried run to the post-office through a driving snow-storm; or
                  whether the mail miscarried, we know not; but certain it is, she never received
                  it. As for Harry's letter, it was consigned to the flames, with many moral
                  reflections as to the uncertain fate of earthly things.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               THE MILLIONNAIRE'S BRIDE.
               GUSSY PLUMDALE and Mr. Fitz Friske were married, and the splendor of the Fitz
                  Friske equipage, the new liveries, and the diamonds and magnificent trousseau of the bride were the theme of universal
                  admiration, and envy; mingled (of course) with many sneering comments upon "the
                  ostentation so characteristic of a parvenu!" Gussy had achieved what is affirmed
                  by slanderous people to be the grand end and aim of woman's life. She had at last
                  'brought down her man,' and he a millionnaire, and an exquisite of the first
                  water. What more could the heart of a fashionable woman desire? Poor Gussy; she
                  was not naturally a weak, vain, or selfish woman; and she was yet young, that is,
                  young in years; but not in the parlance of the fashionable world, where age is
                  reckoned by the number of seasons you have been "out," and where—they say—every
                  flirtation adds a year to the estimate. How old some of us must be!
               Having no older sister, and being moreover a remarkably gay and attractive girl,
                  and one who attained to both intellectual and physical development very early; her
                  parents, proud of her atractions, and anxious—if the truth must be told—on account
                  of their limited means to "get her off hand" as soon as possible—pushed her
                  forward in society; and Gussy sprang, as it were, from the jolie enfant who sat on the knees of the gentlemen, and teased them
                  for bonbons, into the belle in the parlor, ready
                  to receive their addresses. Few thought, as they passed at ball, and fête, the lively, self-assured, and
                  elaborately-dressed girl, who was the centre of a knot of beaux, that she was
                  really a child in heart and years. Her success in society left her scarcely any
                  thing to wish for, and Gussy fell into the usual error of young women under such
                  circumstances, and feeling that she had "the world before her where to choose,"
                  permitted opportunity after opportunity,—of what the old folks call "settling
                  one's-self in life,"—to pass unheeded by. It may be that an early and fondly
                  cherished attachment for one whose circumstances in life prevented his claiming
                  her hand, had something to do with
                  this. Be that as it may, Gussy fluttered through season after season, apparently
                  the same careless being, until now, at an age which older and wiser people
                  consider scarcely old enough for the responsibilities of wedded life, she began to
                  feel blase. She saw around her girls—some of
                  them older than herself—just coming out on the arena of life, by their own and
                  their parents' account (and who should know if they did not?) "scarcely eighteen,"
                  and possessing neither her beauty or fascination, attracting simply because they
                  were new, and "that Miss Plumdale has been out so many seasons; must be at least
                  twenty-five."
               She did not lose her position as a belle, because, wherever you find attractive
                  women, you find men to admire them, and any reputation once gained is not very
                  easily lost; still she had her annoyances, and not the least of these existed at
                  home.
               It is useless to detail her grievances; suffice it to say, she had some reason to
                  congratulate herself on the occurrence, when Mr. Fitz Friske laid himself and his
                  fortune at her feet.
               Yet, oh! strange mystery, which proves that even among the most determined
                  votaries of fashion there may exist a heart; the night before her marriage—that
                  marriage which was to give her wealth, and with wealth power, the mere prospect of
                  which had already rendered her the envied of many, and which was to relieve her
                  from the painful and life-wearing annoyances which surrounded her,—all that night,
                  Gussy wept lonely and bitter tears.
               There was one thing wanting, without which, all the world hath to give, availeth
                  not for happiness. In these last hours of her maiden freedom she wept over the
                  wrecked hopes of her girlhood. She knew that she had been always intended for a
                  "brilliant match," but she had hoped—yes she had hoped to the last—that with the
                  "brilliant match" there might be mingled some affection, some esteem,
                  some respect at least; but now it was all over. In her inmost soul she spurned
                  with contemptuous scorn all thought of love, in connection with the man who, on
                  the morrow, she was to call her husband. Why did her thoughts recur to earlier
                  days, when a voice which was music to her ear, had whispered, "Be true Gussy, be
                  true, love, and we may yet be happy;" and why, as these thoughts came over her,
                  did she sob yet more wildly as she exclaimed, "Oh! what are wealth and splendor,
                  in a home where love is not!'
               She had not been true. Ambition, folly, parental influence, had severed those
                  early ties, and what right had she to cherish such thoughts? Poor young victims!
                  chained to the glittering car of the Juggernaut Fashion, doomed to have your
                  feelings trampled on, your freshness and purity of heart sullied in its heated and
                  toilsome course, it is not for you to think of the fresh flowers that
                  bloom by the wayside, and cool fountains that sparkle for the parched and weary
                  lip, in the deep secluded spots which are far from the bustle and glare of the
                  great world. The hour of trial passed, and no one dreamed—as on the morrow, in
                  blonde, and satin, and jewels, Gussy smiled and bowed to the congratulations of
                  troops of friends,—that the brilliant bride was not the happiest of the happy. In
                  the excitement of her new position she forgot—for the present at least—all her sad
                  thoughts; and was delighted when the time came to throw open her splendidly
                  furnished mansion for the reception of her "dear five hundred friends." Then there
                  was Florence, the former flame, the rival star, would she not envy her, when she
                  saw her in all her magnificence? And Gussy smiled at the thought.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               MRS. FITZ FRISKE'S FIRST "RECEPTION."
               
                  
                     "Fortune brings me her golden cup full-brimmed at last."
                  
               
               
                  
                     "What words these ears have drank to-night."
                  
               
               THE vast rooms glittered with light and splendor, filled as they were with all
                  that ostentatious luxury, that exuberance of ornament, which is so much the
                  fashion nowadays, differing so widely from the chaste and classic elegance which
                  should accompany the nobleness and simplicity of our republican principles. The
                  massive portals opened wide to receive the throngs of the élite that poured into them. Florence was there, but Florence, in lace and
                  diamonds, rivalled even the bride in beauty and elegance.
               "Good gracious me! just look at that old woman! I thought Gussy Plumdale would
                  have managed to keep her out of sight, to-night at least," whispered some one
                  behind Florence, as she stood in the throng surrounding the bride. She turned, and
                  beheld Miss Virginia Smith. Following the direction indicated, her eyes fell on
                  the ample form of old Mrs. O'Friske, arrayed in a robe of orange satin, jewels of
                  every hue and description glittering about her person; a dress cap set aloft on
                  her redundance of tow-locks, its multitudinous ribbons floating like pennons in
                  the breeze, raised by an enormous Chinese fan, gay with painted nondescripts,
                  which she was vigorously exerting in the effort to "keep cool," notwithstanding
                  the importance of the occasion, which had spread a ruby glow over a countenance
                  never remarkable for its statue-like paleness. Florence, whose sympathies were
                  very quick, shrank almost with horror from the ridiculous figure which the old
                  woman presented, amid the throng of elegance and fashion around her. She felt
                  sorry for her, and Gussy too. Miss Smith laughed, and moved away to point out "the
                  sight" to some one else. Ella Vernon stood beside Florence.
               "What a pity," she said gently, "that people will remark on the poor old lady's
                  appearance. Why not let her pass unnoticed, or uncensured at least?"
               "Yes," replied Florence, "nothing certainly can be more ill-bred or unkind than
                  ill-natured remarks on those whose hospitalities we are receiving. Where is your
                  brother to-night?" she added with a slight blush.
               "He has been quite indisposed for some days, and desired me to make his excuses.
                  Pa came with me, though I never expect Harry to be my cavalier,"
                  smiling archly, "even when he is well."
               The throng moved from around the bride, and the two girls were claimed by their
                  respective followers. Florence looked, if possible, more bewitching than usual.
                  Never had Claude St. Julian been more madly under the influence of his passion for
                  her. Every look and action too, on her part, seemed to encourage him to go farther
                  than he had ever yet dared. Delirious with the intoxication of excited feeling, he
                  sought her, when wearied with dancing, she desired refreshment and momentary
                  repose. After supplying her with an ice, he cast a glance round the room. Here
                  were groups gathered in gay converse,—there couples were interspersed at
                  intervals, either on divans, or promenading, seemingly indulging in "sly
                  flirtations by the light of a chandelier." Knots of chaperones, resplendent in
                  velvets and diamonds, watched with anxious eyes their respective charges, or
                  discussed together topics upon which we do not care to intrude. Papas looked
                  stupid and sleepy, as papas always do on such occasions. Every body seemed
                  occupied with themselves, or those in whom they were immediately interested.
               "Now, or never," thought Claude. "Miss Fulton," he added aloud, "would you not
                  like to see the conservatory? It is all the rage just now,—this passion for
                  flowers,—so of course Fitz has a rare collection." Ere Florence could reply, he
                  drew her hand through his arm, and they passed through the crowded rooms, into the
                  conservatory. It was indeed a sweet spot; the atmosphere soft, and delicious with
                  the perfume of the flowers, whose rare hues were faintly revealed by the light of
                  the little colored lamps, which gleamed and flashed like spirit eyes among the
                  green leaves. Through the glass they could gaze out on the calm bright stars, and
                  clear blue sky of a winter's night. There was something romantic and mysterious
                  about the scene and hour, which had its effects upon the too sensitive temperament
                  of Florence; yet as she stood there alone with Claude St. Julian, a tremor crept
                  over her, and her whole frame trembled with nervous agitation. She looked up at
                  Claude, and his passionate gaze flashed burningly into her inmost soul. Her eyes
                  fell instantly, and the long lashes swept the vivid glow of her cheek.
               "Florence," said he at last, his voice tremulous with excitement,—"Florence, can
                  you not guess why I have brought you here? 'Tis to breathe to you the maddening
                  feelings I can no longer repress; which fill my whole soul, absorb my whole being
                  for you, most divine of women."
               She started, withdrew her arm from his, and cast a terrified glance around.
               "Hush! oh, for heaven's sake, hush! Such words are not for you to speak, or me to
                  hear."
               
               "Nay, fear not, dearest, no one is near. Listen to me; listen—my life! my soul! Do
                  not frown, oh! do not turn away thus, you will kill me! Can you blame me for this,
                  Florence? You, who are all soul, you must know that it is impossible to control
                  the impulses of the heart. Impossible to fetter the fetterless soul by mere cold
                  and legal ties. Blame me not. You know not what a fearful thing it is to be
                  fettered in hand, when the soul maddens for freedom—what a fearful thing it is to
                  meet your twin-soul too late. Have you not seen this? have you not read my
                  feelings in a deeper language than the formality of words? and, Florence, you will
                  not, you cannot deny it—has not your soul answered mine? Say yes! say you love me;
                  only let me hear those words,—those blessed words, breathed by your lips, and I
                  will leave you for ever, if you say so."
               Florence drew herself to her full height, as he closed his passionate appeal,
                  while her crimson lip quivered with agitation. Her heart was torn by conflicting
                  emotions, but indignation was the master feeling.
               "Mr. St. Julian, I did not think you could have insulted me thus. I did not dream
                  you could so far forget that your love belongs of right to another. Never again
                  dare to allude to this subject, unless you wish that our acquaintance should then
                  terminate."
               She swept past him—from the conservatory. He made no effort to detain her, but
                  remained where he was, giving himself up to thoughts which were any thing but
                  agreeable. The first room she entered was comparatively deserted. Wishing to
                  collect herself before entering the other apartments, she went to a window, opened
                  it to inhale the cool fresh air, and threw herself on a divan half hidden in the
                  obscurity of the curtains. To her astonishment, she came in contact with a warm,
                  soft mass—and an instant after a voice exclaimed, frightened out of all propriety
                  of language or accent:
               "Och, murther! and is it after killing me ye are? If these be the manners of the
                     tong, may the divil fly away with the whole set—as, faith, he is
                  mighty apt to do. The saints presarve us, to come and throw themselves on honest
                  people asleep on their own divines—or whatever ye may be pleased to call them—in
                  this fashion, without giving one time to call on his patron saint before he wakes
                  up in purgatory. Faith! an if ye meant it for a joke, it is more pleasant to you
                  than to me."
               Florence turning round, encountered the terrified countenance of Mrs. O'Friske,
                  not yet fully aroused from her slumbers. At the same instant, a chorus of
                  half-stifled laughter apprised her that a party who had entered the room just as
                  the catastrophe occurred, were regaling themselves at the old lady's expense. Her
                  resolution was taken in an instant.
               "My dear lady," she said, in the softest, most polite tones, "perhaps you feel
                  indisposed. Lean on my arm, and let me have the pleasure of accompanying you as
                  far as your room,"—hoping she would adopt the last suggestion. Mrs. O'Friske
                  obeyed in silence, for, obtuse as she was, she felt that she was the subject of
                  laughter and remarks, suppressed though they were.
               Little heeded the magnificent Florence, as she swept through the room with old
                  Mrs. O'Friske leaning on her arm, the suppressed titter which followed them. There
                  are those whose innate sense of superiority enables them to treat with contempt
                  the sneers and jibes of the heartless and foolish, and she was one of these.
               "Good heavens! Gussy," whispered Arthur Plumdale to his sister during the evening,
                  "why on earth didn't you manage to hide that old woman somewhere; she spoils every
                  thing."
               "Why, what could I do with her, brother? It is her own house."
               "Get out an indictment of insanity against her, and have her confined in a
                  mad-house," replied he with a heartless laugh.
               Florence returned with a flushed check and palpitating heart, to the reception
                  rooms; but Claude was seen there no more. She managed to regain her
                  self-possession, but she felt infinitely relieved when the evening was over, and
                  she could return home, to indulge in the fevered thoughts which thronged her
                  brain. Her first thought, when left to herself was, "The Rubicon is past; where
                  will he stop now?"
               Notwithstanding the drawbacks imposed by the presence of Mrs. O. Friske, Gussy's
                  first reception went off with great
                  éclat. It was only the rude and ill bred—but of
                  these there are a sufficient number of specimens among the beau monde—that made remarks on the old woman, and even these were
                  only prompted by malice and envy towards the polished and elegant woman, who moved
                  so gracefully amid, and seemed so well fitted to adorn, the splendor of which she
                  had suddenly become the possessor.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLV.
               THE CHARMING OF THE BIRD.
               IT was about a week after the events detailed in the last chapter, that Claude St.
                  Julian bent his steps in the direction of the astrologer's in W—— street. "So,"
                  thought he, "it seems I have ruined myself with Florence, by my precipitate
                  conduct the other evening. But pshaw! I understand women; they entrench themselves
                  behind these ice barriers of pride and reserve, because they feel that these are
                  their only safeguards. She loves me. Yes! I know, I feel it; and, by heaven! I
                  adore her too madly to endure the reserve and distance with which she now treats
                  me."
               His soliloquy was brought to a somewhat abrupt termination by his arrival at the
                  "Consulting Office" of the far famed and learned Dr. ——
               As Claude met the gaze of the large and intensely black eyes which the magician
                  fixed upon him, and which pierced like fire-gleams through the obscure light of
                  the room, he started. It seemed to him as if the glance of those eyes—looking yet
                  deeper and darker from the contrast with the ashen hue of the features, and the
                  snow-white beard and hair—was familiar to him, but he in vain tried to identify
                  what he mistook for a mere resemblance.
               "I do not know whether I can comply with your request," was the reply of the
                  astrologer, when his visitor had made known his object. "I never give my nostrums
                  credit for qualities they do not possess. I have heard of potions to produce duce
                  love, but I somewhat doubt the existence of such. 'Tis said that the celebrated
                  Italian astrologer and perfumer to Catherine de Medicis, R——, had in his
                  possession a potion, which would produce love so violent, so maddening in its
                  effects, that suicide was sometimes the result. It was supposed to have been the
                  heart's blood of a young virgin, who herself committed suicide for love, extracted
                  while yet warm and fresh, and kept pure by a mixture of other chemic substances. I
                  have here," and he raised the black curtain, and took from the shelf behind him a
                  vial, containing a liquid of a light purple color, and slightly odorous;—"I have
                  here a mixture, sufficiently powerful in its effects on the system to enable you
                  to discover the predominant emotion of the person drinking it. Give them a
                  sufficient quantity of this, and you may read their heart's dearest feelings, in
                  spite of reason, prudence, or any other obstacle to prevent."
               "Is it injurious in its effects on the system?"
               "No, it passes off like the excitement of wine. Remember it does not create a
                  feeling; it only excites to action a feeling already existing."
               "This is what I want, give me the vial," replied Claude eagerly.
               The astrologer and chemist folded the vial carefully with directions for use, and
                  named of course a price proportioned in exorbitance to the value placed by the
                  purchaser on the article.
               Claude laid a broad piece of gold in his hand, and departed with the treasure
                  which was to unlock that most sacred of earthly things—a woman's heart—to his
                  gaze.
               "I would not use artificial means, even if such existed, to create in her a
                  feeling of love towards me," he said to himself apologetically; "but there can be
                  no harm in the effort to discover what are her real feelings. At all events, if
                  there is, I don't pretend to be such a stoic as to resist the temptation; and now,
                     ma chère Florence, for a trial of the
                  astrologer's skill as a chemist."
               Glancing at his dress, and feeling assured that it was au
                     fait, he proceeded straightway to Mr. Fulton's residence.
               "I know she is at home," thought he, as he ran up the steps, for Mrs. Moreton told
                  me she knew she would not go out this evening."
               
               To his inquiry for Miss Fulton, the servant answered somewhat hesitatingly, that
                  "he didn't know whether Miss Florence was in or not, he would see."
               "I am certain she is," replied Claude impatiently. "Show me in, I will make all
                  right," and he slipped a piece of gold in the man's hand. A short parley, and
                  another piece of gold glistened in the palm of the servant. The last plea was
                  irresistible apparently, for John showed him into the very sanctum of Florence,
                  her boudoir, and closing the door after him, retired. She was lying on the sofa,
                  and Claude, approaching, found that she slept. Never had she looked so beautiful,
                  he thought, as he bent over her, fearing almost to breathe, lest he should arouse
                  her from her slumber.
               Her dress of black satin—fastened up to the throat, and finished there by a frill
                  of the finest lace, clasped by a brooch of ruby—was relieved by the shawl of
                  bright crimson, which she had thrown carelessly over her. The loose sleeve had
                  fallen back from the rounded arm which supported her head, and her wealth of dark
                  tresses unbound, floated in wavy curls around her. One small hand rested lightly
                  on the crimson shawl, whose rich hue set off to advantage its soft creamy
                  fairness. The long thick lashes were moist, as if with unshed tears, and there was
                  an expression of sadness in her slumber not perceptible in her waking moments.
                  'Tis in slumber often that the deeper feelings of the heart may be read. There is
                  no guard then on lip, or eye, and sadness stamps her mournful impress on the
                  features.
               An artist might have pronounced it a pretty tableau, as Claude St. Julian, in the
                  splendor of his striking and manly beauty, bent with adoring gaze over the
                  slumbering and unconscious maiden. There was a resemblance between them, more
                  perceptible now, than usual. The same cloud of rich dark hair, half waving, half
                  curling; the same starry mid-night eyes, though hers now slept unconscious that
                  his were burning near; the same heavy fringed lash, and distinctly defined brows
                  of jet; nay, there was the same curved lip, though hers was riper and fuller, and
                  his almost hidden by the mustache which shaded it. It had been long, too, since
                  his habitually pale check had worn the rose of fresh and innocent youth which
                  glowed on hers.
               Florence moved restlessly in her fevered slumber, and murmured a name which he
                  bent nearer, but in vain, to catch. A smile seducingly soft and sweet, played for
                  an instant round her lip, and was succeeded by a look of such utter sadness, that
                  it struck the mute gazer to the heart. Oh! why not leave her, tempter? Why not
                  leave her in the glory of perfect and peerless womanhood? Why seek to deepen the
                  shadow which has already marred the sunlight of her young life,—by
                     thy presence, and thy power? Oh man! hast thou no
                  pity for woman? No pity for the being who looks to thine arm for protection; thy
                  heart for tenderness? Strong-hearted lordly tree, braving the fierce tempest,
                  whose power cannot subdue thee; hast thou no pity for the tender vine which clings
                  for life and support to thee? God help the woman who weds a base-hearted man! a
                  man who is not the-high souled being that God intended him He created in His own
                  image to be. God help the woman who gives her world of heart-life, to be tossed
                  hither and yon, on the wild and fluctuating waves of a bad man's life. But we are
                  digressing.
               Again, as that shadow passed over her brow, Florence murmured passionately in her
                  slumber, and Claude distinguished the words, "Leave, oh! leave me;" and starting
                  from her troubled dreams, she awoke. "You here!" she exclaimed, as her startled
                  gaze met the form before her. "I gave orders that I would be alone this
                  evening."
               She had risen to her feet, and stood erect before him, an expression of mournful
                  pride and wounded reserve, rather than haughtiness or coldness, in her
                  countenance. "I came, Miss Fulton," replied Claude, with an air at once of
                  dignified courtesy, and respectful contrition,—"I admit, I almost forced myself
                  into your presence, to implore your forgiveness for my forgetfulness of my own
                  position, and the respect due you in our last interview. Believe the truth, that
                  my feelings for the moment overpowered my reason. Believe, too, that never will I
                  breathe such words to you again, unless with your permission, which I presume I
                  shall never receive. Will you not forgive, and let us be friends again?"
               Florence fixed on him a glance, in which mingling feelings seemed to contend for
                  mastery, and turned away silently. He ventured to take her hand with a look of silent entreaty. It lay passive and
                  cold in his grasp. It seemed indeed as if she was unconscious of the action on his
                  part A wild joy thrilled through his soul. "She will yield; she will forgive;" he
                  thought, "I shall not have to use means to make her surrender."
               "Know you not, Mr. St. Julian," said Florence at last, in tones slightly
                  tremulous, and coldly withdrawing her hand from his grasp, "that even were I to
                  forgive you, there could never be between us again, the free and unreserved
                  intercourse which once existed?"
               "And why not, Miss Fulton? Are we not the same beings we were then? Can those few
                  idle words, born of excitement and folly, change the current of our lives and
                  feelings? Remember the world; what will it say to this sudden breach betwen us?
                  Much as you may spurn its opinion as a woman, you are in its power. But if this
                  plea will not avail, come, let me offer a higher, a holier one." And leading her
                  to the window, he threw aside the curtains, and she looked out upon the earth,
                  bathed in a flood of soft moonlight, and the calm, pure, winter sky, radiant and
                  shining with its myriad stars.
               "Look out," continued Claude, with the low, earnest tones with which he could at
                  times give such force to his words. "How dark, cold, and cheerless would earth be,
                  without its moonlight and stars. Do we deserve that God should make night radiant,
                  and earth beautiful for our enjoyment? No; but smiling forgiveness on our
                  weakness, and errors, he pours forth on all alike, the floating rays from his
                  mercy seat. Will you refuse my proffer of friendship? Will you cast me in anger
                  from you, and make my heart as dark and cold as this earth would be, without the
                  smile of God's mercy to brighten it? No, I feel you will not. I may seem to you
                  callous and worldly, but oh! believe me, I would die for you, sooner than I would
                  intentionally wound you. The wild words which burst from my lips on that—by me
                  never to be forgotten night—were uttered ere reason had time to overcome feeling;
                  feeling too madly cherished, too bitterly repented—feelings which were pure as
                  heaven, but for the bitter ban of destiny. Could you know how in my inmost soul I
                  have cursed the hour in which I dared to breathe such words, you would forgive,
                  aye—and pity too."
               He paused; Florence turned toward him; the tears which she could not repress
                  swimming in her eyes.
               "I forgive you, Mr. St. Julian," she said with some hesitation of words and
                  manner, "on your promise never to offend so again."
               "Never!—without your permission spoken or implied," he added sotto voce. He then thanked Florence warmly, but
                  respectfully, and leading her to the sofa, seated himself by her side, and in his
                  usual gay, off-hand manner, introduced other and interesting topics, conversing
                  with ease and freedom. But Florence could not thus rally from the excitement of
                  the scene she had just passed through. In spite of herself, she felt wounded and
                  mortified at the gayety and apparent carelessness of her companion. She seemed
                  cold and distraite, but this he heeded not. He
                  had a purpose to accomplish, and he knew her present feelings were one step
                  towards its fulfilment; for, alas for woman's capricious nature, indifference, by
                  awakening anxiety, sometimes provokes her to the betrayal of tenderness where the
                  most assiduous devotion has failed.
               While Claude was thus gayly rattling on, he was meditating secretly the means of
                  administering the potent draught, for he could not prevail on himself to miss so
                  glorious an opportunity. Luckily for him, the means presented themselves without
                  an effort on his part. John presented himself, and inquired of Florence, in a low
                  tone, if he should serve the chocolate she had ordered. Her reply was in the
                  affirmative; and a few moments afterwards they were seated at a little table, the
                  steaming urn and two cups of Sevres china between them; John having retired like
                  an obedient flunky, who understood his business, and knew exactly when he was
                  wanted.
               "I am sorry to trouble you," said Claude suddenly, setting down the cup he was
                  raising to his lips, and putting his hand on his brow, "but I feel somewhat
                  indisposed, a giddiness of the head, to which I am at times subject. Will you have
                  the goodness to order a glass of water—the only remedy I ever take."
               Florence turned to ring the little silver bell, which generally stood on the stand
                  beside her, but it was out of place (Claude had no idea where of course), and she
                  was forced to leave the room in order
                  to comply with his request. Scarcely had the door closed on her, when drawing the
                  little vial from his bosom, Claude, quick as lightning, emptied the contents into
                  her cup of chocolate. When she reappeared, he was sitting in the same posture in
                  which she left him, with his hand pressed to his brow. He swallowed the glass of
                  water presented by John, and seemed relieved in a miraculously short time. The
                  unsuspecting girl drank the chocolate, and John removed the waiter. Florence drew
                  the sofa nearer the fire, and Claude took a seat opposite, and watched the effect
                  of the potion. She gazed silently into the fire; a gentle languor commenced to
                  spread itself over her features; she leaned back against the cushions of the sofa,
                  and the long lashes closed over the dreamy eyes. —At length she unclosed her eyes,
                  and fixed them upon him with that expression, which assures the lover for the
                  first time that he is beloved, and penetrates like an electric thrill to his
                  inmost soul. In those few moments a change had come over her. Instead of the cold,
                  constrained expression which had before rested on her features, a bright glow
                  flushed her check; her eyes swam in a soft and liquid light, and her bosom heaved.
                  "Claude," she said, in thrilling love-fraught accents, and without with-drawing
                  the gaze, which lingered as if charmed in his, "Claude."
               In an instant he was by her side.
               "Claude, do I dream? Where am I? It seems to me as if I had just awoke from a
                  long, dark dream,—a dream which fixed a wide gulf between us—and found you near
                  me. Is this heaven? It must be, for you are near me, and we love, and it is not
                  wrong."
               Claude started! he saw that her brain wandered; he feared he had given her too
                  large a potion, but at all events he must make the most of the present.
               "Thou lovest me, Claude?"
               "More than my own soul, Florence! Florence!" and he repeated the name as if life,
                  love, joy, were expressed in it; "and thou, thou lovest Claude?"
               "Look in my eyes and see," she replied archly. And he did gaze far down into those
                  dark gulfs of feeling, until his brain felt wild, and his very soul seemed lost in
                  their ravishing depths. He drew nearer—he inhaled her warm pure breath—his dark
                  locks mingled with her wavy tresses—her soft cheek touched his, and their lips met
                  in love's first timid, tremulous kiss. Then on lip, cheek, brow, and hair, he
                  showered kisses; it seemed as if he would never tire. But Florence drew herself
                  gently from his embrace.
               "Why do you kiss me, Claude?" she asked naïvely, so naïvely that he could scarce
                  repress a smile; but he replied in low wooing tones,
               "Because I like to give expression to my love for you, dearest, loveliest!"
               "It is not thus I would have you do," she said softly.
               "What would you have me do, dearest? I will do any thing you wish."
               "I would have you be perfectly quiet. I would have you look upon me, and fill my
                  soul with the lovelight of your eyes. I would have you smile peace and joy into my
                  heart, my lonely heart, for oh! Claude, Florence has been lonely and wretched; not
                  lonely outwardly, for many were around her, but inwardly oh! how lone, and
                  sorrowing, and isolated. But I am not so now, am I? Oh! would that I might sit
                  always at your feet, and looking up, meet ever that smile of tenderness, and
                  gazing into your eyes drink, drink eternally, of those fountains of
                  love. Oh! Claude, could you be ever near me, and ever thus." Suddenly a shade of
                  doubt and fear swept over her face, and her eyes fell as she murmured: "I dreamed
                  Claude that you were another's; that we were separated for ever. But it is not so!
                  You are here with me—mine—are you not?"
               "Yours now, and eternally, come what will!" he answered passionately, completely
                  beside himself in the excitement of the moment.
               And now that the hour for which he had so longed had arrived; now that the woman
                  he adored with so wild a passion was completely in his power, unconscious of any
                  feeling, save her love for him; now that she sat there, radiant in her
                  beauty—charming as even beauty cannot be, save when subdued by tenderness; the
                  long lashes heavy with moisture slightly shading the soul-beaming eyes; the cheek
                  and lip, that glorious lip, so curved, so ripe, so beautiful, scarlet with
                  agitation; the dazzling, pearly treasures of which that lip was the portal,
                  peeping through the half smile of
                  celestial joy and tenderness which illumined her face; the full bust heaving and
                  throbbing, and the little hand, warm and soft as down, which was pressed in his
                  own, trembling in his grasp; now he gazed on her with every feeling, save pitying,
                  almost reverential tenderness, subdued by her artless confession of her love. He
                  read at a glance how that love, that wild worship, had been struggled against; how
                  principle had warred with feeling, yielding only when reason itself was blinded
                  and overpowered; and conscience rose up and spoke loudly in his soul, as he
                  thought of the means he had used to call forth the revelations of that hour. Yes,
                  glorious Florence! glorious even in the gloom with which the first shadow of sin,
                  the yearning after the forbidden, has darkened thy maiden soul, thou need'st not
                  fear now. Even in thy helplessness thou hast triumphed.
               And now her head rested on his bosom; her hands were clasped in his; her liquid
                  eyes gazing up into his own with mute adoration; while Claude bent over her in
                  such passionate ecstasy, that he was incapable of speech or motion.
               Absorbed in this enrapturing trance, they forgot all earth beside, when the door
                  opened suddenly, and in the aperture appeared the form of old Mr. Fulton. Had some
                  hideous apparition suddenly risen before the appalled pair, it could not have
                  shocked them more. With his usually cold and rigid features distorted by the fury
                  of overmastering passion, his cheek and lips ashy, and his eyes gleaming with a
                  tiger glare, the old man was indeed frightful to look upon.
               Claude rose hurriedly to his feet, and with the self-possession of a man of the
                  world, would have made his obeisance to Mr. Fulton; while Florence, suppressing
                  the shriek which rose to her lip, endeavored to assume an appearance of composure
                  (for she was alarmed, scarcely knowing why); but Mr. Fulton folded his arms, and
                  gazed on both, as if he would have withered them with a glance; then advancing
                  with two strides forward, he seized the arm of Florence in his furious grasp,
                  while he muttered in tones hoarse with concentrated passion, "Ungrateful wretch!
                  how dare you act thus in my house?"
               All the fiery blood in St. Julian's system boiled up to his brow, as he exclaimed,
                  "Unhand this lady, or by heavens! your gray hairs shall be no protection. I will
                  fell you to the earth."
               "And who are you?" sneered the old man, but releasing at the same time his niece's
                  arm, who, pale and terrified, sunk on the sofa, vainly endeavoring to recall her
                  scattered senses, and the self-possession which, under other circumstances, had
                  never deserted her. "Who are you, that you thus assume the right of protecting
                  this girl, in the house of her adopted father? Methinks your protection, sir,
                  belongs of right in a quarter where it is seldom bestowed, except in name."
               Claude bit his foaming lip till the blood started, and with a powerful effort at
                  self-control, replied:
               "Say what you please, sir, to me; you presume on your age, else you would not dare
                  to utter such words; but spare this lady the insults and reproaches I see you are
                  in the mood to heap upon her; or, by heavens! you shall repent using such language
                  to one whose deepest disgrace is that one drop of your blood flows in
                  her veins. What is there in an ordinary téte-à-téte between a lady and gentleman, to provoke a scene like
                  this?"
               Too much enraged to speak, Mr. Fulton pointed to the door.
               "I go, sir," said St. Julian, drawing up his haughty form to its full height. "My
                  only regret is, that I leave this lady in the power of a man who has no regard for
                  her sex or feelings."
               "Better take her with you, since you know so much better how to protect her than
                  I. Perhaps she will need the protection you seem so willing to bestow, ere
                  long."
               Without replying to this, St. Julian turned to go, fixing, as he did so, a glance
                  on Florence which spoke volumes, and which was returned by her with one of such
                  reproachful, passionate despair, that it smote him to the quick. Bu feeling
                  convinced that any thing he could say in her defence would only make matters
                  worse, he left the room in silence. The closing of the street door upon him, smote
                  with agonizing sound to the soul of Florence. She felt as if that door had shut
                  out all she could cling to, and left her, alone and unaided, to face the torturing
                  scene she knew was in store for her.
               "And now, miss, what have you to say in your own defence?" said her uncle, fixing
                  his cold gaze upon her, and speaking in the sneering accents of concentrated
                  venom.
               
               At this instant, the door of the room opened slightly, and she could see the keen
                  visage of the housekeeper—which now looked to her like that of a mocking
                  fiend—peeping through the crack, and apparently listening with eagerness to every
                  thing going on. Mr. Fulton stood with his back to the door, and did not perceive
                  it; and pride and wounded feeling prevented Florence from noticing, or seeming to
                  care for it.
               Her senses recalled by the agitation of the scene she had gone through, she became
                  herself once more, and rising with the air of an insulted queen, she replied to
                  her uncle's sneering question, coldly, and calmly,
               "Nothing, sir; I have done nothing which demands a defence of my conduct; and if I
                  had, it is not to you that I would make it."
               "Not to me! To whom, then, if not to me? Is this the love, the respect you owe
                  your adopted father—unprincipled woman?"
               "He," replied Florence bitterly, "who so forgets his character as a gentleman, and
                  the proper feelings of a man, as to insult a woman, and that woman a helpless
                  orphan in his house, by such words as you have uttered to me, certainly cannot
                  expect love, and has no right to demand respect. My adopted father!"
                  she added, with a touch of the bitter sarcasm which writhed on her uncle's lip. "I
                  was not aware that you wished me to consider you in the light of a
                     father. You never said so in words before; and it would have
                  puzzled one more acute in discernment than myself, to have discovered any thing of
                  the father in your actions."
               There is no weapon so maddening in its effects on an enraged person, as sarcasm.
                  At this last reply of Florence, her uncle actually trembled from head to foot.
                  There was nothing of the man in his demeanor now; it was more like the furious,
                  but impotent rage of a woman. His tones were weak with passion, as he
                  exclaimed,
               "Florence Fulton, beware how you utter such words to me, or my roof shall not
                  shelter you much longer; and when you are turned loose on the world, you will soon
                  be a beggar, as you deserve. I should not expect your love, 'tis true. I suppose
                  you have none to spare from the fascinating lover I found by your side, when I
                  interrupted your sweet interview. I think, however, you might have found a better
                  market for your precious store of affection; and setting aside the principle of
                  the thing, one which would have returned you better interest, than in bestowing it
                  on a married man."
               At these words, which, bitter and venomous as they were, conveyed so much of the
                  terrible truth, Florence could no longer conceal her emotion. She, too, trembled,
                  and hid her face in her hands. Her uncle saw that the thrust had struck home, and
                  he smiled scornfully, as he regarded her with complaisant satisfaction.
               "Did you ever teach me to love you?" she said at length, raising her head, and
                  speaking passionately and vehemently. "Do you suppose I have forgotten my lone and
                  loveless childhood—my orphan years, uncheered by one word of kindness, one smile
                  of affection? You talk to me of love! You, who chilled
                  with your coldness, and repulsed with your harshness, the being who would fain
                  have clung to the only tie fate had left her. You, who turned my
                  heart adrift on the wide world, to find its own where it might; who starved my
                  hungered soul, until it learned to feed on an image, to waste its life in dreams,
                  whose bitter fruition I am even now tasting;—you talk to
                     me of love? And as to gratitude, for what do I owe
                  it? For the shelter of a roof which is a bitter mockery of home? and from which I
                  fly as a man would fly from gloom and solitude, to forget, if possible, that for
                  me earth holds no home. No, sir! You have no right to blame me, come
                  what will. You have 'sown the wind;' you may 'reap the whirlwind.' Let me pass."
                  She drew herself up, fixed upon him a defiant glance, and moved calmly and proudly
                  past him, from the room.
               As she swept on through the passage, she met the housekeeper, who had slunk back
                  from the door as she opened it, and who now fixed on her a malicious and curious
                  glance; which was returned with one of careless scorn, and a haughty curl of the
                  lip. But when she gained the solitude of her own room, the mask fell off. In an
                  instant, passionate agony was depicted in that face which was before proud, cold,
                  and impassible as marble; and Florence, the haughty, defiant Florence, threw
                  herself prostrate, in reckless abandonment donment, with one wild low cry, which seemed wrung
                  from the depths of a wounded and insulted heart. Long she lay thus, sobbing,
                  moaning, weeping with such vehemence, that she sometimes started and looked round,
                  fearing she was overheard; but if so, no one approached her.
               The covert taunts, the cutting sneers, and open insults of her uncle, seemed to
                  burn into her inmost soul. Of the scene with Claude, too, she had—strange to say—a
                  distinct remembrance. She knew that in that scene she had suddenly lost
                  self-possession, that she had felt strangely, but she knew not why; she did not
                  dream of the means used to produce the effect. She blamed only herself for all
                  that had passed. He knew all her weakness,—nay, worse than weakness—now. Terrible
                  thought! Yet terrible as it was, she found a vague, dreamy, dangerous delight in
                  lingering over the few short moments of bliss, in contrast with the fearful scene
                  which followed.
               Ah! Florence, such memories are fatal to the peace and purity of thy soul, as are
                  the "brilliant flowers containing subtle poisons" to the "unwary insect which
                  drinks but to find death in delight." Thou mayst rear thy haughty head, the
                  noblest, the most beautiful amid many, and say, "I have sinned not;" but is not
                  even one thought of affection towards one bound by life-ties to another, a dark
                  and fearful sin?
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               CLAUDE TO FLORENCE.
               
                  
                     
                        "Such thoughts are guilt, such guilt is death."
                     
                     BYRON
                  
               
               FLORENCE,—Never would I have presumed to address you as I do, but for the scene of
                  last night. I saw you then in your true position—the victim—noble and gifted being
                  as you are—of tyranny and injustice.
               You are not happy, Florence. You have neither a home, or ties, or sympathy to
                  render you so; and to a being like you, what must a lot like this be? Last night
                  in a moment of confidence, your whole soul was revealed to me. Intensely as I
                  dared to love you before, need I tell you that since that hour, every
                  other thought is absorbed in the one feeling? If this is wrong, blame me not, for
                  oh! believe me, I have no power to crush the existence of such feelings:
                     you, who are the divinity of their inspiration—ought rather to be
                  blamed for them than I.
               After the compact into which we entered last night, I should never again have
                  breathed to you the name of love, had not your own angel lips sanctioned the
                  breaking of that compact, by setting me the example. Do not forbid me to speak
                  thus; or again to approach you. Oh! Florence—divinity of my deep heart, embodiment
                  of all for which my passionate spirit yearned in its wild young dreams of the
                  pure, the true, and the beautiful—cast me not from you; drive me not an outcast
                  from the paradise into which, for a few fleeting moments, I have been permitted to
                  enter. If you do, I swear by all we have been taught to worship as Divine, and
                  True, that henceforth I shall be the most unhappy—yea more—the most reckless of
                  human beings. You will not—I feel, best and dearest—that you will not thus doom
                  me. Believe me, it was decreed by destiny, that we should meet and love.
               Why struggle against the feelings which the Author of our being has implanted
                  within us, to bow with cringing servility to the forms and opinions of a world
                  whose creed is falsehood, and whose opinions are but the echoes of canting
                  prejudices?
               I know the world better than you, Florence; I have been one of its favored ones
                  too. On me it has lavished its brightest smiles; for me worn its fairest mask; and
                  I tell you, Florence, that the more I know it, the more I scorn its censure, and
                  trample on its edicts.
               Tell me, my worshipped, if fear of the world's censure induces you to spurn Claude
                  from your side.
               No, methinks you are above this—you who in person, mind, and feeling, are so far
                  above the rest of your sex that you should be their model, rather than their
                  imitator. Florence, you will not misunderstand me,—you will believe me, when I
                  swear I would lay down my life at your feet, rather than do aught which would
                  render you unhappy.
               
               I see you are lonely, desolate, and I believe wretched, and my very soul yearns
                  within me in sympathy for you. I have watched you in your gayest moods, when
                  crowds lavished their fulsome adulation on the shrine of the beauty
                  and the heiress, and I know that these things satisfy you not,—I know
                  that in your inmost soul you despise them.
               Oh! that I could be ever near, in your moments of unhappines, to love, to soothe,
                  to ward off every blow which the unkindness of others could inflict on you.
               And why may it not be thus?
               Be mine, and I will teach you the true philosophy of life; the elixir of happiness
                  which I will offer, shall have no bitter mingled in the cup. Fly with him who
                  loves you—whom you love—who will forsake home, friends, country for you—to the
                  land of love and liberty,—your own mother land—Italy.
               There, forgetful of the cruel chains which have fettered us here, remembering only
                  the bitter moments we might have spent had we lingered, we will live and love.
               Think of it, Florence! A home in Italy, fair, glorious Italy—a home with Claude,
                  whose every thought shall be devoted to you—whose daily care it shall be to throw
                  round you every enchantment which fancy can devise, or love execute.
               One word, dearest, in answer to this; let that word be "yes," and you will have no
                  more to do, I will arrange every thing. Au revoir, Florence; au revoir, my
                  life!
               
                  CLAUDE.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVII.
               FLORENCE TO CLAUDE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Nor know'st how dearly I have dwelt
                           On one unbroken dream of thee,
                           But love like ours can never be."
                        
                     
                     BYRON
                  
               
               WRITE to me no more, and cease, I implore—nay I command—you, your pursuit of me.
                  Look not upon me as the gay heartless belle, with whom a "passing affair"—even
                  situated uated as you are, would be—concealed from the world—a mere thing of
                  nothing. See me as I am, an orphan girl—alone and desolate—whom to love
                     you, would be to doom herself to a lifetime of wretchedness.
                  Remember, too, the deep wrong in the sight of God, of such a thing as this. Think
                  when you avow your love for me, how you wrong the trusting faith of years, how you
                  trample on the laws alike of God and man; and do not, even in thought, cherish
                  such feelings.
               I check the indignant words wich rise to my lips, when I think of the proposal
                  contained in your letter, for I feel,—and I blush to feel it—that the scene of
                  last night emboldened you to make it. But you must even now anticipate the refusal
                  it will meet with, and the horror with which even the thought of such a thing
                  fills me. You have discovered a secret—the secret which I had hoped would have
                  gone to the grave unknown save to the heart that ached with the consciousness of
                  it.
               Yes! I have loved you; but that love was the bright vision of my girlish years,
                  born of gratitude, and nursed by the dreams of a young foolish heart, which longed
                  for some vent for its world of unsatisfied feeling. I did not dream then of—of all
                  I know now. No—oh! no—do not believe me so base a thing as that. It
                  may seem to you strange that the impressions of a few moments could have given
                  birth to the feelings of years; but associate those feelings with my solitary
                  life—my dreamy and romantic heart-creations—ungoverned by the tests of worldly
                  experience,—your coming to me in the character of a preserver—the sweet, and
                  gentle words you gave me—the kind, loving glances which found their way like beams
                  of heaven-light to my lonely and isolated soul. Think of all this, and the
                  strangeness vanishes which, under ordinary circumstances, would have attached to
                  it. When I met you—ignorant as I was of your real situation—I thought (pardon my
                  vanity) that my long cherished dream might be realized. When it seemed as if that
                  realization was in my very grasp, I learned for the first time that you were—the
                  husband of another!
               Since that hour, God only knows how hardly I have striven to efface the feelings
                  of years from my soul. If I have not succeeded, it is not my fault. And now I have
                  confessed all.
               
               Do not strive to deepen the shadow which destiny has already thrown around me.
                  Leave me at least unmolested, to follow my usual gay round of life, heartless
                  though it be. Do not seek to embitter the cup which is all that remains for my
                  weary and thirsting lip. Destitute of a home, destitute of friends, destitute of
                  loving hearts, the world is my only resource. Would you rob me of this? And yet,
                  you say you love me. Strange inconsistency! Can love seek to injure its object?
                  Never, in all my life, did I feel as I do now, my utter loneliness, my hopelessly
                  desolate position; but now, when one word of pitying love, one friend to turn to,
                  would be heaven to my tortured soul; even now, looking upon you over the dark gulf
                  which separates you and I, and which can only be crossed over the bridge of sin, I
                  pronounce, Claude St. Julian, my last farewell. I implore you to forget the past.
                  For the future, I feel that 'tis best for both that we should meet, save in the
                  guise of mere formal politeness, as strangers.
               
                  FLORENCE.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVIII.
               THE SHADOWS DEEPEN.
               A MONTH has passed since the events last recorded in our history. To the mere
                  outward observer, such a revolution of time in the fashionable world, presents
                  nothing but the same routine of frivolity, the same smiling faces, unchanged in
                  outward appearance; but this is only on the surface; beneath, the waters roll
                  darkly and restlessly onward, towards the great ocean of Eternity. On the stage of
                  the world's great theatre, the gilded pageant moves on in gaudy pomp; behind the
                  scenes, the mysteries of life work out their way, and the decrees of Destiny are
                  sealed, and executed.
               To three characters of our story,—the three who, perhaps, were oftenest seen, and
                  most conspicuous with light tones, and bright smiles at fête, opera, and promenade,—the month had dragged slowly and wearily
                  away. To Florence, that month was the most wretched period of her life. Home,
                  which to her had never been a pleasant place, became now almost unendurable. Her
                  uncle she seldom saw, for she rarely, when at home, left her own rooms; but when
                  she did, his manner was marked by the most frigid coldness, hers by silent
                  haughtiness. If he spoke at all, his words were sharp, cutting, and severe. She
                  soon found that, with that base suspicion peculiar to common and sordid minds, and
                  which is always the fruit of low and depraved associations in early life, he
                  believed her worse than imprudent in permitting the visits of St. Julian.
               But her uncle's demeanor was not all she had to contend with. Whispers ran through
                  the household. Mary and Bridget stared as she swept by. John looked curiously at
                  her; but Mrs. Sharp, the housekeeper, was her chief tormentor. She had always
                  disliked Florence. She hated her because she was beautiful, gifted, and admired;
                  because, though coming in constant contact in the sphere of everyday life, she was
                  ever the same lone star, moving in its proud orbit, unapproached, and
                  unapproachable by such as her. Now, however, she fancied she had the high and
                  haughty one in her power, and she employed all the tact and ingenuity which her
                  sex display in every thing to which they turn their powers, torture her.
               Man may crush, with his mighty strength, the weak spirit to the dust at one blow;
                  he may bruise with rude hands the petals of the flower, until it can never bloom
                  again; but if you wish to make your victim suffer from that torture, which slowly
                  but surely wears out the finer feelings of our nature, maddens by degrees the
                  fretted and harassed spirit, and finally breaks the heart by its excruciating
                  process—the more excruciating because the means employed are so petty and
                  contemptible—always employ a woman to inflict it. It is comparable to nothing in
                  physical suffering, save the being continually pierced to the quick by sharp and
                  minute instruments; and women are adepts in the use of subtle and minute
                  weapons.
               Start not, gentle reader, nor grow indignant at the slander perpetrated on the
                  sex. All women are not alike, but the sex generally are upon extremes. As there
                  are some who approach the order of angels, so there are others almost as near
                  fiends; and we have seen those who could, to all appearance, assume the angelic to
                  perfection, who could also wear the darkest and fiercest forms of evil. When we
                     speak of evil, we do not mean crime,
                  in the ordinary acceptation of the term. With the utterly depraved of our race,
                  those whose dark crimes chill the blood, and revolt the heart, we have nothing to
                  do farther than to say, that in proportion to their magnitude, these crimes
                  inflict far less unhappiness in the social world than the foibles, passions, and
                  weaknesses of the many around us, some of whom are termed, in ordinary
                  phrascology, "very good people."
               It is to the evil passions that are at work in every-day life, and brought to bear
                  with all their baneful influences upon the narrow circles of society, that we owe
                  the darkened life, the crushed hopes, and blighted name of so many in this
                  world—as Lilian says,—of lying lips, and breaking
                     hearts.
               
               For this evil there can be but one remedy, and that remedy is expressed in the one
                  word which is a world within itself—Religion. The laws of man cannot reach it; it
                  comes within the compass of the laws of God only.
               Mrs. Sharp proved herself as great an adept as the most accomplished of her sex,
                  in the art of tormenting. The covert sneer, the oblique glance, the sly gesture,
                  the words conveying a deep but hidden meaning, stinging as the bite of the adder;
                  all these were brought to bear upon poor Florence, until, wounded, mortified,
                  maddened to desperation, any refuge seemed preferable to the place she called her
                  home. She almost regretted the contents of her letter; but, no! oh, no! pride
                     at least must save her from that. During this long, weary month,
                  she had only met him casually in society, and the past had not been
                  once alluded to. Had he forgotten it?—and her heart throbbed wildly and
                  painfully;—No, that could not be; for her sake, and in obedience to her command,
                  he was silent.
               She rushed from the home which was her place of torture, into the world. She
                  laughed, she sung, she danced more gayly than ever, but there was mockery in the
                  laugh, bitter mockery, and the echoes of music and song fell wild and dirgelike on
                  her ear. Between herself and Harry, the tacit understanding, which he had learned
                  to look on as an engagement, still existed. Until now, the idea of marrying him
                  had never entered her head. She had only looked on the affair as one of those
                  mockeries of truth and feeling, which give the lie to the better impulses of our
                  nature—denominated "a passing flirtation." But now she bowed her haughty soul to
                  look on a marriage with him as a refuge from the unfortunate circumstances which
                  surrounded her; yet, in spite of her foibles, regard for the feelings of others
                  was the predominant trait in her character; and she could not bear the thought of
                  imposing on her frank, free, generous lover, by giving him her hand, when the
                  heart he coveted felt not one emotion of love towards him. Yet what other
                  alternative now presented itself? None: nay, perhaps even that was not in her
                  power, for a strange change had come over Harry. He no longer sought her society
                  with the eagerness of old; and when by her side, it seemed as if his attentions
                  were given more because they were expected, than with the ardent assiduity of a
                  lover. Florence was in despair. Had she possessed the haughty independence of
                  spirit which once characterized her, she would at once have rejected him; but she
                  was subdued, unhappy, vacillating between the strong power which drew her onward
                  to the precipice, over whose brink passion lingers, to gaze on the bright but
                  forbidden fruit below; and the cold warnings of reason and prudence which bade her
                  pause ere too late.
               Disappointed in his pursuit of Florence, never had the guilty love of Claude
                  absorbed his every thought and feeling as now; for 'tis a trite, and therefore
                  true remark, that to a spoiled and wayward heart, no treasure seems so desirable
                  as that which is beyond its reach. The society of his wife became more distasteful
                  to him than ever, and he avoided it in proportion; rarely, in fact, seeing her
                  save at meals, and sometimes not even then. This she bore with her usual shrinking
                  coldness; silently but deeply cherishing in her own bosom the sense of her
                  wrong.
               True, as we have said, he did not approach Florence, but he waited only for the
                  first betrayal of weakness or emotion on her part. Prudence is as essential to the
                  character of a great general as valor, and Claude was far too good a tactician,
                  not to know when an attack might be made with safety.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIX.
               HARRY AND LILIAN.
               
                  
                     
                        "They have met, and they have parted,
                        Time has closed o'er each again,
                        Leaving lone the weary-hearted
                        Mournfully to wear his chain."
                     
                  
               
               THE month which passed so wearily with Florence, lingered no less heavily over the
                  path of Harry Vernon. Lilian's pseudo answer to his offer of righting her—which in
                  due time he received—while it cut off at once all hope of again possessing her,
                  awoke him to a yet deeper sense of all that she had been to him. When too late,
                  she was remembered with that intense passionate yearning we sometimes feel for
                  that which, while possessed, we value not, but which, when lost, leaves a blank in
                  life nothing else can fill. A feeling almost of aversion towards Florence had
                  taken the place of his former enthusiastic passion. Yet he dreaded an explanation.
                  Each day he thought of making it, and each day procrastinated the evil moment. He
                  did not conceal from Arthur Plumdale that he no longer loved her—though he did not
                  confide to him the reason—and that worthy rejoiced in due proportion. His father's
                  losses, impending poverty, or what seemed to him poverty, though by many it would
                  have been regarded as affluence—his estrangement from Lilian and his child,
                  weighed heavily upon the spirits of the young man. He had resolved, in the first
                  wild moments of agony, to reform; but, alas! it now seemed that his only refuge
                  from the incubus that burdened his soul, was in the crowd, the revel, and the
                  wine-cup; and though even as he raised the cup to his lips, he cursed the draught
                  it contained; though as he dealt with careless hand the gambler's light but fatal
                  weapons—apparently the gayest and most reckless in the crowd—a warning angel
                  seemed ever to hover near him, and it came in the likeness of her he had loved and
                  betrayed; still he rushed madly onward in his reckless course.
               Misfortunes have different effects on different temperaments. Some may thus be
                  humbled, and taught to look to that God who in the dark hour seems to be our only
                  refuge; but others there are, who are only made more reckless, driven by the hand
                  of chastening farther into the fatal path of sin; and of these Harry Vernon was
                  one.
               Yet perhaps there was but one thing wanting to awaken again in his heart that
                  remorse for past errors, those resolves of reformation, which now he strove to
                  drown in dissipation and excitement.
               And Lilian—dearest and purest—have we come back to thee at last? From the time
                  when the blessed light of God's love and mercy dawned in her soul—the awakening
                  beams of a new born and regenerated spirit—our Lilian, our sweet
                  Lilian, meet to be a child of heaven, felt it her duty to bow submissively to the
                  will of the Father, and seek from him strength to bear life's burden;—and strength
                  was given her; such deep spiritual strength and solace, as only they can know, who
                  passing through the valley of shadows, feel that an unseen Hand guides their
                  wandering footsteps, that unerring Wisdom and Love is over and around them always.
                  She rallied in health, day by day; and if she did not smile as of old, she was
                  calm, and to all outward appearance serene.
               But human nature is weak, and spite of our efforts, it is impossible so far to
                  wean our hearts from earthly things, as to find all the consolation we desire in
                  mere spiritual comfort. Let the bereaved heart seek what source of forgetfulness
                  it will—whether it turn to another and purer shrine for its worship, or seek
                  distraction amid scenes of excitement, and folly—there will be hours when the
                  slumbering depths of sorrow awake to life with the vigor and freshness of the
                  first overpowering grief. Memory will bring back "the olden time," with the wealth
                  of smiles and tears, hopes and joys, which once brightened life with
                  heaven-borrowed hues, only to fade, and leave our onward path more bleak and
                  desolate than ever.
               Yes, there were times when memory, sorrow, and passion struck such wild, mournful
                  chords in her soul, as could never afterwards be forgotten. In dreams came back
                  all the past, in dreams she saw his face, heard his voice, and waked to weep, as
                  only those can weep, who have found neglect where they looked but for affection;
                  falsehood where they dreamed only of truth. Is it not worse than death to feel
                  that those around whom the very life-tendrils of our heart have twined themselves,
                  whether sister, brother, friend or lover, live, and breathe, and move, on this
                  same earth with us, unmoved by our hopes and fears, unmindful even of our
                  existence?
               
               Yes, this is worse than death, for death is God's own decree, and we feel it our
                  duty to submit. There is no dark falsehood, no chilling indifference in the cold,
                  still chamber of death, to plant a poisoned dagger in our heart of hearts, and bid
                  it rankle there, till life, and hope, and feeling sink beneath the agony. Yet
                  Lilian kept hoping that Harry would come back to her at last; an angel voice
                  seemed to whisper to her soul, that in spite of all he was not so false as she
                  deemed him; that he loved her still.
               She endeavored to form some plan for the future; but her mind—weak from
                  suffering—shrunk from the task; and she was compelled, for the present at least,
                  to postpone it.
               Thus passed away day after day, until a long weary month was gone; when one night,
                  as she was lying in sad and sleepless thought, she was startled by the sound of
                  some one singing beneath her window. That voice!—every note of it sent a thrill to
                  her heart of hearts. She rose, she crept noiselessly to the window—fearful lest
                  the slightest sound should interrupt the singer—she peeped through the blinds, and
                  there, in the cold moonlight, stood Harry—her Harry. His face was
                  turned towards the window, and the deep sadness of its expression, revealed by the
                  pale moon-beams, struck with a painful thrill to the soul of the gazer. The song,
                  too, was a farewell. It told of one who had erred, and repented, but been denied
                  forgiveness; and who came to breathe his last farewell to one he might never see
                  more on earth.
               As the fine manly voice of Harry Vernon lingered and died on the last notes,
                  Lilian stretched out her arms with a faint cry, "Harry! my Harry!" She tried to
                  raise the casement; it was in vain, he heard her not. The instant the song was
                  concluded, he turned from the spot, and disappeared in the winding path through
                  the shrubbery. It was not thus they were to meet. Little thought she how soon
                  again she would see that face, and under what circumstances.
            
            
               CHAPTER L.
               MRS. DE VERE MORETON'S FANCY BALL.—A CATASTROPHE.
               
                  
                     
                        Gay was the revel; eyes were beaming
                        Soft with love and pleasure's dream,
                        Music swelling, bright gems gleaming,—
                        Lo! there sounds a thrilling scream.
                     
                  
               
               ALL the world was gay in anticipation of Mrs. De Vere Moreton's long talked of
                  fancy ball. Invitations were out, and expectation was on tiptoe. The fashionable
                  coteries were mad on the all important subject of costumes. No one could be in
                  finer spirits than the queen of the fête
                  herself. "Moreton" had retracted his former limitation as to amount, and given
                  her, in a generous fit—the result no doubt of "an unusual run of luck,"—a carte blanche as to expense; which she in her turn
                  extended to the confectioners and the rest of the tribe, who usually have the run
                  of a fashionable house on such occasions.
               She had secured the invaluable services of De Vrée, who had had the management of
                  balls at the Tuileries in his time (according to his own account), but who having
                  taken a disgust to "la belle France" after the downfall of Napoleon, had fled to
                  our own happy shore, and condescended to practise his art in the "Empire city" of
                  the New World. "Yes, he had managed these things for Josephine herself.
                  Delightful, the very thought."
               Mrs. Moreton denied herself to visitors for a week beforehand; giving up her
                  parlors, and even her boudoir, into the hands of the enchanter, to fashion as he
                  would.
               Nor had she reason to regret her confidence when, on the afternoon preceding the
                  grand event, she was summoned down to pronounce her verdict on the completion of
                  the preparations. De Vrée had the curtains down, and the rooms lighted, to show
                  the effect. Exclamations of delight burst from Mrs. Moreton's lips.
               The principal reception rooms were fitted up in the Louis Quatorze style,
                  draperied and festooned with gorgeous hangings of silk and gold; magnificent
                  mirrors reflecting the splendors of, and extending in appearance to an almost
                     interminable minable length, the
                  spacious apartments; while superb chandeliers shed their soft, mellowed moonlight
                  over all. Every adornment of luxury and art was there; nor did it detract in the
                  least from Mrs. Moreton's estimate of the elegance of her arrangements, that many
                  articles among them were hired for the occasion. "Such things were common; every
                  body did it, and of course nothing could be more proper." Eva, Judge Woodward (now
                  quite convalescent), and Mr. Moreton were called in to see, criticise, and admire.
                  Even the judge, much as he disapproved of such things, could not withhold his
                  admiration. Every thing was pronounced comme il
                     faut, and in high spirits the ladies retired to dress for the
                  evening.
               Just as Mrs. Moreton was completing that important operation, her husband's knock
                  at the door requested admittance. He entered attired as a nobleman of the court of
                  Charles II., so completely metamorphosed by his powdered wig, lace ruffles, cherry
                  velvet coat, white satin knee-breeches, and diamond (paste) buckles, that his wife
                  started as he walked in, as if he had been a stranger.
               He surveyed her with unusual admiration for his connubial eyes. She personated
                  Josephine, and the regal circlet which clasped her brow, and splendid costume of
                  lace, satin, and diamonds, with its sweeping train, corresponded well with her
                  finished elegance, and grace of manner; and Mad'lle Felice exclaimed in enraptured
                  tones, as she stood off and surveyed her mistress, "Ah! madame, Josephine never
                  look so well as dat herself! Ah! miladi tres
                     belle! very pretty. The toute ensemble est
                     grande." Mrs. Moreton turned and curtsied to her husband, dismissing
                  Felice to put the finishing touches on Miss Moreton's costume.
               "How do you like my dress, mon cher?"
               "Perfect, of course. I never dispute your taste; it was proven in your selection
                  of a husband."
               "I never was in better spirits," continued Mrs. Moreton. "Every thing going on so
                  well, and then my grand aim achieved at last—Eva engaged to Judge Woodward. I
                  shall take good care that the report is circulated—quite accidentally of
                  course—through the crowd to-night. I shall tell Virginia Smith in confidence—an
                  indirect way of telling every body. Just think, mon
                     cher, what credit it will reflect flect on me to marry my protegeé to
                  so distinguished a man,—and then the connection will add to our position,—our
                  respectability,—you know. That 'respectability' is a horribly prosaic sort of
                  thing, but still one finds it hard to do without it—just as one finds coarse plain
                  garments indispensable on some occasions—useful if not ornamental."
               "Just so," replied her spouse, who seemed in a remarkably complaisant mood. "By
                  the way, I have some news for you. I have just received a letter from John Moreton
                  (through his lawyer), informing me that he is very ill, and thought proper to
                  inform me,—his 'attached and beloved relative,' etc. He seems to think he cannot
                  live much longer. There is no train for B—— to-morrow; so I shall have to postpone
                  my visit to him until the day after; but I shall start then post-haste, and hope
                  to be there in time to receive his dying blessing, and—any thing else he may
                  choose to give me. It doesn't look very well—our having this ball—but then we
                  needn't be supposed to have known the bad news, until it is all over. At all
                  events, it is too late now to stop it."
               "Of course it is!" replied his wife. "Isn't it fortunate he is a bachelor? How
                  near of kin?" a question she had never cared to asked before.
               "First cousin only, but then he has no nearer relatives."
               "How much is he worth? Full three hundred thousand is he not?—but perhaps he will
                  leave his fortune to Eva's mother and her children?"
               "Not he! I am surprised at your ignorance. That is not the way of the world. He
                  thinks—a most damnable mistake by the way, but all the better for me—that we have
                  plenty of money, ten to one, therefore, he will give us every thing. There is some
                     éclat in leaving us a fortune; we will do him
                  credit in the disposal of it. What distinction is there in giving it to a poor
                  widow in the country? Oh! no, John always had a hankering after the beau monde, though having unfortunately rather too
                  strong an atmosphere of the grocery, where he made his little pile, lingering
                  about him, he never could succeed in entering our 'charmed circle.'"
               "I am sure," exclaimed the lady, "I deserve every thing he can give
                  us, for tolerating the vulgar wretch in my house, whenever he chose to run up to
                  town. I never could look at him,
                  without having my nasal organs assailed by imaginary odors of brown sugar, cheap
                  whiskey, and old fish! Horrible!" and she seized a bottle of Parisian extract, and
                  sprinkled it over her delicate lace monchoir, as
                  if thus to dissipate the unsavory ideas conjured up by these reminiscences of the
                  retired green-grocer.
               The rooms were filling fast. Costumes, and characters of every land, mingled in
                  motley confusion. Here the Italian peasant girl rubbed her scarlet petticoat
                  against the silken train of some august lady of a royal court. There monks and
                  brigands walked arm in arm, Turks and Christians chatted lovingly together. Judge
                  Woodward, in compliance with the urgent entreaties of Mrs. Moreton, had been
                  prevailed on to appear, and in the grave costume of a Roman senator, presented a
                  striking contrast to the fairylike vision of loveliness beside him, enveloped in
                  the softest of lace and muslin, stealing on the senses like the first breath of
                  early spring, and needing but the light gauze wings which floated from her
                  shoulders, to complete her resemblance to an angel. She personated Hebe, carrying
                  a crystal vase in her hand.
               "We are very late in arriving, are we not?" said Florence to Lettie Plumdale (who,
                  her older sister being "off," was now permitted to make her début), as releasing the arms of their respective
                  cavaliers, they followed their chaperone, Mrs. Fitz Friske, into the
                  dressing-room, to throw aside their wrapping, and steal a glance at the mirror,
                  that shrine of woman's worship. (I know several that like nothing better,
                  especially when they have on their "killing look," and are estimating how many
                  conquests they will be likely to make during the evening.)
               "I believe we are," replied Lettie, adding with a smile, "but our arrival will
                  only cause the greater sensation. Oh! sister, isn't Florence beautiful?"
               They gazed on her with irrepressible admiration. She had chosen to personate the
                  character of Corinne. A robe of rich white silk, fitted closely to her superb
                  form, and swept the floor in graceful and voluminous folds; her wealth of dark
                  curls, floating in wavy masses over her shoulders, unadorned save by the wreath of
                  laurels which bound them. A necklace of diamonds and ruby, clasped her swanlike
                  throat, and save this she wore no jewelry. Her glorious dark eyes seemed to burn
                  with the impassioned light of inspiration; and the crimson lip, with its haughty
                  curve, was meet to breathe the soul-speaking strains of the improvisatrice. Never
                  had she looked more queenly, more nobly beautiful. (And was she not a queen? Yes!
                  empress of the proudest realm on earth—empress of hearts!)
               Mrs. Fitz Friske cast a glance at the mirror, and then at her sister, but her own
                     distingué appearance satisfied her, and
                  Lettie looked lovely, in her sparkling and becoming costume. They descended. A
                  murmur of admiration followed them as they swept through the crowd.
               Music from an invisible band filled the rooms with melody. An Italian brigand—his
                  black velvet jacket gay with scarlet ribbons, and his closely drawn belt
                  glittering with jewelled dagger and carbine—claimed the hand of the haughty
                  Corinne. It was given most graciously. The brigand was Harry Vernon.
               A gentleman in the dress of a Spanish cavalier stood apart, with his plumed cap
                  held up before his face, so that only a pair of dark resplendent eyes, and a mass
                  of raven curls were revealed; but his splendid figure, and distingué appearance, betrayed him, even if one could have mistaken
                  the eyes and hair. He gazed on the pair as they swam round in the voluptuous
                  waltz, until his eyes flashed, and he bit his lip impatiently. Florence caught one
                  glance of those eyes. She looked down; a fever spot sprung to her cheek, and her
                  head drooped until it almost touched her partner's shoulder. In another instant
                  she had ceased to waltz, and stood alone in the recess, half hidden by a
                  curtain.
               But the cavalier did not approach her. He stood off, and gazed mournfully, and
                  half reproachfully upon her. Her heart died within her.
               In another moment her attention was attracted by a convetsation carried on between
                  two ladies near her, by whom she was evidently unperceived.
               One was Miss V. Smith, in the (considering her age) ludicrous costume of a flower
                  girl, and so bepatched, bepowdered, and bepainted, that Florence could scarce
                  repress a sigh of mingled contempt and pity, as she gazed upon her. They spoke of
                  Judge Woodward's approaching marriage with Miss Moreton as a settled thing.
               
               "I am very glad she is going to do so well, I am sure," said Miss Smith in her
                  spiteful accents. "Though it's nothing but Angela Moreton's manœuvring that has
                  brought it about. I have no doubt she had him brought here on purpose when he was
                  shot. You know it is very easy to work on the feelings of a sick person."
               "Nothing easier, my dear," responded her companion—a withered old scarecrow of
                  fashion, who had trodden the beaten track until mind, soul, and heart, were gone;
                  some fifteen years of that time having been vainly spent in parading her silly,
                  graceless daughters, to ball, opera, and fête, in search of that grand desideratum
                  "a rich husband," (Pshaw!) "In fact I shouldn't be surprised,"—with a ghastly
                  grin, which was intended to pass for a sportive smile,—"I shouldn't be surprised
                  if she hired the man to shoot him. There's no telling what people will do
                  sometimes."
               The fair maiden at her side assented to this laudable suggestion with delight,
                  adding:
               "But that is better than for him to marry Florence Fulton. They say he courted
                  her, but I don't believe it, for depend upon it, she never would have missed such
                  a chance. However, I suppose a heartless flirt like her don't care for the
                  admiration of any one man."
               "Well!" thought Florence; "if this isn't a specimen of man's love and man's faith,
                  I don't know what proof one could require. There is Mr. Fitz Friske—who three
                  months ago was my 'devoted slave,'—the happy husband of the honeymoon; Judge
                  Woodward—that man of men, that mirror of truth—who said, scarce two months since,
                  that his 'last dream of love was over,' betrothed to another; and
                  Harry Vernon," she glanced around the room; he was flirting in a corner with
                  Lettie Plumdale— "Harry Vernon, the very essence of indifference." She smiled—but
                  it was a smile of scornful mockery—and moved from her hiding-place, as a group of
                  exquisites approached her. She passed Miss Smith and her sister in scandal, but
                  turned no glance towards them to let them know she had overheard their remarks.
                  Why should she? In her heart of hearts she despised them too much to care for
                  their opinions.
               Gayly the fleeting hours fled onward. Never had Florence seemed gayer or shone
                  more resplendent in loveliness; never had the witty remark, the sparkling
                  repartee, the gay badinage or pretty sentiment
                  flown more freely from her lip than on this memorable evening.
               "She excels herself!" whispered the eager and admiring crowd, who followed in the
                  footsteps of the beauty and the heiress. (And why should they have
                  followed her? What fellowship or feeling had she in common with
                     them?)
               But all this gayety was assumed. Her heart ached and throbbed wildly through it
                  all.
               All this time Claude St. Julian never once approached her—though she did not speak
                  or move unseen by him. He gazed upon her with a melancholy, silent tenderness,
                  which penetrated into her inmost soul. He read the feelings that burned feverishly
                  under that sparkling surface; that gave to her eyes the witching brightness, and
                  to her check the glow, which rendered her so wildly beautiful. Well did that man
                  know the heart of the woman he sought to mould to his wishes. Every line and
                  letter of her nature had been read and studied by him; until, like the master
                  musician who brings forth the finest music of his instrument at will, he knew
                  exactly what chords to play upon to touch the deepest feelings of her soul.
               In compliance with the entreaties of her attendants, that "the divine
                  improvisatrice would deign to breathe-one of her inspired strains," Florence moved
                  into the harp-room.
               Never had she felt more in the mood to pour forth her pent-up tide of feeling in
                  song. She felt who would follow her;—who would be her most rapt
                  listener. She had herself composed and set to music an air for the occasion. The
                  air was for all; the words for him only,—those wild, passionate
                  words, breathing in every note her struggles, her grief, her tenderness, but still
                  imploring him to leave her lone and free, as she was. As she sung, she felt as if
                  inspired, and strain after strain—each more beautiful than the last—burst from her
                  lip. Now she was indeed the inspired improvisatrice,—her raven curls thrown back
                  from the intellectual brow,—her dark eyes blazing with the light of passionate
                  genius,—and the sweet strains born beneath those small white fingers—magical in
                  their touch,—mingling with notes which seemed to breathe of heaven, so wildly
                  sweet, "the listeners held their breath to hear." Who of the many who saw and heard her then, as she sat
                  there in her loveliness, her divine power of fascination, the worshipped star of
                  the crowd, did not recall her as she was in this, her last hour of triumph, long
                  years afterwards.
               The song was over, the room deserted, save by one who sat there solitary and
                  alone, unwilling to break the spell which bound him; bright glances burning into
                  his inmost soul, witching music and love-fraught words yet echoing in his ear. 
                     
                        "Leave, oh! leave me, I implore thee,
                        Love, hope, bliss, are not for me."
                     
                  
               
               "Never, Florence, never! More than ever now I say, 'Thou shalt be mine.'"
               It was towards the close of the evening that Harry Vernon again claimed the hand
                  of Florence for a waltz. She assented, but begged him to wait awhile, and ere he
                  could say more, relinquished his arm, and left the room with Eva Moreton.
               Harry looked after her for a moment, with a peculiar expression, and turned away
                  to amuse himself again with the lively prattle of Lettie Plumdale. Eva went to the
                  dressing-room; Florence left her to seek for her handkerchief, which she had left
                  in the now deserted harp-room. She found it, and then instead of leaving the room,
                  paused and looked around. No living soul save herself was there. The low French
                  windows opened out on a little balcony, leading to the conservatory. One of them
                  was now half open. Moved by an irresistible impulse, Florence stepped out,—perhaps
                  she wished to inhale the pure cool air;—as she did so, she observed some one in
                  the dim uncertain light, standing at the farther end of the balcony, leaning
                  against a pillar, his head drooping, his arms folded in an attitude of the deepest
                  dejection. Could she mistake the outlines of that form? A low, but deep sigh
                  thrilled upon her ear. Their estrangement of weeks,—her own wretched situation—his
                  melancholy—all the fond, weak tenderness, which is too often the curse of
                  woman—rushed upon her.
               She approached him,—she laid her hand timidly on his shoulder,—she pronounced his
                  name. He started and raised his head—"Florence! what angel of mercy called thee to
                  my side?"
               "You seem very unhappy," she replied in timid, tremulous accents. "Why indulge
                  such feelings? Oh! do not strive to deepen my wretchedness thus. Be happy, I
                  bescech you for my sake, yes, even for the sake of Florence."
               He drank in those low, half-breathed words, with the tremulous eagerness, with
                  which the parched lip tastes the first cool drops; he turned—he clasped her in his
                  arms—he rained kisses on lip, cheek, and brow, and Florence resisted not; all
                  earth, all wretchedness, all else forgotten in the blind ecstasy of feeling, that
                  it was his heart which was beating so wildly against her own.
               "Love me, Florence! only love me, and I will be happy. Without that, I shall die.
                  Fly with me, dearest; live for Claude; will you not? There now, do not kill me by
                  a refusal. You must, you shall be mine." And again his burning lips met hers; but
                  this time Florence struggled, though vainly, for release. A slight noise startled
                  them—they looked up. Harry Vernon stood beside them, his brow crimson with rage,
                  and a cold scorn curling his lip. Claude released Florence, and unable to repress
                  the scream which burst from her lip at the sight of Harry, she leaned, half
                  fainting, against a pillar for support.
               It is useless to detail the words which passed between the injured lover—for such
                  was Harry in name at least—and the discovered offender. Insults, bitter and
                  burning, were offered and retaliated, and the result was a challenge. All the
                  while, Florence stood pale and moveless, as the marble against which she leaned.
                  Forms began to appear, moving in haste in the next rooms; they approached the
                  door.
               "One word," said St. Julian hastily, touching Harry on the shoulder; "for this
                  lady's sake, conceal the cause of his scene if you can, and take her from this
                  accursed spot."
               He bowed haughtily. "Fear me not," he said coldly and briefly.
               St. Julian leaped over the balcony, and the next moment had gained the street,
                  while Harry turned to Florence, and with an air half of haughtiness (for his
                  pride, if not his love, was deeply wounded), half of pity, offered her his arm.
                  She had no resource but to accept it. Her head swam, and her brain felt wild, as
                  with his assistance she made her way
                  through the now thronged rooms, and met the gaze of surprise and curiosity fixed
                  on her on all sides, and heard the whispers running through the crowd. She had a
                  dim and confused recollection of hurrying to the dressing-room, from thence to her
                  carriage, and from thence home; and that Harry moved like an automaton at her
                  side, not once breaking the cold silence, save to assure her as they parted, that
                  he would endeavor to explain the scene by alleging sudden indisposition on her
                  part, which would serve as an excuse for her hasty departure. She was scarcely
                  conscious of what was passing around her, until she reached the solitude of her
                  own room, and had time to collect her thoughts.
               Arthur Plumdale had watched the attentions of Harry Vernon to his
                  sister—attentions bestowed to get rid of other and unpleasant thoughts—with a
                  satisfaction he would have been far from feeling, had he known the real state of
                  that young gentleman's affairs in a pecuniary point of view. With jealous
                  vigilance he had an eye for Florence, and one for them. With that insidious spirit
                  of evil, which prompted him ever to suspect the actions of others, when he saw
                  Florence go to the harp-room, he followed her at a convenient distance. Concealing
                  himself in a recess, he looked out upon the balcony. One glance sufficed, and
                  hastening to the ball-room, he whispered a word into the ear of Harry Vernon. The
                  result is shown. The scream which burst from the lips of Florence, reached the
                  ears of some of the crowd in the reception rooms. In an instant all was excitement
                  and confusion. No one knew from whence it proceeded, until directed by the arch
                  fiend, Plumdale.
               "What is the matter, Mr. Plumdale?" cried Mrs. Moreton. "What is the meaning of
                  this confusion?"
               "Nothing, madam," was the sneering reply, "but a little tableau rehearsing on the
                  balcony—the divine Improvisatrice in the arms of a Spanish cavalier—a surprise
                  from a jealous lover, &c. Nothing, I am sure, to cause such a fuss."
               Mrs. Moreton saw all at a glance. "Impossible!" she cried, with a well-feigned
                  expression of horror. The woman-feeling of Eva triumphed over every other. "Poor
                  Florence!" she could not help exclaiming.
               Mrs. Fitz Friske was searching in vain for her charge. Mr. Plumdale explained all.
                  And now the name of Florence was on every lip; the scene on the balcony rehearsed
                  in every shape and form; new and exaggerated versions of it were at a premium, Mr.
                  P. acting as stage prompter on the occasion.
               We will not pause to descant upon the virtuous horror of the ladies, or the smiles
                  and whispers of the gentlemen. Some there were, who had been steeped to the brow
                  in vice for years, and who wore the mask of hypocrisy, like the paint which
                  covered their withered faces, scarcely concealing the hideousness beneath, and
                     these were loudest in their denunciations. So goes the world.
               "Is it not as I said? The sequel of the love tale is approaching," murmured the
                  Count di Basquina, as he turned his footsteps homeward that night.
            
            
               CHAPTER LI.
               THE DUEL.
               
                  
                     
                        A thousand thoughts, hopes, feelings, fears, and startilng events, were
                           born in those few swift-winged hours. Anguish to more than one heart. Joy
                           to none.
                     
                     JOURNAL OF THOUGHTS.
                  
               
               
                  
                     "Dead? Oh, God! it cannot be."
                  
               
               ST. JULIAN hastened home. The house was silent and dark, as though all its inmates
                  had long since retired. He went to his dressing-room, where the fire, kindled for
                  his return, had not yet burned down. Writing a note in haste, he knocked up his
                  sleepy and wondering valet, and despatched it to Mr. Moreton; then paced up and
                  down the room, thinking not of sleep.
               He thought of Florence, her shock, her mortification; and the probable
                  consequences if the thing were made public, as it almost inevitably must be; the
                  thousand and one versions which would be current, each new one worse than the
                  last. And the duel—that would make things worse still. Could he decline it?
                  Impossible! His honor, his courage, were at stake.
               To-morrow his life would be at the mercy of Harry Vernon non, an unerring marksman. He might be killed—it
                  was probable—but such thoughts were vain now. It was too late for repentance; and
                  even if held out to him, he would not have sought it. Seating himself at his
                  escritoire, he wrote a passionate farewell to Florence, imploring her forgiveness
                  for the past, for the wrong he might innocently ('twas thus he chose to phrase it)
                  have done her, and beseeching her to believe that every thought and feeling of his
                  soul was hers, beyond his power of control; that even the thought of death for
                  her, was fraught with mournful sweetness. Yes, for her sake he gloried in this
                  last sacrifice on the shrine of his love. Thus and much more he said.
               While engaged in this occupation, he thought he heard a low, stifled moan, as of
                  some one breathing with difficulty, in his wife's room. He paused, but not hearing
                  it repeated, went on with his occupation. After finishing the letter, he laid it
                  on the mantel, with singular carelessness, which could only be accounted for by
                  the absorption of his mind—intending to give it in charge to his valet the next
                  morning. With that species of fatality, which often makes our own acts of
                  negligence seem the interposition of a retributive Providence, he never thought of
                  it afterwards.
               Day was dawning, and Claude was interrupted from the feverish slumber he was
                  endeavoring to snatch, by the announcement of Lieut. Minton and Mr. Moreton, who
                  had met to arrange the preliminaries. Lieut. Minton was the bearer of a message
                  from Vernon, stating that if Claude had no objection, he wished particularly that
                  Vernon Place should be the scene of the duel. He had none; and it being nearly
                  time for the morning boat to start, all three departed in haste, Claude leaving
                  directions with his valet not to arouse the household, or say any thing about his
                  movements, together with a little note for Marion, giving some plausible excuse
                  for his absence.
               The morning was dark, threatening, and gloomy. Not a word was exchanged between
                  the two principals in the short passage to Vernon. Harry Vernon paced the deck,
                  arm in arm with Lieut. Minton. He looked feverish and excited, and it was evident
                  that he, too, had passed a sleepless night. With an assumption of his habitual
                  recklessness, he now and then laughed and talked with careless noncha-
                  lance; but these efforts were mocked by the gloom on his brow, and
                  meeting with no response from his friend, he after a while relapsed into silence.
                  Lieut. Minton looked very serious, and, in truth, his situation was not an
                  enviable one. He knew what the feelings of his betrothed would be, could she know
                  the danger to which her only and beloved brother was exposed; and if he was
                  killed, it would fall to his lot to break the unwelcome tidings; he would have
                  declined acting as his second, could he have avoided it, but that was impossible
                  without giving offence.
               Claude looked pale and melancholy, but perfectly composed, as he sat by the
                  state-room window, looking out on the wild, dark waves of the Hudson, as they
                  dashed threateningly onward, with that low boding murmur which is said to portend
                  a storm; and at the dim, far off mountain heights, looming faintly through the
                  mist, which covered them with a cold, pale, shroudlike curtain. Mr. Moreton was
                  the only one of the party who looked perfectly serene, and as if, instead of a
                  mission of life and death, he was merely on a little pleasure excursion. The spot
                  selected for the duel was scarcely out of sight of Lilian's cottage.
               (A presentiment that he would be killed, haunted the mind of Harry Vernon from the
                  first; but with that abandonment which, in minds like his, is always the companion
                  of unhappiness, he rather coveted than shunned his fate. But dead or alive, it was
                  to Lilian he must be carried.)
               The ground was marked off, and they took their places. St. Julian had made up his
                  mind so to direct his aim, as to strike Vernon on the arm, or where the injury
                  would be as slight as possible. He could not be so magnanimous as to fire in the
                  air, and take no revenge for the insulting words he had lavished so freely on him.
                  No; his blood boiled as he thought of them; but still his desire was not to kill,
                  but merely to "teach him a slight lesson."
               Harry Vernon covered Claude with a deadly aim, and he perceiving it, in an instant
                  changed his mind, and threw his own more directly upon his antagonist. He was
                  calm; the hand of the other trembled visibly, not from fear, but excitement.
               And they, who had sat at the same board, drank of the same cup, clasped hand to
                  hand in friendship, and who, a few
                  hours before, had mingled together in the gay crowd, where the dark and fearful
                  thoughts of death could find no place; stood face to face, each with hand
                  upraised—not in the fury of mad passion, but calmly and deliberately, to take the
                  other's life.
               Mr. Moreton was to give the signal to fire, by dropping a handkerchief.
               A moment of suspense, and the white messenger of death fluttered slowly to the
                  ground. The next moment the report of the pistols, as they fired simultaneously,
                  rung through the air, and Harry fell prostrate and lifeless on the ground.
               Claude, too, was slightly wounded, though, owing to the unsteadiness of his
                  opponent's hand, the ball missed aim, and merely grazed his left arm; but
                  forgetting himself, he rushed to the side of his victim. Lieut. Minton bent over
                  the wounded man in agony. "Good God!" he exclaimed, "shot right through the heart,
                  I do believe."
               There he lay in his young, proud beauty; the wild black eyes set with a cold
                  glare; the full, curved lip, scarcely yet ceasing to quiver. They had torn open
                  his vest, and the life-blood was oozing, drop by drop, from a wound in his breast,
                  staining his shirt with the dark brand of crime and death. Mr. Moreton had flown
                  for a physician, though with but little hope of procuring one in time to save,
                  even if any spark of life yet remained. By the merest chance he met Dr. Moffatt,
                  who was just returning from a call on Lilian,—not having entirely discontinued his
                  visits as yet, notwithstanding her convalescence. A few words explained all.
               "For God's sake!" exclaimed St. Julian and Minton in a breath, as the physician
                  approached,—"for God's sake, do something, doctor."
               Dr. Moffatt bent over the motionless form, placed his hand on his heart, and
                  looking him intently in the face for a moment, shook his head silently. A moment
                  afterwards—though to the lookers on it seemed an interminable age—he said briefly,
                  "We'll see what can be done."
               "We must carry him to the cottage; it is the nearest place," said Lieut. Minton.
                  "Besides," he added, "he requested, dead or alive, to be taken there."
               The physician would have demurred, but he thought that, under such circumstances,
                  things must take their course; and there was not a moment's time to lose.
               "You are wounded too," said Mr. Moreton, noticing the blood which trickled from
                  Claude's arm, which he had hastily bound with a handkerchief.
               "Only a scratch; for heaven's sake! don't think of me now."
               They placed the moveless form on a litter,—they bore him to the cottage: the door
                  was opened,—Lilian sprang forward, gave one wild cry, "My husband!" and fainted,
                  cold and lifeless as the form they bore.
               Claude, who had followed them, in his anxiety, to the house, felt a fearful thrill
                  of horror, as he heard that cry. Was it the thought of the agony his own act had
                  caused; or was it a presentiment which froze the life-blood in his veins?
               At any other time, the exclamation which burst from poor Lilian's lips would have
                  excited wonder and comment; now there was no time to think of such things. She was
                  taken from the room, and given in charge of the terrified Mary.
               Harry was removed from the litter to a bed. Restoratives were brought, his limbs
                  chafed, and warm applications used to restore life, if any yet remained. At last a
                  slight sensation agitated the frame, a faint hue of life stole over the cheek, and
                  a low moan escaped the lips of the sufferer.
               "Thank God, he lives!" echoed around.
               The surgeon proceeded to extract the ball. It was a delicate operation, and
                  required skill; but at length it was accomplished. "There is hope now, I think,"
                  he said, as he finished, though Harry had swooned again from excess of pain—"but,
                  by heaven! it was a tight job. If the ball had gone that much further," describing
                  an extremely minute distance with his finger, "either side, he would have been a
                  gone case."
               Claude, who had been watching the operation with intense anxiety, heard with much
                  satisfaction the verdict of the surgeon, receiving at the same time some
                  directions as to the treatment of the trifling wound he had himself received.
                  Harry was left in charge of the surgeon and Lieut. Minton; and Claude and Mr.
                  Moreton returned to town by the evening boat, the latter promising to send a nurse
                     down, and to break the news himself
                  to the Vernon family, as gently as possible.
               The tempest which had been slowly gathering all day, now burst forth in torrents.
                  Fast and furiously it beat round the fragile walls of the cottage, interrupted in
                  its dreary wailing only by the low moans of the sufferer within.
               Dark and threatening it gloomed over the pathway of Claude, as he slowly and sadly
                  paced the deck of the steamer on his return to the city.
               And thus moves on the great Drama of Life; thus Fate reveals her untold mysteries.
                  Life, love, hope, feeling, what are ye all, but as frail flowers that bloom in the
                  bright summer time, and wither and die in the autumn blast, leaving but the wintry
                  desolation of despair?
            
            
               CHAPTER LII.
               THE CRISIS OF FATE APPROACHES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           And has it come to this at last?
                           Thou high and haughty one!
                           Is there no glory in the past,
                           To bid thy proud heart shun
                           The Demon which allures thee on
                           In the dark track of Fate?
                           Oh! heed thy warning angel's voice,
                           And pause ere 'tis too late.
                        
                     
                     MS.
                  
               
               FLORENCE sat by the window of her boudoir, the evening of the second day after
                  Mrs. De Vere Moreton's fatal ball, apparently watching the dreary tempest, which
                  for two days had howled unceasingly without, and now rattled slowly and
                  monotonously against the window panes. Her heart mirrored the gloom of the storm,
                  as she sat in that listless apathy—more terrible than grief itself,—which succeeds
                  great mental suffering. No sleep had visited her eyes during the two preceding
                  nights. On the morning previous, a note had been handed her from Harry Vernon,
                  dated four o'clock the night of the ball. It enclosed a ring she had permitted him
                  to wear, and contained but a line.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Miss Fulton will receive this, as the termination of the engagement
                              between us.
                           
                              H. V."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               And now her last refuse was gone, none left—unless indeed it was the one which
                  Claude offered.
               Her name perhaps on every lip, nay she fancied she could already hear the gibes
                  and mocking taunts of the malicious and cruel. By turns she wept and raved,
                  through those two long dark days, until, overcome by the fierce excitement of mind
                  and body, she sunk into the state of listless apathy we have just described.
               A beggar girl passing by the window paused, and held out her hand for charity. She
                  stood in the pitiless storm, wan, pale and delicate, shivering in the blast. Moved
                  by the ready impulses of her quick and generous nature, Florence raised the
                  window, and threw her a handful of silver. The girl picked it up eagerly,
                  murmuring blessings on her as she did so, and then paused, and looked at her
                  wistfully for a moment.
               "My poor girl," said Florence, "you need not thank me. If I mistake not, we are
                  sisters in misfortune and misery. Are you not an orphan, and homeless?"
               "No, madam; I have a home, and a kind good mother in it. 'Tis but a poor home,
                  'tis true, but when my mother is well, and we can get work, we are quite happy;
                  but she is sick now, and we are out of money, and I know not what to do. I would
                  not beg for my own sake, but for hers I can stoop even to this. Your charity comes
                  in good time, lady. May heaven bless you—as it has I am sure. Young, rich,
                  beautiful, ah! lady you must be very happy."
               "Happy!" murmured Florence, as the girl passed on, pursued by the driving
                  tempest,—"Happy!" an expression of bitter mockery swept over her features, and her
                  tone was one of intense scorn; it was but the echo from the heart, which even then
                  was murmuring against God and man, in the wretchedness of its lot. She looked
                  around on the comfort, nay the splendor within, and her lip curled
                  disdainfully.
               She turned again to the open window. There she stood, unheeding the war of
                  elements without, with folded arms, and the same cold, proud, stern expression
                  resting on her face. The chill damp air thrilled through her frame, and the driving rain swept over her hair
                  and cheek, but she heeded it not. If it had been God's lightnings, sent in
                  vengeful wrath to hurl destruction on her head, she would have stood there calm,
                  daring, and unmoved still.
               "A home and a mother for whose sake she would
                     beg," repeated Florence, with a strange mixture of sorrow and
                  bitterness in her tone, which told more than words could do the utter desolation
                  of her soul—that soul which, haughty and regal still, reared itself proudly and
                  defiantly, even in this its hour of darkness, against the Power by whose dedecree
                  she was now suffering the consequences of one fatal error;—one error born of the
                  thousand misguiding influences which had been thrown around her life from her very
                  birth, warping to wrong her passionate—though naturally pure and lofty—soul. "The
                  beggar girl is happier than I, for I have no home, no ties. Friendless and
                  disgraced! Oh God! what have I done that thou shouldst thus curse me?"
               At this juncture the door was opened unceremoniously, by Mrs. Sharp, who closed it
                  as suddenly, after thrusting a paper through the aperture. It was one of the daily
                  papers of the city—and one notorious for its personalities—fresh from the press.
                  She picked it up mechanically, and as she did so, a note from her uncle dropped
                  from between its folds. She opened it and read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "When you read the marked paragraph, you will understand why you are
                              no longer a welcome inmate of my house. I cannot refuse you the
                              shelter of my roof, but presume you can easily find a home more suited
                              to your taste, and society more congenial, than that of him, upon
                              whose old age your ingratitude and shameless conduct have brought
                              reproach and mortification.
                           
                              C. F."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Her appalled eyes rested on the marked paragraph.
               "An incident which caused a great sensation in the fashionable circles, and which
                  has led to the most serious results, occurred on Tuesday night, at the residence
                  of one of the leaders of the ton, on Fifth
                  Avenue. They were celebrating a grand Fancy Ball with great éclat, when the hilarity of the company was suddenly
                  interrupted by a fearful scream, coming from some mysterious part of the
                  building—some say a dark balcony, others, Mrs. M.'s boudoir.
               "The brilliant, admired, and beautiful Miss F——(for the sake of the feelings of
                  the parties concerned, we suppress the names), one of the brightest stars in the
                  world of fashion, was discovered by a jealous lover in the arms of that 'gallant
                  gay Lothario,' C. St. J——. A scene ensued of course, and the result, we regret to
                  add, was a duel between St. J——and V——. It came off yesterday (Wednesday) morning,
                  at the country seat of Ex Gov. V——, young V—— having by particular request chosen
                  that place as the scene of the meeting. V—— is thought to be fatally wounded, and
                  this unhappy circumstance has plunged his family into the deepest distress. Of
                  course, the family of so distinguished a public servant as Ex Gov. V——, cannot
                  fail of meeting with universal sympathy."
               "Great God!" exclaimed Florence as the paper dropped from her hand, "what next?"
                  The faint hope which had yet supported her, that all might be concealed, was over.
                  Her name was in every mouth—yea, even in the public prints;—it was the property of
                  every newsboy, who vended it about for traffic. Her
                     name,—hers, the proud, the exclusive Florence; she upon whose
                  refined ear the very name of "the mass" fell with a repulsive sound. The very
                  shelter of the roof which covered her was grudgingly given. Where could she turn,
                  in this her hour of desolation, for consolation—advice—friendship? To Ella Vernon?
                  Was not her brother the victim of his passion for her? Eva Moreton had no home to
                  offer her, even as a temporary refuge. Mrs. Moreton—she was not the person to turn
                  to in such an emergency—and the remainder of her dear five hundred friends—where
                  were they? where indeed! The eyes of fashionable friends are proverbially weak,
                  and can only discern an object when the bright rays of prosperity flash around it;
                  they are utterly unable to pierce through the obscurity of adversity. One ray
                  alone gleamed through the darkness around her, and that encircled with a halo the
                  fatal name of St. Julian. With a calmness which surprised herself—the unnatural
                  calmness of desperation—she wrote to him:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "The die is cast. All is over with me now, Claude. Henceforth my
                              fate—though it be eternal misery—is linked with yours.
                           
                              FLORENCE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               Days passed, slow miserable days, before an answer came. Florence locked herself
                  in her room, and saw no one; at last, hurried and blotted, it arrived.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Dearest, pardon and pity me. For the present I cannot come to you. As
                              soon as circumstances permit, I will do so. Say but when, where, and
                              how I shall see you, and believe that I would brave the horrors, not
                              only of this—but of the eternal world for you.
                           
                              C. St. J."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER LIII.
               SEVERED TIES.
               
                  
                     
                        Love's sweet light once cold and dim, around the household hearth,
                        Oh! never more can light like this be found on this wide earth.
                     
                  
               
               WHEN Claude arrived at home, painful and preoccupied as were his thoughts, it
                  seemed to him that an unusual gloom and stillness reigned through the house;—the
                  servants too looked quiet and serious as if hushed into an overawed silence;—but
                  without pausing to ask questions, he went straightway to his dressing-room. He
                  started at the apparition which met his eyes as he flung open the door. Marion
                  stood in the middle of the floor; the letter he had written to Florence clasped
                  tightly in her hands; her sunken eyes, and pale cheeks, bearing traces of weeping
                  and sleepless vigils, but now cold and tearless as stone,—apparently frozen into
                  rigidity. He sprang forward and tore the fatal missive from her grasp, exclaiming
                  with eyes flashing fire, and tones—almost for the first time in his life to a
                  woman—harsh and stern; "Great heaven! Marion, why did you read this letter?"
               She quailed not, moved not, 'neath his glance, and the low tones of her reply came
                  hissing through her teeth.
               "To discover the full measure of my wrong and insult. To find what a false traitor
                  is the man who vowed at the altar, 'forsaking all others, to keep him unto me
                  only.' Henceforth I—your hated wife—will be no barrier between you and 'the world
                  of bliss' from which I 'have hitherto separated you;' I will no longer be 'the upas tree, barringyour soul from what it would deem
                  its seventh heaven.' You are bold in guilt, since you do not quail at the
                  repetition of your own words. Yes, they were traced carelessly on this paper, it
                  may be,"—and she crushed the letter in her thin, small fingers, with a nervous
                  violence and passion of which he had scarce believed her capable;—"but they are
                  burned into my soul as with a brand of scorching flame. Fool that I was, to bear
                  as long as I have done!—oh! weak, silly fool! as you must have thought me. But you
                  see the worm can turn. I am resolved at last. We part for ever from
                  this day. Go to your ——"
               "Hush!" interrupted her husband passionately. "No word against her
                  from your lips, or any others, will I permit. She is as pure and free
                  from intentional wrong as yourself; nor shall you dare, because
                     chance" (and a smile of scorn curled his lip) "has made your lot
                  more fortunate than hers, to brand her name in my presence. But what
                  madness is this you talk, about parting?" he added; for though it was the very
                  thing which in his inmost soul he most ardently desired, still he was unprepared
                  for this sudden determination on her part—or chose her to believe he was, at all
                  events. Ere she could reply, a thought struck him, which sent a gleam of joy
                  thrilling through his soul; and with tones whose sorrowing calmness belied the
                  fevered eagerness which lurked under them, he demanded, "You do not wish a
                  divorce, Marion?"
               "Yes, I do wish it; and so help me heaven! I will apply for it."
               "Very well," repeated Claude, with startling solemnity of look and tone. "Remember
                  your words—you have called heaven to witness that you will apply for a divorce;
                  you cannot now recall them."
               She started, and turned, if possible, paler than before; but a moment afterwards,
                  answered with forced calmness,
               "I have no desire to recall them. The last link which bound us together is
                  severed—our child"—— she paused, overcome by the violence of her feelings, and
                  unable to proceed.
               "What of our child?" he demanded, recalled to the remembrance of her, whose very
                  existence, in this stormy interview, he had for the moment forgotten.
               
               "Our child is dead!" murmured his wife hoarsely. "Look, she is there." She pointed
                  to the door of the next room.
               Struck dumb with horror, he opened it, and there, in her little bed—that bed where
                  he had often bent over her, to watch her calm, innocent slumber, her infantile
                  loveliness, with fond delight—shrouded in the white habiliments of the grave,
                  pale, cold and moveless in death, lay the form of his child.
               Every other feeling was forgotten in the absorbing grief of the father. In these
                  first moments of a mutual sorrow, he would have called Marion to his side; he
                  would have wept with her over the dead child; he would have implored her to forget
                  and forgive all; but in this, his hour of repentance, she came not near him, and
                  thus the last link was indeed severed between them. The long night passed, and the
                  dreary morning came, bringing the undertaker, with his dark, fearful burden—the
                  last prison-house of the dead—and his aspect of stony indifference; and the loved
                  face was looked on for the last time, and the coffin-lid closed over it. Then came
                  the funeral, with its slow, solemn procession, and long train of carriages,
                  "suitable to the station of the deceased," filled with the cold and careless, or
                  mocking with their formal emptiness the grief of the bereaved. It was over, and
                  Claude turned to his desolate home with a stricken heart. Still Marion came not
                  near him. She had watched over the child, who had been taken with a sudden and
                  violent fit of croup, and whose low and painful breathing had startled Claude in
                  his occupation of writing to Florence (how deeply he regretted now, that he had
                  not laid down his pen, and sought the origin of that sound); alone she had watched
                  over her during the sleepless hours of that long, miserable night, unconscious
                  even that her father was in the house; alone, save with hireling servants, she had
                  received her last breath, and closed her eyes; alone she had wept over her; and
                  then, when wondering at his—as she thought it—protracted absence, she had sought
                  his dressing-room, to find there, instead of him, that fatal letter. It was the
                  last drop in the overflowing cup; the sudden blow which struck like a bolt of ice
                  to the heart of the wife, freezing her last feeling of affection or kindness for
                  her husband. And in this her hour of utter wretchedness, like spectres from the
                  past, the image of the betrayed love of her youth, her mother's warnings, her
                  disobedience, the early errors—never concealed—of the wild profligate boy, with
                  whose fate she had chosen to link her own, rose up before her; and those fatal,
                  oft-repeated words of "lang syne," "I had rather be miserable with Claude St.
                  Julian, than happy with any other man," rung the knell of hope, and love, and
                  peace, and joy in her soul.
               When the last sad rites were over, she made her preparations for departure in
                  coldness and silence. These completed, she left for New Haven, without even
                  announcing her intention to her husband, and accompanied only by a servant. Not
                  until the old familiar sound of "home" fell on her ear, was the
                  icebolt on her heart unloosed, and in her mother's arms the long pent-up tears
                  gushed forth.
               "I have come home, mother. Your poor, disobedient child, has come back to you to
                  die. Cecy is gone, and I shall soon follow her."
               Violent and despairing as is the grief for the loss of a child, it is perhaps more
                  evanescent than any other near and dear bereavement—at least with one whose
                  domestic affections had been so little called into exercise as those of Claude St.
                  Julian. Thus, though he bent with agonizing sorrow over the grave of Cecy, though
                  he dwelt with mournful tenderness on her memory; this was not sufficient to recall
                  his thoughts and feelings entirely from the world in which he had hitherto lived,
                  moved, and had his being; and after two weeks of lonely wretchedness, he turned
                  from his darkened home, dreading to linger within its gloomy precincts. In the
                  first agony of his bereavement, Florence's note was handed to him; and as he read
                  it, he felt the only pang of conscience he had ever experienced for his course of
                  conduct towards her, or his wife. As soon as he felt sufficiently composed to
                  dwell on such a subject, he scrawled the hasty answer we have seen, and had heard
                  nothing from her since. Now his heart whispered "Florence" once more.
               Marion was gone; separated of her own free will from him. He knew her scruples of
                  conscience too well, not to feel that she would, after the words he, unconsciously
                  to herself, had drawn from her, apply for a divorce; but under present
                  circumstances she might fail to get it.
               
               Some decisive step must be taken. He wrote again to Florence, over whose head
                  those two weeks had dragged even more wearily than over his own. The result was an
                  interview, and the next day Claude St. Julian was closeted all day with his
                  lawyer.
            
            
               CHAPTER LIV.
               THE FUGITIVES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "O'er the glad waters of the deep blue sea,
                           Our thoughts as boundless, and our souls as free."
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               THE good ship rode proudly over the dancing waves of the blue Mediterranean. The
                  moon poured myriads of diamonds over the bosom of the bright waters, and the air
                  was soft, clear, and warm, for it was the breath of spring beneath a tropical
                  sky.
               On the deck of the ship—deserted save by these, and the drowsy watch—paced a lady
                  and gentleman, in low, earnest converse. The lady's head was raised; her dark eyes
                  upturned to the moon, which threw its beams on her beautiful, but melancholy
                  features. The gentleman gazed upon her with impassioned tenderness.
               "You are sad, my Florence; wherefore so? Are you not with me?"
               "Yes, Claude, and would be, oh! so happy; but—but do you think God will bless ties
                  like ours, Claude?'
               Her companion was nonplussed for a moment.
               "Do not think of such things as these now, dearest," he replied at length. "Think
                  of the wretched home you have left; of the cold, heartless world, whose sneers and
                  censure you must have braved, had you lingered there—of your lonely lot; and then
                  think of the bright clime to which I bear you; of the love, nay, the adoration I
                  lavish on you."
               "Dearest!"
               "And then, too, I will soon be bound to her, even by the cold
                  formality of a legal tie no longer, and then you shall be mine by the laws of
                  earth, as you are now by those of heaven; for the laws of love are the laws of
                  heaven. Believe me, love, I have more to regret in leaving my native land, than
                  you; and yet, for your sake, I have left it. The grave of my child is there." His
                  voice trembled, and his lip quivered.
               "Dear Claude, forgive me. I feel how much you have given up for me, and I
                     am happy; for have I not your love?"
               The tears sprung to her eyes; he kissed them away.
               They were approaching the harbor of Genoa. The vineclad shores of Italy had been
                  for some time visible, and now the marble palaces and stately domes of "the proud
                  city" rose to view, sleeping in the soft moonlight.
               "Oh! look, Florence; this is Italy,—there is Genoa!"
               She could not repress an exclamation of delight, as that fair southern land of
                  beauty and fragrance burst upon her, with the soft, mysterious spell of moon and
                  starlight lingering over, and hallowing its loveliness. All the romance of her
                  nature kindled within her, as she gazed upon the fair scene, and looking up, met
                  those love-lit eyes beaming into her own, as he murmured, "This is our home,
                  Florence."
            
            
               CHAPTER LV.
               THE RECONCILIATION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "For Time makes all but true love old,
                           The burning thoughts that then were told,
                           Run molten still in memory's mould,
                           And will not cool
                           Until the heart itself be cold
                           In Lethe's pool."
                        
                     
                     CAMPBELL.
                  
               
               IT was thought advisable to conceal from Lilian the real situation of Harry
                  Vernon.
               When she recovered from her long, deathlike swoon, she was informed by Mary of the
                  duel; that he was badly, but not dangerously wounded, and that, though any
                  excitement now was forbidden, in a few days she would be permitted to see him.
               
               Some trifling quarrel, originating in the excitement of wine, was alleged as the
                  cause of the duel. In vain Lilian pleaded for permission to see and nurse him. The
                  peremptory orders of the physician forbade it. All her wrongs forgotten, she sat
                  hour after hour in the opposite apartment, with clasped hands and eager eyes,
                  watching every one who passed to and from the sick room, which to her was a
                  forbidden paradise—for was not Harry there? Mary and the physician seemed to her
                  the most enviable of mortals, for were they not permitted to hang over, to soothe
                  and watch him? Why was this denied her? Occasionally, a groan from the sufferer
                  would thrill to her very soul.
               The first request of Harry, on returning to consciousness, was for Lilian. The
                  first day it was denied him, and in the feverish paroxysms of pain he seemed to
                  forget it; but as day after day it was repeated with more and more importunity,
                  and as the doctor marked the paling cheek of the anxious watcher without, he at
                  length conceded.
               On the fourth day, when he woke from a slumber of some length apparently much
                  refreshed, Lilian was informed, with many cautions to be calm, that she might see
                  him. A moment afterwards she glided noiselessly into the room, and then, instead
                  of, as was her first impulse, throwing herself into his arms, she checked herself,
                  and stood wistfully gazing into the dear face before her, the very sight of which,
                  after their agonizing separation, sent a gush of mingled feelings thrilling
                  through her soul. His eyes met and fastened on hers; one glance told volumes of
                  love, of sorrow, of forgiveness. He held out his hand beseechingly.
               "Lilian!"
               "Harry!"
               Now she was in his arms, panting and sobbing wildly, all caution forgotten, her
                  only sense of feeling, of existence, that she was on his bosom once more;—those
                  long weary hours of estrangement over; let her die now; yes, let both die;
                  existence was too blissful to survive that moment. It was useless to talk of
                  caution—of calmness; no force could tear her from him. All must be explained.
               "Oh, Harry! I thought I was forgotten, deserted; tell me it was not so!"
               "Deserted! Lilian, did you not write me you never wished to see me again? Am I not
                  violating your wishes in being here now? Was not my love, my repentance, my offer
                  of righting you rejected?"
               "What offer, Harry? I never heard of this before!"
               Now it was Lilian's turn to pour forth her tale of sorrow; her crushing grief, her
                  hoping against hope, her vain waiting and looking for—what never came—assurance of
                  love and fidelity; and then the terrible certainty which seemed to frown upon her,
                  that all was indeed over, and the darkest side of the picture the true one.
               Then it was that the conviction of the falsehood of his trusted friend, sudden and
                  vivid as a lightning flash, broke upon Harry.
               And now a thousand unprincipled acts, to which he had before been wilfully blind,
                  rushed upon his memory, and his soul recoiled from the treachery of which he had
                  been the victim. Yes! he had been his dupe throughout. Maddening thought! The
                  worst misfortunes of his life had never, perhaps, thrilled with a keener pang of
                  anguish to the soul of the young man, than the conviction of his betrayed and
                  insulted friendship.
               But he must not dwell on such thoughts now; he was with Lilian once more; all was
                  explained; let him but recover, and all would be right."
               And his boy? he was at the home house with Dame Burton; he must wait awhile before
                  seeing him. The physician was sure that his present excitement would prove fatal;
                  but in spite of his skill, both as a prophet and a leech, Harry rallied, and grew
                  stronger and better every day. Perhaps the elixir of hope, and the determined
                  energy of a newly aroused will, had more to do than any thing else with his
                  recovery.
               Lilian never left his side. There he lay, her own proud, manly Harry, his gay
                  nonchalance, his careless independence all gone; pale, weak, helpless—she was
                  stronger than him now.
               In prosperity and happiness love is a blessed boon, in its holy and calm purity,
                  to woman; but when, in sickness and sorrow, the latent energy, the deep feeling,
                  the boundless tenderness of her full soul is drawn out, then it is that she
                  realizes fully the God-given power and intensity of her own feelings; then, and then only, can man wholly
                  discover the richness of the treasure he has won in her love.
               To soothe with kindly and gentle tones, to watch with unwearied vigilance, to
                  bathe the fevered brow with grateful restoratives, to lay her soft, healthful
                  cheek, to that of the sufferer, red and fevered as it is, as if thus she would
                  impart her own fresh, glad life, to his languid being; all these are the most
                  grateful tasks of a true woman.
               Notwithstanding Lilian's care, and his own efforts to regain strength, Harry's
                  convalescence was somewhat slow and protracted.
               His mother pleaded indisposition as an excuse for not visiting him, but his father
                  was often with him, and Ella Vernon insisted on sharing the cares of the sick
                  room. Thus they were brought in constant contact with Lilian; the past was
                  explained, and the foully wronged and innocent one stood before them in her true
                  light.
               Hourly her pure, lovely, and gentle character won upon their affection; and when
                  Harry disclosed his intentions towards her, it met with their full
                  approbation.
               Harry thought the ceremony which had taken place between himself and Lilian quite
                  sufficient; in the eyes of heaven she was absolved from all intentional wrong, and
                  in those of men, the holy ceremony, even though pronounced by unrighteous lips,
                  might be considered—with the consent of both parties—binding; but he had too much
                  delicacy to say so.
               It was, therefore, repeated by "orthodox lips," and with a purer, deeper feeling
                  than he had ever before known, Harry sealed it on the lips of the faithful wife of
                  years.
               The marriage was strictly private. A rumor was set afloat that young Vernon had
                  been for some years privately married, in opposition to the wishes of his parents,
                  and that now, having attained his majority, the thing was to be openly
                  declared.
               People commented for a while upon "the romance" and "mystery of the thing," and
                  dropped it in the more exciting topic of the elopement of "the divine St. Julian"
                  with "la belle Fulton."
               The world of fashion seemed never to tire of this interesting theme. Old ladies—we
                  beg their pardon, there are no old ladies in fashionable life—ladies
                  past the first flush of their premiere
                  jeunesse—in other words, of no particular age—met in coteries to discuss
                  the absorbing topic; to pity "his poor wife," and to declare that "they always
                  knew exactly what it would come to at last." They never admired "the ways" of that
                  Florence Fulton from the first: with all the fuss the men made around her. It had
                  all turned out precisely as they had expected." Oh! the wisdom and foresight of
                  this world!
               Youthful damsels privately lingered over the forbidden subject, with a sort of
                  mingled delight and horror, and young men laughed openly, and swore they envied
                  St. Julian.
            
            
               CHAPTER LVI.
               AN INTERVIEW BETWEEN TWO OLD FRIENDS.
               SOME few days after his marriage, Harry Vernon was startled and grieved by the
                  announcement of the sudden death of his mother; sudden to him, and to every one,
                  because, though for years she had been an invalid, they had not expected her death
                  as a near event. People grow accustomed to the ill health and complaining of a
                  confirmed invalid. They grow weary of sympathizing, and cease to feel the awe and
                  alarm naturally experienced when the strong, healthful, and blooming are stricken
                  down before us; and when they die, we are as much taken by surprise for the
                  moment, as if sickness and suffering had not for years given silent but sure
                  warning of the approach of death. Too often the sufferer, as well as those around
                  him—blinded by the slowness of decay to the terrible reality—is, "when the hour
                  cometh," unprepared for the dread summons. Ella Vernon flew to Lilian and her
                  brother for consolation, which, if we may judge from sentiments formerly
                  expressed, Harry, at least, was well prepared to give. Gov. Vernon bore the
                  misfortunes which darkened around him, with serene and manly fortitude. He
                  sincerely grieved over the death of his wife. In the grave, a generous soul buries
                  all faults; and in the hour of bereavement, the heart will cling to the love of
                     its youth, whatever the after faults
                  of the object of that love may have been; the memory of the "olden time" comes
                  back, the time when the golden sunlight, the green fields, and gushing streams of
                  life's young glad years, were the brighter, the fresher, and the more joy-filled
                  from their presence; and the after years, too, when many a grief and pain was
                  shared with them, when we were bound to them by a common joy and a common sorrow.
                  Yes! over the grave of even an unworthy partner, the life-tie is revered, and its
                  severing regretted.
               Events seemed now to crowd upon each other. The pecuniary embarrassments of Gov.
                  Vernon being made public, the people bethought themselves of their tried and
                  faithful servant. An offer to release him from his difficulties was made by the
                  Legislature. This was refused; but an appointment from the President, worthy his
                  talents and position, accepted. Some time elapsed before necessity compelled him
                  to undertake the duties of his office; the interval was to be spent in arranging
                  his affairs; and after the disposal of the town property, and a mortgage on
                  Vernon, which would enable him to settle all present difficulties, he thought
                  there would still be something comfortable left.
               Harry and Lilian were to reside at Vernon, and Gov. Vernon and Ella with them,
                  until the departure of the one, and marriage of the other; which last event Lieut.
                  Minton was anxious should take place as soon as possible, as his furlough being
                  nearly out, he was compelled to resume the duties of his profession.
               Harry went to the city as soon as he was able, to assist his father in his
                  business arrangements. A day or two after his arrival, he was interrupted in the
                  tedious and complex operation of looking over bonds, bills, etc., in the library,
                  by the abrupt entrance of Arthur Plumdale. He advanced with extended hand,
                  exclaiming,
               "My dear fellow, how are you? Glad to see you out once more. Had a tough time of
                  it, eh?"
               The words died on his lip, as he met the indignant glance which his former dupe
                  fixed upon him, as he stood erect, with folded arms, not deigning to touch the
                  outstretched hand proffered him.
               "What is the meaning of this?" he faltered, struck with the sudden consciousness
                  of guilt.
               "It means, sir, that I am no longer your dupe, and do not wish to be looked on as
                  a friend, by one I consider an accomplished scoundrel!"
               "Ha! what is this? What do you mean? Your proofs?" hissed Plumdale, trembling
                  between his catlike rage, and his coward fear.
               "Proofs? look you, Arthur Plumdale, I loved, I trusted you—with the love of a
                  brother, with all the trust of my nature. We were friends,—is there a more sacred
                  tie between man and man? You betrayed my confidence; you wrought upon my feelings
                  for you, to make me the tool of your own base designs, and then laughed in your
                  sleeve, no doubt, at the folly of your victim. You led me into every form of
                  dissipation. You ministered to my worst passions, and initiated me into the
                  hellish mysteries of your accursed vocation,—gaming. Your base machinations, your
                  ingenious representations, led me into the commission of an act which sullied the
                  purity, and darkened the life, of one dearer to me than my own soul. The
                  interposition of an overruling Providence arrested me in my mad career, and called
                  me back to my better self, ere you completed my ruin. I awoke from my weak dream
                  of confidence, to see you in your true light, coward and villain that you
                  are."
               "Have you any desire to repeat the scene of the 20th of March?" (the day of the
                  duel,) hissed Plumdale, with impotent fury.
               "Not with you. When I fight, it must be with a man I consider my equal, in point
                  of courage; at least one whom I know possesses some of the principles of a
                  gentleman. Thank your own worthlessness that you escape my vengeance. I would not
                  stoop to trample on a worm."
               All the Vernon pride and spirit burned on his brow, and blazed in his flashing
                  eye, as his curling lip uttered these scornful words.
               "But hist!" he added, after the pause of an instant; "Lilian is now my wife. Dare
                  to profane her name by one whispered word, and I will shoot you down like a dog;
                  your life shall not weigh a feather in the balance with my vengeance. Utter her
                  name lightly, and you shall no longer
                  profane this earth by your fair outside, your serpent tongue, and heart, as black
                  as hell itself. Go, sir! I have endured the contamination of your presence long
                  enough."
               Arthur Plumdale, who had stood in crestfallen silence during this tirade, assuming
                  a stare of mingled fierceness and surprise; muttered at its close some threat of
                  vengeance—which, however, he thought proper to render unintelligible to his
                  companion, and which only met a mocking smile in return—and beat a hasty retreat
                  from the lair of the aroused lion.
            
            
               CHAPTER LVII.
               EVERY DAY EVENTS.
               "COME, Eva, the carriage is waiting. Don't you want to go with me to the St.
                  Julian sale this morning?"
               "Yes. It is true, then, that the furniture is to be disposed of to-day?"
               "Yes; I heard it at Stewart's this morning, and came directly back for you. St.
                  Julian left directions with his lawyer, they say, to wind up all his affairs here,
                  as he expects to reside in Italy entirely for the future."
               "Poor Florence! I wonder what will become of her,—what her future fate will
                  be?"
               "Can't say, really, my dear. Don't waste your sympathy where it can be neither
                  known or appreciated. The sale at Gov. Vernon's comes off to-day, too. Let's look
                  in there first, and then go to the other. It is early yet, only half past twelve.
                  Make haste ma petite mignonne."
               Eva ran up stairs, and soon tripped down again, bonneted and mantled, and looking
                  fresh and sweet as a white tea rose, in her simple morning costume.
               Mrs. Moreton was in the highest spirits, and with good reason, for, by the recent
                  decease of cousin John (that is a dear old name; pity it is so common; for that
                  reason Nebuchadnezzar is preferable), she found herself in possession of two
                  hundred thousand dollars, "just in time to stop an impending execution,"—as Mr.
                  Moreton solemnly affirmed firmed in their closet consultations, when his wife
                  silenced him, as usual, by declaring that he was "only trying to torture her weak
                  nerves."
               Fifty thousand was left to Eva's mother, to hold in trust for her children; too
                  much, entirely, Mrs. Moreton thought, for a person who had no establishment in the
                  city to keep up. Our worthy, kind, and benevolent readers, are doubtless not much
                  pleased at this disposition of the property of the defunct grocer; but, as Mr.
                  Moreton remarked, "'tis the way of the world" to do such things, and in this
                  veritable history we write not so much with regard to the pleasantness of fiction,
                  as the strictness of truth.
               The carriage stopped before the door of the stately mansion of Gov. Vernon. Judge
                  Woodward was there, and came out to assist them in alighting. A variety of heads,
                  covered with a variety of hats and bonnets, looked out of the windows to watch
                  their descent. Little boys climbed on the light and elegant iron railing in front
                  of the house, and ran up and down the broad marble steps, munching oranges and
                  nuts, and decorating the aforesaid steps already dirty, damp, and slippery, with
                  many foot-tracks, (New York is always very muddy, or very dusty), with a
                  miscellaneous variety of nutshells and orange peel; to the infinite danger of
                  upsetting any one so unfortunate as to tread on them.
               "Are there many persons here?" asked Mrs. Moreton of Judge Woodward.
               "Yes, a great many. I wanted to attend the St. Julian sale to-day, too, but fear I
                  shall not get off from here."
               "A motley assemblage for these aristocratic walls," whispered Mrs. Moreton to Eva,
                  as they entered the room where the crowd was principally gathered, and where the
                  voice of the auctioneer could be heard exclaiming, in his rapid tones,
               "One hundred and fifty dollars only bid for this splendid mirror. Shameful
                  sacrifice! Cost twice that, at least. Immense attraction, ladies! Look at
                  yourselves, if you please. Did you ever look as well in any mirror before? One
                  fifty! one fifty! Are you all done at one fifty?" then the ominous ring of the
                  hammer, and "Gone to Mr. Fitz Friske, at one hundred and fifty dollars."
               
               There is indeed no place where a more motley assemblage can be found, than at a
                  "sale of household furniture," at a great man's house—great either in point of
                  wealth, fashion, or distinction—in our northern cities, and there are generally
                  present as many women as men.
               There is the rich parvenu and his wife, who wish
                  to furnish their new house, and who think any thing will pass current which has
                  once ornamented the apartments of a member of the bon
                     ton. There is the mechanic's family too, who wish to get a peep into
                  high-life; and there are the dear five hundred friends of the unfortunates who are
                  "compelled to sell out,"—or do it by choice, as the case may be; then there are
                  the many belonging to each of the classes described, who come merely to look, and
                  stare, and comment, unmindful of all that has been felt and suffered within those
                  walls, once sacred to the associations of home. But in this, as in most other
                  mixed assemblages, "the aristocracy" get together usually, and form a sort of
                     clique among themselves, separate and
                  distinct from the rest of "the crowd." As for me, I am no aristocrat. If I had
                  "all the blood of all the Howards,"—which, thank heaven, I have not—I would not
                  give up the thought of being one of the people, or cease to feel every throb which
                  agitates the mighty heart of "the many," vibrate with electric sympathy through my
                  own. But we are digressing. Governor Vernon looked calm and serene. He felt that
                  he had the sympathy of all good men in his losses. Many had stepped forward with
                  offers of friendship and assistance; in fact, by all those whose sympathy was
                  worth having, he seemed to be more venerated, more highly esteemed than ever.
               Harry was present also, looking pale from his recent confinement, and sad, but
                  self-possessed.
               "What in the world can Fitz Friske want with that mirror, when he has just
                  furnished his house thoroughly this winter?" said Mrs. Moreton, to Miss V. Smith,
                  whose back was towards her, but whom she recognized by the voluminous folds of her
                  green velvet cloak, and exuberance of bonnet plumes. Plumes turned her faded
                  visage—dimly discernible through a cloud of pearl powder and corkscrew
                  ringlets—towards her friend.
               "Oh! how are you? Don't know indeed; bought it for his mother, I believe. Do let's
                  find out all about it."
               "Are you not sorry for the Vernons?"
               "Yes, but just what one might have expected; they always lived above their income.
                  Harry Vernon such an extravagant scapegrace too. Government will be sure to
                  provide for Governor Vernon, and they still have their country place left;
                  besides, Ella Vernon is to be married very soon."
               "Ah! who to?" inquired Mrs. Moreton, trembling for the reply.
               "Why, have you not heard?"
               "No. I never have nothing to do with the gossip," she was about to add, but
                  thinking this remark—addressed to the greatest scandalmonger of the day—would be
                  rather mal-apropos, she prudently forbore.
               "Why, to the gay naval officer Lieut. Minton, of course," said Miss Virginia,
                  smiling as if she thought she was communicating the most charming piece of
                  information, and watching her victim at the same moment, with the joy a cat feels
                  over the prey in her claws.
               Now this intelligence—anticipated though it was—was extremely disagreeable to Mrs.
                  Moreton; for not only had she a real penchant in
                  that quarter, but she had wasted a whole season of smiles and coquetries on the
                  conquest of the handsome lieutenant, with the sole design of getting him
                  hopelessly in love with her (all in the most irreproachable way, of course, for
                  her offerings were made on the shrine of vanity, not of Eros or Anteros); and now
                  the man whom she had intended to add to the list of the "unfortunate victims of
                  her irresistible attractions," her pet conquest, not only laughed at her power,
                  but was actually wearing the chains of another, and before the whole world
                  too.
               "He courted her when he thought she had a fortune," continued Miss Smith, "and now
                  I suppose he is ashamed to back out, and so is going to enact the disinterested
                  lover, and carry off his penniless bride, with no dowry but her beauty."
               "Romantic cavalier!" cried Mrs. Moreton, no trace of the thoughts which passed
                  like lightning through her mind, perceptible on her smooth brow, or in her gay
                  laugh. Even Miss Smith's penetration was at fault; and disappointed that she had
                  not succeeded in inflicting pain, she resolved to turn her attacks in another
                  quarter.
               
               "Do let's go and find out why Fitz Friske is buying all that furniture. There's
                  something in the wind, you may be sure."
               Judge Woodward was beside Eva.
               "If you see any thing you like particularly, let me know," he said, in a low tone.
                  "I have bought several things, to save them from being sacrificed. They will do
                  very well for our establishment," and he smiled, calling a vivid blush to her
                  cheek as he did so. "I prefer consulting your taste, of course. Take my arm, and
                  let us look around."
               "I promessi sposi," sneered the old dowager we
                  met at Mrs. Moreton's fatal ball, as Judge Woodward and Eva passed, to one of her
                  spinster daughters. "The idea of a man of Judge Woodward's age, making himself
                  such a fool as to marry a silly little chit like Eva Moreton."
               "Hold your tongue, mother," snapped her dutiful daughter. "They'll hear you. It's
                  no business of yours. You are always talking about people, and I believe that is
                  the reason you can't marry off your own daughters. It is a judgment on you."
               Mrs. Moreton and Miss Smith passed into the room which had been Ella Vernon's
                  chamber, where they came, to the infinite satisfaction of the last named, full
                  upon old Mrs. O'Friske, arrayed in her usual tawdry style. She was trying the
                  rocking-chair, examining the lounge covers, and poking her hand into the
                  feather-bed and mattress.
               "How do you do, my dear madam?" said Miss Smith cordially. "You seem,—or your son
                  rather, seems to be making extensive purchases this morning."
               "Yes, it's me he's buying for. You see, honey, I find it's not exactly the
                  thing—that is, I don't think it will do for all of us to live together. And sure,
                  we're plenty able to keep up a separate establishment, as my daughter Gustavus
                  calls it; and why shouldn't we? I can get a nice housekeeper, or companion, I
                  believe they are called among the tong; and the children, which I
                  suppose in the course of time, they'll have, can stay between the two places. I
                  shall feel independent then; and besides, as Gustavus would say, it will add to
                  our grandeur—the two places."
               "Exactly, my dear madam," replied the complaisant virgin, casting a sly glance at
                  Mrs. Moreton, who walked to the window to conceal her laughter.
               "It is very lucky for you that this sale happens just now."
               "Oh, yes; it saves me the trouble of running from pillar to post in search of
                  things; but the saints presarve us, they sell dreadful dear. But, to be
                     sure, it's something to have furniture that once belonged to the
                  Vernons.
               "They have been great dashers, eh? Pathrick—I always call my son
                  Pathrick, though, somehow or other, he seems to hate it; Pathrick in company, and
                  Pat for common, when there's nobody by,—well, as I was saying, Pathrick didn't
                  want me to come here this mornin'; but sais I, Pathrick O'Friske—or Fitz Friske, I
                  should say—I will go; for sais I, you'll go, and give any price, when I'll be on
                  the lookout for a bargain. You see, Pathrick niver had to a day's work in his
                  life; and thim as don't know how money comes, don't care how it goes ginerally. So
                  I came, though Gustavus wouldn't, and made believe she had a headache; but I'll
                  bet she's round at that other sale now; for she's mortal fond of every place where
                  there can be plenty of money spent, and none made."
               Mrs. O'Friske paused for breath, delighted at having found an opportunity of
                  giving vent to this lengthened tirade, and to so fashionable and appreciative an
                  auditor.
               Mrs. Moreton glanced at her watch.
               "I am going round to the St. Julian sale now," she said to Miss Smith, "and should
                  be happy to have you take a seat in the carriage with me."
               "With pleasure! Let's ask her, too," she added sotto voce, as Mrs. O'Friske's back was turned for a
                  moment; "it will be such good sport."
               Mrs. Moreton graciously complied. To the astonishment of both, Mrs. O'Friske
                  declined the honor, adding,
               "I don't want nothin' to darken my doors as iver belonged to no sich man as that
                  St. Julian. (The Lord presarve us, when people git to callin' sich men as him
                  saints! It's a burnin' disgrace to the holy Catholic religion, it is.) A villain.
                  I pity that poor girl he run off with. She was a real lady, bred and born. I seed
                  it in her, though I didn't know her much. Any body could tell she was born with a silver spoon in her mouth. Would
                  you believe it? my Pathrick courted her, and she wouldn't have him.
                  It is a fact; and just to see what's become of her now. Well, there's
                  no tellin' what married men can do, when they do turn out to be devils—savin' your
                  presence, ladies; they know a woman's nature so well, you see, they know exactly
                  where to take 'em."
               These confidential communications were interrupted at this juncture, by the
                  entrance of Mr. Fitz Friske. He started, as if he had suddenly come in contact
                  with red-hot iron, when he found the two ladies in close confabulation with his
                  mother; but they passed out at the same moment, and after finding Eva, drove to
                  Waverley Place.
               "To what base uses may we come at last," remarked Mrs. Moreton during the drive.
                  "The idea of old Mrs. O'Friske in Ella Vernon's sanctum; the adornments of the
                  temple dedicated to this fair goddess"—a scarcely perceptible sneer—"desecrated to
                  the use of that horrid old woman."
               "Ella carried away every thing that she prized particularly," said the
                  matter-of-fact Eva.
               "Oh! the Vernon pride will have to come down at last," responded Miss Smith to
                  Mrs. Moreton's remark.
               "By the way, have you ever seen the heroine of that rowdy Hal's romantic love
                  scrape, the now confessed Mrs. Harry Vernon? The idea! the daughter of old
                  Stanley, the overseer."
               "I have seen her," said Eva, with spirit. "I called with Judge Woodward on her and
                  Ella, when they were in town the other day. She is the sweetest, loveliest
                  creature, I ever saw; perfectly graceful and refined. I have always heard her
                  father was a gentleman, though he was poor. Poverty is no more a proof of
                  plebeianism, than wealth is a badge of aristocracy. If the Vernons have pride, it
                  is the right sort. They have neither the arrogance, nor the superciliousness, to
                  insult and trample on the helpless."
               "My dear, you are warm in the defence of your friends," said Mrs. Moreton, seeing
                  that Miss Smith looked discomfited. "Miss Virginia meant nothing, I am sure. But
                  here we are in Waverley Place."
            
            
               CHAPTER LVIII.
               THE DESERTED SHRINES.
               THERE was as great a crowd in the former home of Claude St. Julian, as at Gov.
                  Vernon's, but not so varied in character.
               Claude was an accomplished connoisseur in all articles of vertu. A few came, doubtless, to select some gem from his collection
                  of paintings or statuary, which, though small, was very fine; but the many were
                  impelled hither solely by curiosity. 'Tis astonishing, the celebrity—or shall we
                  say notoriety?—an act which every body condemns, sometimes gives a man.
               Since his last exploit—unrivalled since the days of Helen—the name of him who was
                  before the leading star of the ton, whom women
                  adored and men imitated, seemed invested with tenfold interest. The merest
                  anecdote relating to him was listened to with absorbing eagerness. Indeed, had any
                  enterprising Yankee, with a little native genius to back him, brought out about
                  this time a book entitled, "Scenes in the Life of the celebrated C. St. J——," we
                  doubt if it would not have proved a greater speculation than Barnum's
                  autobiography.
               So all the world of upper-tendom rushed to the open portals of the former retreat
                  of the invincible St. Julian. Was it not a treat to walk about quite at one's
                  case, examine the statuary, criticise (most learnedly, of course) the paintings;
                  penetrate even into his dressing-room, or sanctum rather, where he had "dreamed
                  away uncounted hours;" where he had read and thought; where he had performed the
                  wonderful operation of making the exquisite toilet, which had thrown every
                  observant dandy into fits of agonizing envy. Here, too, he had doubtless penned
                  many a billet-doux to "la chère Florence."
                  Glorious reminiscences! So thought the mustachioed exquisites, who lounged through
                  the rooms. So, too, thought the young ladies, and their prudent chaperones.
                  Somebody picked up a book, a volume of poetry, marked in many places, and in one place the name of "Florence"
                  written; but—greatest prize of all!—some one stumbled in a remote corner on a note
                  to her —actually a note! hastily written, half-finished, and partly torn. A group
                  of young men gathered around the lucky finder, and for the time being he was quite
                  a hero.
               Thus is the lustre of greatness reflected on all who come in contact with it!!
               The next day, the fragmentary note, with comments thereon, occupied a whole column
                  in the public prints.
               There, too, was his wife's chamber, where his child died, and where Marion had
                  spent many a lone, sad hour. But what was that to the crowd?
               To them, that room—temple of love and sorrow, except for its association with the
                  star which had once illumined its darkness—was but an empty, cheerless apartment,
                  the walls looking cold and damp, and every thing wearing an air of deserted
                  loneliness.
               Every thing sold at the highest prices. One young man bought every article in the
                  dressing-room—we suppose to fit up another exactly like it, cherishing, no doubt,
                  some visionary idea, that this might conduce in some degree towards rendering him
                  "an irresistible."
               Mr. Moreton bought most of the paintings. Mrs. Moreton bought the sleeping
                  Cupid.
               "It will remind me of that dear St. Julian," she whispered to Eva, "who, say what
                  you will of him, was certainly the handsomest, most fascinating creature on earth.
                  Do you know, Eva, that since I have been here, I have been thinking continually of
                  Florence? It seems to me I should like so much to go through her rooms, and recall
                  her to memory now;—and, by the way, you know she had a beautiful and very rare
                  collection of flowers; no doubt the old miser, her uncle, would like to dispose of
                  them. Let's go around there and see. I'll pretend to have heard some such
                  report."
               Eva demurred, but was overruled. Miss V. Smith was too much engaged with Mrs. Fitz
                  Friske,—to whose infinite horror, and her own enjoyment, she was relating the
                  meeting with her mother-in-law, having been made cognizant of all her affairs,
                  etc.—to leave; and Mrs. Moreton and Eva drove alone to Mr. Fulton's, not very
                  sorry, if the truth must be told, to get rid of the vampire.
               Mrs. Moreton told the servant who appeared at Mr. Fulton's door, that she was very
                  anxious to procure some of the flowers for her conservatory, and thought perhaps
                  Mr. Fulton might not object to disposing of them.
               He "did not know; Mr. Fulton was not in; he would ask Mrs. Sharp."
               In a few moments the housekeeper appeared. She "did not know either; had never
                  heard her master say."
               "But he could not object to our looking at them," persisted Mrs. Moreton. She
                  "supposed not; they would please to alight."
               She looked at them as if she divined the object of their visit, but seemed to take
                  a pleasure in gratifying it; a cold sardonic expression, half of triumph, curling
                  her thin, pale lips, and gleaming in her cold blue eyes, as she threw open the
                  door which led to the hot-house, through the former apartments of Florence.
               "Every thing is just as she left it—poor Mr. Fulton's ungrateful
                  niece," she said, as she observed the ladies look around with curiosity and
                  interest. "Not even a duster has touched a thing."
               There they were in that old, familiar spot, her boudoir, redolent of a thousand
                  associations of the past, breathing so much, yet so coldly and silently, of the
                  departed one.
               There was her harp; but where the fairy fingers wont to call forth such wild,
                  sweet notes? the flowers faded in their vases, as if mourning the neglect of her
                  who was wont to tend them; the favorite canary, looking neglected and deserted,
                  and breathing its song with a low, melancholy chirp; the empty fauteuil—where was the magnificent form which had once
                  reposed on its yielding softness?
               Far different were the thoughts of the two ladies as they looked around.
               Mrs. Moreton thought of the presiding goddess of this temple of the graces, as a
                  star who had suddenly disappeared from the firmament of Fashion, never again to
                  appear there. Who among the present constellations could fill the place of that
                  bright, erratic orb?
               Eva thought of the young girl she had loved; whose lip had often pressed hers with
                  maidenly affection, and whose eyes had so often met her own, beaming with
                     gentleness ness and kindness; and
                  now she was gone for ever; and to what a fate! and Eva shuddered, as a cold
                  sickening melancholy crept over her heart.
               Eva was infinitely relieved, when Mrs. Moreton, after looking through the
                  conservatory, and naming the flowers she would like to purchase (which, by the
                  way, were sent her next day, accompanied by a note from "the old miser,"
                  requesting her acceptance of them), glanced at her watch, and turned to
                  depart.
               "Home!" said she, as she threw herself back in the carriage, to the obsequious
                  footman in splendid livery, who stood awaiting her orders. "It is five o'clock,"
                  she added to Eva, "and we shall scarcely have time to dress for dinner. I invited
                  your fiancé ma chère Eva, and Virginia Smith
                  invited herself. Heigho! after to-day's fatigue, I shall not be fit for the opera
                  to-night."
            
            
               CHAPTER LIX.
               THE MIDNIGHT CULPRIT.
               
                  
                     
                        "Sin plucks on sin."
                     
                     —SHAKS.
                  
               
               IT was the evening after the stormy interview between Harry Vernon and Arthur
                  Plumdale, that the latter sat lolling back in the luxurious ease of a purple
                  velvet fauteuil in the back parlor of his
                  sister, Mrs. Fitz Friske. A bright, cheery fire burned in the grate, and a
                  splendid chandelier threw its beams on the luxury and comfort of the
                  richly-furnished and spacious apartment.
               Mrs. Augusta Fitz Friske sat on the other side of the fire, in the graceful
                  demi-toilette becoming a quiet evening at home, trifling with a purse she was
                  netting. She seldom spoke, and her pale, though fine face, wore an expression of
                     naïve indifference, which would have thrown a
                  fresh aspirant after "fashionable repose of manner" into the keenest pangs of
                  envy.
               Lettie was trying a new opera air on the piano. The voluminous proportions of old
                  Mrs. O'Friske, were spread out as close in front of the fire as she could possibly
                  get; her feet propped on the fender; her face all in a glow; her eyes resting
                  complacently on the broad, fat hands, loaded with enormous rings, which were
                  crossed in approved style on her lap. On this occasion, bright scarlet, instead of
                  yellow streamers, floated from her mast-head, forming an odious contrast to a
                  dress of rose-colored de laine, becoming the fairest, freshest specimen of
                  juvenile loveliness.
               Mrs. Plumdale was present also, spending the evening with her daughter—her custom
                  whenever the latter was at home. In fact, Mr. Fitz Friske had already begun to
                  find, that marrying into a fashionable family was not always the grand desideratum
                  of existence, and that, instead of confining his matrimonial alliance to Gussy, he
                  had, in common parlance, "married the whole family." There was an air of faded
                  gentility perceptible about Mrs. Plumdale, as she sat regarding Mrs. O'Friske with
                  that patronizing condescension, which a poor patrician may be supposed to feel
                  towards a rich parvenu, whom they choose to
                  honor by using their wealth for their own purposes.
               Mr. Fitz Friske had gone to a corporation meeting, or something of the sort—one of
                  those bores with which men of wealth are always afflicted, no matter what their
                  mental capacity for the thing may be.
               His marriage had proved of some advantage to him. The fact of his being settled in
                  life, added to his importance in many points of view; and Mr. Fitz Friske began to
                  consider himself quite a public character, and talked largely of "our agricultural
                  and commercial interests," "the corruption of Government officials," etc.—terms of
                  which he understood about as much, as a great many others who discuss them.
               "Why are you not at the theatre to-night, Gus?" asked Arthur Plumdale. "It is the
                  last night of Forrest's engagement. As for me, even the opera has become a perfect
                  bore."
               "Mr. Fitz Friske had an engagement, and I cared very little about it. Lettie
                  wished to go, but she had no one to attend her."
               "It seems to me, people are run mad about theatre players," interposed the dowager
                  O'Friske; "and every furriner that
                  comes here, with a bray like a jackass, and a lingo as no Christian body can't
                  understand, runs off with more money in one night, than half a dozen good honest
                  men could make in a year at hard work. I niver did approve of no sich doin's
                  mysilf."
               "My dear lady have you no appreciation of the fine arts—music, poetry, et cetera?"
                  blandly inquired Mr. Plumdale, with a sly glance at his mother.
               "I knows nothin' about your fine harts," replied the lady addressed in great
                  wrath; "and what's more, I niver want to know, if fine harts means running to see
                  a passel of nasty show-people, that do nothin' but fiddle and fool all night,
                  enticin' poor souls to everlastin' ruin. I used to be fond of the circis mysilf
                  when I was a girl, but I have long since seed the folly of it."
               Gussy looked entreatingly at Arthur, as if to stop the argument.
               He yawned in reply, and said, "Well—hum, as I don't feel very well, Gus, I think
                  I'll spend the night with you. What time will Fitz Friske be in?"
               "Not until very late, if at all. He said he might sleep out, as he would be
                  detained down town late, and told me, if he didn't return by twelve, not to expect
                  him."
               "Ah! well, I shall not sit up for him then. It is eleven now," glancing at his
                  watch. Gussy rung for candles.
               A few minutes afterwards, Arthur Plumdale was seated by the fire in the
                  comfortable chamber which had been assigned him; his face wearing a totally
                  different expression from the gay and careless look assumed in the
                  drawing-room.
               "Gussy feathered her nest well when she took in this rich fool," he said to
                  himself, as he glanced around the room; the closely drawn curtains of snowy
                  muslin, the bright fire, the warm, rich carpet, and the completeness of all the
                  arrangements, realizing his every idea of comfort. "I wonder what is to become of
                  her poor devil of a brother. One thing is certain, New York is not the place for
                  me now. The forgery of Fitz Friske's name on the —— bank must be discovered soon;
                  and ere it is, I must be far away from the clutches of these cursed police
                  officers. Thank God! I have some funds left yet—though not what I want, by a d——
                  sight. Thought I could borrow from Hal Vernon,—went with that intention this
                  morning—what did I get for my pains? Curse him! Oh! if I could but meet him some
                  dark night, and murder him, before he knew who struck the blow, and then hiss into
                  his ear, as he was in his last gasp, 'Your old friend Plum.'"—He paused for a
                  moment, as if his mind delighted to dwell on the fiendish picture thus conjured
                  up, and then he went on muttering to himself: "And that girl Georgina, what will
                  she do, when she finds I have cleared out? Play the fool, and fret herself into
                  her grave, perhaps, after a man that doesn't care that" (snapping his fingers),
                  "for her existence. I do believe if she knew I was a swindler, a murderer, and
                  every thing else that was mean, she would follow me to the ends of the earth, if I
                  would but say the word. Well, if a woman will make such a fool of herself, it's no
                  fault of mine. Curse the affair! I have tired of her long since, with her whining
                  and puling,—and so away with all thoughts of it. But the money—I haven't half what
                  I want. Why can't Gussy give it me? She 'has made too many demands on her
                  husband's purse and kindness already," mimicking her tone. "By heavens! she shall
                  repent her refusal. I was in her dressing-room to-day, and saw her handling
                  diamonds as carelessly as if they had been pebbles. My fingers itched to clutch
                  them. What right has she to the plucking of this pigeon more than I? It is all
                  chance and luck, after all. 'An overruling Providence,' pshaw! I wonder if it will
                  do to ——" the words died on his lip. He bent over, his elbows on his knees, his
                  face resting between his hands; and gazed into the fire, as if there he expected
                  to read the answer to his half uttered question. The clock chimed twelve; then
                  one; and the last sounds had died away in the house, and all was still. He had
                  listened intently for the opening and shutting of the street door, but no such
                  sound was heard. Every thing betokened repose. He rose at last, and drawing what
                  seemed to be a bunch of trunk or bureau keys, and a small steel instrument, in
                  form not unlike a chisel, from his pocket, he surveyed them by the light of the
                  candle.
               "If none of these dozen keys fit, then this instrument will serve my purpose. Oh!
                  for a dark lantern; but she is asleep,
                  I guess, and I will make no noise. Asleep or awake I must go. Pride will stop her
                  mouth if she detects me."
               He stole down the staircase noiselessly, shading the light with his hand. His
                  sister's dressing-room had two doors, one communicating with her chamber, the
                  other with another room, so that it could be used as a dressing-room at will, from
                  either apartment. It was through this second, and unoccupied room, that Arthur
                  Plumdale crept noiselessly. He laid his hand on the bolt of the dressing-room
                  door; it turned with a slight noise. Then it was that he shrunk back; the attempt
                  was so rash, Gussy must almost inevitably detect it. It was but for a moment.
                  "Pshaw!" he muttered, "I will go on;—'nothing venture, nothing have.'" He opened
                  the door and went in, still shading the light. The door leading into his sister's
                  room was slightly, very slightly, ajar; he durst not bolt it for fear of awakening
                  her. He went deliberately to the bureau, and tried the drawer where he had seen
                  her in the morning deposit her casket of jewels. Fortunately for him, it was not
                  even locked. He opened it; in another instant clutched the casket, and turned to
                  leave the room, congratulating himself on the ease and success with which he had
                  accomplished the robbery, when his startled eyes fell on the form of his sister.
                  She was standing holding the bolt of the door in her hand, white as the nightrobe
                  she wore, her eyes fixed with a terrified gaze on the midnight culprit.
               "My God! brother—Arthur, what are you doing?" she gasped as soon as she found
                  breath to articulate..
               "You see to what your refusal of this morning has driven me," he replied coldly,
                  and with assumed sangfroid.
               
               "O God! that I should live to see my brother a—a——"
               "Robber, why don't you say? Don't be mealy-mouthed. Better say you pity the
                  poverty which has reduced him to this extremity. You begrudge me the jewels
                  doubtless," he added bitterly; "take them." And he extended the casket.
               "No, oh! no," she said recoiling, "keep them, I could never bear to wear them
                  again."
               "Now, Gussy, what is the use of these mock heroics? You know how I have to
                  struggle through life. You have caught me in the commission of rather an awkward
                  act, I confess, but for your own sake—not that you care a damn for me—you will not
                  expose me, and who will be the wiser? Why then these sentimental airs? There is no
                  one by to see them but me, and I despise them. Go to bed, you will catch cold. I
                  am much obliged to you for the jewels, and hope when next we meet, you will have
                  forgotten all about the affair."
               "When next we meet," he little thought, they would only meet again before the bar
                  of an avenging God. He bowed at the conclusion of this speech with mock
                  ceremony—though the baleful light which gleamed in his catlike eyes belied his
                  seeming coolness—and left the room, and the house. His sister turned to her own
                  room, to sink down, and weep with bitter shame over the torturing scene she had
                  just gone through.
               How wretched is the fate of those who, themselves of naturally high, pure
                  feelings, are doomed every day to see some new instance of heartless depravity in
                  those around them, those perchance who should be nearest and dearest. Such was the
                  fate of Gussy Plumdale; such it had always been her lot to endure; and though
                  corrupted in some degree by the fatal influence of association and example, the
                  angel in her nature was not altogether lost, and she wept with the keenest pangs
                  of shame and mortification, over this last instance of the total debasement of her
                  only brother. Splendid as was her lot in some respects, it was one of bitter and
                  painful trial. It was long ere she again heard of her brother; when she did, he
                  was figuring in a Southern city, far from the scene of his crime, under an assumed
                  name, a dandy of the first water, the leading exquisite of the ton; his betrayed
                  and deserted victim—over whose fond weak love, and heartless betrayal, we have not
                  had time, or space, to linger—having sunk meanwhile into an early and dishonored
                  grave. Of his ultimate fate, his sister knew not till long afterwards.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LX.
               THE DIVORCE CASE.
               
                  
                     
                        And this is what thy vows are worth,
                        Thy holiest, deepest vows, oh earth!
                     
                  
               
               IN due time, as was confidently expected by her husband, Mrs. St. Julian's appeal
                  for a divorce was laid before the Legislature. As may be readily imagined, the
                  feelings of the moral and influential portion of the community were strongly with
                  the wife, and against the fugitives; so that it was generally thought the bill
                  would be passed immediately,—granting the divorce, but prohibiting a second
                  marriage on the part of St. Julian.
               A small minority were against the latter clause,—pitying perhaps the fate of the
                  well known, brilliant, and beautiful woman, whose destiny was involved in the
                  decrees of the tribunal—and a stormy debate was the consequence. But it required
                  the intervention of such men as Gov. Vernon and Judge Woodward—who, besides their
                  strong general influence, had connections and warm personal supporters in both
                  houses—brought to bear upon it to the utmost, to free St. Julian from his former
                  shackles, with the liberty of assuming the same under other circumstances. While
                  he looked with the deepest indignation upon the conduct of the latter in the
                  affair, Judge Woodward had not so far forgotten his former feelings towards
                  Florence, and the high opinion he once entertained for her, as not to pity her he
                  believed his victim, in due proportion.
               But before acting on these feelings, it was necessary to discover whether St.
                  Julian, even were it in his power, would repair the wrong he had done her, and
                  remove the dark shadow with which he had clouded her fair fame.
               Procuring his address from his lawyer, he wrote to him, requesting, before taking
                  any steps towards procuring his entire freedom from his marital obligations, some
                  pledge that if successful in doing so, it would be followed by reparation of the
                  wrongs of Florence.
               In return he received an answer from Claude, declaring that it was his sincerest
                  wish to unite himself "to the only woman he had ever loved" (these were his very
                  words), by legal ties, and declaring that he awaited but the fiat which would
                  place it in his power to do so. With this pledge in his possession, the judge
                  scrupled not to act. He was ably seconded, as we have before stated, by Gov.
                  Vernon and other influential men. The tide of popular feeling was struggled
                  against with sufficient success to procure the desired decision. In due time the
                  report was forwarded to Italy, and immediately upon its reception, Claude St.
                  Julian and Florence Fulton were married.
            
            
               CHAPTER LXI.
               THE HOME IN ITALY.
               FIVE years have elapsed, since the period when we last met Claude and Florence, on
                  the deck of the ocean steamer. It was in Rome that Claude and his beautiful and
                  romantic bride, fixed their residence.
               He purchased an enchanting villa—a very model of architectural art and
                  beauty—situated on one of the eminences skirting the seven-hilled city, and
                  commanding a view of its most picturesque and classic portions. They preferred
                  Rome not only for the attractions it possessed in itself, but because there was no
                  place in Italy where they could so frequently hear from their native land; no
                  place where they so often met Americans. Their reasons may seem strange in those
                  who were voluntary exiles—exiles too under such circumstances: but let us leave
                  our birth-place from what cause we will, though it be to fly from the persecutions
                  which beset us there, to a happier home in a fairer land, still the words "home"
                  and "native land" will always fall with a heart-stirring echo on the ear; and any
                  tidings from thence will be listened to with eager interest.
               In Italy Florence expected to meet and be reconciled to the relatives of her
                  mother, who resided in Venice; but her grandfather was dead, and by the other
                  members of the family, she seemed to be
                  looked on so much as an alien, that she felt but little inclination to renew ties
                  which had been so long severed.
               Three golden-winged years after their flight, flew over the path of Florence and
                  Claude; and during this time, the lovers seemed to have escaped the retribution
                  which usually falls to the lot of guilt. A more devoted husband than Claude St.
                  Julian had proved, could not be found any where. In Italy, where the women
                  arrogate to themselves privileges, which here are considered the peculiar
                  prerogatives of the lords of creation, and where inconstancy is considered a more
                  heinous crime in man than in woman, he had not, perhaps, the temptations he would
                  have met in our own prudent and orthodox land; but even supposing he had been
                  disposed to unfaithfulness, where could he have found one being who could long
                  charm the senses, or fire the soul, of the man who had shared the delights of
                  reciprocated tenderness, with a woman like Florence?
               Both were fond of, and mingled a good deal in society; their villa being so
                  situated as to enable them to command at will the pleasures of society, or the
                  delights of seclusion.
               Florence caught the language—of which she before had a partial knowledge—almost
                  intuitively; and Claude, who delighted to call her every talent into exercise, and
                  gratify at the same time his own impassioned love of the art, procured for her the
                  best masters in music; and her remarkable and cultivated talent thus improved, and
                  her fine voice enriched by skill and practice, she could soon vie even with the
                  far-famed performers of that land of song.
               Her rare loveliness, her unequalled powers of fascination, proceeding, as they
                  did, from a mind whose versatile genius enabled her to fill any rôle which pleased
                  herself or others, rendered her a star of the first magnitude in the circles of
                  Rome; and la bella Americaine, and her no less
                  accomplished lover-husband, were objects of universal interest and admiration.
               True, vague rumors reached the ears of the many, now and then, that the past was
                  not all right; but "they don't mind these things" in Italy. She was improvised,
                  serenaded, raved about, overwhelmed with a perfect flood of adoration wherever she
                  appeared. But all in vain; fond as she was in her gay and sparkling moods of the
                  applause and glitter of society—l'esprit du
                     monde—the whole nature of "the spoiled belle," the oft-named
                  "heartless coquette," seemed formed for one purpose, and that purpose, intense
                  adoration of some one object.
               "Let her smile on others as she will, it is only to one she ever turns with that
                  tell-tale expression which says plainer than words, where the heart is."
               Thus remarked some shrewd observer, one night in a crowd, to the infinite dismay
                  of an English Milord, three Italian poets, and a French Vicomte—all hair, shrug,
                  and bow; all of whom seriously contemplated suicide on the strength of it.
               "Dese Americaine women are like your Anglaise," said the Vicomte—who prided
                  himself on his English—to Milord. "Dey have one strange taste. It is husband,
                  husband, noting but husband wid dem;" and he shrugged his shoulders,
                  and walked away with an air of infinite disgust.
               Yes, with all the intensity of her boundless soul, that soul into which genius had
                  poured its God-given power of feeling, Florence adored Claude. He himself never
                  dreamed of the extent of his influence over her. She was never exigeante in her demands upon his attentions, and
                  though she could not repress at all times the overflowing tide of her feelings,
                  she never poured them forth until, by a thousand winning ways and nameless
                  fascinations, she had charmed his senses, and wrought up his feelings to the
                  highest pitch; when she knew her love-fraught tones, and fond caresses, would fall
                  on his yearning soul like rain on the parched and thirsting earth. This was one
                  secret, mayhap, of her influence over him. She knew well how to forge every hour
                  new fetters for the heart, which possession might otherwise have cloyed; how to
                  fling round the monotonous tie of matrimony the rose-hued light of feeling, the
                  dreamy sweetness which renders the heart's early love-dream so enchanting. Yes,
                  whether moving in the brilliant throng of society, the gayest, the most brilliant
                  there; or in the solitude of their own beautiful home; or wandering together—as
                  was often their custom—over "the vine-clad slopes of sunny Italy," lingering with
                  romantic ecstasy over its shrines, temples, and ruins; still they were all in all
                  to each other.
               
               One object alone shared and cemented their idolatrous love; their child. Beautiful
                  and bright as the fairest vision of seraph loveliness that ever charmed the senses
                  of inspired saint, in his most enraptured dreams of heaven; too beautiful, too
                  bright for this earth,—where every glorious gift, whether of genius or of beauty,
                  is a curse to its possessor—was the child of Claude and Florence St. Julian. It
                  was hard for the gazer to determine which was the most peerless in loveliness, the
                  mother or child.
               The Florence of these sunny days of happiness was changed in appearance, though
                  not less lovely than the Florence of old. Her eyes wore a deeper light, her cheek
                  a softer bloom, and in her whole countenance might be read the expression which
                  adoring love—even though wrongly bestowed—stamps on the human face; the heaven
                  light of lost Paradise. She was less haughty and self-assured than in former days,
                  more of the dependent, loving woman, in her air and mien.
               We are now approaching a dark epoch in the life of one, who, with all her errors
                  of conduct (not of heart), we love. We would fain pass rapidly over it, nor pause
                  to linger over an event, which darkened the sunlight of her life with a cloud
                  never more to pass away. Florence had found it difficult, after the birth of
                  little Claude, to procure a foster mother for the child, but at length succeeded
                  in doing so. She thought she recognized traces of the gipsy race in the fine,
                  though dark features of the woman, or rather girl—for she seemed very young—who
                  presented herself as a candidate for the situation; but her appearance was neat
                  and modest, and her recommendations good. At all events she had no choice, and the
                  place was accordingly filled.
               She soon found that she had no reason to regret her kindness; the girl—who seemed
                  to be destitute alike of home or relatives, and who therefore awakened a
                  corresponding degree of interest in Florence, in whose bosom a chord of sympathy
                  was touched by even the humblest under such circumstances,—repaid the kindness
                  with which she was treated, by the most unbounded gratitude and zealous
                  devotion.
               Her love for the beautiful and winning foster child—though indeed few looked on
                  but to love him—partook of a degree of enthusiasm singular in its nature. He
                  seemed to fill entirely the place of her own lost child in her heart.
               Such was the perfect confidence of Florence in the girl, that she never hesitated
                  to leave her child in her care, when accompanying her husband into society. Often
                  on such occasions, 'tis true, she would have preferred remaining at home in the
                  discharge of her maternal duties—for with all the sparkling glitter of her manner
                  on the surface, she had much of earnest womanly home-feeling in her nature; but
                  Claude, as we have said, delighted to exhibit her beauty and talents for the
                  applause of the world; and his love was too precious to allow her to run the risk
                  of losing it by thwarting his wishes.
               Lolah had been in the service of Florence more than two years, during which time
                  her mistress had been often heard laughingly to exclaim, that "she believed, if
                  perfection existed on earth, as far as amiability, truth and affection were
                  concerned, she had found it in Lolah;" when one day the girl brought a party of
                  gipsies into the presence of her lady, saying that they begged leave "to tell her
                  fortune."
               Some degree of resemblance existing between an elderly and commanding-looking
                  gipsy woman, and Lolah, startled Florence, but no intelligence seemed to exist
                  between them, and the half-formed suspicion died in her mind.
               She declined having her destiny foretold, saying smilingly, that "she was content
                  with the present, and did not wish to pry into a future which might be very
                  terrible;" but with her usual generosity, dismissed them with a handsome gratuity.
                  Perhaps it was for this reason that their visits were repeated again and again;
                  until Claude, annoyed by their importunities, ordered them off in no very gentle
                  terms; unheeding the dark, revengeful glance, which the woman we have before
                  alluded to, and who seemed to be the queen, fixed upon him. Some six months passed
                  away, and no more was seen or heard of the gipsy gang. It was in the fair, bright
                  days of early spring, that Claude and Florence were invited to a fête, given at the villa of Rosamonta, the beautiful
                  country-seat of the Marquis De Vilezza, distant about twenty miles from Rome.
                  Florence, on this occasion, disliked so much the idea of leaving little Claude,
                  that she almost resolved to decline the invitation for herself; but her husband
                  would not hear of this.
               With no family had they cultivated such a degree of intimacy timacy; from no other had they received, when
                  comparatively strangers, such marks of kindness and attention. Their presence on
                  the occasion was particularly desired, and it would never do to refuse. They would
                  return probably the next day, and Lolah would take the best care in the world of
                  Claude.
               Thus overruled, she prepared to obey; for the wayward, wilful Florence of other
                  years, was now the yielding being, whose every action could be swayed by the
                  lightest look or word of another. Oh, Love! verily thine is the true talisman of
                  power.
               While the splendid equipage stood in waiting, the fiery horses, panting and pawing
                  with impatience to start, and Claude in the door eager for her coming, Florence
                  took her child—then just at the bright, lovely age of three years—into her arms,
                  and kissed again and again his pouting, saucy, little ruby mouth, and rosy cheeks,
                  and twined her fingers in his dark curls, and drank the love-glances from his
                  large, soft black eyes, and pressed him again and again to her heart, as if she
                  could never separate from him; and when at last she resigned him to Lolah (who
                  looked so sad that her kind mistress, forgetting her own feelings, spoke a few
                  cheering words to her), and followed her husband into the carriage, she looked
                  back as far as she could see him, and waved her handkerchief; while his glad,
                  silver tones, as he clapped his hands, and shouted in his soft Italian tongue,
                     "mia madre! mia madre!" sunk into her inmost
                  soul.
               One of those sudden and fearful storms peculiar to southern climes, detained them
                  at Rosamonta, on the day appointed for their return; and as she gazed out on the
                  dark tempest, and listened to the wild hurricane, whose awful music fell like a
                  dirge of death on her ear, Florence could scarcely rally her spirits, to join in
                  the gayety of the party assembled within the walls of the villa.
               Darker would have been her soul, more lonely her spirit, had she known whose
                  young, tender years, nursed in luxury and tenderness, were exposed to the fury of
                  that storm.
               The next morning, the sun smiled with as fair a beam as eve it up an Italian
                  landscape into the glow of an almost divine loveliness, and Claude and Florence
                  returned to Rome. Never had she felt such an intense longing—such a feverish
                  yearning for the sight of her child. She could scarce repress her impatience until
                  the carriage stopped before the entrance to the villa. Then alighting, she dashed
                  up the broad marble steps, through the massive portal, and up the light staircase
                  into little Claude's nursery.
               As she threw open the door and glanced eagerly around, she found the room was
                  empty. The morning sunlight streamed through the large window into the deserted
                  apartment, lighting up the marble floor, the frescoed walls, the little snow-white
                  couch, with its lace curtains, and the beautiful pictures with which she had
                  delighted to cultivate the taste, and charm the eyes of her child, with mocking
                  gladness. She rushed to the balcony overlooking the beautiful gardens, and groves
                  of orange trees surrounding the villa, in the hope of hearing his glad voice, as
                  he wandered through the flowers with Lolah; but no Claude, no Lolah was there. A
                  vague, but terrible fear shot through her soul with lightning rapidity. She flew
                  to her husband.
               "Oh! Claude, my child! I cannot find him!"
               Laughing at what he termed her foolish fears, he summoned the servants. They came,
                  pale and trembling; and then the terrible tale was revealed. They had been tempted
                  to take advantage of the absence of their master, to attend a merry-making at some
                  distance from the villa; when they returned, Lolah and her charge had disappeared.
                  The storm had prevented their at once sending to inform "his excellenza" of the
                  alarming occurrence. Now it might be too late.
               Too late! Oh! the horror of those words, to those whose dearest hopes in life hang
                  on the utterance of them. In vain Claude raved. In vain Florence called on heaven
                  to give her back her darling, until nature sunk exhausted and overpowered beneath
                  the agony. Though every effort was used by the police; though the country was
                  scoured, and gold squandered like water, to obtain some intelligence of the lost
                  child; no trace of Lolah or her charge was ever discovered. With all the intensity
                  of her nature, the distracted Florence mourned the loss of her child. She refused
                  all efforts at consolation, until strength and reason threatened to give way
                  beneath the pressure of her sufferings.
               
               When Claude, forgetting his own sorrow, attempted to console her, her only reply
                  was, "I cannot be reconciled. There is no comfort for me. Oh, God! to lie through
                  the sleepless night, and think of my child, exposed to the pitiless storms,
                  unsheltered, weary, perhaps starving. Oh! Claude, how can I ever smile again?
                     I, the wretched mother whom heaven has thus accursed. To know he
                  was dead, would be a blessed boon; but even this is denied me."
               This boon was not denied her long. Some three or four months after the fatal
                  event, a letter was one night left at the villa, by a man hooded and disguised,
                  who disappeared immediately after delivering it. It bore no postmark, but was in
                  the well-known and imperfect chirography of Lolah, and filled with penitence, and
                  prayers for forgiveness.
               Without explaining the cause for her departure, she bewailed the terrible destiny
                  which had surrounded her, by circumstances, compelling her to commit the fearful
                  act which had desolated the heart and home of those she still remembered, and
                  loved as her benefactors. She disclaimed any evil intention in carrying off the
                  child; stating, on the contrary, that she had known for some time previous to her
                  flight, that she would be compelled to leave them; but such was her overpowering
                  affection for her foster child, she could not bear the idea of parting from him.
                  To use her own expression, "it seemed like tearing soul and body apart, to leave
                  her own little nursling," and tempted by the opportunity offered by the absence of
                  his parents, she had fled with the baby boy pressed closely to her breast.
               She went on to say that she had intended to rear him as her own; to devote her
                  life to him, as some expiation for her own selfish feelings, in tearing him from
                  his parents; but that he had never recovered from the effects of the pitiless
                  storm, to which he was exposed on the second day of their flight. In the
                  picturesque language of her race, she continued:
               "Your child sleeps in an early grave, lady. A fearful oath forbids me to tell
                  where is his last resting-place, as in so doing I would reveal one of the secrets
                  of my tribe; but fear nothing. That little grave is in one of the most beautiful
                  spots of this wide, beautiful earth; the forest breeze murmurs softly over it; the
                  warm sunlight rests lovingly upon it; moon and starlight look down kindly on it;
                  wild, fresh flowers spring ever around it, and nature's voice, in bird and stream,
                  warbles for ever there the requiem of beauty and innocence. There, too, Lolah
                  weeps her never-ceasing tears of penitence and love."
               Though she was destined never to know where in the wide world was the grave of her
                  lost boy, such was the sense of relief to Florence to find that he was dead—to
                  feel that he would never have to struggle with want and desolation in a hard
                  world; to think of his spirit as of a bright angel in heaven; that she, who had
                  made "deal gently with the erring" the ruling motto of her life, could not find it
                  in her heart to refuse poor Lolah forgiveness.
               But the cloud never passed away from her soul. True, she was now comparatively
                  content, but her former sparkling gladness returned to her no more. A gentle,
                  subdued melancholy weighed always over her; and when, sometimes—in grateful return
                  for the efforts of her husband to win her back to happiness—she smiled, the smile
                  was sad as moonlight on a grave. All the love of her tried soul centred on
                  Claude.
               It is in sorrow alone that the heart is capable of its truest, most intense love.
                  We never know the depths of our own feelings, until they are tried by the ordeal
                  of suffering. In hours of happiness, a thousand gay objects may woo our thoughts
                  from the one; but in sorrow, where does the heart turn for hope, joy—yea, life
                  itself?
               And Claude repaid her by the tenderest sympathy, the most devoted affection. He,
                  too, was changed. True, he had not altogether lost the sparkling flow of spirits
                  which once made his presence as sunshine to those around him; for when did any
                  blow darken man's life for ever, which touched only his affections?—but still he
                  was subdued. The loss, and the fearful circumstances attending it, of his last,
                  best beloved child—the child of Florence, the only woman he had ever really
                  loved—came upon him like a fearful stroke of retribution for the past; and if it
                  did not bring him to repentance, it at least saddened and sobered his feelings,
                  and rendered him, in many respects, a wiser and a better man.
               Strange to say, this fearful affliction did not bring Florence ence to the only shrine where she could reasonably
                  hope to find mercy, peace, and consoling love. Alas! what retributive act of a
                  dread Providence yet awaited her?
            
            
               CHAPTER LXII.
               THE SHADOW OF MIDNIGHT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "It is a fearful thing
                           To love as I love thee; to find this world,
                           This bright, this beautiful, this joy-giving world,
                           A blank without thee.
                           I have no hope that does not dream for thee;
                           I have no joy that is not shared by thee;
                           I have no fear that does not dread for thee."
                        
                     
                     L. E. L.
                  
               
               PALACE, temple, and ruin of the Eternal City, were bathed in the ethereal radiance
                  of an Italian sunset. The sky wore the brilliant mosaic hues peculiar to the
                  heaven of a clime, to whose varied loveliness no pencil of human poet or painter
                  can do justice; for it is the master-piece of the great Poet and Painter of
                  Nature. But there was one whose passionate admiration for the beautiful would have
                  been kindled into the most rapturous emotions, in the ordinary state of her
                  feelings, who now, though she stood at the window, her gaze directed towards the
                  mass of glittering cloud, heeded not its beauty.
               Pale and motionless she stood, her hands clasped, her form slightly bent forward,
                  the raven curls pushed back from one small, fairylike ear, as if she feared their
                  thick tresses might impede her hearing; her wan paleness rendered more conspicuous
                  by the contrast, not only with her jetty curls, but with the sombre mourning robe,
                  which, without ornament or relief, was gathered close around her throat, and swept
                  the floor in voluminous folds. There was in her face that expression which tells
                  of vain watching for some yearned-for object.
               The soft south wind fanned her cheek, and played with mocking lightness amid her
                  curls. She heeded it not, still standing there, silent, cold, and moveless, with
                  clasped hands, and the same fixed gaze, moment after moment, until an hour—a long,
                  weary hour—glided away. The casement at which Florence stood commanded a view of
                  the whole of Rome; on the other side, the window looked out on as fair a scene as
                  ever slept in soft, serene loveliness, 'neath an Italian sunset. One glance around
                  the lofty and spacious apartment, would have assured the beholder of the ample
                  resources and exquisite taste of its occupants. The light draperies of
                  rose-colored silk, gracefully fringed with silver, were looped up to admit the
                  scented breeze of evening, and afford a glimpse of the heaven-tinted sky and fair
                  scene without. Flowers bloomed in their sculptured vases of ala-baster, in rich
                  and rare profusion; pictures by the old masters, so rare, so beautiful, that one
                  might gaze, and dream, and die, ere the spirit drank in the full measure of their
                  soul-filled power, adorned the walls; the silent beauty of the sculptured marble
                  too was there; and magnificent mirrors reflected the splendor of the whole. The
                  harp was pushed aside, and music lay scattered around, as if it had been abandoned
                  in disgust or weariness.
               At last Florence turned from the window, with a mingled expression of deep
                  disappointment and fevered anxiety, and paced wildly to and fro the room with
                  impatient steps, murmuring, as she did so:
               "Yes! I feel it! something must have happened to Claude; he would not stay away
                  from me thus otherwise. It is time, too, for the messengers I despatched to
                  Rosamonta—that fatal place—to return."
               There was indeed some reason for her fears. Claude had two days before accepted
                  the oft-renewed invitation of his friend, the marquis, to spend a day with him at
                  Rosamonta. It was the first time he had ever been prevailed on to go there, since
                  the fatal visit of two years previous. A thousand torturing feelings and
                  remembrances were awakened in the mind of Florence, at the very mention of it; but
                  she determined not to sadden her husband, or deprive him of a pleasure he had
                  promised himself, by communicating her feelings to him.
               There was a public road, travelled twice a week in the direction, as also a
                  carriage road, a shorter route, leading through a mountain pass, celebrated for
                  its picturesque beauty, and boasting
                  some of the loveliest scenery of Italy. This road was seldom travelled, on account
                  of the rumor of the mountain being a resort for robbers; and, indeed, there seemed
                  ground for such reports, for even the public road, at the time we speak of, was
                  seldom travelled without an armed guard, from the fact of several daring robberies
                  which had been recently there committed in open defiance of the authorities.
               The humor seized Claude to go on a day when the public conveyance was not passing;
                  and laughing at the fears of Florence, he took the less frequented road, in a
                  light, open carriage, which he drove himself, attended by only one servant.
               "I prefer this road vastly," he said in reply to her re monstrances, "on account
                  of the scenery; and then it is shorter, too; and as to the robbers, that is a tale
                  of the romance writers. So good-bye, love, and take care of yourself, until Claude
                  comes back."
               "Oh! Claude, remember your last visit to Rosamonta was fatal," trembled on her
                  lips, but she forcibly checked its utterance; yet she looked sad with a deep,
                  though undefined presentiment; so sad, that he kissed her again and again, with
                  more than usual tenderness, and sprang hurriedly, as if to chase dark thoughts,
                  into the carriage.
               He looked back at her, as she stood on the portico, gazing after him, and kissed
                  his hand.
               "I shall be back this evening, I think; if not, to-morrow morning, dead or alive,
                  darling," he said gayly. The horses dashed on, and she saw him no longer.
               Why did she turn away with that heavy, chill dread, sinking into her heart? Could
                  it be that she had felt his last kiss—heard the last tones of his voice? Pshaw!
                  such fears were foolish, springing only from nervous weakness. Thus she tried to
                  dispel them. She took her harp, but sung in vain her favorite songs. He was not
                  there to hear them, and the music sounded like mockery. She had recourse to her
                  birds and flowers, but these, too, failed to amuse.
               The weary day at last faded into night, but he came not. She endeavored to repel
                  the alarm she felt, by recalling his last words. "He will come in the morning,"
                  she thought. But when morning came, and went, and brought no Claude, wild with
                  terror, she despatched three servant men well armed, in the direction of
                  Rosamonta. They had not yet returned, though she had conjured them, on their
                  lives, to make all possible speed.
               The gorgeous hues of sunset faded into twilight, and still the watcher lingered,
                  every nerve strained to its utmost tension, to catch the first sound, see the
                  first approaching object. She stepped out on the portico, where the shadows were
                  gathering softly, and the evening breeze seemed to her saddened ear, to murmur a
                  mournful requiem through the funereal branches of a cypress near.
               Many a soft, bright night in that glorious clime, had she stood in this graceful
                  portico, with its picturesquely wrought colonnades, and spiral pillars of white
                  marble, gleaming in the moonlight amid the vines which encircled them, watching
                  for the return of Claude, after perchance an hour's absence.
               There, surrounded by a perfect wealth of flowers, whose distilled balm filled the
                  air with fragrance, she had often stood with him, gazing down on the
                  Eternal City—on palace, tower and dome, radiant with the magic spell of
                  moonlight—with that intense rapture we feel when some romantic vision of our early
                  years is realized, and the heart is filled to overflowing with the rapturous sense
                  of beauty. Now, how far different from the glow of those happy hours, were the
                  sombre thoughts which maddened her soul.
               Suddenly a troop of vultures, those ill-omened birds, wheeled in the air above
                  her, and flew in the direction of the mountain pass towards which her strained
                  gaze was directed. She was not superstitious, yet trifles affected her feelings in
                  their present state, filled, as her mind was, with vague and terrible
                  forebodings.
               Far off in the northwest, in the direction of her native land, seemed to hang a
                  dark cloud; small at first, but increasing gradually in size, until it assumed a
                  portentous aspect. It was perhaps a phantom of the imagination, but it seemed to
                  the fevered vision of the gazer that the faces of Marion and Cecy—the divorced
                  wife and the dead child—looked out from that cloud, coldly, sadly, reproachfully
                  upon her. An icy chill ran from her head to her feet.
               Dusk had fallen, veiling all things in obscurity, when she discerned through the
                  gathering gloom a dark mass approaching
                  proaching. As it neared the house, so that she could discover its proportions, she
                  saw that it was a litter borne by several men.
               Her heart, buoyed up during the last few hours by some faint hope, sunk within
                  her; she would have fainted, but summoning all the mighty energies of her soul to
                  her aid, she resolved to know the worst. She saw them enter; she discerned the
                  outlines of a form beneath the dark cloth which covered the litter; she heard
                  wild, torturing words uttered around her; but still she restrained herself; until
                  their burden set down in the hall, by the faint glare of a lamp, they threw aside
                  the cloth;—the horrible certainty was revealed, and with a shriek which rung like
                  the knell of a doomed soul through the awestricken bystanders, she threw herself
                  on the cold form of the murdered Claude. He must have fought bravely, and well,
                  against the fiends who beset him. His clothes were soaked in the blood which had
                  scarcely ceased welling from his side; his left arm was shockingly mangled, and in
                  his right hand he clasped a blood-crusted dagger, fast in the stiff, cold clinch
                  of death. His raven curls were clotted in gore from a wound in his right
                  temple.
               There he lay, her wildly worshipped idol—stricken down in blood and dust before
                  her. Never more could those eyes open upon her, warming her desolate soul with the
                  loving gaze of old; cold and moveless, the lashes slept on the marble cheek; never
                  more her lips feel the clinging kiss of those whose last quiver in death had
                  syllabled her name; vainly now she pressed her wildly throbbing heart against his,
                  whose beating pulses in life had told no numbers that did not echo in thrilling
                  response to her own. No warm thrill of love responded to the fiery agony of her
                  soul. All was cold, and dark, and vacant; a coldness that defied all warmth,—all
                  life;—a darkness that covered the world with its funeral pall, and made of hope
                  and joy an unholy mockery. God of mercy! could she realize it? It was too dark a
                  curse for one alone to bear! Shriek after shriek—so wildly agonizing the listeners
                  shrank in terror, and looked at each other in mute, powerless pity—burst from her
                  lips, as raising her head from that clay-cold bosom, she once more gazed on the
                  mangled corpse.
               "Oh God! why take him from me? He was all I had on earth. Claude—my
                  Claude, do not leave me. Dead! no, not dead! You
                     cannot be dead. Awake!—look once more upon me. Listen to Florence;
                  'tis your own, your desolate Florence that calls you, Claude. Father in heaven!
                  let me die too. If Thou hast any mercy Thou canst not refuse my prayer; the prayer
                  of the most sorely stricken being that ever breathed in this dark—dark world. Oh!
                  it is so dark."
               It was only by force that she could be removed from the body, while it was taken
                  to another room to be shrouded. She had not once asked the particulars of the
                  dread catastrophe. Of what avail was it to know the circumstances? it was
                  sufficient that he was dead. Heart and soul were absorbed in the fearful
                  consciousness. Had she inquired, she could have discovered little. All that her
                  three messengers could tell was, that they found the murdered form of "his
                  Excellenza" alone in the mountain pass. His carriage was there too, but the horses
                  and servant had disappeared, where, they knew not, unless they had been carried
                  off as trophies by the robbers. There were traces around of a severe struggle.
                  Beyond this they knew nothing.
               Wild incoherent words,—words which breathed of the erring past, and deprecated the
                  fearful judgment of an offended God,—fell from the lips of the wretched Florence.
                  Her startled attendants shrunk from her in terror, for they thought her reason
                  wandered.
               Once more in the room, where was laid the form of her husband, divested of its
                  stained habiliments, and arrayed in the snowy vesture of the grave, in which he
                  was so soon to be hidden for ever from the eyes of earth; she turned upon them,
                  and commanded them to leave her. Silently they obeyed, and she was alone with the
                  dead;—alone with the still, cold form, through whose veins two short days—nay,
                  perchance a few short hours since—the life-blood had flowed freely and proudly.
                  And now, what was she?—what was life? All gone on whom she had any claim of
                  protection or love. She felt as if the record of every heart which has bled, and
                  suffered, and died through the countless ages of this doomed earth, could afford
                  no parallel to hers.
               She could not pray; a mocking fiend seemed to rise through the darkness around
                  her, and jeer, and scoff, and say, "No
                  hope, no mercy,—yea, no God for thee!"
               
               Utterly exhausted, she sank on the floor; and there, extended in prostrate
                  abandonment,—the dark hue of her dress brought out in strong relief against the
                  rich hues of the Persian carpet; her glorious hair—that crown of a beautiful
                  woman—floating in neglected masses around her, amid all the appliances of luxury
                  and comfort; heedless of all, dead to all thought, save of the
                  one—lay the form of the once beautiful and idolized "la belle Fulton." In the wan moonlight, which was the
                  only light in the room, that dark mass looked cold and lifeless as the corpse
                  beside it.
               Where were now the beaming glances which won all hearts; where now the smiles
                  which once diffused happiness around her; where those very flatterers, who once
                  bent as slaves at her feet? Cold, absent, forgetful,—or worse—breathing her name
                  with a sneer on her former errors, and blasted reputation.
               But what was this—what was all the splendor, all the glory of the past to her? She
                  had sacrificed all beside on earth, for him, and he was gone—yea, gone! The die
                  upon which she had staked her whole existence had lost,—what remained now? A
                  shipwrecked mariner on life's stormy sea, with the dark frown of an angry heaven
                  above her, where could she turn for refuge?
               Long she remained in the same position, no one venturing to intrude on her
                  solitude; all feeling an awe of that chamber of the dead man, and the maniac,—for
                  such, after the wild words she uttered, they believed Florence. The wild glare of
                  excitement had fled from lip, cheek, and brow; leaving but the fixed gaze of a
                  speechless sorrow. There was no repose in that breathless stillness, unless it was
                  the momentary repose which the mind seizes, to prepare for some great, final
                  effort. Suddenly she moved. Her features grew more rigid, her brow contracted; and
                  the lip, pale and cold as marble, was compressed as with sudden resolution. A
                  momentary and crimson glow swept over her face, leaving it white, wan, and
                  deathlike as before. Rising with an effort, she took a key—suspended by a slender
                  black cord around her neck—from her bosom, and approaching a small escritoire,
                  opened it. It was filled with a miscellaneous variety of articles. Opening by a
                  spring a secret drawer, her own miniature was disclosed to view, and some faded
                  flowers wrapped with a scrap of white paper, on which was traced in her husband's
                  handwriting, "the first flowers given me by Florence." In another paper she found
                  a long jetty curl of her own hair, twined with one of the shining ringlets of
                  their lost child. As her eyes fell on these mementoes of the past, her whole frame
                  shook convulsively: and for the first time since her bereavement, large tears
                  gathered beneath the long, thick lashes, until they were damp with moisture.
                  Pressing them back with a forcible effort, and mastering the emotion which once
                  more threatened to overwhelm her, she walked deliberately to the corpse, turned
                  down the snowy sheet, and laid the emblems of former happiness, one by one, on the
                  ice-cold bosom; then replacing the sheet reverently, without a sigh or groan she
                  gazed long and mournfully on those proudly and perfectly chiselled features, pale,
                  calm, cold as sculptured marble, over which reigned the unearthly beauty which
                  death alone can give.
               Turning silently away at last, she seated herself before the escritoire, took out
                  pen, ink and paper, and wrote.
               "I am resolved. My brain has been wild, but it is calm now,—calm and deliberate.
                  There is nothing left in life for me—no country, no home, no friends; my child
                  lost, my husband, my all of earth gone. Death has no terrors; for there cannot be
                  a world more horrible than this, and there is no other deliverance. I die,—I go to
                  Claude. May God forgive the deed, or, at least, permit my condemned soul to wander
                  through eternity with his. My only prayer is to share his doom, though it be the
                  horrors of eternal misery. For my child, if by some strange fatality—which mocks
                  and haunts my soul in this last death-hour—he be yet alive, I can only wish a lot
                  more blessed than that of those who gave him birth. O God! protect him, he is
                  innocent; visit not the sins of others on his defenceless head. Ah! I falter at
                  the thought of my child; my brain reels! methinks I see his cherub face,—hear his
                  beloved voice, calling me by the blessed name of mother! Pshaw! why this mocking
                  phantasy? My child is dead. The struggle is over. Farewell earth,—farewell all
                  things. Bury me with Claude."
               She left the sheet open, but directed to no one, on the table; then opening a
                  third drawer of the escritoire, took from thence a dagger, turned, stood by the
                  body of her husband, drew the blade
                  from the jewelled sheath, and paused. Then and there, with the deadly weapon in
                  her hand—whose shining blade flashed in the moonbeams—she paused. At this moment
                  the clock of St. Peter's chimed, or rather tolled, slowly, and solemnly, the hour
                  of midnight. It was midnight in the Eternal City; midnight in that lone, fearful
                  chamber of death; but the deepest, darkest, midnight of all, was in the soul of
                  the doomed woman. A throng of emotions swept over her—her features worked
                  convulsively. Perhaps in that flecting moment her whole past life—its false
                  pleasures, its passionate errors, its world of thought and feeling—cherished for
                  what—but to come to this at last—swept with panoramic distinctness
                  before her; yet she faltered not in her purpose. "Claude, Claude! I
                  come to thee—beloved, receive my soul!" and with this last prayer offered on the
                  shrine of her earthly idol, instead of that of the dread Judge into whose presence
                  she was about thus madly to rush, she buried the dagger to the hilt in her bosom.
                  A torrent of warm blood gushed forth, accompanied by a shriek so unearthly, that
                  those who heard never forgot; and with this shriek Florence fell prostrate, dead,
                  twining her arms, as they stiffened in death, around the form of Claude. Verily
                  Retribution cometh, though it be at the eleventh hour.
            
            
               CONCLUSION.
               
                  
                     "It is pleasant to think, that though there be many wretched, there are some
                        happy in the world."
                  
               
               A YEAR has passed away since the cold grave-clods first hid from earth the forms
                  of Claude St. Julian, and his erring and unfortunate bride; seven years have flown
                  since last we met any of the other characters of our story. To the habitants of
                  Vernon, those years have been one long, sunny dream of happiness; and the progress
                  of time can be marked only by the budding roses of each returning spring; and by
                  the growth and opening bloom of the living roses, which grow in gladness within
                  the walls of the old mansion.
               To Lilian, the young spring-time of her heart has returned, mingling with the
                  graces and virtues of matured womanhood. She is fresh, gay, and birdlike, as in
                  her first glad years; childlike in her loveliness and innocence, but yet wearing,
                  when she chooses, the crown of matronly dignity with graceful ease. As for Harry,
                  he has sowed his wild oats, and promises to settle down into that most admirable
                  character—a country gentleman, with hand and heart open as the day to the calls of
                  charity and hospitality; fond of field sports, and expending his superabundant
                  vital energy, and high spirits, upon the exhilarating and healthful pursuits of
                  country life, in preference to the baleful excitements of dissipation. Lilian is
                  just the sort of wife for such a man; she gratifies his favorite tastes by the
                  most enthusiastic admiration of his hounds and hunters; and though even her best
                  drawing-room is not exempt from the incursions of his canine favorites—the
                  greatest of horrors to most women—she takes it all in the most amiable way in the
                  world; they are "Harry's," and that is quite sufficient to render them lovable in
                  her eyes. The sound of his hunting-horn resounding amid the hills, is to her ear
                  the most eloquent of music.
               Three buds of promise have been added to the household. Harry,—our darling little
                  Harry—has grown into a fine, noble-looking boy, who looks on himself in the
                  character of a man, and a protector for his two little sisters.—Ella, the fair,
                  gentle, gold-haired Ella, the wild, lovely, little sprite Lilian,—and the bright,
                  crowing babe in the mother's arms, who rejoices under the aristocratic appellation
                  of Stanley Vernon.
               A short time after the reunion of Harry and Lilian, the latter was informed one
                  day that a gentleman wished to see her, who would not send in his name. Her heart
                  bounded with a half-joyful, half-painful throb, as she received the message. Her
                  presentiment proved to be true. A moment afterwards she was clasped in her
                  father's arms; the erring child was forgiven, even ere he learned how wrongly he
                  had accused her,—how bitterly and how fully the seeming error had been atoned
                  for.
               On leaving Vernon a miserable, stricken-hearted man, Mr. Stanley had roved he
                  cared little whither. Accident,
                  combined, perhaps, with some memories of earlier days, led him to the far distant
                  home of an old, widowed, and childless relative, whom he found with barely the
                  necessaries of life—though at one time a man of affluence. Gratitude for benefits
                  received in early life, prompted Mr. Stanley to devote himself to one who had
                  claims, both of blood and affection, upon him. With his talents for business, it
                  was not difficult for him to procure employment in one of the new cities of the
                  West, near which the humble home of his uncle was situated, and he devoted his
                  earnings to the support of the latter, equally with himself.
               Of Lilian he occasionally heard, through a confidential correspondent. He was
                  convinced, as far as worldly comforts were concerned, she was amply supplied; and
                  he resolved—much as his heart yearned towards her—to show no manifestations of
                  fatherly affection towards one who seemed determined to persist in error. There
                  was something mysterious in the conduct of his relative; he was often closeted
                  alone for hours, and never explained the cause of this strange proceeding.
               People whispered that he was a miser. The generous and high-hearted Stanley
                  refused to listen to such reports. Was he not always complaining of the pressure
                  of the times upon poor people? and did he not submit to being a dependent on the
                  labor of another?—this, in itself, was enough to refute them.
               His astonishment was therefore great, when, upon his uncle's death, three years
                  afterwards, the will was read by his confidential lawyer, which placed him (Mr.
                  Stanley) in possession of a comfortable fortune, consisting of funds in the ——
                  bank, territorial lands, besides some odd thousands stuck about in holes and
                  corners of the old tumble-down house; all of which his nephew had never dreamed he
                  possessed.
               The truth was out; he was indeed a miser, preferring to live on the hard earnings
                  of another to spending one farthing of his precious gold. Well, in death, at
                  least, he did him justice, who, he averred, was the only person who had ever
                  showed him disinterested kindness; but whom the world pronounced, "a 'cute fellow,
                  who knew how to play his cards, and understood exactly what he was doing all the
                  time."
               After the loss of his only relative in that stranger land,—in the possession of an
                  income which placed him above the necessity of any fixed employment, that
                  "medicine of a diseased mind;" the heart of Mr. Stanley yearned more than ever
                  after his discarded daughter. About this time he received intelligence of her
                  illness, and the separation between herself and Harry. Visions of Lilian, lonely,
                  forsaken, and destitute, rose up before him. As soon as he could arrange his
                  affairs so as to admit of his doing so, he flew to her succor, and found her under
                  far different circumstances.
               Since that period he has continued to reside with them, sleeping, and having his
                  study at the cottage; which, with the exception of the two rooms occupied by him,
                  remains exactly as it was in former days. Yes, there it stands, sweet, quiet, Rose
                  Cottage, a temple of the past; and many an hour is spent there by its lovely
                  mistress in meditation, prayer, and communion with the spirit voices of other and
                  fondly remembered, though less happy years.
               When the soul becomes too much absorbed in its own happiness; when it is tempted
                  to forget amid the pleasures which surround it here, the higher goal to which its
                  onward pathway tends; 'tis then that we should recall if possible, amid the
                  associations of the past, the sorrows of darker years, and strive to realize how
                  vain and fleeting are all earthly things, and how important it is to lay up
                  treasure whose existence shall be eternal, and whose joy "fadeth not away."
               It was for such a purpose as this that Lilian made Rose Cottage the oratory of her
                  devotions. Gov. Vernon spends all the time which his public duties allow with his
                  son and daughter-in-law; and Ella and her two lovely children, are often there
                  during the absence of her husband, now Capt. Minton. We linger fondly amid the
                  pleasant scenes of thy happy home, sweet Lilian. We are loth to part with thee;
                  yet could we leave thee under fairer auspices? Happy in the discharge of the
                  sacred duties of wife and mother, in the idolizing love of thy husband, in the
                  reverential affection of thy children; with the peace of God which passeth all
                  seeming, "shedding its pure, holy, and gentle influence in light and joy, around thy daily path, what more
                  could we ask for thee?
               We turn with feelings of pleasure to another home, that of Judge Woodward and Eva.
                  It would amuse the reader to see the graceful and matronly dignity, with which the
                  gentle Eva presides over the household of her lord. With reverential tenderness
                  she looks up to him— 
                     "He for God only, she for God in him."
                  
               
               Mrs. Moreton laughingly asked her one day in playful malice, if she didn't think
                  her grave and distinguished husband looked a little old. "Old!" echoed Eva, her
                  eyes beaming with feeling,—"old! when I look in his face I see only the soul
                  beaming through it. To me, with that soul, he will always be young
                  and beautiful."
               Mrs. Moreton smiled at her enthusiasm; she should rather have sighed for the
                  priceless gift which was denied her own false worldly heart.
               Nor did the judge look old, as, in his hours of relaxation from his graver duties,
                  he played with his wife and children; his heart filled to overflowing with the
                  domestic happiness which for long years had been denied him.
               Released from the incubus which rested upon her every plan of display or
                  enjoyment, by the death, some four years back, of her mother-in-law, Mrs. Fitz
                  Friske is now the leading star in the world of fashion, taking precedence of even
                  Mrs. De Vere Moreton. Old Mrs. O'Friske's predictions have not as yet been
                  realized, for there is no heir to the honors of the Fitz Friske house. Poor Gussy!
                  she is trying to forget, amid the splendor and frivolity of her present life, that
                  she once possessed a heart. As for the Moretons, they are pursuing the same
                  routine of life as when last we met them; but they seem to be losing caste in some
                  degree, and no longer enjoy that monopoly in matters of taste and fashion they
                  once possessed.
               People say their fortune is gone; that they are living on borrowed capital, and
                  can't keep up much longer; but people will talk, right or wrong; besides, the
                  latter clause is certainly not true, for there are certain people who will—to use
                  a vulgar expression—"dash," though they may have the last dollar in their pocket,
                  and know not where the next is to come from, and care precious little, when it
                  does come, how it is procured.
               Methinks I have some such in my mind's eye now; but it will not do to be too
                  pointed, particularly as they are not a thousandth remove—but here Prudence gives
                  me such a severe tweak by the ear, that I am forced to stop; and so "no more of
                  this, Hal, an thou lovest me."
               They (the Moretons) speak of making the tour of Europe, people say (there it is
                  again), in order to escape their creditors, and give certain reports slightly
                  affecting the reputation of the lady,—time to cool; but we have no right to
                  surmise any such thing; for Mrs. Moreton declares that "her health needs the
                  change and excitement of foreign travel;" and that "a person who has never been to
                  Europe these days, is a mere nobody."
               The Count di Basquina left Gotham some twelve months before the period at which
                  our story closes, to enjoy in his native land the fortune which, realizing his own
                  predictions, he had accumulated here; taking with him as a bride, the gay,
                     degagée, and charming Lettie Plumdale. From
                  the letters of the countess, the report of the sad fate of Claude and Florence
                  reached their former friends.
               "How those Plumdales do marry!" exclaimed Miss V. Smith in a transport of rage,
                  when the Basquina nuptials were announced. "One a millionnaire, the other a
                  nobleman! They certainly understand the art of taking people in. But after all,
                  the man may be an impostor, with forged letters, and, I expect, will desert her as
                  soon as the honeymoon is over."
               As for Miss V. S., she still lives on the same, save that she may have added an
                  additional flounce to her skirt, an extra plume to her bonnet, and a spice more of
                  bitterness to her remarks on people and things. Miss Smith has one consolation—if
                  not loved, she is feared. We do not wish to represent her as a type of the virgin
                  sisterhood; a class for whom we entertain the highest respect, deeming that among
                  them may be found some of the noblest specimens of the sex—those whom devotion to
                  an early and lost love self-sacrifice to the claims of others; or perhaps, never
                  finding the realization of their heart's ideal, have made lonely beings on the
                  face of the earth; but who fulfil their
                  mission by deeds of love and kindness to others. She is indeed the type of a
                  class—of that class which strive to vent on others the mortification, anger, and
                  envy which embitter their own hearts, and who find a strange, fiendish joy, in
                  detracting from the happiness or good name of their fellow-beings. If the old
                  heathen mythology were true, we should think the Furies peopling hell—every hair
                  of whose heads were represented as serpents, and every serpent possessing a
                  thousand stings—must on this earth have been those moral vampires, denominated
                  scandalmongers.
               We left Arthur Plumdale flourishing as an exquisite of the first water, in the
                  fashionable circles of a Southern city. The ladies vied with each other in
                  courting his attentions, and men called him "a famous good fellow." No party was
                  complete without his presence. But a "change came over the spirit" of Mr.
                  Plumdale; which means, paradoxical as it may seem, that he found himself without
                  any "change," as many a fine fellow has done before him.
               Something must be done; his repeated letters to Gussy only drew forth a small
                  amount each time, stating that this was all she could procure without her
                  husband's knowledge, who had threatened to expose his crime—which, for "the honor
                  of the family," he had taken measures to conceal from every one—if he returned to
                  New York. Something must be done. Cards failed him; so Mr. P. quietly committed a
                  forgery on one of the leading houses in C——, and prepared as quietly to decamp
                  with the funds, when it was discovered, and he was thrown into prison, there to
                  await his trial. He escaped—no one knew how—from thence, and hunted by the
                  officers of justice, at last found refuge under another alias, in an obscure town,
                  where he continued, without money and without credit, to sink lower and lower,
                  until he was at last fatally wounded in a drunken brawl, in one of the lowest dens
                  of infamy.
               Business for his father drew Harry Vernon to the State of A—— about this time. One
                  evening, as he was riding leisurely through an obscure street in the little town
                  of B——, he was startled by hearing a familiar name fall on his ear. He reined in
                  his horse slightly, and listened.
               A group of ruffianly-looking men were standing before the door of a small,
                  filthy-looking hostelry, from which issued the most overpowering odors of bad
                  whiskey, engaged in discussing some event of recent occurrence quite
                  vociferously.
               "Jem Brown warn't Jem Brown's sure nuff name!" said one; "for he said when he was
                  dyin', his name was Plumdill."
               "I never heerd him say so," cried another, "and I don't believe he did; for I was
                  standin' right thar, and could ha' heerd him if he had." A fierce retort was the
                  rejoinder; a chorus of oaths and vociferations followed, and a fight seemed likely
                  to ensue, when one who seemed to be the landlord, broke in:
               "I say, gentlemen, this ain't the thing; who's a-gwine to help bury
                  the man?"
               "I'm not a-gwine to," was the unanimous reply. "Better fling his blamed carcass to
                  the crows, and be done with it."
               At this juncture Harry rode nearer, and questioned the man who had asserted that
                  "Jem Brown warn't Jem Brown's name."
               He persisted in the assertion, and Harry thereupon requested permission of the
                  landlord to see the corpse, saying that he formerly had an acquaintance of the
                  name, and it might prove to be the same.
               The crowd shrunk back in awe and surprise, to think that the distinguished-looking
                  stranger could have been an acquaintance of their companion, Jem Brown, whose
                  tales of former greatness—though he bore about him every trace of better days—had
                  been regarded by them as "all gas." Harry followed the landlord into the filthy
                  den, and in another moment recognized the mangled remains of his former friend. He
                  shrunk from the sight with a sickened heart. A rude box made of pine plank was
                  ready, and the corpse unceremoniously thrust into it. Harry paid the landlord for
                  the services of two servants to bury the body, and saw it placed in a rude cart,
                  and borne to the place of burial for paupers. Thus was Arthur Plumdale indebted to
                  the man whose friendship he had betrayed and trampled on, for the decent interment
                  of his last remains.
               The whole of Arthur Plumdale's character, and his wretched end, is taken from
                  life, with the exception of a few trifling details.
               
               And Marion—we had well-nigh forgotten her. The long, weary years that have rolled
                  away since last we met her, have brought their own changes to the quiet brow and
                  the pale, sad face of the divorced wife. Time has closed over the stormy waves of
                  her past life; and we doubt, after all, if she is not happier now, widowed and
                  childless though she be, pursuing the quiet routine of every-day life, under the
                  kindly roof of her mother, than when, removed from her natural sphere, as the wife
                  of Claude St. Julian, her existence was but a chaos of wounded love, mortified
                  feelings, and harassing incidents. She looks back now on her love for, and
                  marriage to, a person so little suited to her quiet, ordinary little self, as one
                  of those follies of an hour, for which we sometimes pay with our whole existence.
                  Her face has lost that frigid, marbled look of painful despondency it once wore;
                  her religion came out from the furnace of affliction, like gold tried in the
                  crucible, purified from the dross of mere form and superstition, and elevated in
                  thought and feeling.
               She is now in every sense of the word a Christian—quiet, subdued, filled with "the
                  love of God which passeth all seeming," and which gives forth its good fruits in
                  deeds of unassuming benevolence and self-sacrificing kindness; and to say thus
                  much of her, is to say that she is, at least, comparatively happy.
               Thus we leave her, it may be to the dissatisfaction of the reader; but hers is a
                  picture from every-day life, and we must thank the painter for the resemblance of
                  his portrait to life, rather than because it corresponds with our own taste.
               Old Mr. Fulton has married his housekeeper, and the delightfully amicable manner
                  in which this young and tender couple spend their lives, would be an edyfying
                  sight for all young aspirants after matrimonial felicity to witness.
               And now our task is done. Would that we had not to close by the record of the
                  melancholy fate of some, who were once among the "bright particular stars" of the
                  highest circles of society,—but of the picture of Life, Truth should be the
                  artist, and vainly would she seek to cast on the canvass a light strong enough to
                  chase the gloomy contrast of shadow.
               'Tis earth's doom, gloom and darkness; and never will the night shadow be removed,
                  save when the storm-cloud of Sin is dispersed by the first glorious beams of the
                  Resurrection morning.
               "What is writ, is writ; would it were worthier." If this narrative has served to
                  beguile one weary hour—impart emotions of pleasure to one heart, I am repaid for
                  the thought and trouble it has cost me. If perchance to any old friend—who may
                  recognize or guess the writer of this work—it brings back the memory of the
                  past—of hours which fell on our hearts like fresh rose leaves scattered by a south
                  breeze on the grateful turf, 'tis all I ask. I am weary, reader, and so perchance
                  are you; but ere we part, let us each give a "God bless you," and a prayer that we
                  may meet again, in peace and happiness.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            A LIST OF NEW WORKS
            IN GENERAL LITERATURE, PUBLISHED BY D. APPLETON & COMPANY, 346
               & 348 Broadway.
            
               Complete Catalogues, containing full descriptions, to be had on
               application to the Publishers.
            
               Agriculture and Rural Affairs.
               Boussingault's Rural Economy, 1 25
               The Poultry Book, illustrated, 5 00
               Waring's Elements of Agriculture, 75
            
            
               Arts, Manufactures, and Architecture.
               Appleton's Dictionary of Mechanics. 2 vols. 12 00
               Appleton's Mechanics' Magazine. 3 vols. each, 3 50
               Allen's Philosophy of Mechanics, 3 50
               Arnot's Gothic Architecture, 4 00
               Bassnett's Theory of Storms, 1 00
               Bourne on the Steam Engine, 75
               Byrne on Logarithms, 1 00
               Chapman on the American Rifle, 1 25
               Coming's Preservation of Health, 75
               Cullum on Military Bridges, 2 00
               Downing's Country Houses, 4 00
               Field's City Architecture, 2 00
               Griffith's Marine Architecture, 10 00
               Gillespie's Treatise on Surveying,
               Haupt's Theory of Bridge Construction, 3 00
               Henck's Field-Book for R. Road Engineers, 1 75
               Hoblyn's Dictionary of Scientific Terms, 1 50
               Huff's Manual of Electro-Physiology, 1 25
               Jeffers' Practice of Naval Gunnery, 2 50
               Knapen's Mechanics' Assistant, 1 00
               Lafever's Modern Architecture, 4 0
               Lyell's Manual of Geology, 1 75
               Lyell's Principles of Geology, 2 25
               Reynold's Treatise on Handrailing, 2 00
               Templeton's Mechanic's Companion, 1 00
               Ure's Dict'ry of Arts, Manufactures, &c. 2 vols. 5 00
               Youmans' Class-Book of Chemistry, 75
               Youmans' Atlas of Chemistry. cloth, 2 00
               Youmans' Alcohol, 50
            
            
               Biography.
               Arnold's Life and Correspondence, 2 00
               Capt. Canot, or Twenty Years of a Slaver, 1 25
               Cousin's De Longueville, 1 00
               Croswell's Memoirs, 2 00
               Evelyn's Life of Godolphin, 50
               Garland's Life of Randolph, 1 50
               Gilfillan's Gallery of Portraits. 2d Series, 1 00
               Hernan Cortez's Life, 38
               Hull's Civil and Military Life, 2 00
               Life and Adventures of Daniel Boone, 38
               Life of Henry Hudson, 38
               Life of Capt. John Smith, 38
               Moore's Life of George Castriot, 1 00
               Napoleon's Memoirs. By Duchess D'Abrantes, 4 00
               Napoleon. By Laurent L'Ardèche, 3 00
               Pinkney (W.) Life. By his Nephew, 2 00
               Party Leaders: Lives of Jefferson, &c. 1 00
               Southey's Life of Oliver Cromwell, 38
               Wynne's Lives of Eminent Men, 1 00
               Webster's Life and Memorials. 2 vols. 1 00
            
            
               Books of General Utility.
               Appletons' Southern and Western Guide, 1 00
               Appletons' Northern and Eastern Guide, 1 25
               Appletons' Complete U. S. Guide, 2 00
               Appletons' Map of N. Y. City, 26
               American Practical Cook Book,
               A Treatise on Artificial Fish-Breeding, 75
               Chemistry of Common Life. 2 vols. 12mo.
               Cooley's Book of Useful Knowledge, 1 25
               Cust's Invalid's Own Book, 50
               Delisser's Interest Tables, 4 00
               The English Cyclopaedia, per vol. 2 50
               Miles on the Horse's Foot, 25
               The Nursery Basket. A Book for Young Mothers, 38
               Pell's Guide for the Young, 38
               Reid's New English Dictionary, 1 00
               Stewart's Stable Economy, 1 00
               Spalding's Hist. of English Literature, 1 00
               Soyer's Modern Cookery, 1 00
               The Successful Merchant, 1 00
               Thomson on Food of Animals, 50
            
            
               Commerce and Mercantile Affairs.
               Anderson's Mercantile Correspondence, 1 00
               Delisser's Interest Tables, 4 00
               Merchants' Reference Book, 4 00
               Oates' (Geo.) Interest Tables at 6 Per Cent. per Annum. 8vo. 2 00
               Oates' (Geo.) Do. do. Abridged edition, 1 25
               Oates' (Geo.) 7 Per Cent. Interest Tables, 2 00
               Oates' (Geo.) Abridged, 1 25
               Smith's Mercantile Law, 4 00
            
            
               Geography and Atlases.
               Appleton's Modern Atlas. 34 Maps, 3 50
               Appleton's Complete Atlas. 61 Maps, 9 00
               Atlas of the Middle Ages. By Kœppen, 4 50
               Black's General Atlas. 71 Maps, 12 00
               Cornell's Primary Geography, 50
               Cornell's Intermediate Geography,
               Cornell's High School Geography,
            
            
               History.
               Arnold's History of Rome, 3 00
               Arnold's Later Commonwealth, 2 50
               Arnold's Lectures on Modern History, 1 25
               Dew's Ancient and Modern History, 2 00
               Koeppen's History of the Middle Ages. 2 vols. 2 50
               Koeppen's The same, folio, with Maps, 4 50
               Kohlrausch's History of Germany, 1 50
               Mahon's (Lord) History of England, 2 vols. 4 00
               Michelet's History of France, 2 vols. 3 50
               Michelet's History of the Roman Republic, 1 00
               Rowan's History of the French Revolution, 63
               Sprague's History of the Florida War, 2 50
               Taylor's Manual of Ancient History, 1 25
               Taylor's Manual of Modern History, 1 50
               Taylor's Manual of History. 1 vol. complete, 2 50
               Thiers' French Revolution. 4 vols. Illustrated, 5 00
            
            
               Illustrated Works for Presents.
               Bryant's Poems. 16 Illustrations. 8vo. cloth, 3 50
               Bryant's Poems. 16 Illustrations. cloth, gilt, 4 50
               Bryant's Poems. 16 Illustrations. mor. antique, 6 00
               
               Gems of British Art. 30 Engravings. 1 vol. 4to. morocco, 18 00
               Gray's Elegy. Illustrated. 8vo. 1 50
               Goldsmith's Deserted Village, 1 50
               The Homes of American Authors. With Illustrations, cloth, 4 00
               The Homes of American Authors. cloth, gilt, 5 00
               The Homes of American Authors. mor. antqe. 7 00
               The Holy Gospels. With 40 Designs by Overbeck. 1 vol. folio. Antique mor. 20
                  00
               The Land of Bondage. By J. M. Wainwright, D. D. Morocco, 6 00
               The Queens of England. By Agnes Strickland. With 29 Portraits. Antique mor. 10
                  00
               The Ornaments of Memory. With 18 Illustrations. 4to. cloth, gilt, 6 00
               The Ornaments of Memory. Morocco, 10 00
               Royal Gems from the Galleries of Europe. 40 Engravings, 25 00
               The Republican Court; or, American Society in the Days of Washington. 21
                  Portraits. Antique mor. 12 00
               The Vernon Gallery. 67 Engrav'gs. 4to. Ant. 25 00
               The Women of the Bible. With 18 Engravings. Mor. antique, 10 00
               Wilkie Gallery. Containing 60 Splendid Engravings. 4to. Antique mor. 25
                  00
               A Winter Wreath of Summer Flowers. By S. G. Goodrich. Illustrated. Cloth, gilt,
                  3 00
            
            
               Juvenile Books.
               A Poetry Book for Children, 75
               Aunt Fanny's Christmas Stories, 50
               American Historical Tales, 75
               UNCLE AMEREL'S STORY BOOKS. 
                     The Little Gift Book. 18mo. cloth, 25
                     The Child's Story Book. Illust. 18mo. cloth, 25
                     Summer Holidays. 18mo. cloth, 25
                     Winter Holidays. Illustrated. 18mo. cloth, 25
                     George's Adventures in the Country. Illustrated. 18mo. cloth, 25
                     Christmas Stories. Illustrated. 18mo. cloth, 25
                  
               
               Book of Trades, 50
               Boys at Home By the Author of Edgar Clifton, 75
               Child's Cheerful Companion, 50
               Child's Picture and Verse Book. 100 Engs. 50
               COUSIN ALICE'S WORKS. 
                     All's Not Gold that Glitters, 75
                     Contentment Better than Wealth, 63
                     Nothing Venture, Nothing Have, 63
                     No such Word as Fail, 63
                     Patient Waiting No Loss, 63
                  
               
               Dashwood Priory. By the Author of Edgar Clifton, 75
               Edgar Clifton; or Right and Wrong, 75
               Fireside Fairies. By Susan Pindar, 63
               Good in Every Thing. By Mrs. Barwell, 50
               Leisure Moments Improved, 75
               Life of Punchinello, 75
               LIBRARY FOR MY YOUNG COUNTRYMEN. 
                     Adventures of Capt. John Smith. By the Author of Uncle Philip, 38
                     Adventures of Daniel Boone. By do. 38
                     Dawnings of Genius. By Anne Pratt, 38
                     Life and Adventures of Henry Hudson. By the Author of Uncle Philip,
                        38
                     Life and Adventures of Hernan Cortez. By do. 38
                     Philip Randolph. A Tale of Virginia. By Mary Gertrude, 38
                     Rowan's History of the French Revolution. 2 vols. 75
                     Southey's Life of Oliver Cromwell, 38
                  
               
               Louis' School-Days. By E. J. May, 75
               Louise; or, The Beauty of Integrity, 25
               Maryatt's Settlers in Canada, 62
               Maryatt's Masterman Ready, 63
               Maryatt's Scenes in Africa, 63
               Midsummer Fays. By Susan Pindar, 63
               MISS McINTOSH'S WORKS. 
                     Aunt Kitty's Tales, 12mo. 75
                     Blind Alice; A Tale for Good Children, 38
                     Ellen Leslie; or, The Reward of Self-Control, 38
                     Florence Arnott; or, Is She Generous? 38
                     Grace and Clara; or, Be Just as well as Generous, 38
                     Jessie Graham; or, Friends Dear, but Truth Dearer, 38
                     Emily Herbert; or, The Happy Home, 37
                     Rose and Lillie Stanhope, 37
                  
               
               Mamma's Story Book, 75
               Pebbles from the Sea-Shore, 37
               Puss in Boots. Illustrated. By Otto Specter, 25
               PETER PARLEY'S WORKS. 
                     Faggots for the Fireside, 1 13
                     Parley's Present for all Seasons, 1 00
                     Wanderers by Sea and Land, 1 13
                     Winter Wreath of Summer Flowers, 3 00
                  
               
               TALES FOR THE PEOPLE AND THEIR CHILDREN. 
                     Alice Franklin. By Mary Howitt, 38
                     Crofton Boys (The). By Harriet Martineau, 38
                     Dangers of Dining Out. By Mrs. Ellis, 38
                     Domestic Tales. By Hannah More. 2 vols. 75
                     Early Friendship. By Mrs. Copley, 38
                     Farmer's Daughter (The). By Mrs. Cameron, 38
                     First Impressions. By Mrs. Ellis, 38
                     Hope On, Hope Ever! By Mary Howitt, 38
                     Little Coin, Much Care. By do. 38
                     Looking-Glass for the Mind. Many plates, 38
                     Love and Money. By Mary Howitt, 38
                     Minister's Family. By Mrs. Ellis, 38
                     My Own Story. By Mary Howitt, 38
                     My Uncle, the Clockmaker. By do. 38
                     No Sense Like Common Sense. By do. 38
                     Peasant and the Prince. By H. Martineau, 28
                     Poplar Grove. By Mrs. Copley, 38
                     Somerville Hall. By Mrs. Ellis, 38
                     Sowing and Reaping. By Mary Howitt, 38
                     Story of a Genius. 38
                     Strive and Thrive. By do. 38
                     The Two Apprentices. By do. 38
                     Tired of Housekeeping. By T. S. Arthur, 38
                     Twin Sisters (The). By Mrs. Sandham, 38
                     Which is the Wiser? By Mary Howitt, 38
                     Who Shall be Greatest? By do. 38
                     Work and Wages. By do. 38
                  
               
               SECOND SERIES. 
                     Chances and Changes. By Charles Burdett, 38
                     Goldmaker's Village. By H. Zschokke, 38
                     Never Too Late. By Charles Burdett, 38
                     Ocean Work, Ancient and Modern. By J. H. Wright, 38
                  
               
               Picture Pleasure Book, 1st Series, 1 25
               Picture Pleasure Book, 2d Series, 1 25
               Robinson Crusoe. 300 Plates, 1 50
               Susan Pindar's Story Book, 75
               Sunshine of Greystone, 75
               Travels of Bob the Squirrel, 37
               Wonderful Story Book, 50
               Willy's First Present, 75
               Week's Delight; or, Games and Stories for the Parlor, 75
               William Tell, the Hero of Switzerland, 50
               Young Student. By Madame Guizot, 75
            
            
               Miscellaneous and General Literature.
               An Attic Philosopher in Paris, 25
               Appletons' Library Manual, 1 25
               Agnell's Book of Chess, 1 25
               Arnold's Miscellaneous Works, 2 00
               Arthur. The Successful Merchant, 75
               A Book for Summer Time in the Country, 50
               Baldwin's Flush Times in Alabama, 1 25
               Calhoun (J. C.), Works of. 4 vols. publ., each, 2 00
               Clark's (W. G.) Knick Knacks, 1 25
               Cornwall's Music as it Was, and as it Is, 63
               Essays from the London Times. 1st & 2d Series, each, 50
               Ewbanks' World in a Workshop, 75
               Ellis' Women of England, 50
               Ellis' Hearts and Homes, 1 50
               Ellis' Prevention Better than Cure, 75
               Foster's Essays on Christian Morals, 50
               Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield, 75
               Grant's Memoirs of an American Lady, 75
               Gaieties and Gravities. By Horace Smith, 50
               Guizot's History of Civilization, 1 00
               Hearth-Stone. By Rev. S. Osgood, 1 00
               Hobson. My Uncle and I, 75
               Ingoldsby Legends, 50
               Isham's Mud Cabin, 1 00
               Johnson's Meaning of Words, 1 00
               Kavanagh's Women of Christianity, 75
               Leger's Animal Magnetism, 1 00
               Life's Discipline. A Tale of Hungary, 63
               Letters from Rome. A. D. 138, 1 90
               Margaret Maitland, 75
               Maiden and Married Life of Mary Powell, 50
               Morton Montague; or a Young Christian's Choice, 75
               Macaulay's Miscellanies. 5 vols. 5 00
               Maxims of Washington. By J. F. Schroeder, 1 00
               Mile Stones in our Life Journey, 1 00
               MINIATURE CLASSICAL LIBRARY. 
                     Poetic Lacon; or, Aphorisms from the Poets, 38
                     Bond's Golden Maxims, 31
                     Clarke's Scripture Promises. Complete, 38
                     Elizabeth; or, The Exiles of Siberia, 31
                     Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield, 38
                     Goldsmith's Essays, 38
                     Gems from American Poets, 38
                     Hannah More's Private Devotions, 31
                     Hannah More's Practical Piety. 2 vols. 75
                     Hemans' Domestic Affections, 31
                     Hoffman's Lays of the Hudson, &c. 38
                     Johnson's History of Rasselas, 38
                     Manual of Matrimony, 31
                     Moore's Lalla Rookh, 38
                     Moore's Melodies. Complete, 38
                     Paul and Virginia, 31
                     Pollok's Course of Time, 38
                     Pure Gold from the Rivers of Wisdom, 38
                     Thomson's Seasons, 38
                     Token of the Heart. Do. of Affection. Do. of Remembrance. Do. of
                        Friendship. Do. of Love. Each, 31
                     Useful Letter-Writer, 38
                     Wilson's Sacra Privata, 31
                     Young's Night Thoughts, 38
                  
               
               Little Pedlington and the Pedlingtonians, 50
               Prismatics. Tales and Poems, 1 25
               Papers from the Quarterly Review, 50
               Republic of the United States. Its Duties, &c. 1 00
               Preservation of Health and Prevention of Disease, 75
               School for Politics. By Chas. Gayerre, 75
               Select Italian Comedies. Translated, 75
               Shakespeare's Scholar. By R. G. White, 2 50
               Spectator (The). New ed. 6 vols. cloth, 9 00
               Swett's Treatise on Diseases of the Chest, 3 00
               Stories from Blackwood, 50
               THACKERAY'S WORKS. 
                     The Book of Snobs, 50
                     Mr. Browne's Letters, 50
                     The Confessions of Fitzboodle, 50
                     The Fat Contributor, 50
                     Jeames' Diary. A Legend of the Rhine 50
                     The Luck of Barry Lyndon, 1 00
                     Men's Wives, 50
                     The Paris Sketch Book. 2 vols. 1 00
                     The Shabby Genteel Story, 50
                     The Yellowplush Papers. 1 vol. 16mo. 50
                     Thackeray's Works. 6 vols. bound in cloth, 6 00
                  
               
               Trescott's Diplomacy of the Revolution, 75
               Tuckerman's Artist Life, 75
               Up Country Letters, 75
               Ward's Letters from Three Continents, 1 00
               Ward's English Items, 1 00
               Warner's Rudimental Lessons in Music, 50
               Woman's Worth, 38
            
            
               Philosophical Works.
               Cousin's Course of Modern Philosophy, 3 00
               Cousin's Philosophy of the Beautiful, 62
               Cousin's on the True, Beautiful, and Good, 1 50
               Comte's Positive Philosophy. 2 vols. 4 00
               Hamilton's Philosophy. 1 vol. 8vo. 1 50
            
            
               Poetry and the Drama.
               Amelia's Poems. 1 vol. 12mo. 1 25
               Brownell's Poems. 12mo. 75
               Bryant's Poems. 1 vol. 8vo. Illustrated, 3 50
               Bryant's Poems. Antique mor. 6 00
               Bryant's Poems. 2 vols. 12mo. cloth, 2 00
               Bryant's Poems. 1 vols. 18mo. 63
               Byron's Poetical Works. 1 vol. cloth, 3 00
               Byron's Poetical Works. Antique mor. 6 00
               Burns' Poetical Works. Cloth, 1 00
               Butler's Hudibras. Cloth, 1 00
               Campbell's Poetical Works. Cloth, 1 00
               Coleridge's Poetical Works. Cloth, 1 25
               Cowper's Poetical Works, 1 00
               Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, 1 00
               Dante's Poems. Cloth, 1 00
               Dryden's Poetical Works. Cloth, 1 00
               Fay (J. S.), Ulric; or, The Voices, 75
               Goethe's Iphigenia in Tauris. Translated, 75
               Gilfillan's Edition of the British Poets. 12 vols. published. Price per vol.
                  cloth, 1 00
               Do. do. Calf, per vol. 2 50
               Griffith's (Mattie) Poems, 75
               Hemans' Poetical Works. 2 vols. 16mo. 2 00
               Herbert's Poetical Works. 16mo. cloth, 1 00
               Keats' Poetical Works. Cloth, 12mo. 1 25
               Kirke White's Poetical Works. Cloth, 1 00
               Lord's Poems. 1 vol. 12mo. 75
               Lord's Christ in Hades. 12mo. 75
               Milton's Paradise Lost. 18mo. 38
               Milton's Complete Poetical Works, 1 00
               Moore's Poetical Works. 8vo. Illustrated, 3 00
               Moore's Poetical Works. Mor. extra, 6 00
               Montgomery's Sacred Poems. 1 vol. 12mo. 75
               Pope's Poetical Works. 1 vol. 16mo. 1 00
               Southey's Poetical Works. 1 vol. 3 00
               Spenser's Faerie Queene. 1 vol. cloth, 1 00
               Scott's Poetical Works. 1 vol. 1 00
               Scott's Lady of the Lake. 16mo. 38
               Scott's Marmion, 37
               Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel, 25
               Shakspeare's Dramatic Works, 2 00
               Tasso's Jerusalem Delivered. 1 vol. 16mo. 1 00
               Wordsworth (W.). The Prelude, 1 00
            
            
               Religious Works.
               Arnold's Rugby School Sermons, 50
               Anthon's Catechism on the Homilies, 06
               Anthon's Early Catechism for Children, 06
               Burnet's History of the Reformation. 3 vols. 2 50
               Burnet's Thirty-Nine Articles, 2 00
               
               Bradley's Family and Parish Sermons, 2 00
               Cotter's Mass and Rubries, 38
               Coit's Puritanism, 1 00
               Evans' Rectory of Valehead, 50
               Grayson's True Theory of Christianity, 1 00
               Gresley on Preaching, 1 25
               Griffin's Gospel its Own Advocate, 1 00
               Hecker's Book of the Soul,
               Hooker's Complete Works. 2 vols. 4 00
               James Happiness, 25
               James on the Nature of Evil, 1 00
               Jarvis' Reply to Milner, 75
               Kingsley's Sacred Choir, 75
               Keble's Christian Year, 37
               Layman's Letters to a Bisnop, 25
               Logan's Sermons and Expository Lectures, 1 13
               Lyra Apostolica, 50
               Marshall's Notes on Episcopacy, 1 00
               Newman's Sermons and Subjects of the Day, 1 00
               Newman's Essay on Christian Doctrine, 75
               Ogilby on Lay Baptism, 50
               Pearson on the Creed, 2 00
               Pulpit Cyclopædia and Ministers' Companion, 2 50
               Sewell's Reading Preparatory to Confirmation, 75
               Southard's Mystery of Godliness, 75
               Sketches and Skeletons of Sermons, 2 50
               Spencer's Christian Instructed, 1 00
               Sherlock's Practical Christian, 75
               Sutton's Disce Vivere—Learn to Live, 75
               Swartz's Letters to my Godchild, 38
               Trench's Notes on the Parables, 1 75
               Trench's Notes on the Miracles. 1 75
               Taylor's Holy Living and Dying, 1 00
               Taylor's Episcopacy Asserted and Maintained, 75
               Tyng's Family Commentary, 2 00
               Walker's Sermons on Practical Subjects, 2 00
               Watson on Confirmation, 06
               Wilberforce's Manual for Communicants, 38
               Wilson's Lectures on Colossians, 75
               Wyatt's Christian Altar, 38
            
            
               Voyages and Travels.
               Africa and the American Flag, 1 25
               Appletons' Southern and Western Guide, 1 00
               Appletons' Northern and Eastern Guide, 1 25
               Appletons' Complete U. S. Guide Book, 2 00
               Appletons' N. Y. City Map, 25
               Bartlett's New Mexico, &c. 2 vols. Illustrated, 5 00
               Burnet's N. Western Territory, 2 00
               Bryant's What I Saw in California, 1 25
               Coggeshall's Voyages. 2 vols. 2 50
               Dix's Winter in Madeira, 1 00
               Huc's Travels in Tartary and Thibet. 2 vols. 1 00
               Layard's Nineveh. 1 vol. 8vo. 1 25
               Notes of a Theological Student. 12mo. 1 00
               Oliphant's Journey to Katmundu, 50
               Parkyns' Abyssinia. 2 vols. 2 50
               Russia as it Is. By Gurowski, 1 00
               Russia By Count de Custine, 1 25
               Squier's Nicaragua. 2 vols. 5 00
               Tappan's Step from the New World to the Old, 1 75
               Wanderings and Fortunes of Germ. Emigrants, 75
               Williams' Isthmus of Tehuantepec. 2 vols. 8vo. 3 50
            
            
               Works of Fiction.
               GRACE AGUILAR'S WORKS. 
                     The Days of Bruce. 2 vols. 12mo. 1 50
                     Home Scenes and Heart Studies. 12mo. 75
                     The Mother's Recompense. 12mo. 75
                     Woman's Friendship. 12mo. 75
                     Women of Israel. 2 vols. 12mo. 1 50
                  
               
               Basil. A Story of Modern Life. 12mo. 75
               Brace's Fawn of the Pale Faces. 12mo. 75
               Busy Moments of an Idle Woman, 75
               Cheatnut Wood. A Tale. 2 vols. 1 75
               Don Quixotte, Translated. Illustrated, 1 25
               Drury (A. H.). Light and Shade, 75
               Dupuy (A. E.). The Conspirator, 75
               Elten Parry; or, Trials of the Heart, 63
               MRS. ELLIS' WORKS. 
                     Hearts and Homes; or, Social Distinctions, 1 50
                     Prevention Better than Cure, 75
                     Women of England, 50
                  
               
               Emmanuel Phillibert. By Dumas, 1 25
               Farmingdale. By Caroline Thomas, 1 00
               Fullerton (Lady G.). Ellen Middleton, 75
               Fullerton (Lady G.). Grantley Manor. 1 vol. 12mo. 75
               Fullerton (Lady G.). Lady Bird. 1 vol. 12mo. 75
               The Foresters. By Alex. Dumas, 75
               Gore (Mrs.). The Dean's Daughter. 1 vol. 12mo. 75
               Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield. 12mo. 75
               Gil Blas. With 500 Engravings. Cloth, gt. edg. 2 50
               Harry Muir. A Tale of Scottish Life, 75
               Hearts Unveiled; or, I Knew You Would Like Him, 75
               Heartsease; or, My Brother's Wife. 2 vols. 1 50
               Heir of Redelyffe. 2 vols. cloth, 1 50
               Heloise; or, The Unrevealed Secret. 12mo. 75
               Hobson. My Uncle and I. 12mo. 75
               Holmes' Tempest and Sunshine. 12mo. 1 00
               Home is Home. A Domestic Story, 75
               Howitt (Mary). The Heir of West Wayland, 50
               Io. A Tale of the Ancient Fane. 12mo. 75
               The Iron Cousin. By Mary Cowden Clarke, 1 25
               James (G. P. R.). Adrian; or, Clouds of the Mind, 75
               John; or, Is a Cousin in the Hand Worth Two in the Bush, 25
               JULIA KAVANAGH'S WORKS. 
                     Nathalie. A Tale. 12mo. 1 00
                     Madeline. 12mo. 75
                     Daisy Burns. 12mo. 1 00
                  
               
               Life's Discipline. A Tale of Hungary, 63
               Lone Dove (The). A Legend, 75
               Linny Lockwood. By Catherine Crowe, 50
               MISS McINTOSH'S WORKS. 
                     Two Lives; or, To Seem and To Be. 12mo. 75
                     Aunt Kitty's Tales. 12mo. 75
                     Charms and Counter-Charms. 12mo. 1 00
                     Evenings at Donaldson Manor, 75
                     The Lofty and the Lowly. 2 vols. 1 50
                  
               
               Margaret's Home. By Cousin Alice,
               Marie Louise; or, The Opposite Neighbors, 50
               Maiden Aunt (The). A Story, 75
               Manzoni. The Betrothed Lovers. 2 vols. 1 50
               Margaret Cecil; or, I Can Because I Ought, 75
               Morton Montague; or, The Christian's Choice, 75
               Norman Leslie. By G. C. H. 75
               Prismatics. Tales and Poems. By Haywarde, 1 25
               Roe (A. S.). James Montjoy. 12mo. 75
               Roe (A. S.). To Love and to Be Loved. 12mo. 75
               Roe (A. S.). Time and Tide. 12mo. 75
               Reuben Medlicott; or, The Coming Man, 75
               Rose Douglass. By S. R. W. 75
               MISS SEWELL'S WORKS. 
                     Amy Herbert. A Tale. 12mo. 75
                     Experience of Life. 12mo. 75
                     Gertrude. A Tale. 12mo. 75
                     Katherine Ashton. 2 vols. 12mo. 1 50
                     Laneton Parsonage. A Tale. 3 vols. 12mo. 2 25
                     Margaret Percival. 2 vols. 1 50
                     Walter Lorimer, and Other Tales. 12mo. 75
                     A Journal Kept for Children of a Village School, 1 00
                  
               
               Sunbeams and Shadows. Cloth, 75
               Thorpe's Hive of the Bee Hunter, 1 00
               Thackeray's Works. 6 vols. 12mo. 6 00
               The Virginia Comedians. 2 vols. 12mo. 1 50
               Use of Sunshine. By S. M. 12mo. 75
               Wight's Romance of Abelard & Heloise. 12mo. 75
            
         
         
            A Practical Book on the Breeding of Fish.
            A COMPLETE TREATISE ON Artificial Fifh-Breeding:
            INCLUDING THE REPORTS ON THE SUBJECT MADE TO THE FRENCH ACADEMY AND THE
               FRENCH GOVERNMENT, AND PARTICULARS OF THE DISCOVERY AS PURSUED IN ENGLAND.
            TRANSLATED AND EDITED BY WM. H. FRY.
            ILLUSTRATED WITH ENGRAVINGS.
            One Volume. 12mo. Cloth. Price 75 cents.
            
               Opinions of the Press.
               "A very genial and entertaining, though practical and scientific book. No one who
                  loves the existence in our rivers, brooks, or lakes, of trout and salmon, should
                  be without it."—Broome Republic.
               
               "In this little volume, the whole process of fish-culture is described so plainly
                  and with so much minuteness that any person will have no difficulty in informing
                  himself sufficiently well to engage in the business; provided he has the necessary
                  facilities and leisure, with a good running stream or pond, and the proper
                  attention, a great brood of fishes may be hatched from the eggs, and raised up for
                  the market or the table; and such delicacies are trout and salmon, that it is
                  evident that the business of producing them for sale may be made
                     profitable."—Worcester Palladium.
               
               "This discovery is treated as a matter of great public benefit in France and
                  England, where it is practised under the direction and patronage of Government,
                  and is beginning to work its results in stocking rivers and lakes, with the finest
                  species of fish, where few or none have before existed for many
                     years."—Ohio Cultivator.
               
               "Every farmer who has a stream flowing through his land, or miller who wishes to
                  turn his ponds to some account, should make himself acquainted with the details of
                  the book."—Newark Daily Advertiser.
               
            
         
         
            
            A Work abounding in Exciting Scenes and Remarkable Incidents.
            Capt. Canot;
            OR, TWENTY YEARS OF AN AFRICAN SLAVER:
            BEING AN ACCOUNT OF HIS CAREER AND ADVENTURES ON THE COAST, IN THE
               INTERIOR, ON SHIPBOARD, AND IN THE WEST INDIES.
            
               Written out and Edited from the Captain's Journals, Memoranda, and
               Conversations.
            BY BRANTZ MAYER.
            One Volume, 12mo. With eight Illustrations. Price $1 25.
            
               Criticisms of the Press.
               "The author is a literary gentleman of Baltimore, no Abolitionist, and we believe
                  the work to be a truthful account of the life of a man who saw much more than
                  falls to the lot of most men."—Commonwealth.
               
               "A remarkable volume is this; because of its undoubted truth: it having been
                  derived by Mayer from personal conversations with Canot, and from journals which
                  the slaver furnished of his own life."—Worcester Palladium.
               
               "Capt. Canot, the hero of the narrative, is, to our own knowledge, a veritable
                  personage, and resides in Baltimore. There is no doubt that the main incidents
                  connected with his extraordinary career are in every respect
                     true.'—Arthur's Home Gazette.
               
               "Under one aspect, as the biography of a remarkable man who passed through a
                  singularly strange and eventful experience, it is as interesting as any sea story
                  that we have ever read."—Boston Evening Traveller.
               
               "Capt. Canot has certainly passed through a life of difficulty, danger, and wild,
                  daring adventure, which has much the air of romance, and still he, or rather his
                  editor, tells the tale with so much straightforwardness, that we cannot doubt its
                     truthfulness."—New York Sunday Despatch.
               
               "The work could not have been better done if the principal actor had combined the
                  descriptive talent of De Foe with the astuteness of Fouche and the dexterity of
                  Gi. Blas, which traits are ascribed to the worthy whose acquaintance we shall soon
                  make by his admiring editor."—N. Y. Tribune.
               
               "The general style of the work is attractive, and the narrative spirited and
                  bold—well suited to the daring and hazardous course of life led by the adventurer.
                  This book is illustrated by several excellent engravings."—Baltimore
                     American.
               
               "The biography of an African slaver as taken from his own lips, and giving his
                  adventures in this traffic for twenty years. With great natural keenness of
                  perception and complete communicativeness, he has literally unmasked his real
                  life, and tells both what he was and what he saw, the latter being
                  the Photograph of the Negro in Africa, which has been so long wanted.
                  A nephew of Mr. Mayer has illustrated the volume with eight admirable drawings. We
                  should think no book of the present day would be received with so keen an
                     interest."—Home Journal.
               
               "Capt. Canot has passed most of his life since 1819 on the ocean, and his
                  catalogue of adventures at sea and on land, rival in grotesqueness and apparent
                  improbability the marvels of Robinson Crusoe."—Evening Post.
               
               "If stirring incidents, hair-breadth escapes, and variety of adventure, can make a
                  book interesting, this must possess abundant attractions."—Newark Daily
                     Advertiser.
               
               "This is a true record of the life of one who had spent the greater part of his
                  days in dealing in human flesh. We commend this book to all lovers of
                     adventure."—Boston Christian Recorder.
               
               "We would advise every one who is a lover of 'books that are books'—every one who
                  admires Le Sage and De Foe, and has lingered long over the charming pages of Gil
                  Blas and Robinson Crusoe—every one, pro-slavery or anti-slavery, to purchase this
                     book."—Buffalo Courier
               
            
         
         
            The most Authentic and Entertaining Life of Napoleon.
            Memoirs of Napoleon,
            HIS COURT AND FAMILY.
            BY THE DUCHESS D'ABRANTES, (MADAME JUNOT)
            Two Volumes, 8vo. 1134 pages. Price $4.
            
               List of Steel Engravings contained in this Illustrated Edition.
               NAPOLEON.
               JOSEPHINE.
               MARIA LOUISA,
               DUKE OF REICHSTADT,
               MADAME LAETITIA BONAPARTE,
               CHARLES BONAPARTE,
               LUCIEN BONAPARTE,
               MARSHAL JUNOT,
               CHARLES BONAPARTE,
               PAULINE BONAPARTE,
               ELIZA BONAPARTE,
               JEROME BONAPARTE,
               LOUIS BONAPARTE,
               CARDINAL FESCH,
               LOUISA, QUEEN OF PRUSSIA,
               JOSEPH BONAPARTE.
            
            Probably no writer has had the same opportunities for becoming acquainted with
               NAPOLEON THE GREAT as the Duchess D'Abrantes. Her mother rocked him in his cradle,
               and when he quitted Brienne and came to Paris, she guided and protected his younger
               days. Scarcely a day passed without his visiting her house during the period which
               preceded his departure for Italy as COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
            Abundant occasion was therefore had for watching the development of the great genius
               who afterwards became the master of the greater part of Europe.
            MARSHAL JUNOT, who became allied to the author of this work by marriage, was the
               intimate friend of Napoleon, and figured in most of the BRILLIANT ENGAGEMENTS which
               rendered him the greatest military captain of the age. No interruption took place in
               the intimacy which she enjoyed, so that in all these scenes, embracing a period of
               nearly THIRTY YEARS, the Duchess became familiar with all the secret springs of
               NAPOLEON'S ACTIONS, either through her husband or by her own personal knowledge and
               observation at the Court of Napoleon.
            JOSEPHINE, whose life and character so peculiarly attract the attention of all
               readers, occupies a great part of the first volume. The character and the deeds of
               THE EMPERORS AND KINGS, THE GREAT MEN OF THE DAY, THE MARSHALS OF THE EMPIRE, THE
               DISTINGUISHED LADIES OF THE COURT, are described with minuteness, which personal
               observation only admits of. The work is written in that FAMILIAR GOSSIPING STYLE, and
               so interspersed with anecdotes that the reader never wearies. She has put every thing
               in her book—great events and small.
            BATTLES AND BALLS, COURT INTRIGUES AND BOUDOIR GOSSIP, TREATIES AND FLIRTATIONS,
               making two of the most charming volumes of memoirs, which will interest the reader in
               spite of himself.
            
               Opinions of the Press.
               "These anecdotes of Napoleon are the best yet given to the world, because the most
                  intimate and familiar."—London Literary Gazette.
               
               "We consider the performance now before us as more authentic and amusing than any
                  other of its kind."—London Quarterly Review.
               
               "Every thing relating to Napoleon is eagerly sought for and read in this country
                  as well as in Europe, and this work, with its extraordinary attractions, will not
                  fall to command a wide circulation. Madame Junot possessed qualifications for
                  writing a semi-domestic history of the great Corsican which no other person, male
                  or female, could command."—Life Illustrated.
               
            
         
         
            
            A Great National Work.
            Party Leaders.
            SKETCHES OF JEFFERSON, HAMILTON, RANDOLPH, JACKSON, AND CLAY:
            
               Including Notices of many other Distinguished American Statesmen.
            BY J. G. BALDWIN,
            (Now of San Francisco, California.) Author of "Flush Times of Alabama and
               Mississippi.
            One Volume, 12mo. Cloth. Price $1.
            
               OPINIONS OF EMINENT MEN.
               
                  From Ex-President FILLMORE. I have read "Party Leaders" with great
                  satisfaction and delight, and return you a thousand thanks for the pleasure and
                  instruction I have derived from the perusal.
               
                  From Honorable EDWARD EVERETT. What little I have as yet been able
                  to read of it, has impressed me very favorably in reference to the ability and
                  impartiality with which it is drawn up. I am prepared to read it with interest and
                  advantage, in consequence of the pleasure I derived from "The Flush Times in
                  Alabama."
               
                  From Honorable J. P. KENNEDY. I was greatly delighted with the fine,
                  discriminating, acute insight with which the characters presented in the work are
                  drawn, and with the eloquent style of the sketches. I but repeat the common
                  opinion of the best judges, which I hear every where expressed, when I commend
                  these qualities of the book.
               "The Flush Times of Alabama" had whetted my desire to see this second production
                  of Mr. Baldwin's pen, and I can hardly express to you the agreeable surprise I
                  enjoyed in finding a work of such surpassing merit in a tone and manner so
                  entirely different from the first—demonstrating that double gift in the author
                  which enables him to excel in two such opposite departments of literature.
               
                  From Hon. R. M. T. HUNTER, U. S. Senator from
                  Virginia. I have read "Party Leaders" with great pleasure. It is written with
                  ability, and with freshness, and grace of style, The chapters on Randolph are
                  capital.
               
                  From Hon. JAMES M. MASON, U. S. Senator from Virginia.
                  I have heard "Party Leaders" highly commended by those competent to judge, but
                  confess I was not prepared for the intellectual and literary feast its rich pages
                  have yielded.
               As a literary work, I shall be much disappointed if it does not place its author
                  at once in the first rank of American literature, and even in old England. I shall
                  look for its place next to, if not by the side of, the kindred works of McIntosh
                  and Macaulay.
               
                  From a Distinguished Statesman. It is a noble production, full of
                  profound thought, discriminating judgment, just criticism, and elevated
                  sentiments, all expressed in the most captivating and eloquent style. It is a book
                  just according to my fancy, and, I think, one of the most captivating in our
                  language.
            
         
         
            Rev. Samuel Osgood's Two Popular Books.
            
               I. Mile Stones in our Life Journey.
               SECOND EDITION.
               One Volume, 12mo. Cloth. Price $1.
               
                  Opinions of the Press.
                  "In so small a compass, we rarely meet with more Catholic sympathies, and with
                     a clearer or more practical view of the privileges enjoyed by, and the duties
                     enjoined, upon us all, at any stage of our mortal pilgrimage."—Church
                        Journal.
                  
                  "Some passages remind us forcibly of Addison and
                        Goldsmith."—Independent.
                  
                  "This little volume is one of those books which are read by all classes at all
                     stages of life, with an interest which loses nothing by change or
                        circumstances."—Pennsylvanian.
                  
                  "He writes kindly; strongly and readably; nor is their any thing in this volume
                     of a narrow, bigoted, or sectarian character."—Life Illustrated.
                  
                  "His counsels are faithful and wholesome, his reflection touching, and the
                     whole is clothed in a style graceful and free."—Hartford Relig.
                        Herald.
                  
                  "This is a volume of beautiful and cogent essays, virtuous in motive, simple in
                     expression, pertinent and admirable in logic, and glorious in conclusion and
                        climax."—Buffalo Express.
                  
                  "It is written with exquisite taste, is full of beautiful thought most
                     felicitously expressed, and is pervaded by a genial and benevolent
                        spirit."—Dr. Sprague.
                  
                  "Almost every page has a tincture of elegant scholarship, and bears witness to
                     an extensive reading of good authors."—Bryant.
                  
               
            
            
               II. The Hearth-Stone;
               THOUGHTS UPON HOME LIFE IN OUR CITIES.
               BY SAMUEL OSGOOD, AUTHOR OF "STUDIES IN CHRISTIAN BIOGRAPHY," "GOD WITH MEN,"
                  ETC.
               FOURTH EDITION.
               One Volume, 12mo. Cloth. Price $1.
               
                  Criticisms of the Press.
               "This is a volume of elegant and impressive essays on the domestic relations and
                  religions duties of the household. Mr. Osgood writes on these interesting themes
                  in the most charming and animated style, winning the reader's judgment rather than
                  coercing it to the author's conclusions. The predominant sentiments in the book
                  are purity, sincerity, and love. A more delightful volume has rarely been
                  published, and we trust it will have a wide circulation, for its influence must be
                  salutary upon both old and young."—Commercial Advertiser.
               
               "The 'Hearth-Stone' is the symbol of all those delightful truths which Mr. Osgood
                  here connects with it. In a free and graceful style, varying from deep solemnity
                  to the most genial and lively tone, as befits his range of subjects, he gives
                  attention to wise thoughts on holy things, and homely truths. His volume will find
                  many warm hearts to which it will address itself."—Christian
                     Examiner.
               
            
         
         
            
            THE GREAT KENTUCKY NOVEL.
            D. APPLETON & COMPANY HAVE JUST PUBLISHED
            Tempest and Sunshine; or, Life in Kentucky.
            BY MRS. MARY J. HOLMES.
            One Volume, 12mo Paper covers, 75 cents; cloth, $1.
            These are the most striking and original sketches of American character in the
               South-western States which have ever been published. The character of Tempest is
               drawn with all that spirit and energy which characterize the high toned female spirit
               of the South, while Sunshine possesses the loveliness and gentleness of the sweetest
               of her sex. The Planter is sketched to the life, and in his strongly marked,
               passionate, and generous nature, the reader will recognize one of the truest sons of
               the south-west.
            
               OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
               "The book is well written, and its fame will be more than
                     ephemeral."—Buffalo Express.
               
               "The story is interesting and finely developed."—Daily Times.
               
               "A lively romance of western life—the style of the writer is smart, intelligent,
                  and winning, and her story is told with spirit and skill."—U. S.
                     Gazette.
               
               "An excellent work, and its sale must be extensive."—Stamford
                     Advocate.
               
               "The whole is relieved by a generous introduction of incident as well as by an
                  amplitude of love and mystery."—Express.
               
               "A delightful, well written book, portraying western life to the letter. The book
                  abounds in an easy humor, with touching sentences of tenderness and pathos
                  scattered through it, and from first to last keeps up a humane interest that very
                  many authors strive in vain to achieve. 'Tempest' and 'Sunshine,' two sisters, are
                  an exemplification of the good that to some comes by nature, and to others is
                  found only through trials, temptation, and tribulation. Mr. Middleton, the father
                  of 'Tempest and 'Sunshine,' is the very soul and spirit of 'Old Kaintuck,'
                  abridged into one man. The book is worth reading. There is a healthy tone of
                  morality pervading it that will make it a suitable work to be placed in the hands
                  of our daughters and sisters."—New York Day Book.
               
            
         
         
            A Choice New England Tale.
            FARMINGDALE,
            A TALE.
            BY CAROLINE THOMAS.
            Two volumes, 12mo., paper covers, 75 cents, or 2 volumes in 1, cloth, $1.
            "It is a story of New England life, skilfully told, full of tender interest, healthy
               in its sentiments and remarkably graphic in its sketches of character. 'Aunt Betsy'
               is drawn to the life."—Home Gazette.
            
            "Farmingdale is the best novel of the season."—Eve. Post.
            
            "It will compare favorably with the 'Lamplighter,' by Miss Cummings, and the Wide,
               Wide World,' by Miss Warner, and in interest it is quite equal to
                  either."—Boston Transcript.
            
            "'Farmingdale,' the work to which we allude, in every page and paragraph, is redolent
               of its native sky. It is a tale of New England domestic life, in its incidents and
               manners so true to nature and so free from exaggeration, and in its impulses and
               motives throughout so throbbing with the real American heart, that we shall not be
               surprised to hear of as many New England villages claiming to be the scene of its
               story, as were the cities of Greece that claimed to be the birth-place of
                  Homer."—Philadelphia Courier.
            
            "The story abounds in scenes of absorbing interest. The narration is every where
               derightfully clear and straightforward, flowing forth towards its conclusion, like a
               gentle and limpid stream, between graceful hillsides and verdant
                  meadows."—Home Journal.
            
            "This is a story of country life, written by a hand whose guiding power was a living
               soul. The pictures of life are speaking and effective. The story is interestingly
               told and its high moral aim well sustained."—Syracuse Chronicie.
            
            "'Farmingdale,' while it has many points in common with some recent works of fiction,
               is yet highly original. The author has had the boldness to attempt a novel, the main
               interest of which does not hinge either upon love or matrimony, nor upon complicated
               and entangled machinery, but upon a simple and apparently artless narrative of a
               friendless girl."—Philadelphia Eve. Mail.
            
            "The author studiously avoids all forced and unnatural incidents, and the equally
               fashionable affectation of extravagant language. Her style and diction are remarkable
               for their purity and ease. In the conception and delineation of character she has
               shown herself possessed of the true creative power."—Com. Adv.
            
            "A simple yet beautiful story, told in a simple and beautiful manner. The object is
               to show the devoted affection of a sister to a young brother, and the sacrifices
               which she made for him from childhood. There is a touching simplicity in the
               character of this interesting female that will please all readers, and benefit many
               of her sex."—Hartford Courant.
            
            "The tale is prettily written, and breathes throughout an excellent moral
                  tone."—Boston Daily Journal.
            
            "We have read this book; it is lively, spirited, and in some parts pathetic. Its
               sketches of life seem to us at once graceful and vivid."—Albany Argus.
            
            "The book is well written, in a simple, unpretending style, and the dialogue is
               natural and easy. It is destined to great popularity among all classes of readers.
               Parents who object placing 'love tales' in the hands of their children, may purchase
               this volume without fear. The oldest and the youngest will become interested in its
               fascinating pages, and close it with the impression that it is a good book, and
               deserving of the greatest popularity."—Worcester Palladium.
            
         
         
            
            "A WORK WHICH BEARS THE IMPRESS OF GENIUS."
            KATHARINE ASHTON.
            By the author of "Amy Herbert," "Gertrude," &c.
            2 vols. 12mo. Paper covers, $1; cloth, $1 50.
            
               Opinions of the Press.
               We know not where we will find purer morals, or more valuable "life-philosophy,
                  than in the pages of Miss Sewell.—Savannah Georgian.
               
               The style and character of Miss Sewell's writings are too well known to the
                  reading public to need commendation. The present volume will only add to her
                  reputation as an authoress.—Albany Transcript.
               
               This novel is admirably calculated to inculcate refined moral and religious
                     sentiments.—Boston Herald.
               
               The interest of the story is well sustained throughout, and it is altogether one
                  of the pleasantest books of the season.—Syracuse Standard.
               
               Those who have read the former works of this writer, will welcome the appearance
                  of this; it is equal to the best of her preceding novels.—Savannah
                     Republican.
               
               Noble, beautiful, selfish, hard, and ugly characters appear in it, and each is so
                  drawn as to be felt and estimated as it deserves.—Commonwealth.
               
               A re-publication of a good English novel. It teaches self-control, charity, and a
                  true estimation of life, by the interesting history of a young
                     girl.—Hartford Courant.
               
               Katharine Ashton will enhance the reputation already attained, the story and the
                  moral being equally commendable.—Buffalo Courier.
               
               Like all its predecessors, Katharine Ashton bears the impress of genius,
                  consecrated to the noblest purposes, and should find a welcome in every family
                     circle.—Banner of the Cross.
               
               No one can be injured by books like this; a great many must be benefited. Few
                  authors have sent so many faultless writings to the press as she has
                     done.—Worcester Palladium.
               
               The self-denial of the Christian life, in its application to common
                  scenes and circumstances, is happily illustrated in the example of Katharine
                  Ashton, in which there is much to admire and imitate.—Southern
                     Churchman.
               
               Her present work is an interesting tale of English country life, is written with
                  her usual ability, and is quite free from any offensive parade of her own
                  theological tenets.—Boston Traveller.
               
               The field in which Miss Sewell labors, seems to be exhaustless, and to yield
                  always a beautiful and a valuable harvest.—Troy Daily Budget.
               
            
         
         
            D. APPLETON & COMPANY
            
               Have recently published the following interesting works by the same
               author.
            
               THE EXPERIENCE OF LIFE. 1 vol. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.
               THE EARL'S DAUGHTER. 1 vol. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.
               GERTRUDE: a Tale. 1 vol. 12mo. Paper, 50 cts; cloth, 75 cts.
               AMY HERBERT: A Tale. 1 vol. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth 75 cents.
               LANETON PARSONAGE. 3 vols. 12mo. Paper, $1 50, cloth, $2 25.
               MARGARET PERCIVAL. 2 vols. Paper, $1; cloth, $1 50.
               READING FOR A MONTH. 12mo. cloth, 75 cents.
               A JOURNAL KEPT DURING A SUMMER TOUR. 1 vol. cloth, $1 00.
               WALTER LORIMER AND OTHER TALES. Cloth, 75 cents.
               THE CHILD'S FIRST HISTORY OF ROME. 50 cents.
               THE CHILD'S FIRST HISTORY OF GEEECE. 63 cents.
            
         
         
            D. APPLETON & CO., 346 & 348 BROADWAY, HAVE JUST
               PUBLISHED
            THE VIRGINIA COMEDIANS;
            OR, Old Days in the Old Dominion.
            FROM THE MSS. OF C. EFFINGHAM, ESQ.
            Two vols. 12mo. paper, $1; cloth, $1 50.
            A volume which has been pronounced the best novel of the day.
            
               Peruse the criticisms of the following papers.
               "It is not only unlike the monstrous mass of efforts which have preceded it—and
                  therefore, attractive in the light of comparison, and for its perfect newness—but
                  it is freighted with such an ardor of style, fervor of imagination, beauty of
                  description, both as regards characters and scenes, and a plenitude of genial
                  spirit, that its reader is sure to be its lover.
               "The story, which commences about the middle of the last century, is located in
                  Virginia, its personæ in dramatis being composed
                  of many choice spirits who figured, or were supposed to figure, at that period. We
                  have not seen its equal for many a day, and heartily apply to it the old verse, 
                     
                        
                           'May this book continue in motion,
                           And its leaves every day be unfurled.'"
                        
                     
                     Buffalo Courier.
                  
               
               "The period of the story is about the middle of the last century; the place
                  Williamsburg, Virginia, and its vicinity; the characters Virginia gentlemen of
                  that day and generation, among whom comes Beatrice Hallam, the
                  leading actress of a company of comedians of that ilk, and one of the most
                  striking, truthful, and lovable characters in modern fiction. The interest of the
                  book never flags. The characters are such that we cannot be indifferent to them,
                  and the author absorbs us in their actions and their fate."—Courier &
                     Enquirer.
               
               "The tone of the book is intensely national. It has come on us completely by
                  surprise, for we had no conception of its character, until we were half through
                  the first volume, and we must confess that we were at the outset extremely
                  unprepared for such a display of literary power."—N. Y. Express.
               
            
         
         
            
            A BOOK FOR EVERY CHRISTIAN FAMILY.
            The Hearth-Stone;
            THOUGHTS UPON HOME LIFE IN OUR CITIES BY SAMUEL OSGOOD,
            Author of "Studies in Christian Biography," "God with Men,' etc.
            1 vol. 12mo. cloth. Price $1.
            
               CRITICISMS OF THE PRESS.
               "This is a volume of eloquent and impressive essays on the domestic relations and
                  the religious duties of the household. Mr. Osgood writes on these interesting
                  themes in the most charming and animated style, winning the reader's judgment
                  rather than coercing it to the author's conclusions. The predominant sentiments in
                  the book are purity, sincerity, and love. A more delightful volume has rarely been
                  published, and we trust it will have a wide circulation, for its influence must be
                  salutary upon both old and young."—Commercial Advertiser.
               
               "The 'Hearth-Stone' is the symbol of all those delightful truths which Mr. Osgood
                  here connects with it. In a free and graceful style, varying from deep solemnity
                  to the most genial and lively tone, as befits his range of subjects, he gives
                  attention to wise thoughts on holy things, and homely truths. His volume will find
                  many warm hearts to which it will address itself."—Christian
                     Examiner.
               
               "The author of this volume passes through a large circle of subjects, all of them
                  connected with domestic life as it exists in large towns. The ties of
                  relationship—the female character as developed in the true province and empire of
                  woman, domestic life, the education of children, and the training them to habits
                  of reverence—the treatment of those of our households whose lot in life is humbler
                  than ours—the cultivation of a contented mind—the habitual practice of
                  devotion—these and various kindred topics furnish ample matter for touching
                  reflections and wholesome counsels. The spirit of the book is fervently religious,
                  and though no special pains are taken to avoid topics on which religions men
                  differ, it 'breathes a kindly spirit above the reach of sect or party.' The author
                  is now numbered among the popular preachers of the metropolis, and those who have
                  listened to his spoken, will not be disappointed with his written,
                     eloquence."—Evening Post.
               
               "A household book, treating of the domestic relations, the deportment, affections,
                  and duties which belong to the well ordered Christian family. Manly advice and
                  good sense are exhibited in an earnest and affectionate tone, and not without
                  tenderness and truthful sentiment; while withal a Christian view is taken of the
                  serious responsibility which attends the performance of the duties of husband and
                  wife, parent and child, sister and brother. We are particularly pleased with the
                  real practical wisdom, combined with the knowledge of human nature, which renders
                  this volume deserving of careful study by those who desire to make their homes
                     happy."—New York Churchman.
               
            
         
         
            CHESTNUT WOOD:
            An American Tale.
            BY LIELE LINDEN.
            Two volumes, 12mo. Paper covers, $1 25; cloth, $1 75.
            "Chestnut Wood will light up many a hearth with pleasure."
            
               PLOT OF THE STORY.
               Chestnut Wood is a country-seat, near Sleepy Hollow, owned and occupied by Mr.
                  Atherton, a man of stern but not unkind disposition. The better feelings of his
                  heart are brought into action, by the circumstances of his young grand-daughter,
                  Sybil, the heroine of the tale, who is thrown, by the death of her mother at a
                  farm-house in the vicinity, where she has been rescued from exposure on the road,
                  upon his protection. The father of Sybil, as may be inferred from the fate of her
                  mother, is a worthless scoundrel, who endeavors, with the help of associates as
                  worthless as himself, to get possession of the child. They succeed in carrying her
                  off, and concealing her in New York, where they employ her as an unconcious agent
                  in the circulation of counterfeit money. She escapes from the wardship of an old
                  misshapen hag, Moll, and is brought back to her home at Chestnut Wood; where,
                  however, she is still subject to occasional manifestations from the same
                  source.
            
            
               Opinions of the Press.
               "One of the pleasantest characters in the book is Jerry Goldsmith, a Yankee Caleb
                  Quotem, ready to turn his hand to any thing, and more profuse in promise than
                     performance."—Churchman.
               
               "One who has read it from preface to finis, pronounces it delightful; and hence our praise. She says
                  there are spots that those who have tears can cry over, but never so sad that the
                  tears need scald much."—N. Y. Daily Times.
               
               "We commend to men, women, and even children, a perusal of 'Chestnut Wood.'"
                     Lawrence Sentinel.
               
               "This work will be read. It has all the elements of a successful book, viz:
                  originality, interest, power, and strong characterization."—Berks County
                     Press.
               
               "It will please from its truthfulness to nature, and from the effect it will leave
                  on the mind of the reader."—Hartford Courant.
               
               "Its plot is well developed, is ingenious, but not too intricate, and is managed
                  throughout with the skill of a master."—Palladium.
               
               "The characters are very well and forcibly drawn, particularly the 'cute Yankee,
                  Jerry Goldsmith."—Mobile Adv.
               
            
         
         
            
            Miss Lizzie Petit.
            —— This lady, who recently made her debut in a
               dramatic reading at Washington, has read "Much Ado About Nothing," "Romeo and
               Juliet," and the first part of "King Henry IV.," before a Richmond audience, with
               great success, the house being crowded on each occasion. G. P. R. James, Esq., the
               novelist, in the Richmond Whig, thus speaks of the fair debutante:—"When we entered the great ballroom at the Ballard House, we
               were pleased to see one of the most brilliant audiences that Richmond can produce,
               comprising the great mass of the talent, the beauty, and the fashion of the city.
               There was hardly a person there who is not well known for critical judgment and
               ability. We were pleased, indeed, to see this rally of the elite of Virginia round this distinguished daughter of the State.
               Shortly after our entrance, a beautiful girl was led in by one of our most learned
               and eminent citizens, followed by several gentlemen of literary and scientific
               reputation; and the reading at once began. That reading charmed every one who heard
               it. Miss Petit is evidently inexperienced; but all that is wanting in science, is
               made up, and more than made up, by the beautiful freshness of her conceptions, by
               taste and genius. You see that she feels the character whose words she gives; and her
               ever-varying and beautiful countenance reflects every thought of the poet, even while
               the tones tremble on her lips. One great peculiarity of her reading, too, is the
               graceful and varied action into which she seems rather to be hurried by the passion
               of the dialogue, than led by any studied purpose. Her native grace is really
               charming. Art may perhaps add to it, at some future day; but yet no one, probably, in
               the room would have willingly parted with what is for what may be. The inexperience
               to which we have alluded only showed itself in one symptom easily remedied. In the
               first three acts she did not speak loud enough; she had not well calculated the size
               of the hall, and the number of the people; but a hint having been given her during a
               short period allowed for repose, her voice exerted greater power, and every word of
               the last two acts was heard distinctly at the farthest part of the room. Indeed, it
               hardly required to hear; for the varied expressions of her beautiful face, and the
               constant play of graceful gesture, spoke the emotions she sought to display, almost
               without the aid of words."
            Miss Petit, a Southern lady, left an orphan and dependent upon her own exertions for
               support, is about to give a series of Shakespearean readings in Richmond. She has
               been reading in private circles in this City for some time past.
            We learn that Miss PETIT, a Virginia authoress of celebrity, is on the eve of giving
               a series of Shakespearian readings through the southern and western cities. Miss
               PETIT, in addition to a rich, melodious voice, just touched with a charming southern
               accent, is possessed of unusual personal attractions. The fine outlines of her face
               and head form a study that would delight a sculptor. Miss PETIT is, moreover, quite
               young—and youth we take to be a kind of genius. With her talent and these
               accessories, Miss PETIT can hardly fall in achieving success; but it is with the
               gentlor and more spiritual of SHAKESPEARE'S heroines that the lady must place her
               faith. We hope the authoress of "Light and Darkness" will not neglect her northern
               friends in her "grand tour."
            Miss Petit, the Virginia authoress, is, we understand, to give a series of
               Shakspearian readings through the Southern cities. She can not fail to make a
               sensation, for in addition to genius of a high order, her personal attractions are
               remarkable. Her face and head are in themselves a study of classic beauty, while her
               voice has all the soft rich music which belongs to the accents of her clime. Those
               who are familiar with that exquisite production of poetry and passion, "Light and
               Darkness," will need no other inducement to attend these readings than the natural
               desire to behold the fair and brilliant authoress.
            Miss LIZZIE PETIT read "Romeo and Juliet" in the parlor of the National Hotel, at
               Washington, on Saturday last. The room was crowded, and the reading was an entire
               success. Mrs. CRITTENDEN, Mrs. BROWN, Mrs. PARKER, and other distinguished ladies,
               graced the occasion with their presence.
            —Lizzie Pettit, the author of two popular novels, "Light and Darkness" and "Household
               Mysteries," is giving Shakesperean readings at Norfolk, Va.
            . . . .Miss Lizzie Petit, the young and admired authoress, is at present in
               Washington, where she is making arrangements to give a series of Shakspearian
               readings.
            
            
            A young and charming southern belle and authoress, whose works were published a year
               or two since, by the APPLETONS, contemplates, it is rumored, making her debut on the stage, before a New-York audience, some time
               during the present autumn. We regret that she should forsake the pleasant, and, to
               her, familiar paths of literature for the thorny and unknown walks of the drama. But
               we venture to predict that the laurel wreath is now growing that will crown her brow
               whichever profession she may pursue.
            —It is now said that the Southern literary lady who is about to make her debut on the
               stage is Miss Lizzy Pettit, author of a racy book on "Southern Life," published some
               years since by the Appletons.
            Madame LE VERT, the authoress of that charming work, "Souvenirs of Travel," is not,
               as has been stated in various papers, the mysterious personage whom rumor asserts is
               about to adopt the theatrical profession. The young lady who is the subject of this
                  on dit, is a petite daughter of the Old Dominion, whose "Light and Darkness," and
               "Household Mysteries," have made her name a familiar one in literary circles.
            Miss LIZZIE PETIT, as her many friends will be grieved to learn, met with a serious
               accident last week, by reason of her dress taking fire, whereby she was severely
               burnt on her neck, shoulders, and arms. Dr. ALEX. MOTT, who was called to attend her,
               thinks she will be confined to her apartments for many weeks to come. This sad
               occurrence will probably prevent Miss PETIT from appearing upon the stage the present
               winter, as she purposed.
            Miss LIZZIE PETIT, as her numerous friends will be glad to learn, is recovering from
               the effects of the painful accident which she met with a few weeks since. The report,
               recently in circulation, that Miss PETIT intends to go upon the stage, is, we are
               informed by creditable authority, utterly without foundation. We are pleased to be
               able to thus contradict a rumor which has given Miss PETIT and her friends much
               annoyance.
            ENTERTAINMENT AT SPINGLER INSTITUTE ON FRIDAY EVENING.—The young Southern authoress
               who was burned some time ago, and has been disabled from literary labor by consequent
               illness, takes a benefit at No. 7 Union place, on Friday evening. Songs by the Misses
               Gellie, and dramatic readings by Mrs. E. F. Ellet, make up the entertainment. The
               tickets are fifty cents, and the benevolent object of the entertainment should insure
               a full house. We have heard the talents of Mrs. Ellet highly spoken of; and the case
               is one which particularly merits public attention.
         
         
            Miss Petit's Debut.
            —— A testimonial from many distinguished citizens is to be offered to Miss Petit, of
               Virginia, the young authoress who was so badly burned last autumn, but whose complete
               restoration to health we can now, happily, record. On the occasion of this
               testimonial, Miss Petit will make her débût as a
               dramatic reader before a New-York audience. Miss Petit has achieved a brilliant
               literary reputation, and we have no doubt her numerous friends will gladly avail
               themselves of this opportunity to testify their esteem and regard for her.
            Miss LIZZIE PETIT will read, by invitation of many distinguished citizens, at
               Dodworth's Hall, on Friday evening, April twenty-seventh. Miss PETIT is well known as
               the author of several charming novels, and is as brilliantly endowed in person as in
               mind.
         
      
   
