
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, F. Irene Burge (1826-1900). Nina, or, Life's Caprices .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6566
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  HOME OF THE AGED AND ORPHAN OF THE CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION, BROOKLYN. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               NINA, 
               OR LIFE'S CAPRICES. 
               A Story founded on fact. 
             
            BY F. J. BURGE SMITH.
             
             
               
                   
                     "THERE REMAINETH A REST FOR THE SPIRIT ON THE SHADOWY SIDE OF LIFE; 
                     BUT UNTO THIS WORLD'S PILGRIM, NO REST FOR THE SOLE OF HIS FOOT." 
                  
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               PUBLISHED FOR THE HOME OF THE AGED AND ORPHAN OF THE BROOKLYN CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION, BY DANIEL DANA, AGENT.
             
            1861. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, BY THE CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION, KINGS COUNTY, N. Y., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            ADVERTISEMENT. 
            THIS book was written with the design of beguiling the old and weary heart of its heroine, by the retrospect of her youthful days, and also with the hope of affording her some pecuniary advantage. 
            My purpose towards her having failed, as she has been recently freed from the inclemencies and necessities of this mortal life, my next legitimate aim in the issue of this volume, is the noble institution of which she was for several years an inmate. 
            From the broken English of my friend, I have gathered the leading incidents of an eventful life, and clothing them in such garb as I could find in the chambers of my own brain, I now present them-with somewhat of trembling-to a fastidious public, with the apology, that, when one must drape a nude figure, and is possessed of no regal attire, it is necessary to substitute the next best that offers. 
            To the well-wishers of the "Home for the Aged and Orphans," it remains to make of my kindly impulse, a tangible good.
             
            
               BROOKLYN, 1860.
             
          
          
             
             
            INTRODUCTORY ACCOUNT OF THE CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION. 
            THE following short account of the CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION has been furnished by the REV. THOMAS T. GUION, D. D., President of the Institution. 
             
               
                  Mrs. F. I. BURGE SMITH-
                
               Dear Madam, I am glad to comply with your request that I should say a word or two about the Church Charity Foundation. Glad for two reasons:-First, That I may thus speak for our beloved institution; Second, That I may show our appreciation of your generosity in giving the profits of your charming book to our Charity. 
               I shall not attempt to say any thing new; but simply, according to your request, shall give a succinct history of the establishment. 
               The CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION is a corporation, formed A. D. 1851, under the authority of a general statute of the State of New York. The name is exceedingly significant. It is a Foundation, made so broad and firm that upon it may be erected several institutions of charity, each one distinct in itself, and yet all combined under the same management. The constitution and laws contemplate the erection-I. Of a home for the relief, shelter, support, and maintenance of indigent aged persons; giving preference, in the administration of this charity, to those who are members of the Protestant Episcopal Church, but admitting to its benefits all persons who will accept the religious ministrations of said Church; II. An establishment for the support, protection, and education of indigent orphan and half-orphan children, and such other children as the Providence of God shall have left in a destitute and unprotected state and condition; giving the preference to baptized children of the Church, or to those who have a peculiar claim upon her fostering care; III. A hospital for the sick and infirm. In the hospital shall be a department for training nurses and servants; IV. A church and home for seamen, boatmen, and their families. The general government is vested in a Board of Managers, assisted by forty, or more, ladies, who are called Associates. The Board of Managers consists of all the rectors, and their assistant ministers, in the county of Kings, together with twenty-five laymen, to be elected annually. The first officers of the board were:  
                     Rev. FRANCIS VINTON, D. D., President. 
                     Rev. EVAN M. JOHNSON, 
                     Rev. WM. H. LEWIS, D. D., Vice-presidents. 
                     WILLIAM B. DOUGLAS, Esq., Treasurer. 
                     RICHARD WOOD, Esq., Secretary. 
                  
                
               The Board of Associates consists of forty, or more, ladies, elected annually. To this board is assigned the duty of managing the domestic departments of the houses and to solicit contributions of money and material in behalf of the charities of the Foundation. To the Board of Associates the Church is chiefly indebted, under God, for the great prosperity of the departments already established. As the Board of Managers are under obligation to these Associates for much the larger portion of money collected, so must it, also, be acknowledged that the wise and prudent and economical ical management of the domestic department cannot be excelled. Only two features of the general system have been developed, viz., the Home for the Aged, and the Orphan-house. At first, dwelling-houses were rented for the accommodation of these departments, but as we have gone along in the trust of patient faith, developed by works, God has smiled upon us, and now we hold an elegant edifice, into which are gathered our beneficiaries. Our buildings and grounds cost about thirty thousand dollars. A debt of ten thousand remains. In 1853, the managers reported that they had made themselves responsible for the care and support of four aged women. In 1860, sixteen women and thirty children look to them for comfort. The annual expenses of the Home and Orphan-house are between five thousand and six thousand dollars. The institution, although successful beyond our expectations, has yet resting upon it two pressing needs, viz., ten thousand dollars to pay the debt, and five thousand dollars to erect a wing for the better accommodation of the orphans. The Associates meet at the Home on the first Wednesday in each month, and a committee appointed by them visits the institution every week. A matron cares for the aged women, and matron and teacher are provided for the supervision and education of the orphans. A resident chaplain celebrates the daily and Sunday services of the Church in the pleasant and commodious chapel. 
               I have thus given a brief outline of the CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION as it now exists. The facts given are taken from the published reports of the Board of Managers. 
               It would not be becoming in me, in this connection, to urge the claims of our Charity. Your self-sacrificing and generous labor in preparing this book and giving all its profits, is a plea more eloquent than any which I could make. The fact that you allude to one who fell asleep with us, is proof that we have already laid up some store of fruit in Paradise. Our work is known there, for we have aided, on their way thither, some of CHRIST'S poor. 
               Although we have only done the work of a day, we are permitted to gather our harvest. We, then, have abundant reason to be encouraged, for in Paradise are we known and remembered. 
               You and I, and all who are working for this blessed Charity, shall yet have abundant cause to thank God that we were brought, by His mercy, into connection with the CHURCH CHARITY FOUNDATION. For we hope, in all humility, that CHRIST, in His infinite goodness, will say to us-INASMUCH AS YE HAVE DONE IT UNTO ONE OF THE LEAST OF THESE MY BRETHREN, YE HAVE DONE IT UNTO ME. 
               
                  Affectionately, your Pastor, 
                  THOMAS T. GUION. 
                  BROOKLYN, 22d September, 1860.
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Nina, or, Life's caprices 
             
            NINA, 
            OR LIFE'S CAPRICES. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "GENTLY, Louis," said Marie Sponheim, as her husband placed his broad hand upon the head of the tiny daughter, whose advent had given birth to great joy in the house. 
               "Gently, Louis! our Nina is of more precious mould than common!"-and the pale face lighted up with a glad smile, as the proud mother watched the clumsy efforts of the father, at play with his firstborn daughter. 
               It was not strange that the stern parent should be excited to an unwonted demonstration of tenderness, as his eyes fell upon the little being whose dark orbs were fixed so trustingly and earnestly upon him. 
               Five boys had come blustering and tumbling about him as year after year rolled away, and now that the thing was too common to be a matter of great moment, there was a break in the general course of events, and Nina, the pure and the innocent, sprang up. 
               It was a novel sight about the grounds,-the fairy figure with the waving curls and graceful motions,-and the old trees nodded their approbation as the little feet went patting about the park, and the flowers lifted up their bright faces to bless her as she stooped to cull them, and every thing and everybody seemed to participate in the pleasure of her glad presence. 
               The child's home was in a beautiful town of Hungary, that was watered by a tributary to the Danube, and her infant eyes were accustomed to behold only the most perfect greenness and cultivation. 
               All about the house were blossoms and shrubs exhaling their sweetest perfume;-in the middle of the park was an artificial pond, where the little girl sported with the rude brothers, modifying their natural roughness, somewhat, by the amiability and gentleness of her manners. 
               Around the pond was the currant, growing as a hedge, only cut here and there to form a passage to the edge of the basin; the park was bordered by avenues of linden and chestnut, whose branches, meeting at top, formed an impervious screen from the sun or rain. 
               Outside of all was the beauteous rivulet, hemming it in with a silvery thread, and imparting to the grounds an unwonted freshness and verdure. 
               'Neath its clear and glassy surface every pebble was visible, and the finny tribe could plainly be seen darting their scaly forms hither and thither in their gleesome sport. 
               "Come, Nina, little sister, to the 'Burh,'" was the frequent cry of the brothers, as the young child emerged from Nurse Molhantz' careful hands,-"we'll show you the pretty fishes, and we'll have a fine chase through the water." 
               So the small feet were made quickly bare, and the limpid stream would flow gently over them, and the boys would laugh at Nina's screams of affright, as the ugly leeches fastened themselves upon the white flesh, stealing from the blue veins the rich treasure. 
               Another terror than the leeches attached to the lovely rivulet. 
               The children had been at play beside it one summer's day, and as the evening drew on, Nina lingered alone upon the bank; the clouds were dark and lowering, and now and then fitful flashes lighted up the whole heavens, as old Molhantz went forth to seek her young charge. 
               The nurse trembled as the thunder muttered rumblingly; but the child gazed fearlessly upward, revelling in the very wildness that so disturbed the old woman, and all through the fierce battle of the elements she would have kept her place and her tranquillity, had not her timorous companion dragged her forcibly to the shelter of her home. 
               Marie was reclining upon a divan, and about her were assembled the little children, while the holy candles threw their brilliant light over the room. 
               So soon as the dark clouds had spread themselves athwart the heavens, presaging a coming storm, Molhantz' pious hand had applied the torch to the candles, after the accustomed usage of her country, and as the radiance eclipsed that of the flashes from without, all terror was banished from the household. 
                
               Now and then, when a heavier peal than usual shook the house, the superstitious nurse stepped reverently to the receptacle for the holy water, which hung ever by the door, and dipping her finger therein, crossed herself, repeating at the same time her "Aves" and "Pater Nosters" with unwonted zeal. 
               The night drew on, and the fury of the storm abated. 
               The lights were extinguished, the children had bent the knee before the crucifix, and were quietly sleeping. 
               Marie's watchful eyes were regarding the young and delicate babe that lay upon her bosom. 
               The baron had retired to his apartment, and there, amid the warlike weapons that surrounded him, had given himself up to slumber. 
               The clouds had all dispersed, and the moonbeams shone upon the burnished steel that glistened on the walls. 
               The stalwart man had thrown one stout arm over his head; the other hung listlessly down, and in dreams he was bounding merrily on at the chase, when the noise of pistols was heard without, and the shouting of robbers, as they demanded admittance within the firmly barred gates. 
               Marie had started up at the sound, and stood tremulously clasping the little Wilhelm to her breast, as the baron parleyed with the rogues at the grating of the window. 
               "Who are you-and what want you?" asked he, as the shouting and clamor increased. 
                
               "We are robbers! and will have bread and wine," they replied. 
               Marie's heart quailed within her, for the baking day was on the morrow, and she feared that the loaves were well nigh spent. 
               However, dispatching a servant to the cellar,-where the rye bread was kept suspended from the wall in large hoops, to retain its moisture and freshness,-to her infinite relief she found that there were still two loaves. 
               These were the food of the domestics, and were baked, once in one or two months, in size really formidable, so that there was a sufficient supply in the two, if the robbers were few in number, and if their hunger was appeased there was no danger of further molestation. 
               "How many are you?" asked the baron, taking the bread in his hand, and breaking it into huge pieces. 
               "Twelve"-muttered the leader, as the chunks went tumbling through the bars,-"and if you had refused to satisfy us, your lives and your property would have been the forfeit." 
               And they turned away with a sullen tramp that echoed through the linden avenue. 
               Spanning the rivulet was an artificial bridge where the waters were deep and turbid, and as the baron bethought him that they would have to cross it one by one, he hastened to his warlike apartment, whence he could easily distinguish every object in the clear moonlight, and applying his pistol to the grated window, he fired quickly upon the marauders as they slowly and confidently reached the middle of the arch. Down into the flowing deep dropped some of the lifeless bodies, while other wounded ones crowded up to the opposite bank, and tried to secrete themselves in the thick bushes. 
               The morning dawned, and the alarm being given by the baron, the villagers were soon in pursuit of the guilty band, whom they delivered up to chains and imprisonment. 
               The capture of the few led to the detection of their stronghold amid the Carpathian mountains, whence they were hunted out, and thus was the country freed from one of its worst terrors. But the remembrance of the dreadful night, whose noise and fear had aroused the young Nina from her peaceful slumbers, was not easily effaced from her childish mind, and thenceforth a shudder mingled with her delights whenever she drew near the particular locality where the gurgling waters had drank in the life-blood of the guilty. 
               Shut off from the baron's own habitation by thick hedges, were small houses for the peasantry. Constructed of cane, and plastered over with a yellow lime, they shone out of the surrounding greenness, while their occupants, by the singularity of their costume, gave variety and interest to the picturesque scene. 
               Here, in the midst of all the luxury of nature, and with the homage of those about her, were spent the earliest years of the young Nina Sponheim, with scarce a cloud to dim her summer sky, save an occasional outburst from her irascible parent, who exercised cised a stern severity alike over the rough boys and the gentle little girl, until Nina learned to couple only fear with her father's name. 
               The baron had welcomed the coming of his daughter with a fickle sort of enthusiasm, that died out with her babyhood; and now that she was strong and healthy, and could enter into the rude sports of her brothers, he no longer condescended to gather his child to his broad breast and listen to her sweet prattle; but away with horse and hound, or amid the gay nobility, he spent his time and wasted his wife's dower. 
               The father of Marie had not hesitated to give his only child to Baron Sponheim, whom he deemed worthy his implicit confidence; but Louis proved a prodigal, and spent his substance in riotous living, going freely to the Baron Vontleig to repair his scanty purse. At first, the old man poured liberally forth from his rich coffers into the unsatisfied hand of his daughter's husband; but by-and-by his prudence suggested that it had better be reserved for the children; whereupon high words passed between the irritated son-in-law and the obstinate parent. The clashing of tongues was but the prelude to the clashing of sabres; and but for the interference of some Jesuit priests, who were guests in the baron's house at the time, the conflict might have left poor Marie fatherless, and the stain of blood upon her husband's soul. As it was, the anger of the old man was justly kindled against the rash son, and all intercourse between the families ceased. 
                
               Of course, this vile clamor in the presence of "God's holy ministers" must be punished. Consequently, Baron Sponheim's share of the Vontleig estates was confiscated for the church's benefit, and the hitherto lavish Louis was obliged to stay his reckless course of expenditure, and look closely to the produce of his vineyards, which furnished the chief value of his income. 
               Marie Sponheim was an angel of goodness to all who came within the sphere of her gentle influence. Her tender care provided a hospital for the sick and suffering; to whose loathsome ills her own fair hands ministered, and her household furnished constant employment to many of the poor and needy. Twenty or thirty women and children were kept at the wheels, twelve or fifteen, at certain seasons, stripped the geese of their down, and at the time of vintage, an active group plucked the thick harvest of luscious fruit and bore it away to the wine-press, and everywhere was Marie's eye throughout her spacious domains. 
               Not alone on the busy working-day was she cognizant of the crowd that looked up to her as their guardian spirit, but the holiday pleasures were ever brighter for her unselfish interest. At Easter was the greatest delight of all the year. Awaking her children early, "to see the sun dance upon the wall," Marie entered heartily into all the customs and enjoyments of the season. First, she prepared hampers of provisions, to be sent to the church for consecration. There was a leg of roast veal, a boiled ham, some loaves of fine bread, made of flour, cream, and eggs, six bottles of the best wine, horse-radish, sprigs of evergreen, and quantities of eggs dyed in various colors, with verses written upon them. 
               These were covered with a fine damask cloth, and given into the hands of a servant who bore them to the village church, and after mass, a priest would step forth and bless the food for the people, sprinkling all with holy water. 
               The morning's hallowed meal being dispatched, Marie stood without the door, while her children gathered around her, and the peasant boys and girls drew near to receive the gifts in store for them. With a large rattle they made a strange sort of music, singing in accompaniment, 
                      
                        "I rattle, I rattle, I rattle 
                        For an Easter-cake; 
                        I rattle, I rattle, I rattle 
                        For an Easter-egg." 
                     
                   And Marie distributed to them cakes, and colored eggs, and some welcome article of wearing apparel, sending them afterwards away to their pleasant sports. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               NINA was but eight years old, when a change came over the glad household. 
               The Baron Sponheim had been to Raab, to celebrate his father's birthday, and on his return, being overtaken by a severe snow-storm, he came near perishing. 
               Some of his party had already stiffened in death, when the baron made a fire of the carriage, thus alarming the watch upon a neighboring tower, who procured the rescue of the survivors. 
               There was, however, but a short respite from his own summons, as the fatigue and exposure so impaired his health that he lived only a few months. 
               It was singular that with Marie's good sense, and superior cultivation, should mingle the vulgar superstitions of the country, weaving themselves into her whole life, and having a weighty influence over her intelligent mind. 
               The belief in witches fully possessed her; unaccountable sounds, all took shape and meaning; unusual disturbance among the cattle presaged a coming evil, and the restless animals were forthwith sprinkled freely with holy water, by virtue of which the strange demons were supposed to be exorcised. 
                
               All these foolish notions were instilled into the simple mind of Nina, and various amulets were attached to her person for her protection from threatened ills. 
               It was a great terror to her to hear every little commotion either about the house or stables attributed to some unseen agent; and while her father lay cold and dead in the house, there seemed no corner where a dreadful presence did not lurk. 
               To Joseph, the eldest son, an officer in the Austrian army, the property descended; but he inherited his father's hasty temper and improvident nature, and was deficient too in the affection and reverence due the tenderest of mothers, so that he was slight comfort to her who had now no other aid. 
               Sorrowfully, and with scarcely a ray of hope, Marie went, with her little children to the prior of the monastery of Jesuits, and upon her knees prayed for the restoration of her confiscated wealth; but the frigid man, who knew nothing of the strong ties that link the robust to the gentle, making the care and protection of woman the rightful duty of the sterner sex, turned stonily from her, and sent her empty away. 
               Marie had gone back to "Grosburh" with a stricken spirit. 
               Her children were unrighteously deprived of their estates; the son upon whom she had hoped to lean, failed in goodness and respect; and the strong arm of her husband was now powerless in the grave. 
               She could not survive it all, and had lain down to die. Beside her couch was a man of noble and mild exterior. 
               His purple stockings, and sash and cap, denoted his priestly profession; and the benignant expression with which he regarded the dying mother and the helpless child that clung to his neck, showed that the light upon the countenance was but the index of a blessed purity and peace within. 
               "Quiet your anxiety, Marie," said he, laying his finger softly upon her lip. 
               "Say no more about Nina-is she not my own brother's child? and think you she will ever be homeless while I have a shelter to offer? 'God careth for the young ravens when they cry,' and will He be less mindful of those who are created after His own image? 
               "Nina, child," he continued, as the little girl left his knee and clung convulsively to her mother, "will you go to Neusidle, and make the home of the old man radiant and happy? I have nothing of the world's luxury or grandeur to offer," he added, with a glance at Marie; "but my heart is full of love for my precious child, and she shall not know a sorrow, so long as I have power to shield her from it." 
               Nina's dark eyes were full of tears, as she unwound her arms from her mother and clasped again her uncle's neck; and Marie's peace concerning her was perfect, as she witnessed the fond embrace with which the good priest received her orphan daughter. 
               "Move me to the window, Molhantz," said the dying woman, as the kind nurse wept beside her couch; "I would fain look once more upon the beautiful nature. 
               "There has been much of joy in my earthly cup, dear brother," she continued, as she caught the sad gaze of the priest, who was thoughtfully regarding the lesser children at play upon the lawn. 
               "It's hard, indeed, to leave my treasures, but my chief anxiety is hushed;" and she pressed the little hand of Nina closer to the great palm of the uncle, and drew both to her white lips. 
               "Go, now, darling," she added, giving the child onelast embrace, "I must no longer be distracted from my sacred duties. 
               "Delay not, father, to shrive me, the sands of life are speedily wasting;" and she sank exhausted upon her pillow, as Nina went out from her presence. 
               The little girl crept sorrowfully down to the rivulet, whose waters flowed on with a moaning sound, on that sad, sad day. 
               She was too young to realize fully all the bitterness of the sorrow that was to come upon her; but her affectionate heart instinctively felt the great and mournful change that must affect her whole future, and she stole quietly away to a clump of bushes in a bend of the stream, to pour out her first real grief alone. 
               She knew nothing of death, save as it had removed from her the stern father, and that was terrible enough, she had thought, as she gazed upon the motionless features; but to come again, for her gentle mother, oh! what would there be henceforth forth for her in this weary life? Poor child! so early to send up that piteous, helpless cry! 
               She could not see the beautiful sunlight that lay upon the glassy river, and the song of the birds was as a doleful lamentation to her saddened ear. 
               The heavens were very dark to her, and the old trees in the park waved solemnly, and the mirthful voices of her little brothers awoke no answering echo in her soul. 
               For many weary hours she mused sadly by the waters, and, as the sun was setting, Molhantz went, with slow and heavy step, to fetch her; and Nina knew, by the sombre cloud upon the brow of her nurse, that the light had departed from the old homestead. 
               The wheels were silent in the spinning-room, and the poor women were sobbing and wringing their hands, as the tidings of their bitter loss reached them. 
               Nina went quietly into the death-chamber, and stood beside the still form, holding her uncle's hand, and gazing with a reverent awe upon her mother's face, that could never again beam upon her with answering tenderness. 
               Carl Sponheim looked from mother to child with a pitying emotion. 
               "Kneel, darling," said he to his niece, "and pray for thine own soul, that it may be kept as pure and spotless as thy sainted parent's." 
               Nina obeyed, and as she arose, the good priest dipped his finger in the "holy oil," crossed the white forehead of the sleeping Marie, and making the same impress upon the brow of the little girl, he took the child by the hand and left the room; and as the two figures went softly out, Nurse Molhantz glided in for her solitary vigil beside the dreamless couch. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THROUGH the long night the young orphan tossed wearily upon her pillow, with painful, troublous visions; but as the morning's sunlight streamed gloriously upon her, a quiet slumber stole gently over her, and the troublous thoughts took a peaceful, happy form. 
               A winged angel seemed to follow her with maternal love, and watching; and scenes of beauty and joy were all about her with a more than earthly realization. 
               Even when the seal of her slumber was broken, she felt as if she were amid the blessedness of the spirit land, until Molhantz' sorrowful and familiar fleshly face appeared to her, bringing back the dead weight of a recent grief, and convincing her that she was still subject to mortal laws and mortal ills. 
               "Your uncle bade me send you to him, little one," said the nurse, brushing out the last dark curl, and winding it caressingly over her finger. 
               "He is down by the 'Burh' awaiting you, dear child," and the old woman kissed the tearful eyes of her charge, and herself wept with a real compassion, murmuring as the little girl left her-"So young to be alone! the saints preserve her!" 
               "I wished you to run all about the grounds to-day day, and take your parting look, dear child," said the priest, laying his hands in blessing upon Nina's head, and gently stooping to press her to his bosom. 
               "We shall leave Grosburh early in the morning, and this is your last day in your old home." 
               "But why leave Grosburh at all, dear uncle?" asked she, looking sadly about upon the beautiful park, and the rivulet, and the old trees that had bent lovingly over her since her tiny feet first sought their shelter; "this is mamma's home, and she loved it so dearly, and I will not go away from her, and from my good Molhantz," and Nina threw herself upon the green bank, weeping passionately. 
               Her uncle waited until the first burst of grief was over, then raising her tenderly, he seated himself upon a rustic bench under a wide-spreading tree, and folding his arms about her, soothed her with his calm and gentle reasoning. 
               "Mamma can no longer take care of you, little Nina," said he; "for God who loves her far better than we could do, has called her to himself; do you remember when you stood beside her last night, she had no power to bestow the good-night kiss, although there were sad tears in your eyes? The part that thinks, and acts, and speaks, has gone to a brighter world, dear child, and the body is cast aside as you would dispose of a beautiful dress that you were weary of,-we must lay this body down in the dust; but we will think of the living mamma in glory, and you must look to me now, darling, for all the kindnesses and caresses that she used to lavish upon you; Molhantz will go with us to Neusidle, and the three little brothers also for a while, and we shall not be very sad, if we think of mamma in her happy home." 
               Nina's sobbings had gradually ceased as the fond uncle beguiled her from her present troubles; and she seemed grateful, and almost bright again, as he dwelt upon the new pleasures in prospect for her in his own home; but as he turned from her towards the house, the overwhelming bitterness of her orphanage came to her with renewed force, and a paroxysm of heartfelt anguish swayed her like a reed in the tempest. 
               She did not care to wander beside the sparkling stream, that seemed to mock her grief, and she went listlessly by the beauteous places that had hitherto attracted her, and stole again into the silent room that held what to her was dearer than all the brightness of earth. 
               Her little hand clasped the cold fingers that returned not the loving pressure, and the red lips were pressed again and again to the passive marble; they could not get her away until the dim night, when Carl Sponheim whispered her that her mother's spirit would be looking to find her in her own little bed, and then, smiling trustingly, the child yielded herself to the faithful nurse, and lay down once more to fitful slumbers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               MARIE was resting beside her husband, as the good priest journeyed away from her earthly habitation with the four helpless children and the kind Molhantz. The baby, a fine boy of twelve months old, was upon nurse's lap, his large eyes taking in every object upon the road, and his officious hands occasionally grasping at his uncle's bright habiliments; the two larger urchins were playing at fisticuffs behind the old woman's back, and Nina sat beside the priest, wondering how long it would be ere they reached their new home. 
               Green vineyards were stretching out on every side, and groves and hills peered upon the travellers in the distance. 
               "Oh, how beautiful!" exclaimed Nina, as the silvery expanse of Neusidle sea burst upon her enraptured sight: "You said it was near the water, dear uncle; tell us, are we almost there, and is that the church on the hill beyond the village?" 
               "Yes, my darling," replied the priest, as with the purest emotion he gazed upon the spot where all his longings centred. 
               "There is the gilt cross gleaming from the spire; and down where you see the thick groves, are the houses of the peasants; and yonder, with those tall lindens about it, is our own home. Isn't it pretty, Nina?" and the kind uncle patted the little white hand that lay upon his knee, and blessed the good Providence that had sent him a consolation for his old age. 
               He had bowed to his church's decrees with a quiet resignation; but the yearnings of a loving nature were not to be stifled, and often had the heretical desire for wife and children disturbed his struggling conscience. 
               Now his joy was complete, as he held the form of his beloved niece to his breast, and vowed to be unto her as a father. 
               Frau Caterina came forth to meet them as they were alighting from the carriage, and, dragging the timid children to the kitchen, she filled their hands with cakes, which she had newly baked in honor of their arrival. 
               Nina was soon quite at home in the old house, where she had perfect liberty to rove about at her pleasure. 
               The good uncle was never too much absorbed with his books to heed the subdued steps that patted across the study floor, or the dark eyes that looked up lovingly at him, as the child seated herself upon the low stool at his feet; but the heavy tome would be pushed aside, and the lofty mind would stoop to enter into all her simple thoughts, and relax itself with the freshness of her young and bursting faculties. 
               It was such delight to know that there was sunlight in the musty old study to one youthful heart, and that all through one life would the blessed memory of the old man be cherished. 
                
               Carl Sponheim was, to the peasants under his care, the very impersonation of goodness and benevolence; but to the child whom he had taken to his bosom and his hearth, he seemed the angel of her being, without whose presence there would be neither light nor joy. 
               Scarcely would she be for one moment separated from him unless the mild voice said, "A little hour alone, my darling, and then you may come again,"-when she would leave the good priest to his solitude, and go sauntering about the quiet rooms, peeping now into the broad kitchen, where Frau Caterina was engaged in her household duties; now into the nursery, where Molhantz sat with the little brothers; and away again to see what she could espy that was new in the various apartments. 
               There was a fastened door on one side of the corridor, upon the second floor, that had never yielded to her exertions to open it; but there came a bright day when Caterina stood before it with her jingling keys, and the child kept close behind her, and slipped quickly in, as the door flew open. 
               What joy was there! All around the walls, so thick that scarcely any of the plastering was visible, were hung scriptural illustrations of rude design, yet fraught with great beauty and interest to Nina's untaught eye. 
               How she wept over the prodigal son, who lay prone upon the ground, satisfying his hunger with the refuse husks from the swine's trough; and how sincerely did she commiserate the disconsolate Job, as he sat in the vile ashes, with his miserable comforters about him; and the afflicted Lazarus, whose only sympathy was from the dumb creatures that licked his sores; and with what a feeling of relief did she turn to the affectionate Ruth, and the gentle Rebecca. 
               She needed no one to interpret the various scenes that crowded that charming room, for her uncle had so impressed upon her the many stories with which the Bible abounds, that she was able to decipher all the characters so soon as her eye fell upon the pictures. 
               There was one especially that she never grew weary of looking upon, and that was a representation of the Saviour, with His hand upon a little head. Somehow she always coupled it with the dear friend whose palm so often touched her brow in earnest blessing; and there was something in the mild and hallowed expression that brought the benignant face of the kind priest before her, so that if she stood by the picture, there was a feeling as of her uncle's presence; and if she sat by the arm-chair in the study, looking up at the gentle brow, the picture was in her mind; they could not be dissevered; and they taught her the close alliance between the righteous soul and its Divine Redeemer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               IT WAS a new thing to the peasants to see their good priest always attended by the little girl, as he went to and from the church at Matins and Vespers; and the child came to possess a certain charm in their estimation, as something superior, and almost sacred. She always sat apart from them in the choir of the church, and as she emerged from the little side door after service, and waited upon the green for her uncle, the girls would crowd around to kiss her hand or the hem of her garment. 
               The church was remote from the village, upon an eminence, which was reached by steps cut in the terrace. It was a brown stone building, of simple architecture, with an inside finish of dark oak, and altar-trimmings of purple velvet, fringed with gold. Upon the walls were pictures of various saints; over the chancel was a window of beauteous and chaste design, representing the angels announcing the "glad tidings of great joy, which should be to all people;" and the marble font that stood by the main entrance to the body of the church, was carved all over with little cherubs, and surmounted by a dove, that seemed hovering above the baptismal waters. 
               The doors of this church were never fastened, and there was seldom an hour in the day that some knee was not bent, and some soul uplifted, before the "Father of all mercies," for Carl Sponheim constantly labored to instil into his people the spirit of an unfeigned piety, and to keep them, if possible, from the terrible idolatry that infected so many of his faith. 
               Stealing away from her new home, Nina would hie to the shadow of the dear old church, and, looking abroad upon the beauteous vineyards, and the placid sea, and the forests and groves that lay all about her in richest luxuriance, would recall the quiet haunts in the place of her birth, and muse upon the gentle mother who had passed away, carrying all the happiness of Grosburh with her. 
               The summer and winter had fled, and Nina was alone. 
               The two brothers had gone to school, and the babe had left with Molhantz, to dwell with a maternal relative; but the old man bowed himself down to the child's abilities, and in him the little girl found abundant companionship. 
               The spring time had come again, and the earth had put on her beauteous array. 
               The grain burst forth from its dark imprisonment, and the villagers marched in procession to the verdant fields, with crosses and banners, while the priest walked before them burning incense, sprinkling with holy water, and invoking a blessing from the God of the harvest, upon the springing seed. 
               It was a beautiful and impressive ceremony, and from Carl Sponheim, was the impulse of a deeply rooted piety, which acknowledged the over-ruling hand in each event of life. 
                
               "Will the incense and the holy water make the grain grow, dear uncle?" asked Nina, as they were returning from the fields. 
               "No, my child, it is only the power of God, who sends the rains, and the dews, and the sun, that can bring the seed sown to perfection," replied the priest. 
               "Then why take this trouble every spring if it does no good?" persisted Nina: "Will not God bless the seed all the same, if we should do no such thing as this?" 
               "He may, it is true, my child; but this custom is an innocent one, and has been observed here for many years. It is to impress upon the minds of the people that all our blessings come from God. There is no form or ceremony, that in itself will do us any good; but I trust, my darling, that you will learn to recognize the spirit of every otherwise worthless act." 
               The child was thoughtful for a moment, and then suddenly pulling a chain from her bosom, she held up some amulets that were attached to it, and asked her uncle "if it were not good to have these charms about her, and if the possession of them had not preserved her from many an evil?" 
               Carl Sponheim sighed as he thought of even the great minds in his own faith that were so deeply imbued with these erroneous notions; but not willing to censure the influence of the gentle Marie, he simply said, "these are valuable to you, dear child, only as gifts from your departed mother. You may still wear them for her sake; but think of them as you do of her ring upon your finger, a sacred keep-sake from your best friend, something that her hand has touched, and her eyes have looked upon; and never regard them as powerful to avert evil. 
               "What most I covet for my darling is a mind above all superstition, a heart, full of love to God and man, and a real interest in that Saviour whose blood alone can avail any of us in our efforts for eternal life." 
               The good priest had spoken chiefly his own earnest thoughts with scarcely the consciousness that he was with another, and that person a simple child; but her quick understanding caught at his last words, and she repeated to herself the verse he had taught her the day before. 
               "The blood of Jesus Christ His Son, cleanseth from all sin." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               FRAU CATERINA was making pastry in the kitchen, and Nina stood beside her, watching the progress of a famous pie upon which the old woman was expending all her skill. 
               The good Frau did not feel in a pleasant mood even towards the little girl, whose desire to aid rendered her officious and troublesome, and any thing but a help. But Nina was not to be put away until she had seen the end of Caterina's talent in this particular line, and so the Frau no longer tried to bribe her to leave, but pursued her labors with her usual zeal. Rolling up some stiff buckram or pasteboard, she stood it endwise in a dish, covering the large hole at the top with thick papers, over which she nicely laid the paste; then she made a beautiful crown of the dough, decorating it with points and various little adornments. It was wonderful to see how she prided herself upon its construction, patting and smoothing the thing, moulding each several part with a careful precision, and then retreating a step from the table to notice its general effect. Then with a lynx's eye she would watch the baking lest it should get too brown a tinge, and when it was drawn from the oven she would cut off the crown with a sharp knife, and pulling out the buckram and paper, pour in the nice meats which were previously prepared, and replacing the top, would triumphantly parade it to its final destination. This pie was the standing dish upon all festive occasions, and never failed to call forth a nervous anxiety on Caterina's part. On this particular day she was unusually perturbed, for Carl Sponheim's brother was coming from Vienna, with his wife, for a visit of a few days. 
               Frau Von Sponheim was a worldly, fashionable woman, full of whims and fancies, and quite unused to the simple habits and fare of the good priest's frugal mnage; and the old housekeeper had experienced many a pang as her wondrous efforts had been often viewed with a manifest contempt by this epicurean guest. The pie, however, stood before the admiring artist in its perfection, just ready for the table, when Nina unfortunately reached over it for some article that she wanted, and knocked off some of the embellishments from the royal insignia. 
               Ordinarily the Frau would have calmly passed over the fault without a word, but the anticipated arrival had destroyed her usual equanimity. 
               "Oh, oh!" said the vexed old woman, "the witches will surely have you this night, if you go not directly from the kitchen; they come down the wide chimney, and carry off naughty little girls; don't you hear their wings?" and Caterina moved quickly away from the fireplace, where she had been stirring her savory concoction, and held up both hands, looking wildly around as in affright. 
               The child listened intently, and grew pale as she thought she heard a whirring sound in the old chimney; and she was just ready to scream with terror, as the early associations came thronging to her, when a summons came for her to walk with her uncle. 
               It was a welcome call just then, and she quickly obeyed it, running to meet the kind priest, who was awaiting her in the study. 
               In his hand he held a little gun, very small and light, yet perfect in its mechanism, and beautifully inlaid with silver and pearl. 
               "I had this made for you, my child," said he, "because I wish you to be fond of out-door sports, so that you may grow robust and healthy. You shall go with me every day to the woods now, and learn to take a true aim." 
               Seeking a pleasant path through an open glade, they followed it on, and on, until they reached a road, beyond which the forest thickened, inviting the retreat of the game which they sought. In the distance was a mountain, flat upon the top, which Caterina and the other servants had pointed out to Nina as the great rendezvous of the witches, where they held their nightly revels, and whence they wandered forth in quest of their victims. 
               Clinging tightly to her uncle with one hand, Nina pointed with the other to the hill, and told her fears. 
               The good priest knew the superstition that reigned over the peasantry in his neighborhood, and even in his own household, and he was very wroth, when he gathered from the child that his servants had been frightening her with their foolish tales. 
                
               "There is no such thing as a witch, my little one," said he; "the good God alone has power to permit us to come to any hurt; and if we try to do his bidding we shall never be afraid. Frau Caterina is a foolish old woman to talk to my darling so; she knows nothing but how to get a good dinner, and you must never listen to such nonsense again, but come every day to my study, and I will tell you of the good angels who watch over and love you." 
               Just then, the priest stopped before a tree by the roadside, and, lifting his hat from his head, reverently bowed; and Nina, on looking up, saw in the hollow of the trunk an old painting of the Virgin and child, and crossing herself as she had been wont to do, she stood with downcast eyes repeating an Ave Maria. 
               "Nina, little daughter," asked her uncle, as they pursued their route, "why do we bow and do reverence even before the image of the blessed Virgin and the infant Jesus when we pass it?" 
               "That God may save our souls," replied Nina, looking eagerly up, to see if she were right. 
               "Not so, my darling," replied the priest; "the salvation of our souls depends not upon these trifling formalities, although there may be much in the motive and spirit of the act that is praise-worthy. Do you think that God will take Peter Warlraig to dwell with the angels in His holy presence." 
               "What! that wicked, wicked man who was carried off in a cart the other day, for killing his brother. Oh, no, indeed! why do you ask me, dear uncle?" 
                
               "Because, my child, I would try to teach you more clearly than you have hitherto learned, how little confidence is to be placed in these outward ceremonies. Poor Peter Warlraig used to come every day to the very picture we have just left, and say Aves and Pater Nosters by the hour, and yet he went from it to commit the very worst of crimes. I would not have you pass carelessly by these representations of your gracious Redeemer and the Holy Mother; but you must never think that there is any virtue in an outward acknowledgment or reverence, while your heart bows down to another shrine, and your life's best service is given to the master of all evil." 
               The child looked inquiringly at her uncle, whose judicious teachings were already removing some of the mists from her darkened mind; but she said no more at the moment, and as a good shot was directly pointed out to her, her thoughts flew quickly to her new sport. 
               The morning in the bright woods was too soon over; and as the servant came to tell them that the guests were already arrived, they retraced their steps to the parsonage. 
               The greeting from the august relatives whom she had never before seen, was cheerless and cold to the child's gushing nature, and as often as she could escape the scrutiny of her aunt, she would flit away to Caterina, or Dreisholm, or go alone to the forest that had never a word to say of her "peasant manners," or her "uncouth dress," or her "untutored ways." 
               The dear old trees seemed to stretch out their arms lovingly over her, and the sunlight crept through the leaves, kissing her tears away as she wept her early loss; and the birds sung soothingly to her, never minding her great simplicity, nor caring if she was not adorned with their own gaudy plumage. 
               She could not bear to return to the house where the gay aunt seemed plotting to take her away from her happy home. 
               She had overheard her telling her uncle, the priest, that "it was high time she should know something beyond the narrow circle of the quiet parsonage, and the limited round of Neusidle," and she knew that her uncle was somewhat influenced by her reasoning, and was deeply agitating the question of a temporary separation from the child of his guardianship; and so she doled away the weary hours by herself, crying her sad eyes out, in the dim woods, or hidden behind the drapery in the heavily-curtained recess of the guest chamber where was an altar and a crucifix, praying the good God to keep her from the dreaded evil. 
               The sorrow passed away for a little time, however, as her aunt went back to her city home without convincing the good priest of the necessity of an immediate change for his little protge; and so Nina breathed freely once more, and went joyously about, through the mellow summer time, and the glad season of vintage; but brighter than all was the quiet winter that seemed to bring her into closer communion with the beloved uncle, whose smile was ever ready for the orphan child. 
               The gay company that came to the vintage, had all dispersed, and there was no guest in the house but a Carmelite monk, who was to remain through the winter with the learned priest. 
               Father Bonda was hard and austere, and used often to chide the little girl for the winning sprightliness which, to him, seemed as criminal levity; for her confirmation was approaching, and he would have imposed upon her a certain routine of fasting and penance as a fitting preparation; and Nina had learned to shrink away whenever his gaunt figure darkened the study door, and to steal quickly out from his unwelcome presence, so different was he from her affable and gentle uncle. 
               She could perceive, too, that her uncle was always less cheerful after an interview with his sombre guest, and that he would sit silent and abstracted until she wound her arms about him and recalled him to his real self by her tender caresses. 
               "I wish Father Bonda would go away," said she, one night, after the monk had been longer than usual closeted with her uncle. 
               She had been watching for a long time, in a dark passage that led to the study, for the Carmelite's egress; and as his solemn tread died away in the further end of the corridor, she flew to her accustomed seat, and pressing her uncle's hand, that lay passively upon the arm of his chair, she gave vent to the earnest desire of her heart. 
               The priest sighed deeply, and looking fondly upon the sweet face beside him, said: 
               "Father Bonda is unfortunate, my child; we must pity and pray for him." 
                
               Nina did not know exactly what "unfortunate" meant, as applied to the stranger monk; but she remembered the coarseness of his garb, and his pinched and haggard features, and supposing that he must be poor and ill, she ventured to ask her uncle, "Why he did not give him money and clothes." 
               "Father Bonda has enough of this world's goods, darling," replied he; "he is only lacking in the charity that would make others around him both rich and happy." 
               "Does he not give to the beggars when they ask?" demanded the child, who was thinking of the great liberality of her uncle towards the homeless and friendless. 
               "Oh, yes! pet Nina; he scatters his gold with a bounteous hand; but the charity I mean is that heartfelt love and benevolence which flows out towards all mankind, and brings to them, as well as to ourselves, a perfect peace and joy." 
               Nina looked up at the good priest with a sudden flush of intelligence, as if she now quite understood why it was that Father Bonda walked upon the earth with downcast eyes, and sad gait, and joyless expression; and why there was such a holy light upon her uncle's broad and beaming forehead; and reverently kissing the bright spot, she arose to bid him good night. 
               "Stop one moment," said he, "I wish to say a word to you about your confirmation, which is so near at hand, and which should make you still more a 'child of God.' Does my little daughter know how great a privilege it is to be consecrated to heaven?" 
               "Will that take me to heaven, uncle?" asked she, earnestly. 
               "Oh, no! my precious one," replied the priest. "Would to God the blessings of salvation were thus easily purchased! All your life long must you struggle for the mastery over your sinful habits and inclinations, and even then fail of the glorious end, unless your soul is washed in the blood of that spotless Lamb, Christ Jesus our Lord." 
               "But, uncle, must I go sorrowing all my days like Father Bonda, and never smile, nor seem cheerful or glad?" 
               "Heaven forbid! sweet Nina; the service of our gracious Redeemer is not a mournful service. The Blessed One takes no delight in the sorrows of His children; and if you only strive to keep His commandments with a willing and obedient mind, you will have no need of sadness. 
               "The real Christian should be always glad and cheerful; if not, the world will but mock at and shun his religion. I would have you, my child, so careful to do God's holy pleasure, as to be sure of His continual love and favor, and that will bring a peace that must banish all gloom." And the hallowed face of the priest grew brighter in its benign radiance as he put his hands upon the little head, and petitioned the divine blessing upon the dearest object of his care and love. 
               Nina met the Carmelite in the corridor, as she went forth from the calm study, and the love welled up from her young heart towards all the world, for she had felt the truth of her uncle's words, and holding out one little hand she smiled sweetly, as she said, "Good-night, Father Bonda." 
               The stern monk mumbled out a grave "Benedicite, poor child," and crossing himself as he passed her, went on to his silent room. 
               The moonbeams fell coldly upon him as he knelt half the night, with his gaze fixed upon a crucifix, and his chilly fingers busy with the rosary that hung from his girdle; the while Carl Sponheim pored over his richly-stored Bible, with a warm and glowing heart, and the innocent Nina slept the calm sleep of childhood, with the angels keeping their loving watch above her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE time of the singing birds had come again; but the glad melody changed into a mournful requiem in the ear of the child, as the announcement came to her that she must leave her free and happy home for a sojourn in the strange capital. 
               "Your uncle and aunt are here, and wish to see you, Fraulein Sponheim," said the nurse, as she looked into the guest chamber, whither the child had retreated to study her favorite pictures. "And your uncle Carl desires you to go to him immediately; they are making arrangements in the study for your departure." 
               "In a minute, good Dreisholm," said the little girl, waving her hand impatiently at the interruption. 
               There was no time to give vent to the anguish that possessed her, and she waited only for a momentary glance at the beloved objects around her in the pleasant room, before obeying her uncle's summons. 
               Her aunt Marguerita kissed her with apparent warmth, and her uncle Edward gave her an affectionate embrace; but Nina felt that both lacked the spirit that filled the bosom of the good priest, and she received their greeting as if it were an icy breath that had suddenly come between her and her uncle's warm heart, freezing up all the deep and hallowed springs. 
               "Nina is not looking as rosy as when we saw her last," said Edward Sponheim to his brother, as the little girl tottered to her seat beside the loving and true friend. 
               "She has been suffering at thought of breaking up the old ties," replied the priest tremulously; "that is the cause of her present pallor and depression. I trust she will regain her wonted color and buoyancy when she is settled in your gay city." 
               "I find her sufficiently blooming for my taste," said her aunt, scanning the child with a strict scrutiny. 
               "We think but little of rustic beauty in the capital, and quite prefer the delicate and feminine to the robust and coarse." 
               "Her health is the main point, sister Marguerita," returned the priest. "Look well to that; she was a frail bud when she first came to me; but the freedom of the woods, and wholesome and nutritious food, have wrought a wonderful change. I take much pride in her improvement for the past year." 
               "You shall have no cause for an unfavorable comparison a few years hence, trust me, brother," replied the fashionable aunt. "We will return Nina to you a polished gem." 
               "Beware that it is not all external, Marguerita," said the priest, with solemn earnestness. "I would have my jewel such as her heavenly Father will recognize in the last great day. The furbish and tinsel of earth will lose its value before the all-searching eye. Neglect not the inner nature, dear sister; 'tis this that must stand the last trying test." 
               The gay lady was somewhat touched by this grave appeal, and Carl Sponheim mistook a momentary emotion for a deeper and truer feeling, and was comforted by the reflection that her influence over his precious charge would be all that he could desire; so he put away his despondency, and talked over the affairs of state with his brother, who was secretary in the Hungarian cabinet; and he felt himself quite able to soothe and cheer Nina when she should be alone with him in the study at the accustomed hour. 
               "Come in, my birdie," said he, as the gentle tap announced her presence. "To-morrow night will find poor uncle without his little daughter;" and the sprightly tone died away into a low and tremulous moan. 
               "Kiss me again, lamb of my fold, precious darling. Would that this bitter, bitter cup were not for us. Heart's life, how shall I miss thy gentle figure. No more will it lighten the old man's study. As the shadows lengthen, and the brain grows weary of its toil, he will look for thy coming, but the dim void alone will greet his vision; and in the dusk of the dreamy twilight, the thought of thee will be his only comfort. Pet Nina, do not forget thy fond uncle; his love will be ever with thee, his prayers will continually follow thee." 
               The child had lain upon his bosom, with her arms closely twined about his neck, and the warm lips ever and anon pressing his own; and the clasp grew tighter and tighter, and would not be relaxed, though the hour had sped, and the night was fast advancing. 
               Twice had he essayed to put her gently from him, with a last embrace; but as often he folded her again to his breast, and all the long evening he murmured in her ear endearing names, begging her to be patient under this sore trial, and to show her love to him by her endeavors to improve in every grace and virtue, assuring her that she should return from time to time to the old house by the lindens, during the intervals of study, and be the prop and stay of his declining years. 
               Not until the voices and steps of her city relatives were heard in the corridor would she stir from her uncle's arms, and then with his fervent blessing upon her bowed head, she went sadly out from the place that held all her life's treasure, and sought her sleepless pillow with much the same feeling as the doomed prisoner lies down upon his couch of torment on the eve of his execution. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE old house at Neusidle was lonely and sad. 
               Frau Caterina already bowed down by age and infirmity, bent still lower beneath her grief at the departure of the dear child who had so long made the dull kitchen bright by her occasional presence. 
               Day after day the old woman sat silent and listless, or at intervals mumbled incoherently of the great lady at Vienna, and the witches, who seemed always connected in her mind. 
               Alone, in his quiet study, Carl Sponheim spent the weary hours that had so lately been enlivened by the soothing prattle of his beloved niece. Her little footsteps no longer bounded through the corridor, her merry laughter awoke no more an echo in the dim rooms, and her beaming face had grown weary and sad in the strange new home. 
               The twilight hour was not now the signal of hope and joy in the priest's still sanctum. 
               As the day went out, giving place to the mist of the evening, a heavy clump trod the dark passage, and Father Bonda stood before his host. 
               "You are moping for the petted child?" said he, as the good priest gravely responded to his nightly salutation. 
               "It strikes me, brother, that we should not be too self-indulgent with regard to these earthly inclinations and affections; is it not a point of duty to scourge ourselves to the very heart's core, if by so doing we may rid ourselves of sinful emotions." 
               "Call not that sinful, brother Bonda," replied the priest, "which so evidently bears the stamp of a higher law. The love that springs out of my soul towards the sweet child whom God has intrusted to my care, is akin to that-I speak it reverently-which our heavenly Father feels towards us, His weak and dependent children. As well might you try to convince me that it is wrong and no part of an Almighty design, for this earth to be warmed and invigorated and cheered by the sun's genial rays, as to attempt to prove that the great power which gives life and beauty to the soul of man, should be rooted out and destroyed! No, no, let me love on,-the child is indeed most precious to me, and God wills that the dearest place in this heart,-next His own precious indwelling,-should be hers; there is no sin, brother, in the cultivation of the purest sensibilities of our nature, believe me." 
               "You may be right," said the Carmelite, over whose pale face the warm blood rushed for a moment, and retreating again, left him more wan and ghastly than ever. "You may be right; I have been ever wont to trust your superior judgment since I entered these pleasant walls. Shall I tell you of my youth," he asked, sinking back in his chair, and looking out of his hollow eyes upon the bland features that were before him. 
               "I may often seem morose and sour to your affable ble nature; but some knowledge of my history may soften your opinion of the stern monk." 
               "Speak, brother," returned the priest; "I have often hoped to arouse you to the revelation of some of your close and mysterious thoughts; my heart is open to your confidence." 
               "Look well at this austere face," said the monk, moving nearer Carl Sponheim, and fixing his gaze upon him, "and see if there is one trace of that softer passion, which men call love, in these hard and chilling lineaments. Do not deceive yourself by this momentary relaxing," continued he, as his eyes became suffused, and the pale cheek flushed again. 
               "The recollection of the past, and the thought of exposing it to another's vision, is not without its effect; but the chillness and dearth will come again when my story is finished, and I shall relapse into my former indifference and apathy." 
               "You have well schooled yourself, my brother," said the good priest Sponheim, as he returned the other's gaze with a strict scrutiny. "The workings of your mind are not betrayed by your exterior; but proceed, you have awakened my curiosity." 
               "I was not born ascetic and grave," said the monk, looking intently at the dim space before him, as if to grasp at the very beginning; "but my childhood and youth were fraught with earth's brightest and best joys. I pass it all by; a mother's tender caresses and love that were mine through her short life; a father's pride and delight in his only son, that knew no roaming nor variableness; and a sister's hallowed influence, that kept me from many an evil,-I pass all by for that which can never leave me,-the memory of my angel Leila. Some wine," gasped he, as Carl Sponheim arose to support his fainting form. 
               "Will the flesh never be subdued to the spirit," he added, after taking a few swallows of the vivifying liquid. "How little worth is my boasted self-discipline." 
               "Say no more," said his brother priest. "The subject is too painful to you;" and he fanned him gently, begging him to desist from the resumption of his story. 
               "I must finish," replied the Carmelite. "Your sympathy is necessary to me;" and the wan face grew almost attractive, as a gleam of feeling stole over it. 
               "We had been long betrothed, even from our childhood," continued he; "and I was returning from a tour through Switzerland and Italy, to claim my bride, when the startling rumor reached me that she was already another's. I knew that the ambition of her father had sought for her the hand of a noble of great worth and dignity, but I gave little credence to the report of her marriage, as the full gushings of her true heart had met me in a late precious epistle. 
               "Day and night I sped towards her, however, with the spur of the terrible rumor urging me onward. 
               "It was all too late; they had forced her to the altar, and the fatal knot bound her, despite her resistance, to a husband whom she loathed. 
                
               "For three short months, fraught with the misery of ages, she lingered; and then, with her hand in mine, and her fleeting breath upon my cheek-they could not deny her this-she yielded up her spirit. 
               "Thenceforth this world was all dark to me. I saw no more of delight and beauty when standing under the bright canopy of heaven, than when the convent walls hemmed me in. 
               "My confessor depicted in glowing terms the peace of mind that would spring from a conventual life, and urged me to turn my stricken thoughts to the church. 
               "That seemed my only solace and refuge, and I gave myself up to it with the hope that it would alleviate my misery. 
               "I have long deemed myself dead to all earthly emotions. 
               "Your presence brings a different feeling, and I sometimes fear that the things of this life may regain their sway." 
               The monk stopped for a moment, sighed deeply, and crossing himself devoutly continued. 
               "I have to-night been softened into a recital of that which, but for you, the grave would close over, and I find the tendrils of my heart reaching again for the human sympathy that was once my great comfort. 
               "You advocate the yearning--Brother, father, guide me! My proud stoicism fails me, and in my weakness, I cling to you for a firm support. 
                
               "I see you beloved by the peasants, calm, and at peace with your own soul, and yet seldom an Ave or Pater Noster escapes your lips. 
               "The love that flows out from you towards your kind, comes welling back in tenfold measure. 
               "You speak of earth, and its glory, and greenness, with apparent rapture and enthusiasm; and yet talk of an approaching departure from all the beauty and majesty, with a certain earnestness and joy, that convinces me that your sincerest hopes and desires are above. 
               "Often in my solitary cell, have I tried to solve the problem of our wondrous difference. 
               "On my knees I keep my midnight vigils, and weary myself with fasting and prayers. All the long days I walk with my eyes fastened upon the ground, and the coarse garments fretting my flesh away; I keep aloof from my fellow-men, and shun the sweet interchange of thought and feeling; I shut my ears to the mirthfulness of infancy, and strive in every way, by self-denials and self-accusings, to work out my own salvation; and yet,- 
               "Must I confess it! in my simple childhood, far from these rigorous efforts and restraints, I felt a better confidence in my heavenly Father's love, than all these long years of bodily suffering and penance have brought." 
               Father Bonda ceased, and quaffing eagerly the last drops from his glass, leaned heavily upon the arm of his chair, and seemed to await some word from his friend, whose interest in his strange guest had increased with every sentence he uttered. 
                
               "We are not unlike in our bitter experience," said Carl Sponheim with some difficulty. 
               "The results only are opposite. The influence of our earthly affections should never end with the severance of the material part from our embrace; but it should still continue to make our sojourn here more blessed by its invisible power, and should also draw us ever upward by a hallowed attraction. The love that does not purify and exalt, is not worthy the acceptance of an immortal being; and shall we, who have the guardianship and communion of angels, and the hope of a future meeting and recognition of these seraph spirits, be weighed down by a constant and gloomy depression, and walk this lower earth as if there were no bliss in the hidden ministry and companionship of our beloved ones? I need not say more to you of the light that lends its radiance to my life's pathway. Would you finish the solution of the problem, take this precious volume to your room, and spend the time in its perusal that has hitherto been occupied with that bodily exercise which profiteth nothing, and I promise you that a more blessed and cheerful spirit will soon pervade your whole being, so that you will no longer be dead either to present joys or to future glorious anticipations." 
               With a warm pressure of the hand, and a fervent "God forever bless you, my brother!" the Carmelite retraced his steps to his silent chamber. 
               The sealed book was opened, and forth from its sacred leaves flowed the healing balm. 
               Soothingly and gratefully it diffused itself over the wounded spirit, bringing to it the only hope of a certain cure from all its troublous diseases. Rosary and crucifix were forgotten; Aves and Pater Nosters disturbed not the busy lips. Neither crossings nor genuflections stirred the quiet air; but the bowed frame leaned earnestly over the hallowed pages, while the words of Him "who spake as never man spake," fell sweetly upon the soul of the inquiring priest. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               VIENNA was so unlike the quiet rural home, that during the first few days of Nina's sojourn there, every thing seemed like a brilliant dream. 
               Her aunt's establishment, too, though by no means grand when compared to many of the palaces in the city, formed a marked contrast to the simple abode of her beloved uncle at Neusidle. The floors were finely inlaid, and polished until one's face was visible in the smooth surface. Suites of rooms opened into each other, with tapestry of crimson, and blue, and gold damask; and couches and divans soft and luxurious; and rich mirrors, reaching from floor to ceiling, reflecting and multiplying the magnificence, so that Nina at first felt quite lost amid the splendor; but it did not divert her from the melancholy that was consequent upon her separation from the good priest, and she wandered about amid the gilded finery with a sorrowful and unsatisfied heart. 
               Her uncle's house was situated near the fortifications, and commanded a fine view of the beautiful suburbs. 
               The wall around the city proper was very massive, and had been built long before, when the Turks threatened an invasion of the place. It was from fifteen to thirty feet wide, and was ornamented by a row of fine shade trees, 'neath whose protecting covert the little girl promenaded with her aunt and her numerous guests. 
               Sometimes Frau Von Sponheim drove with her niece about the city, or through the fine suburbs, or the charming "Prater." 
               Joseph II. was the reigning emperor, and often dazzled the simple child, as he appeared to her on her drives, with all the glitter and show of royalty; but the pomp and parade could not blind her to the scenes of misery that shone all the more conspicuously in contrast. 
               Here a woe-begone procession filed through one of the principal streets, chained two and two together; the old and the young, the noble and the vile, men and women, clanking their fetters as they walked, and stopping now and then to sweep the refuse from the very earth. Prisoners for life for some criminal offence, coming forth from their dungeons only to perform some degraded office. 
               Perceiving the child's interest and astonishment, her aunt pointed out to her a beautiful countess who had forged notes to some amount, and so came to her sad condition. 
               Clad in coarse garments, her head shorn of its raven tresses, and bowed in shame and penitence, with her manacled hands she brushed the soiled pavements, glad to crouch lowly down if she might but escape the gaze of curious eyes. 
               Upon the pillory stood an old, old man, with whitened locks, holding before him a black-board, upon which his crime was painted in large letters. 
                
               The pitiless sun was streaming down upon him, as Nina observed him, and, faint from sympathy and emotion, she hid her face in her hands, and wept for the peaceful seclusion of her country home, where she would be secure from such trying spectacles; and thenceforth no diversion, no pleasure, came to her in the great capital, without the sad commingling of vice and sorrow. 
               After several weeks of freedom from restraint, and perfect liberty with regard to her former habits and dress, Nina's aunt informed her that the time had come for a change both in her manners and attire, as she desired to make of her "a fashionable little lady." Summoning Carline, a strange dressing-maid, she gave to her the future supervision of her young mistress' toilet. 
               "Bring her to me when she is finished," said Frau Von Sponheim; "I would see her divested of this uncouth garb." And she gave a contemptuous touch to the simple costume which her niece had thus far been permitted to retain. 
               "I am to take you to see your great aunt Grosenbach, who is maid of honor to Princess Esterhazy," continued she, addressing the young girl; "and we must make you presentable." 
               Nina looked regretfully upon her accustomed garments, and shook her head obstinately as Carline prepared to rob her of the long ringlets, every one of which had felt her uncle's gentle caress; but resistance was vain, and the merciless scissors severed all, over her forehead, leaving the hair short and straight above her eyes. Then Carline turned up the tresses from behind, fastening them with two silver clasps, and perched a bow upon the top of the head, though first she filled the hair with pomatum, and dredged powder over it until the child's eyes were nearly out with the flowery dust. 
               High-heeled shoes of pink satin, figured with white, a white silk skirt, and a pink satin dress, open in front, completed her new equipment; and with an air of great satisfaction, Carline led her to the mirror to see how she would bear the wonderful transformation which she felt sure would nearly turn the country maiden's brain with delight. 
               "I will not go to visit Aunt Grosenbach, such a fright as I am!" shrieked Nina, grasping at the head-dress, and vainly trying to shake down the heavy tresses; but her aunt hearing the tumult, hastened to reprove her. 
               "Are you not ashamed, ungrateful child, when so much time and pains are expended upon you?" said Frau Von Sponheim, looking with evident admiration upon the changed figure that had all the air of a city child: "You should have been kept always among the peasants, little Moor that you are!" and the lady turned her round and round, and with no gentle hand adjusted the shaken coiffure, telling Carline to hasten with the child's hat, as the carriage was in waiting. 
               Nina's dark eyes flashed with anger at her aunt's scornful epithet, and scarcely waiting for Carline's exit from the room, she retorted impetuously,- 
               "I am no Moor, not I, Aunt Sponheim, and if ever you have a little girl I hope she will have red hair." 
                
               Frau Caterina had told her that witches had red hair, and her simple mind could conceive no greater anathema. 
               Her aunt stood looking, half vexed, half amused at the child as she vented her impotent rage; but she had never restrained her own evil nature, and she could not blame her niece for the flame which she had herself kindled, so she passed over the impertinence for the time, and left the room to prepare for their drive. 
               Carl Sponheim would not have known the little figure, now that fashionable hands had moulded it into court style; much less the passionate face, so soon distorted by an injudicious and evil example; and as for the child, she felt so uncomfortable and stiff in her strange dress, and so degraded and self-condemned, for her unwonted anger, that she would willingly have exchanged places with the meanest peasant in Neusidle. 
               Her Aunt Grosenbach's affable and gentle manner banished all her sorrows for a while, however, as she overwhelmed her with caresses, and bonbons, and amused her with a pet parrot which she had already taught, in anticipation of the visit, to call "Little Nina, Little Nina." 
               Perceiving that her niece was miserably unhappy, she besought her Aunt Sponheim to spare her to her for a few days, and Nina would gladly have gone to the dear old lady, who was so like her uncle in love and kindness; but arrangements had been made for her to attend the Ursuline school the next day, and all pleadings were useless; so with a heavy feeling at her heart, as if she were once more parting with the good uncle, she turned away from her pleasant relative, to her gay prison-house again. But the hope-light was not quite dead within her, as she thought of the young companions whom she should meet at school, and the kind teachers who perchance would fill up the void in her heart by a warm and blessed sympathy. 
               How glad was she to escape the critical eye of her aunt, and to find herself amid a cheerful group, whose pursuits and tastes were similar to her own! 
               For three hours in the day, at least, she was sure of a refuge from the constant irritation of an irascible and fault-finding nature. 
               At home, there was never a moment, when in the presence of her aunt, that was not occupied with complaints as to her personal appearance, or manners, so that oftentimes she wished there were no such things as "great ladies" in the world, and that she were only good Dreisholm, minding some young charge in her uncle's calm and peaceful parish. 
               She cared not for the luxury and magnificence that surrounded her. 
               Amid it all was the little pale and drooping figure moving listlessly about, as if every step were painful and embarrassed; but the elasticity returned when with her merry schoolmates and affectionate teachers. 
               "Nina is growing positively robust again," said her aunt one day, as the child came skipping home from school, with the tinge of joy still lingering upon her cheek. 
               "If her diet is not attended to we shall have her a vulgar, country girl." 
               Nina sighed, and the bloom faded again, as the vision of a stricter surveillance, and a shorter allowance, was called up by the words of her aunt, and she turned away, choking back the pleasant things that were upon her lips the moment before, and sought the presence of the sweet birds in her uncle's aviary. She could talk to them just as if they were human, and they bent down their bright heads, and turned up their gentle eyes upon her, and really seemed very much to enjoy the companionship. 
               With a little organ which her uncle had provided, she played to them, and they gave her back their wildest and cheeriest songs, and so the days at home were not all sunless and dreary. 
               "May I have more bread, Annt Marguerita?" asked she next day at breakfast, as she quietly finished her saucer of fruit, and the one thin slice of kipfel that had been apportioned her. 
               "No more, child," replied her aunt, with a look of displeasure at the request. 
               Nina gazed wistfully at the beautiful fine loaf, that seemed made so tempting, on purpose to aggravate her need; but she dared not repeat her petition, and her aunt, with a touch of pity, asked, "Shall I tell you a story of the bread, Nina?" 
               "If you please," returned she, forgetful of the hunger, in her eagerness for the tale. 
               "You see what a pretty shape it is, like the growing ing moon. Well, one day the bakers were kneading their dough in one of the streets of the city, when they heard a strange sound that appeared to proceed from under the ground, near their bakery; so they ran to the spot whence the sound issued, and watched, until after a while the heads of their enemies, the Turks, began to appear, and as they arose above the ground, the bakers cut them off. 
               "These Turks had long been trying to break through the strong wall into the city, but failing in this, they dug their way under ground, and would soon have rushed upon the inhabitants but for the timely notice of the watchful bakers. 
               "You may be sure the people were very grateful to their deliverers; and for a long time the bakers were allowed to celebrate the event by riding in costume through the streets, upon white horses. In their hands they bore golden wands to which a silver crescent was attached, and for three nights in succession they used to have balls, and dancing, and merriment. 
               "From the time of their victory, they made their bread like this, and whenever we look upon the loaves, we are reminded of the conquest over the barbarians, who think as much of this emblem as we do of the cross." 
               Nina listened to the story with much interest; but she did not wholly forget the craving appetite, and so s on as an opportunity offered, she stole into the kitchen and begged for some of the coarse rye bread from the servants' table. 
               The memory of the picture of the Prodigal Son, in the guest chamber at Neusidle, was with her as she ate of the food prepared for the domestics in her uncle's household; and she no longer wondered that he could have been brought even to the swines' trough. 
               The servants could not resist the appeals of the rich little beggar, who went often to them to appease her hunger; and chose rather to risk the anger of their mistress, who was to them only an object of fear and hatred. 
               "Where have you been, Nina?" asked Frau Von Sponheim, one day, as she met the child in the long corridor leading to the servants' apartments. 
               "Come to my boudoir, I have something to say to you." 
               Nina followed tremblingly, for the last morsel of the pilfered refreshment was still in her mouth. 
               Half chewing it, and swallowing the coarse particles with an effort, she reached the room, and stood beside her aunt, who had seated herself upon a divan. 
               "Come closer, child, and kiss me," said the lady. 
               Nina obeyed, little thinking that her breath would betray her, and wondering at the unwonted show of tenderness from her aunt. 
               "Naughty child, that you are! you have been to the kitchen which I have forbidden you," said Frau Von Sponheim: "You will have no meat for dinner, and I shall take you away from your school where you learn to deceive, and find you a governess, who will help me to watch over you." 
               Nina did not care for the meagre dinner that day, she was thinking of the kind friends at the school, and grieved at the prospect of being removed from them; but her sorrow availed nothing, and she saw them no more. 
               Henriette Mandimir took charge of Nina the next day, and on finding that she was no favorite in the house, she joined in the persecution against her, and all together succeeded in rendering the young life quite intolerable. All her pleasure was in hearing from the kind priest, whose letters were long, and frequent, and full of a deep and loving tenderness; but presently, her aunt sent reports to him of a want of faithfulness and diligence in her studies, and so the affectionate epistles were besprinkled with reproofs, which however tender, were from such a source, heart-breaking. These, together with the cross governess and the stern aunt, were taking all interest from her being, when they left Vienna in order to spend a little season at Schonbrun, and there Nina met a new and congenial companion. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THERESA MACHOLICK was a very beautiful girl, about fifteen years of age. 
               There was a witching sort of sadness about the sweet face that won upon every heart. 
               Perhaps it was the harsh barrier that separated her from her proud mother's love, that cast the deep shade of pensive feeling upon her brow; perhaps a sense of the vanity of all the glitter and show that surrounded her, and a yearning for more enduring pleasures, that subdued the buoyancy of her young soul, and softened the light upon her pure forehead. 
               Whatever it might have been, its workings had spread through her whole being, and stamped the beautiful face with a dreamy and spirituelle impress. 
               There was a romance connected with her existence. 
               When her mother was almost as young, and quite as beautiful, there was in the family of her grandfather, as secretary, a young man, the son of a miller. 
               Being thrown in continual contact, the young people became so enamored of each other as to suffer their passion to get the better of their prudence and virtue. 
               On finding out the situation of her daughter, the poor mother was almost distracted with sorrow and shame; but being in high confidence with the Empress Maria Theresa, whose maid of honor she had formerly been, she revealed all her troubles to her, with tears and bewailings. 
               "Do not distress yourself," said the noble empress. "Such things will happen; she shall be married in my chapel to-morrow, and I will confer a title upon her husband. If the child is a daughter, I will be her godmother; and I promise you the young man will come to fill an exalted station in life." 
               The prophecy of the empress was afterwards fulfilled; and at the time of the young Theresa's introduction to Nina Sponheim, her father, the Baron Macholick, was high in office in Bohemia, and surrounded with luxury and homage. 
               Theresa and Nina were soon firm friends, and as their guardians were constantly occupied with their gay companions, the young people enjoyed a perfect freedom from their oversight, and roved at pleasure amid the beauties of their own grounds, or the delightful precincts of the emperor's palace garden, which presented every attraction and joy. 
               The house of the baroness was situated on the bank of a stream, and both within and without was decorated with all that wealth and taste could devise. 
               The baron, with his servants, occupied the first floor; the baroness, with her domestics, the second; and Theresa, with her governess and servants, the third. 
               Nina, through the persuasive influence of the Baroness Macholick, shared Theresa's studies, and what had hitherto been a painful task, became, under the happy guidance of a judicious teacher, a real pleasure and delight. 
               How swiftly passed the halcyon hours under the new dominion, and how did Nina sigh over every moment that seemed to bring her nearer the old restraints and torture again. 
               The consciousness that it was not always to be thus, did not depress her so much, however, as to shut up her senses to the glory that was all about her. 
               "To the palace garden, Theresa," said she when the lessons were done, "that is the happiest place of all." 
               Grottoes and fountains, birds and flowers, burst upon them at every step. 
               Here the silvery waters sparkled and fell with a sweet and tremulous murmur into the marble reservoir; there a gay parterre nodded and rustled in the pleasant breeze, scattering delicious odors around. 
               Up among the green leaves, on the waving branches, bright birds shook their glittering plumage, and trilled out their rapturous notes, while the leaflets danced to the lively and inspiriting music. 
               Venuses peeped coyly forth from amid the thick foliage, and Apollo's cast a majestic glance upon the young faces that were upturned to gaze on the speaking marble. Statuary of every size and form adorned the grounds; hot-houses, teeming with every variety of shrub and plant, invited the curiosity osity; and a menagerie, that inclosed the wonders of the whole animal creation, tempted them by its incongruous display. 
               Every day were most of the leisure hours of the friends spent in this charming retreat, the while the Baroness Macholick and her companion were absorbed in their gay pleasures. 
               Once a month all went to confession,-the remainder of the time was given to earthly delights. Even the externals of their religion were forgotten and neglected by the two careless guardians, and all that the youthful Nina heard of the interests of a future life, came to her through the gentle governess, or were breathed from the spiritual letters of her sainted uncle, whose prayers for the wanderer were fervent and unceasing. 
               In the church at Schonbrun was an artificial tree, covered with the semblance of fruit. Amid the branches was a representation of the Virgin and child. 
               Tradition said that thieves had once broken into the church, covetous of the golden fruit, but that the Holy Mother had so palsied the sacrilegious hands as to render them powerless; and so the priests found the robbers, who through the power of this miracle became true converts to the faith. 
               From that time this became a shrine for pilgrims, and hither they still flocked in crowds to get the benefit of the miraculous virtue. 
               All about the sacred edifice were numerous encampments, and Theresa and Nina used often to walk about them, and watch the devotees. 
                
               Barefoot, with their coarse garments covered with the dust of their long and weary journey,-some kneeling on the hard ground, crossing themselves, and muttering their numberless prayers,-others, quite spent with sore travel, and exhausted, so that they fell prostrate and powerless, they were not a very attractive spectacle to the young girls, whose eyes were only wonted to purity and beauty. 
               Little images of wax-a man, a horse, a cow, a house-were blessed by the priests, and sold to the people, to avert or repair any evil that might befall them or their possessions; and thus was the church's treasury swelled to overflowing from the poverty of the infatuated concourse. 
               Theresa and Nina, borne onward by the rushing tide, frequently purchased some of these pretentious toys, replacing them upon the altar as a sacrifice worthy the Father of All Good. 
               There was so much to interest the young friends at Schonbrun, that the weeks passed swiftly and unconsciously away, but none the less surely, and they were saddened by the thought of a long separation, the more painful to both, inasmuch as neither had the home sympathy so necessary to the affectionate and loving heart. 
               Theresa's father was passionately fond of his beautiful daughter, and would have fully satisfied even her intense yearnings, had not the affairs of state so continually deprived her of his presence. 
               The levity and freedom of the baroness' manner had excited the jealousy of her husband, whose confidence had never a firm foundation; and the deep love that was once hers, was now lavished, with tenfold ardor, upon their only child, who was exactly her mother's opposite, and possessed a real goodness and virtue. 
               While the young people roved about in the beautiful gardens, feasting upon a pure and satisfying glory, the baroness held her levee in her charming boudoir, surrounded by every luxury of wealth or pleasure. 
               The furniture of this apartment was a present from Prince Kaunitz, prime minister under several dominions, and was both costly and magnificent. 
               Rich tapestry hung from ceiling to floor; groups of exquisite sculpture filled the niches, and all the adornments of the place bespoke the lavish and voluptuous taste of its occupant. 
               In becoming morning nglige, the baroness sat before her glittering toilet, with her powder-mantle of ruffled cambric around her, listening to the news of the day, or to conversation, while her maids arranged her elaborate coiffure.
                
               Beautiful in the extreme, with her raven hair trailing upon the floor when she stood, and with a brilliancy of manner that was quite irresistible, she was the admiration and delight of the numerous gentlemen who crowded around to gaze on or flatter her. 
               With her vain heart wholly given up to the trifling amusements of the day, there was little room for thought of her precious child; and poor Theresa, scarcely comprehending what was meant by a mother's love, trembled at every summons to her presence ence, and dreaded the few occasional, formal words that fell so coldly from her lips. 
               "What does your excellency wish, mamma?" she would ask, as with an humble reverence she stood before her august parent; and so soon as her mother's pleasure was accomplished, how joyously would she escape to the more congenial society of her young friend. 
               "I cannot tell what I shall do without you, Nina," said she, as they seated themselves beside a fountain in the palace garden, the day before their departure from Schonbrun. 
               "I am quite shut up in winter with governess, and have few young companions like you to care for me truly." 
               "But the time will not be very long, you know, Theresa," replied Nina; "and we have the promise of the next summer in this pleasant place. Isn't it lovely here?" continued she, rising and leaning against a Naiad that stood near the fountain. 
               "Wherever I am, Theresa, I shall think of this as the brightest place next to the old home at Neusidle," and her eyes wandered over the strange and mystic beauty of art and nature so gracefully blended, while her heart went back to the peaceful study, and the kind face beaming there. 
               "You speak so often of that old place, Nina," said Theresa; "it must be a paradise indeed, if it excels this spot in loveliness." 
               "I don't know that you would even call it pretty, dear Theresa, but I am happier there, with all the simplicity, than I have ever been anywhere since mamma's death; and I long so to leave all the splendors of Vienna for that blessed home again. Do you believe that riches and station bring any real joy?" added she, looking thoughtfully on the crystal drops that sparkled and danced in the sunlight. 
               "I've tried to think why uncle should send me away from him, into the gay world, when I was so contented and happy in my humility. The only reason he ever gave was, that it was for my advancement in life; but what is that, Theresa, without the love?" and she sank back again upon the seat, twining her arms about the graceful girl who bent slightly forward and kissed away a regretful tear that glistened upon her cheek. 
               "Don't fret about it, Nina, darling," said she. "When the age and the station come, we shall be free to do as we please; and after all, papa tells me we should be but slightly affected by externals; that we cannot be miserable if the true feeling is within us. I am not wise enough yet," she continued, "to be governed by papa's precious counsels; but I feel their worth, and am sure they will have a good influence upon my future. I have a noble father, dear Nina. Sometimes, when you speak of your uncle, I think how alike we are in our blessings. Papa is so incumbered with state affairs that he has very little time for me; but there's a perfect affection between us. Here he is now," said she, springing up, and bounding like a fawn to meet a majestic-looking gentleman, who at that moment emerged from one of the avenues. 
               "We were just speaking of you, dear papa, and Nina and I conclude that we have each one true friend at least;" and the sweet girl placed her companion's hand in her father's, and pressed the two to her lips. 
               The baron looked with a proud devotion upon his beloved child, as he replied- 
               "If the world is so niggard of her friendship towards the pure and innocent, where shall we old and sin-stained look for regard." 
               "Oh! but papa, everybody loves and respects you," said the fond child, with her beaming eyes fixed admiringly upon him. 
               "I hear your name lauded wherever I go, when they little know that kindred ears are open to the praise; and my heart swells so with its perfect joy at the deserved tribute. 
               "It's a great honor to be related to one whom everybody can esteem, I think, and it makes me quite indifferent to any personal regard." 
               "It is not well, my children, to be careless of the favorable opinion of those around us," said the baron; "but it is one thing to win the favor of our fellow-men by a real and worthy merit, and quite another to be striving after the fickle adulation of those who make no distinction between virtue and vice, and whose regard springs but from a momentary and changeful feeling. I would have you cultivate those gifts and graces that impart a lasting beauty to the spirit, and then you need never fear that you will be either friendless or miserable; the soul that possesses a fadeless glory must attract the constant approbation and love of the worthy and good. I am glad my daughter has found so amiable and agreeable a companion," continued the baron, as they all arose to leave the garden. 
               "Do not dwell upon the few months that will intervene before you meet again," added he, noticing their depression and silence; "'twill seem but a moment to look back upon when you are once more together in this charming retreat." 
               Theresa brightened as she remembered that she would be oftener with her kind father in Bohemia, during the winter; but there was nothing in Nina's prospective vision to awaken a single delight, and the farewell embrace was fraught with much of sorrow, and many tears. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               FATHER BONDA was still the guest of Carl Sponheim, who, notwithstanding the rigid asceticism which had so long bound the Carmelite priest, felt a certain sympathy for him, since the revelation of his history, which served to unite them, despite their great difference in temperament and opinion. 
               The study of the Divine Word, and the benign influence of his friend, had softened and subdued the soul of the monk, so that the secret springs of tenderness and love were flowing gently and freely under the icy exterior. 
               It could not be supposed that the frosts of many a year would be broken up by the first faint glimmerings of the sunlight that had so long been withheld; but the steady and genial warmth was slowly and surely doing its work, and the stern features were gradually relaxing into a mellow and joyous expression. 
               "Say no more of the convent, my brother," said Carl Sponheim, as his guest proposed a return to his secluded life. "This house must henceforth be your home, and together we can search out and converse upon the wonders that have hitherto been as sealed treasures to you. Speak not of obligation," continued he, as the Carmelite urged his great indebtedness ness for his already protracted sojourn with his friend, "if that weighs with you, I have need of you in my arduous duties. The poor have little of the attention that they require, and you can share the labor demanded of me in my large cure.
                
               "I have felt my strength diminishing of late, and Providence has, undoubtedly, sent you to my assistance." 
               "Is it the child that you pine for so constantly, brother?" asked the priest, as his friend shook with a nervous tremor, and grew pale and faint from some evident emotion. 
               "Nina, my precious one!" murmured the good uncle, paying no heed to the question of the monk, and apparently lost in memories of the past; "come to me, child of my life; why, oh why, this crushing sacrifice! Sacrifice! who talks of sacrifice?" continued he, as if reproaching himself for the thought. "Abraham was ready to give up Isaac; Jephthah withheld not his beloved daughter; God spared not His only son, but delivered Him up unto the death. Who speaks of sacrifice?" 
               Father Bonda was terrified by the wildness of the priest's manner; but with this burst of feeling the strength utterly failed, and Carl Sponheim would have fallen to the floor but for the timely intervention of his guest. 
               Lifting him tenderly in his arms, Father Bonda placed him upon a low couch in a recess of the apartment, and bending gently over him, chafed the cold hands, and bathed the marble forehead, until the flush of life came feebly back. 
                
               "You see," said the priest, with a slight effort, "that you have become necessary to me now; will you still urge your departure?" 
               "Not till death calls me," returned the Carmelite, with his hand tightly clasping that of his friend. "Visions of the beauteous land beckon me away to the convent upon the holy mountain; memories of solemn and sweet reveries by the 'Great Sea,' whose musical waters have so often laved my unconscious feet as I trod the dreamy shore; glimpses of the sacred hills and vales that have felt the impress of a Saviour's hallowed footsteps; all these would lure me away to the promised land; but I forego the reality for the friendship that has awakened me from my dead slumbers to a true and lively appreciation of all that is noble and good." 
               "You have yearnings for the former haunts?" said the priest inquiringly; "I would not stand in the way of your happiness." 
               "Not for my dull cloister experience do I sigh, dear brother, where the mortification of the flesh was the chief object in life," replied the Carmelite. "There was a period long before, when my spirit revelled in the majestic glories of the blessed land; 'tis this retrospect that fills me with the intense desire to live over again that delightful past. There was a holy man, with faith similar to your own, under whose strict supervision my first year in the convent was spent, and with him I wandered through the length and breadth of Palestine, gathering a precious inspiration from every consecrated spot. This was before I met the gentle one, whose love diverted my thoughts from all else on earth. My education was finished, and the sequel you know; I cannot revive that again. 
               "On my return to the convent, with a view to the priesthood, my former guide and friend greeted me no more; the warm heart was pulseless, and the revered form prostrate in the dust. 
               "With none to arouse me from my torpid being, what wonder that I had not power to resist the strange influence of the zealous monks, and that I was soon so enwrapped in the dark and superstitious mantle, that years have scarcely sufficed to extricate me. Yearn for that sad discipline! no, no, good brother, your example teaches me that one's duty is to the world as well as to his own soul, and from this time forth my efforts must be for my fellow-men." 
               The dim light of a wax taper fell upon the two friends as they talked together of their future, until the waning night sent them to their rest. 
               Father Bonda gazed earnestly upon the countenance of his host as he bade him good-night; for as the priest spoke, his voice was strange and husky; but his calmness deceived his friend, and resolving to see him again early in the morning, he left him to his solitude, and tried to convince himself that the unwonted manner of Carl Sponheim was but an illusion of his own imagination. 
               Servants were hurrying to and fro, as the clock in the Carmelite's room struck three; and as the confused sound of quick footsteps struck his ear, he sprang from his bed and hastened to his friend. 
                
               There was no need to tell him that he was the cause of the unusual commotion. 
               The excitability and nervousness of the previous evening, were but the symptoms of a severe illness; and the monk was soon en route for a physician, not being willing to intrust the summons to the clumsiness of a domestic. 
               A messenger was also dispatched for the beloved niece, upon whom, in his delirium, the fond uncle was continually calling; and ere two days had sped, a gentle voice hushed the wild ravings, and a soft hand lay caressingly upon the burning forehead. 
               Three long weeks passed in alternate wildness and exhaustion; and the two watchers, the child and the monk, had well-nigh given up all hope, when the sick man looked intelligently up at the young nurse as she bent over him in order to arrange his pillows, and whispered: "Nina, little daughter." 
               "He knows me! he knows me!" cried she to the Carmelite, pressing her lips again and again to the pale brow. 
               "The crisis is past, and he will recover," returned the monk, taking the languid hand that lay upon the couch, and with his fingers upon the pulse, softly counting. 
               "The fever has wholly abated, and nothing more is to be feared; God be praised! 
               "Do not speak, brother," he continued addressing the sick friend, who was making a strenuous effort to say something. 
               "We must be very tyrannical for a while, or I fear we shall have you again in the land of mists and shadows; Nina is here, and shall not leave you," and he placed the child's hand upon the shrunken one that he had been holding. 
               "That's right, dear uncle," said Nina, as the invalid closed his eyes feebly, and sunk into a quiet and refreshing slumber. 
               "Give me your place by the couch now, and seek some rest yourself, Nina," said the Carmelite; "you are quite worn out with fatigue; Dreisholm will relieve me when I am weary; you can surely leave us with the care for a few hours," and he looked persuasively at the unwilling face. 
               "But if he should awake and find me away?" suggested she. 
               "I promise to call you. This sleep will last for hours; I will watch every motion. Will you go?" 
               "In a minute," whispered Nina, moving softly towards him, and speaking earnestly. "I have something to say to you first. I want to tell you how sorry I am that I used to dislike you, and what a change has come over my heart towards you since we have been here together;" and she glanced at the couch of the dear uncle. 
               "I thought long ago," continued she, "that you were morose, and that you made it dark in the house, and I used to wish that you would go away, and never come here any more to bring a cloud over my sunshine; but somehow, things are so different, and it has come all right now, and he might not have lived without your care. I should not have got the courage to say this to you if you had not been gentle and kind to me all these long sad weeks, and changed me quite towards you, so that I am no more afraid. You do not mind my saying it?"-and Nina looked inquiringly at the monk who was gazing upon her with an expression of deepest interest. 
               "No, no, dear child," replied he; "you are very right; I did bring much gloom in the old days; but you must remember that I am your friend now, and forget that there was once an old monk creeping about the house, dragging after him his heavy shadow, and casting a dreary influence over your bright young life;" and the Carmelite drew the young girl towards him, and once more said, "Benedicite, my child," as he bestowed a warm kiss upon her youthful brow. 
               She forgot the cold Benedicite of a former time, in the musical tenderness of this; and going on tiptoe from the room, with a charge to the priest to be sure and call if her uncle should move or speak, she was soon oblivious to every earthly emotion. 
               "How long have I been lying here, Nina, darling?" asked the sick man, as he awoke from his long slumber, and found the faithful nurse again at her station. 
               "If we count by days, a long time, dear uncle; but the weeks make it seem shorter, and they are only three." 
               "And you have been wearing out your little body with the constant hiving yourself up in this sickroom;" and the priest looked tenderly at the young face that was indeed faded somewhat with the close confinement; but it grew bright as Nina said- 
               "Oh, it was so pleasant to be able to sit near and watch you. Father Bonda often begged me to go away and amuse myself, but there was nothing that pleased me while you were so ill; the greatest pleasure was here;" and she drew closer to the couch, and pressed her cheek to her uncle's, as he reclined upon his pillow. 
               "Are you glad to be in Neusidle again, dear child?" asked the invalid, as her eyes roved delightedly around the room, and took in each familiar object. 
               "Glad!" returned she, earnestly. "Oh, if I might always stay in this dear home! But I make you ill again," she added, as a pallor spread over her uncle's features. "I am happy anywhere, if you will only get well;" and running away to hide the tears that were swelling in her eyes, she succeeded in calming her agitation before returning again to her uncle. 
               Six weeks passed away, and all this time Nina was pleasantly domesticated in her old home. 
               The priest was slowly regaining his wonted health, and all would have been well but for the question of Nina's return to Vienna. 
               Frau Caterina stamped with her broad foot upon the kitchen hearth, and invoked the witches to take away the fashionable aunt whenever she heard the mention of the child's departure again, and even the thought of it retarded the recovery of the invalid. 
               Father Bonda, no longer fighting against the kindliness of his affectionate nature, urged the expediency of keeping Nina with them, and teaching her in their own happy way, and to this the uncle's heart responded affirmatively; but regarding the child as a sacred trust, he dared not throw away the advantages, which he innocently believed would accrue from a more enlarged sphere, and so he clung to his former plans, and simply accepted her visit gratefully, without permitting himself to think of her stay as permanent. 
               "You have made good progress in your studies dear child," said he one day after questioning her in the various branches that had received her attention. "It is a great thing to be so methodically instructed: this could never have been here amid my numerous duties." 
               "Must I go again to Vienna, dear uncle?" asked Nina with tearful eyes, forgetting, in the sorrow she felt at the prospect of a separation from her beloved uncle, the resolution not to trouble him again with her regrets: "I am so very unhappy there," continued she; "it is only since with Theresa Macholick that I have made any improvement, I can learn nothing when with Aunt Sponheim alone." 
               "I am sorry you cherish such a spirit of rebellion towards your aunt, my darling," returned the priest; "I have a letter from your uncle, informing me that he will come for you on his return from Grosburh, where he has been to make some arrangements concerning your brother's property; and I had hoped that you would receive the intelligence with less of repugnance than you have hitherto manifested. Your grief is most trying to me," he continued, pressing her to his bosom; "so for my sake be cheerful ful and merry; I believe it to be for your interest, or my own peace would not be given up for it; but this subject always makes us gloomy, let us talk of something else; tell me about Theresa Macholick, is she small and delicate like my little daughter?" 
               "Oh, so beautiful!" said Nina, earnestly, losing every other thought in the memory of her friend: "She is three years older than I am, and so tall, and graceful, with such black eyes and hair as I never saw before; I cannot tell you how very charming she is, dear uncle; when she smiles there is such a sweet dimple in her cheek, and her face is just like the sunlight as it beams upon the landscape. But you should see her to know how very, very lovely she is!" said she, stroking the back of one little hand with the palm of the other, and then clasping her uncle's knee with both, as she looked up into his mild eyes. 
               "Is she good, Nina? that is the main question," said her uncle, musingly. 
               "Good! we hear so little about that in Vienna and Schonbrun," said Nina, with a perceptible sarcasm upon her young lips; "'tis all gayety and pleasure there. We were at mass once a week, and at confession every month; is that good?" and she clasped the knee still more firmly, and looked archly up for the answer to her question. 
               "What then, my child?" asked her uncle; "were there no daily prayers, and hearing of God's Word; no self-denials; no visiting the poor and fatherless; no efforts to gain the mastery over every sinful thought, word, and deed, and to become more and more perfect in purity and holiness?" 
                
               "That was all, dear uncle. You may be sure Aunt Sponheim and Theresa's mother, the gay baroness, had no time for these duties, when they were continually engaged in balls, and parties, and operas." 
               "But Theresa?" said the uncle. 
               "I call her good," said Nina; "I know that she does not care for fashion and folly, and I have seen her take secretly from her own purse to give to the poor." 
               "You may wrong the baroness and your aunt, my child," said the priest. "It is quite necessary for ladies in their station to mingle in many of the pleasures of life, and yet they may be mindful of their higher duties. But we will not speak more of this," added he, perceiving that Nina had an answer upon her tongue's end. "What concerns us most is to know that we are in the right way ourselves, and that no trifling excuse can ever turn us aside from our duty. I believe I should like Theresa Macholick very much, and I am right glad that you have met with one so likely to benefit you. Of course your aunt sanctions your intimacy." 
               "Oh, yes! dear uncle; she says that Theresa occupies a high position in life, and so I am free to be with her as much as I like. She does not ask about the 'goodness,' as you do, however." 
               "Perhaps she ascertained that before trusting you together; we will think so, at least, my child." 
               Nina gave a doubtful shrug of the shoulders, as if she wholly understood her aunt's character, but felt that it were a waste of her reasoning powers to say more about it to her kind-hearted uncle. 
                
               She knew, too, that he had made up his mind to intrust her education to her guidance; and with that passive sort of feeling that grows out of the consciousness of one's inability to resist a fixed decree, she kept silent, resolving rather to suffer patiently than risk the infliction of a pang upon him who was doing all things with a single view to her good. 
               "You are looking very weak," said she, as she arose to take leave of him; "are you sure Father Bonda will prove a sufficient nurse when I am gone?" 
               "He will do what he can to supply your place, dear child," said the Carmelite, with a tenderness quite unusual; "'twould be strange, indeed, if he were a perfectly acceptable substitute." 
               "I like to leave you with him now," said Nina, pressing the monk's hand fervently to her lips. 
               The two priests looked after the little figure, as it faded away from before them, and the study seemed comfortless and drear as they remembered that it would not come again to bless them for many a long evening. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THERE was a babe in the house when Nina returned to Vienna. 
               This little cousin she had never seen, though born a twelvemonth previous, as it had been placed in the country with a robust nurse, in order to strengthen the feeble life which had threatened an early extinction. 
               Whether Nina's wrathful wish had any thing to do with the little innocent or not, the fact that the child had red hair was the first thing that impressed her, and she felt almost like a criminal in her presence. 
               The circumstance rendered the poor niece still more obnoxious to her aunt, who would, from this time, have relinquished all interest in her, were it not that she had now a double motive in seeking the good-will of the priestly relative, and in alienating him from Nina. 
               The cross governess was recalled, and the old discipline recommenced with still greater severity; and frequent complaints were sent to Neusidle, though the child was trying her best to merit the love and approbation of her guardians and teacher. 
               Little Nettie, alone, gave her any delight in her gay home, and she looked forward with a longing anticipation to her reunion with her friend Theresa. 
                
               "Carl seems fonder than ever of Nina since his late illness," said Marguerita Sponheim to her husband on the reception of a letter from her priestly brother. "He says that were it not for our assurance that she is in the way of promotion here, he would immediately recall her to Neusidle, as the separation is almost too much for him in his present weak state." 
               "We must prevent her return to him, if possible," replied the secretary; "Antoinetta's chance would be poor, indeed, if Nina were constantly with her uncle. We are just beginning to get things in a right train, and I depend upon your sagacity, Marguerita, to keep them there; women are better at intrigue than men." 
               "A doubtful compliment," said the lady, with a conscious blush; "however, I accept the task, and, trust me, will fulfil it faithfully." 
               "See that your wires are not visible," cautioned the wily man. "Many an otherwise natural display has been spoiled by the tell-tale machinery." 
               "Did you ever know me to fail in my purposes, Edward?" asked the wife, with something of bravado in her confident tone. "Nina is sufficiently repulsive to me to prevent my wavering." 
               "Nina, Nina," said the sweet child, who at that moment entered the boudoir in her nurse's arms, and heard the mention of her cousin's name. 
               There was a momentary relenting from the dark plan as the sweet tones of her babe touched the maternal heart, and a slight feeling of pity and tenderness towards the orphan niece took its place; but a glimpse of the red hair brought back the old emotions. 
               "Is Carl no better?" asked Edward Sponheim, after a moment's pause. 
               "He would be well enough but for the depression consequent on Nina's absence," replied the wife. "You know how dear her father always was to Carl; he seemed to cling to him with a deeper affection than to the rest of his brothers, and Nina is his exact counterpart." 
               "Yes, yes, that is true," responded the secretary, "there is the trouble; it seems like persecuting the dead to do any thing against the interests of that child. If it wasn't for Nettie, I'd wash my hands of the whole affair." 
               "I don't see the use of making such a parade about nothing," returned Marguerita; "I'm sure we may take some credit to ourselves for preserving the child from the contamination of her country home; and, as to wronging her, we act as much for her good as for our own. I wholly acquit myself of any intention of evil," and she looked complacently upon the diamonds that sparkled upon her fair fingers, as she caressed the infant that clung to her bosom. 
               "Well, well, Marguerita, I don't know that the wealth will bring much joy if it ever comes, that is, if it is only to minister to display. There are times when Carl's peaceful life seems very attractive to me, with all its simplicity," said the secretary. 
               "Pooh, Edward! your late journey to Hungary has brought back all the old sombreness. Carl is well enough in his seclusion; he is fitted for it; but you were made for quite a different sphere;" and the wife laid her jewelled hand coaxingly upon the arm of her husband as she continued: "think of Nettie, and see if you do not covet for her a brighter fate than the retirement of a rustic life." 
               The proud man stooped to kiss the tender brow of his precious babe, and her innocent nature contrasting so strikingly with the vain ambition that swelled his own lofty heart, pleaded yet again in favor of a serene life; but the worldly power was stronger, and had the victory over his desires for the best good. 
               Joseph II. was no more, and Leopold succeeded to the throne. The momentary sorrow of the nation gave place to great joy on the accession of the new monarch, and Vienna was full of gayety. 
               Whole oxen were roasted; wine flowed freely; the public squares were illuminated, and there was merriment and feasting everywhere. 
               The emperor, crowned with diamonds, drove about in the parade carriage, scattering gold to the people. Prince Esterhazy, magnificently attired, rode by his side, and before the prince's horse walked Baron Macholick, with a white falcon upon his finger. 
               The young girls witnessed all the glory; but the heart of Nina was in the old home, and she cast an indifferent eye upon the pomp and splendor, and turned gratefully to the warm friendship of the gentle and loving Theresa, who participated in her feeling that it was only a gilded dream. 
               The first approach of the warm season, found the two friends together at Baden, where the nobility and fashion resorted, some for the benefit of the medicinal dicinal waters, others attracted by the liveliness and pleasure that centred in the place. 
               Oh, how delightful it was to be young; and free from the conventionalities that vexed and troubled the mature and earth-worn! The two girls roved about in all the delight of their unfettered youth, scarcely giving a thought to the time of their bondage, so speedily drawing near. 
               Every day they went to the bath formerly established by the Empress Maria Theresa for the royal family, and there they enjoyed the refreshing ablution; but they loved to loiter by the principal reservoir of the springs, watching the merry bathers, as they issued from the various saloons, in their picturesque costume, and went down into the liquid basin, while charming music ever mingled with the Babel of tongues and the plashing of waters. 
               There was yet another spot, serene, and hallowing in its influence, that had greater attractions for the two friends, than the resort of the merry and frivolous. It was a mountain called "Calvary," where the sufferings of our Saviour, from his agony in the garden up to the final tragedy, were represented in statuary of life-like size; and there, beneath the shadow of the cross, upon the brow of the hill, the young girls would often sit and speak together of the cares and burdens that were already pressing heavily upon one youthful heart. 
               They had been suddenly summoned to Schonbrun, where Frau Von Sponheim was awaiting them with the little Antoinetta, and had gone to take their leave of the pleasant hill. 
                
               "This is all very beautiful!" said Theresa, as they stood upon the summit, and gazed about on the verdure and luxuriance; "but I long so for the garden at Schonbrun, there are so many quiet nooks where we can be alone." 
               "If Aunt Sponheim were elsewhere, I should be very glad of the change," returned Nina; "but as it is, I have no very happy anticipations; I only wish your mother, the baroness, would insist upon remaining here for the season, since I should then escape a few evil weeks at least. Oh, Neusidle! Neusidle!" and Nina wept such bitter tears, looking up in her misery at the image of the All-suffering. "I have only been happy while there, through the winter," resumed she, as Theresa tried to console and cheer her; "and then my uncle's example is so good, and I find myself not quite so despicable as when the evil is called forth by Aunt Sponheim." 
               "Did you find it easy to do right there, Nina?" asked Theresa. 
               "Comparatively," replied her friend; "Aunt Sponheim is continually ruffling my temper, and bringing on some petty outburst for which I should be heartily ashamed if she were not the aggressor: with Uncle Carl it was difficult to find an occasion to sin." 
               "Papa says there is more merit in overcoming our faults in the face of great obstacles," said Theresa thoughtfully: "if we can curb ourselves when there is a temptation to break away from the restraint, we are strengthened for the next encounter with evil." 
               "How like dear uncle you talk, Theresa!" 
               "Oh, these are papa's words," returned the gentle girl: "we were often in each other's society during the winter, and he took every opportunity to give me his good counsel. He says, that in our station there are so many who are governed by no fixed principle, that we ought to try to be prepared to resist every effort to draw us away from the right. Papa seems so very different when we are alone: one would not think him particularly thoughtful; but I know all the secret depths, and can see so much good that the surface never reveals." 
               "When you speak of him, it brings Uncle Carl near to me again, Theresa, and fills me with sadness as I think of my aunt." 
               "But you were not annoyed by her the last summer we spent at Schonbrun, and why give yourself any useless anxiety about the coming season?" 
               "I am getting older, now, Theresa, and Aunt Sponheim is more and more unendurable in her reproofs and punishments; but I will try not to trouble you with it, though it seems to make it easier to speak of it to you." 
               "I would not have you say it to everybody, dear Nina," returned Theresa, bending to kiss her friend, as the tears started afresh; "but you know I have a true sympathy for you in every thing, and 'twould be wronging me to hide any of your sorrows from me. Papa would point us to the great example that this spot recalls, and I am sure it would bring peace and comfort;" and winding her arms about Nina, Theresa poured her sweet faith into her friend's ear, until her soul grew calm, and her face bright with renewed hope. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               ONCE more at Schonbrun, the baroness and her friend, Marguerita Sponheim, plunged anew into the whirl of a fashionable life. Every moment was occupied with the frivolities of a worldly coterie, and the young people were left as much as ever to themselves, and to the gentle governess. 
               Nina was not sorry to have it so, for, although even her childish perceptions discovered many deviations from the strict rule of right, she rejoiced in any thing that would divert her aunt's attention from herself. 
               Her Uncle Edward was beginning to show her a more tender regard in consequence of her love for Nettie, and she sometimes felt that all was not bitter, when she one day received a peremptory summons to the dreaded boudoir. 
               "What can be wrong now?" sighed she, as she went slowly and timorously into the presence of her aunt. 
               The lady's form was drawn up to its most commanding height as the drooping figure stood trembling before her. 
               Nina had never seen her aunt so angry before, and she shrank back with terror, as the wrathful woman moved threateningly towards her. 
                
               "No wonder you cower with fright, little wicked spy that you are!" said Frau Von Sponheim, shaking her roughly by the arm, and pressing it tightly with her jewelled fingers. "Go to your room, and to-morrow you shall have the severe punishment that your fault merits, and we will see then if you tell tales to bring mischief between your Uncle Edward and me." 
               Nina recollected then that her uncle had asked her in the morning, "Where her aunt was?" and that she had replied, "in the palace garden, with the Baroness Macholick and some gentlemen;" but what that could have to do with bringing trouble between her uncle and aunt she could not understand. That Frau Von Sponheim was seriously angry, and that a proportionate severity would be visited upon her, she well knew. There was no help for it; appeals were useless, and she went as quickly from the hated boudoir as her palsied limbs would permit, and throwing herself upon a luxurious divan, she buried her face in the cushions, and queried with herself as to what she could do to escape the constant persecutions of her sad life. 
               To remain and patiently suffer, was not to be for one moment thought of; but where was the alternative? "Oh, that Theresa were here to advise me!" sighed she; but the wish brought no counsel, and springing from the couch with a spirit roused to action, she gathered up a few little articles, and tying them in a small bundle, placed them where they could not be perceived when her maid came to aid her in undressing. 
                
               The night was spent in bitter weeping, for the way before her was wholly dark and unknown, and the end doubtful. 
               Back through the mist and gloom of the sad years she wandered to the bosom of her gentle mother, and the delights of Grosburh and Neusidle. 
               Long and regretfully she dwelt upon the sweet calm of her infant days, and the precious guardianship of the good priest, and the peaceful hours in her rural home. 
               It was hard indeed to bring her mind back to the reality of her present position, as the faint gleams of light stole softly upon her outward vision. 
               There was no brightness within her soul, as with tremulous fingers she equipped herself for her strange journey, and slipped softly forth from the dreary house. The gay furniture seemed to mock her as she stole along with the bundle in her hand, and the merry laughter of the wakeful Nettie came faintly to her ear as a mournful knell. 
               Twice she crept nervously behind a massive bronze image, as the sound of footsteps was heard in the corridor; but at length she reached the garden, and soon stood beside the bank of the stream, shut off from view of the house by the thick shrubbery and foliage. 
               The waters were up to her waist, but there was no turning back; and without a fear, she forded the stream, stopping only to divest herself of the satin shoes that covered her tiny feet. 
               Over the fields, on, and on into the broad country she pressed; and all through the weary day, with the hot sun streaming down upon her, she wandered aimlessly along, thinking only to flee the dreaded evil. 
               Meantime, there was much trouble at the great house by the rivulet. 
               Carline had tapped several times at the door of her young mistress' room, and receiving no answer, had not ventured in, lest she should disturb a pleasant slumber; but as the morning wore on, and there were no signs of life within, although she often applied her silent ear to the keyhole, she at last went on tiptoe to the curtained bed. 
               The young charge was not there. 
               Down through the garden they tracked her, to the bank of the stream, and there, floating by the shore, with one string caught by a thorny bush, they found the hat that she always wore about the grounds. 
               Sending to the opposite bank, the footsteps were lost in the springy turf; and then the cruel heart of Marguerita Sponheim softened, as she thought of the reproachful face, all still and cold beneath the gurgling waters. 
               All day long they dragged the river; and at nightfall, when they had given her up as lost, Nina, with blistered feet and aching limbs, had sunk down exhausted beside a peasant's hut, in the midst of the most luxuriant nature. The green vines were waving gracefully in the cool breeze, and the thick foliage above her screened her from the falling dew. The child was very faint from fasting and fatigue, and almost felt rejoiced as she thought her last hour had come, there was such peace in lying there in the dim twilight, so free from fear of man! 
               She had not time to think long, however, before a heavy tramp was near, and a stout woman, with a milk-pail poised upon her head, stopped beside her with a startled exclamation. 
               "The saints preserve us! what have we here?" said she, lowering her pail, and setting it carefully upon the turf. "Fritz, Fritz, for the holy mother's sake come forth!" 
               Nina looked faintly up as a robust man stepped from the door of the hut, and taking his pipe from his mouth, bent wonderingly over her. She was not afraid, though his shaggy hair fell over coarse features, and the rough dress made him hideous and uncouth, for there was kindness and sympathy in his manner and tone. 
               "What do you here, a fine little lady that you are?" asked he, "and why are you away from your home?" 
               "My aunt is unkind to me," sobbed Nina, "and I shall never go back to her again. Oh! let me live with you, good people; I will work, I will do any thing rather than be treated so cruelly," and she looked piteously up at the peasant and his wife, while the big tears rolled down her face. 
               "But," said the woman, "you are a delicate little lady, and cannot work, and we are too poor to keep you without, so we shall be obliged to take you to your home again." 
               "Oh, no! not there; anywhere else in the wide world. I cannot, will not go again to Aunt Sponheim heim," said Nina wildly, sinking back upon the turf from despair and exhaustion. 
               "She must be nursed until the morning," said the man, "and then we can tell what to do; don't you see how ill she looks, and her feet are torn and bleeding?" And lifting her gently in his brawny arms, he carried her into the hut, and placed her upon a clean but coarse bed. 
               The good wife bathed the weary limbs with fresh warm milk, and made some tempting dish for her refreshment; and while the tired traveller slept soundly, she planned with her husband what they should do on the morrow. Nina had told them of a Cousin Cline in Vienna, and it was decided to take her there as the peasant woman went with her milk next day. 
               There was great trepidation in Nina's heart as they reached Schonbrun, through which place they had to pass on their way, and the little fugitive was almost beside herself for fear; but the kind woman lifted her broad skirt, and the young girl crept under the hoops, and was securely hidden, so that no one would have supposed there was a breathing thing in the cart, excepting the good-natured peasant. 
               There was more joy in trundling along in this homely way-so Nina thought-than in all the style of her aunt's equipage; and she felt that it would be better to be the peasant's child, and aid her in every common office, than to return to her own gilded cage to pine in the cruel confinement. 
               The peasant would scarcely allow her to peep out of her snug hiding place lest her appearance should excite inquiry, and get herself into difficulty; and although she rejoiced to do a good action, she was none the less glad when the young girl was safely out of her hands, and with her own relatives. 
               Cline, was very much surprised to see Nina in so pitiable a plight, and with such companionship; but on learning that the cruelty of her aunt was the cause, she had no word of reproach for the sorrowful little fugitive; yet her duty was plain before her, and she knew that all she could do was to keep the young girl away from Schonbrun until the anger of her relative should be appeased. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               "VICTOR," said Nina, a few days after, as her cousin told her that his sister proposed sending her back to her aunt; "Victor, you love me, and must help me to get to my Uncle John, at Raab: I shall never return to Aunt Sponheim again." 
               The lad hesitated a moment, but looking propitious, Nina renewed her appeal. 
               "We have not money enough to get us there," said he, mentally estimating the value of his earthly possessions; "if it could be managed, I have no objections; I have saved my little gifts from time to time, but there is not enough for that." 
               "And Cline says I must go this day week?" 
               "Yes!" and the boy looked sadly at her. 
               "Will you not help me, Victor?" 
               "If I only had the money, Nina." 
               "Ask Cline for it." 
               "She would not give it me." 
               "We can sell these," said Nina, pointing to the buckles upon her shoes, and the clasp upon her belt; "will they bring enough?" 
               "That's a good thought!" said Victor, taking his knife from his pocket, and divesting the belt and shoes of their adornments. 
               "Were you ever on the water?" asked he, as he jingled the ornaments in his hand. 
                
               "No, excepting in the mimic boat that we had upon the rivulet at Grosburh." 
               "Would you be afraid on the Danube? There is a merchantman ready to sail, and if you will, we can take passage in it to-night; but you must make up your mind not to be frightened." 
               "You'll be with me, Cousin Victor," said Nina, with a look of earnest confidence at her young protector. 
               "Then it's settled," said he as he turned away to sell the trinkets; "see that Cline does not find it out;" and he waved her an adieu, as he went from the garden where they had been holding their tte--tte.
                
               Nina scarcely dared enter the house again, lest her cousin should notice the missing ornaments; but she had to make up her little bundle, and get to the place of rendezvous before Victor should reach it, and so she went boldly in. 
               Fortunately Cline had gone on a shopping expedition, and she had no trouble in making her simple arrangements, and getting off again without detection. 
               "Here we are, again," said Victor, running breathlessly to meet her at the foot of the garden, where a little gate led to one of the most retired streets in the city; "I thought I should never dispose of the trinkets, and get the passports." 
               "Had you good-luck, Victor?" 
               "Look here," said he, pulling out his purse, and exhibiting his treasure; "quite enough to take us to the end of the journey, and a few bits for you to spend at Presburg." 
                
               "That's my good Cousin Victor, but are we in time? I thought you would never come." 
               "I had to dodge Cline, who met me, and seemed to suspect something wrong, and you know if we should be found out, you must return to your aunt." 
               "I can walk faster, Victor," said Nina, looking timidly behind her. 
               "No matter, we are almost there," replied he, as his cousin loitered for very weariness, with the effort to hasten along. 
               "Just in time," said a stout sailor, helping the young travellers into the boat. "Whither bound?" 
               "To Raab, with my cousin," said Victor. 
               "A rough passage we shall have," returned the sailor, eyeing Nina inquisitively, and then looking upward at the cloudy heavens. 
               "I am not afraid," said she, following the direction of his glance, and pressing tightly the hand of her cousin, which she had not relinquished since she left home. 
               It was a terrific night, indeed. The thunder was heavy and fearful; and earth, and sea, and sky, seemed ablaze with the lurid lightning; the boat leaped frantically upon the angry waves, and even the mariners were looking for destruction, with a despairing feeling. 
               Victor and Nina heartily wished themselves on shore again; but they were ashamed to give way to their fears, and clinging to each other, they wore the weary night away. But in the morning, the heavens were serene again, and the tempest-tossed bark glided smoothly on, and then they revelled in the sparkling beauty of the river, and the bright towns that dotted the banks; and they went dreamily on towards their destination. 
               Two days after, quite late at night, the sailors put them on shore, and they plodded some distance on foot, to the lodgings of the young student, Francis Sponheim, Nina's brother, whom she fixed upon as a mediator between herself and her Uncle John. 
               "Not my sister Nina, surely," said the astonished brother, as he pressed her to his bosom, and fondly kissed her. 
               "'Tis rather a sad affair," he added, musing thoughtfully, as in few words she told him her story. "Uncle John will be very angry; but I will go with you, and explain matters;" and the three set off for the suburban residence of the dreaded uncle. 
               Crossing a bridge that spanned the river Raab, they soon reached the house, and were ushered into the presence of their relative. 
               It was not quite so bad as Nina had anticipated, for her uncle had a kind heart, and though he deemed it a solemn duty not to pass the offence lightly over, after he had performed the disagreeable task of scolding his niece, he summoned the housekeeper, who had formerly been nurse to her brothers, and had her tenderly cared for. 
               The next day, news of her safety was sent to Schonbrun and Neusidle; and, after much deliberation, it was settled that she should pursue her education in the Ursuline convent at Raab. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               "THE child is not so much in fault after all," said Father Bonda, to Carl Sponheim, as the good priest read aloud a letter from his brother Edward, concerning the affair. 
               "I am inclined to believe that Nina's complainings are not wholly groundless." 
               "I am in a sad dilemma," returned the uncle, looking vacantly upon the epistle before him. 
               "'Tis a grievous thing to resist all authority, and it must not be overlooked. I had no trouble with Nina; she always yielded readily to my government." 
               "That confirms me in the opinion that the error is not so much in the child," said the Carmelite. 
               "Marguerita seems very fond of her." 
               "'Tis easy to assume a caressing manner." 
               "But where would be the motive?" asked the priest. 
               "There is no necessity for Edward or his wife to take any particular oversight of Nina, since she is mine by adoption, and as such, entitled to all my care and love, as well as to my inheritance." 
               "There have been no legal forms observed," said the monk, "and few recognize the sacredness of a self-imposed trust. With all due deference to your sister-in-law ter-in-law, Marguerita, I am not favorably impressed by her unwonted interest in your niece; it strikes me that a real genuine love for the child is not the moving cause of Frau Von Sponheim's care for her. Your pardon," continued the Carmelite, as the priest looked up reproachfully at him. "My boldness has offended you; I should have held my peace; but I feared you would be biassed in your judgment concerning Nina. Her aunt's account of her elopement would necessarily throw the blame upon the child." 
               "I wish I might feel that Nina is innocent in the matter," sighed the uncle; "it would relieve me of a sad weight." 
               "What is to be done?" asked the monk. "You surely will not oblige her to return to her aunt." 
               "That cannot be, at present; Marguerita is too much incensed to listen to such a proposal." 
               "Why not recall her to yourself?" 
               "I wish it were possible; but I am afraid to uphold her in her rash course, she must feel my displeasure for a while. Both John and Edward concur in the opinion that the Ursuline convent is the best place for her at present." 
               "Will you consent to that?" 
               "It is my only alternative. I have determined upon it. I know the lady abbess, and am persuaded that no harm will come from her gentle influence." 
               "There will be others in the convent, and Nina is very impressible," ventured the Carmelite, wondering that his friend should trust the plastic mind of his beloved niece to other than his own guidance. 
               "I had hoped she would come again to us," he added, after a moment's pause; "the old house needs a gleam of her sunny presence." 
               "It does, indeed," replied the priest; "but she must not be rewarded for a sinful act. She must be taught to curb the impetuosity that brooks no restraint. I am willing to punish myself for her good, by banishing her awhile from Neusidle. Things may turn happily by-and-by. All my hopes are centred in this child." 
               "She will not disappoint you," returned the Carmelite, rising and pacing the room hurriedly. 
               "You speak confidently and cheeringly to my soul," said the priest. 
               "I have reason;" and the monk resumed his chair, as he added, "her temperament and character were my study during your long illness, and I feel perfectly safe in my opinion. Will you not reconsider your decision, and take her under your own supervision." 
               "Not yet, not yet, brother Bonda; she must bide the consequences of her fault. Meantime I can plan for the future: her welfare is my chief study." 
               The Carmelite arose and left the room, disappointed in his endeavors to restore the wanderer to the peaceful fold; and the good priest bent over his staff, with the letter still in his hand, and the thought of the precious niece in his heart, long after the monk had retired to his chamber, and the lights had sunk down in their sockets, and flashed, and faded out. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE convent was a three-story house, built in the form of a hollow square, with corridors looking out upon the inclosed space. 
               It was rather dark and gloomy in the exterior; but to Nina presented only a welcome refuge from the cross and cruel relative, and she hailed with joy the day when her Uncle John led her to the superior, though his introduction of her to the abbess was accompanied by the request that she should be punished for her late fault towards her aunt. 
               The abbess received her graciously, replying to her uncle, that "kindness was ever more beneficial than severity;" and putting her gentle hands upon the young head, and feeling of her face, and dress, she whispered, "Do not fear, we shall soon be friends, my child." 
               Nina looked up at the sightless eyes, and gratefully returned the fond kiss of the old abbess, and her heart turned at once to the loving nature that so quickly folded her in its warm embrace. 
               There was nothing without the convent walls to cause a regretful emotion, save the memory of the beloved Theresa, and the aggrieved priest whose sorrow touched her soul with penitence and sadness. 
               Several of the teachers were present to greet the new-comer, and Nina scanned them with a curious gaze, as if to read what there was of joy or bitterness in her monastic contact. 
               "Mother Augustina" impressed her the most favorably. Tall, and of a melancholy cast, with her pensive eyes dreamily fixed upon the young Nina, she succeeded in charming her into an enduring sympathy; and as she was the principal directress of the young ladies who were only temporarily in the nunnery, Nina came often under her pleasant guidance. 
               "Mother Scholastica" was mild and quiet, and awoke in the scholars neither affection nor dislike; but "Mother Eloisa," a stern and sombre woman, filled them with abhorrence and distrust. Into many a glad cup did her hand drop a troublous ingredient; and many a bright smile was suddenly checked by the darksome shadow of her presence. 
               Nina, especially, felt a certain horror and repulsion towards her, which begot in the strange nun a like bitterness and loathing; so that the weight of her annoyance fell upon the object of her chief dislike. 
               There were two dormitories for the scholars, with twelve beds in each, with green curtains drawn closely around them. 
               Three "candidates" slept in the room with the young ladies, to see if they obeyed the regulations of the school. Not a word was permitted after retiring, but all were required to spend the wakeful hours in prayers to the Virgin. 
               The beds were very near together, however, and often in the dimness of the night, when the eyes of the "candidates" were sealed, many a little hand reached across the narrow space, and grasped that of a loved companion; and many a whispered word floated back and forth, as the young friends communicated their hopes and plans. 
               Nina had become much attached to two young girls who occupied couches next her own, and their stolen communion during the dreamy hours had strengthened their love, so that the clasping of hands in the darkened space was truly typical of the linking of soul to soul. One of these companions had been taught to adhere rigidly to all the outward rules of her faith; and often, as Nina heard a rustling on her left, and peeped forth to satisfy herself as to its cause, her eyes fell upon the ghost-like figure kneeling upon the hard floor, in the attitude of deepest devotion. 
               Occasionally the soft tread of the "candidates" would move about amid the silent sleepers, while their pale faces would be bent over the youthful features in careful scrutiny. 
               To the nervous Nina it seemed like the spirits of the departed moving about the ghostly realms of death; and the very thought of these nightly walkers increased her watchfulness, making her sensitive to every sound, and creating in her mind an undefined fear and dread. 
               Far away from the school-room, in an unfrequented wing of the nunnery, was a dingy room, filled up with the refuse and lumber of many a year. Hidden beneath the compact rubbish were the relics of a severer discipline, that was in a measure done away by the order of Joseph II. 
               Instruments of bodily torture, scourges, screws, and jointed serrated bands of steel, with many other inventions of a loathsome superstition and fanaticism, found their hiding-place in that obscure corner of the convent; and thither Mother Eloisa daily penetrated to lavish upon herself her barbarous and cruel inflictions. 
               Some of the young novices, filled with an ignorant zeal, and awed by her pretended sanctity, followed her pernicious example, and privately kept up the revolting practice which a wise rgime had prohibited. 
               The abbess would never have sanctioned this rigor; but her blindness prevented the strict supervision that would otherwise have been exercised, so that the infection was spreading throughout the nunnery, and some of the scholars, Nina and her two friends among the number, had joined the fanatical party, and used often to steal away to the gloomy chamber to perform their strange penance. 
               With a mind early tinctured with the superstitions of her religion, and a heart bitterly prejudiced against the relatives who seemed doomed to be her guardians and tormentors, if in the gay world, it was not singular that Nina turned her thoughts to a conventual life as her best and most peaceful destiny. 
               One year had passed away with but little to mar her happiness, compared to the incessant annoyances that had marked her previous life at her Aunt Sponheim's, and her secret determination was to take the veil so soon as she was old enough, unless she could return to her Uncle Carl, whom she still loved with an unwavering reverence and affection. 
               Sometimes the beloved priest's useful and serene life would come up in contrast with the dull and profitless routine and harsh self-immolation of the imprisoned nuns, and shake her half-formed decision, making her long for the green vineyards and groves of Neusidle, and the hallowed pursuits that brought to her uncle such perfect peace and joy. 
               Carl Sponheim had always spoken against monastic vows; but a different influence was now upon his niece, and she gave herself up to it. 
               It was a very serious thing, however, to endure a flagellation with the knotted cords, in each of which was a crooked pin to tear and lacerate the tender flesh; and the cruel teeth of the steel bands pressed relentlessly into her sensitive body, until she laid both scourge and band aside for a milder discipline. "Mother Eloisa" did not seem to mind the pain; and so, from what the nuns termed "her saint-like patience," she received the name, "the holy sister," though the scholars persisted in saying to each other that "Mother Augustina" was more deserving of the appellation, inasmuch as nothing could rouse her from her gentle amiable manner, to the slightest unchristian word or act. 
               At the commencement of Nina's second year in the nunnery, the abbess, on learning her pious inclinations, sent for her, that she might have a serious conversation with her; and Nina went gladly at the summons, as she was a great favorite with the superior, and had frequently received many marks of her good-will and favor. 
               The abbess had been quite feeble for a long time, and she lay upon a couch, with her hands clasped over her bosom, and her lips moving softly as if in prayer; and Nina stopped just inside the door, fearing to disturb her; but her quick ear caught the faint sound of her footsteps, and Nina went forward at her bidding, and kneeling beside her, received her benediction, and kissing her reverently, asked- 
               "What is your pleasure, Mother Angelica?" 
               "I wish you to prepare for general confession, dear child," said the abbess, passing her hand fondly over the young head, and then putting both arms closely about the little form. 
               "You are old enough now to be sorry for all your sins; I will separate you for a while from your companions, that you may be able to recall your faults without distraction. 
               "You shall have a room by yourself, and when you have thought of all your past errors, from the time you were seven years old up to the present, you are to put them upon paper and present them to the priest, who will give you absolution and penance." 
               It was a difficult task for Nina to keep aloof from her young friends, and go for many days, with downcast eyes and sad demeanor; but it was "for her soul's health," so they told her, and was therefore cheerfully done. 
               In a narrow apartment she knelt before a crucifix, with her eyes fastened upon the ground, and her young head bowed, while her lips muttered over the beads which her fingers were telling. 
               Thoughts of her schoolmates were mingling with her formal devotions, and visions of past freedom and joyousness would come to lure her away from the dull, close walls; but she put them all aside as a sinful thing, and tried to fix her mind upon the task assigned her. 
               With slow and mournful step she sought her accustomed place at meals, never looking up, nor speaking, and as gravely did she retire to her quiet privacy, with the craving appetite unsatisfied, and a yearning in her soul for more substantial peace than the long penance brought. 
               Mother Eloisa watched her long fast and penance with a strange and sinister interest, and took every occasion to stir up and increase her superstitious fears. 
               One night in particular, when she was about to retire, after a day of unusual excitement, the stern nun put her bony hand upon the young penitent's shoulder, and said with feigned solemnity- 
               "Nina, to-night at the ghostly hour, a figure will stand beside your bed. You will be much frightened; but you must say, 'All good ghosts praise the Lord. What do you want?' Then it will answer, 'Come with me,' and you must call upon the saints to keep you from its power, or it will take you bodily away." 
               Frightened out of her sleep with the quick beating of her heart, almost bursting asunder the life-strings, Nina lay with her rosary in her hands, tremblingly awaiting the supernal appearance. 
                
               Of course it came not, but the shock to her nervous sensibility was all the same, and the consequences were none the less serious. 
               At the close of her probation she obtained priestly absolution, and was again summoned to the abbess' presence, to receive her congratulations. 
               Going through the corridor that led to the apartments of the superior, she stopped for a moment at a large window which looked down into the chapel, commanding a full view of the altar, and gazed earnestly upon the image of the Virgin. 
               Her imagination was wrought up to the highest pitch, and fancying that the Holy Mother winked at her, and beckoned her to her, she shrieked, and fell to the floor. 
               The nuns hearing her, ran and conveyed her to the abbess' room, where she was soon restored to consciousness. 
               "You are not worthy so great a blessing, my child," said the blind Mother Angelica, as Nina explained the cause of her swoon; "such favor is only for the good and holy," and with her own blessing upon the head of the young girl, and the affectionate embrace of the nuns who had assembled to congratulate her, Nina was permitted to return to her wonted routine. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE carnival followed these unusual religious duties of the young novice, and sports and pastimes were observed, even within the convent walls, with yet more zeal than the sad probation. Then came the solemn Lenten season of fasting and prayer, without breathing space between it and the gay festivities, so that the frivolities of the carnival necessarily blended with all sacred thoughts. 
               Meat was denied, but there were eggs in abundance, and plenty of fine carp, deliciously cooked with nice wines, so that there was slight cause for regret at the temporary absence of the grosser animal food. 
               During Lent, Nina and her two companions formed a plan for a "supererogatory probation." 
               Their teachers acquiesced in what they esteemed a laudable desire, and permitted them to absent themselves from school for nine days. 
               Stretched out upon their beds in a row, they lay with arms extended in imitation of a crucified Redeemer, with rosary in the hand, and cross upon the breast. 
               "There is one thing wanting," said Nina to her companions, during a short respite from their prostrate position; "we have not tasted the gall." 
                
               "One thing," poor souls! What is not wanting to render us in the slightest approach like unto our blessed Lord and Exemplar! 
               "But what shall we have?" asked the young girls; "we cannot get it." 
               "I will prepare something which will answer," replied Nina, "and we will all three drink of it with our evening's devotions." 
               It was a strange mixture of linseed-oil, pomatum, hair-powder, and lime, scraped from the wall, which she presented to her companions as the bitter, bitter cup; and, with sad grimaces, they swallowed enough to keep them upon their beds much longer than during their voluntary "novena." 
               When Mother Angelica heard of the circumstance, she was greatly displeased with the candidates, and reproved them seriously for their want of watchfulness over their young pupils. 
               While the young ladies were ill, Mother Augustina, who had no sympathy with the austerities of her more zealous sisters, took occasion to speak often to them of the folly of such fanatical demonstrations, and to impress upon them what holiness of motive and purpose God requires of His children, in contradistinction to the outward cleansing of cup and platter; she told them also how utterly worthless in the sight of Heaven this revolting bodily discipline must be, and she pointed them continually to the All-Atoning sacrifice, without which their efforts for eternal life would be wholly unavailing. 
               As Nina listened to her teachings, the precepts of the beloved uncle returned to her with all their force, causing her again to waver in her purpose to lead a life of seclusion; still between that life and the world stood the dread presence of Marguerita Sponheim to turn the balance in favor of the nunnery. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               WE pass over the remainder of Nina's conventual experience, since there is little of interest in a fixed and unvaried routine. Suffice it that there was much that was evil, with a sprinkling of the good and pure in her daily life, and the chief joy in the end, was the coming of the beloved uncle, whose face had been strange to her for three long years. 
               It was such delight to Carl Sponheim to fold his precious niece to his bosom with a proud and reconciled feeling. 
               "Still my own darling one," said he, as her dark eyes met his own so fondly, and his embrace was returned with all the ardor of a warm and loving nature. 
               "So, you would be a nun, my little one?" he asked, looking fondly upon the graceful figure, and contrasting it with the statue-like objects that moved about the quiet convent. 
               "Your destiny, my child, is far greater than to be walled up in a living tomb," resumed he, as Nina persisted in her desire to take the veil rather than to go back to a former sorrow. 
               "Your uncle and aunt wish you to return to them at Vienna; they forgive all the past, and will restore you fully to their love and favor." 
                
               "Oh, no, no! dearest uncle," said Nina, passionately; "they never loved me;-they will never be kind to me! far rather would I never quit the nunnery, than live in such a home, where there is no heart, no affection!" 
               "Do not distress yourself," said the priest, touched by the anguish, the cause of which he could not comprehend. "You shall go with me, for a season at least. Let us be happy now, and the future must look out for itself. Make your adieus to your friends, and prepare forthwith for your journey. 
               "Come, come, put away the sadness, my darling," he continued, as the tears fell thick and fast in view of a separation from the gentle abbess, and the loving Mother Augustina, and the many pleasant schoolmates, who had so long shared her affections. 
               "Mother Angelica, you have weaned my treasure from me," said the priest, as the abbess entered the room, and gropingly sought her charge, and taking her hand respectfully, he led her to a seat, while Nina bowed down before her, weeping silently. 
               "She has been a pet lamb to me," said the abbess, softly smoothing the silky hair, and ever and anon pressing the young girl gently to her bosom. 
               "These dim eyes have so longed to look upon her face, to see if my soul's impressions are true; but I I doubt it not. She will be every way a comfort and blessing to you. 
               "'Tis the sorrow of my life that they come, but to go again," sighed she. 
               "Nina, lambkin, wilt forget the old blind abbess, who has thee close hidden in her heart of hearts, where she has been wholly cognizant of thy expansion from day to day for these many months? They cannot take thee thence, precious one! My soul's comforts are forever my own," and the tears from the sealed eyes mingled with those of the youthful mourner, while a smile of seraphic joy lighted up the pale face at thought of the strong and impregnable citadel. 
               "Hush, darling, hush," said she, almost commandingly, as the orphan's grief burst uncontrollably forth. 
               "'Tis too much! We shall meet often again; and then, there is a brighter home. You will be with me there, Nina, precious; always with me;" and with a fervent blessing, and many a tender embrace, the golden cord stretched itself out until the two friends were far distant from each other, though never sundered. 
               Mother Augustina was calm, and apparently unmoved by every change; but she felt none the less keenly the removal of her affectionate pupil; and the two young friends often, in their dreamy, unconscious state, reached across the narrow space for the little hand that could no longer be extended to meet their clasp. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               HOW glorious was the old house at Neusidle, in the broad sunlight, as it gleamed upon the view of the long-exiled one! The tall lindens waved her a glad greeting, bowing their stately heads lower and lower at sight of the child-lady who stood once more beneath them. The peasants were all about, awaiting their turn to kiss the hem of their young mistress' dress. Father Bonda pressed forward with a warm and hearty welcome; and old Caterina hobbled forth, with her bent frame straightened to its utmost ability, and her bleared eyes searching zealously for the "little one" who used to trip about at her heels and spoil her holiday pastry. Her imbecile mind could not take in the graceful maiden who hastened to meet her, until Nina threw off her hat, and unbinding her tresses, let them fall negligently, as of old, about her neck; then, with a gleam of truest pleasure, the old woman kissed the hand that held her own, and muttering to herself of "great ladies" and "witches," led her to the kitchen, and emptied before her a rich store of cakes and bonbons, watching her with an expression of benevolent delight, as she tasted the goodies with evident relish. 
               What pleasure was Nina's through the long summer, roving about with the same childish freedom as in the former years, or sitting by the old easy chair in the study, with the same earnest simplicity that characterized the little girl. 
               "You will never be a woman, Nina," said the fond uncle, patting the white hand that lay upon his knee, and hoping in his inmost heart that she would not soon change from the clinging trustfulness of her nature, into the cold and unloving devotee of worldliness and folly. 
               "I have no wish to be other than I am this minute, dear uncle,-your own simple Nina. When I think of change, I am miserable, and sincerely wish there was no ambition to remove me from this lowly position. The footstool at your feet is my throne; a queen's wouldn't suit me better;" and the dear girl looked upward with a proud and triumphant expression into the eyes that were beaming fondly upon her; then turning to the Carmelite, who sat dreamily gazing at the beautiful picture of youth and age before him, she said: 
               "Father Bonda, have you taught Uncle Carl to seek my happiness, rather than my earthly glory?" 
               Thus suddenly aroused from his reverie, the monk started, and changing the dreamy expression into one of real and intense earnestness, he asked: 
               "What is your idea of happiness, Nina?" 
               "Why, why! to sit here, always, and thus," replied she, blushing, and clasping the two hands of her uncle still more tightly within her own. 
               The Carmelite sighed as he contrasted the troubles and turmoils of this busy life, with the serenity and joy of that quiet hour; but the good priest smiled benignly, as he said: 
               "But child, Nina, where would be the duties? this life is not given us for a playground simply." 
               "Is it wrong to love, dear uncle? Duty is such a cold word." 
               "The two, love and duty, are most intimately blended, dear child. Do you find it irksome to minister to my pleasure and comfort, Nina?" 
               "Quite the contrary; how can you ask me?" returned the niece with surprise. 
               "Because I wish to prove to you that no duty is lifeless, or forced, that springs out of a true affection; just as your love for me makes it a delight to you to do every thing that would meet my approbation, so your love to your Almighty Friend will make it a real joy for you to do His holy will." 
               "I understand you perfectly, dear uncle; but still, it is not my pleasure to do all that you require of me,-for instance, Vienna and Aunt Marguerita." 
               Nina could not trust herself to give more than a hint of the hateful subject, and she timidly awaited her uncle's reply. 
               After a moment's thoughtfulness he answered sadly. 
               "In that case, Nina, what you cannot do gladly, you will try for my sake to do resignedly, submitting yourself wholly to my better judgment, and believing that I have only an eye to your good; but never mind, we will waive that matter for the present. Would you like to visit Grosburh once more?" continued he, as a melancholy stole over her features: 
                
               "Your brother John and his wife are coming to see us, and we can all go together." 
               "Yes, indeed! that will be of all things the most delightful! I haven't forgotten a spot about the place,-the park, nor the pond, nor the beautiful rivulet, nor the dear old haunts where I used to flit about so like a bird. Oh, it will be such happiness to see it again!" and springing up in her glee, she forgot all about Vienna and its distasteful accompaniments. 
               "You will like your sister Fanny, I know," said her uncle, following her free steps about the study floor; "she is just the wife for John, neither grave nor too gay, but sprightly, and so gentle withal." 
               "Who is she like, uncle mine?" asked Nina, stopping thoughtfully, with her whole soul in the question. "I don't know what to make of a sister: are sisters like aunts?" and she looked archly at her uncle, as she seated herself at his feet again, quite absorbed in the discussion of the new relative. 
               "This sister of yours will be a choice companion for you, dear Nina," replied the priest; "she is quite ready to take you to her heart, and to treat you with a real sisterly tenderness." 
               "I don't know what that is," said the niece; "but I shall be very glad to learn,-that is, if it is like uncle's tenderness," added she, with the arch look again. "But we shall see, we shall see," and she bounded out to meet old Caterina, whose crutches went limping in the distance, through the corridor into the cheery kitchen. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               "AND so you were somewhat puzzled to know 'what sisters are like,' were you, Nina," asked the brother's wife playfully, as she drew the young girl affectionately to her, and embraced her with much cordiality. 
               "Uncle Carl has been playing the tell-tale, you see. Why, they are just the dearest things in the world, if one will only let them be," and she kissed her fondly, and toyed with the dark hair that waved over Nina's forehead. 
               "I had one, once," she added, sinking her voice into a subdued and saddened tone. 
               "So precious! so lovely! I knew it was too good to last; but the memory is fresh and beautiful, I cannot lose that," and the tone grew cheerful again. 
               "Was she like you?" asked Nina, creeping closer to her new friend, and winding her arm about her, as if they had never been strange to each other. 
               "Oh, no, darling; as unlike as light and darkness,-such glory here!" said Fanny, putting her hand upon her brow, and gazing reverently upwards. "'Twas as if an angel had touched it, and left the impress of a heavenly brightness. I used to tremble as I watched the radiance, for I felt that it could not linger long with mortals." 
                
               "She died young?" asked Nina, with a tear in her dark eye. 
               "Five years ago the last June; just sixteen, and so full of promise. Oh, how we clung to the shadow of a hope, and prayed death to be pitiful towards our sorrow! It was of no avail; she is sleeping now, so sweetly. You must be in Ida's place to me, dear Nina, among the living; 'tis so blessed to have a sister upon the earth once more." 
               "If I only may!" said Nina, flushing with joy. 
               "And John says you are to live with us at Vienna,-but you don't like Vienna, I think?" 
               "'Tisn't that; Vienna was well enough in itself; but,-" 
               "Never mind, I know all about it; John tells me every thing," returned the sister, stopping Nina short in the disagreeable subject. "We shall have very nice times yet, even in that detestable city." 
               "Was it always your home?" asked Nina. 
               "Oh, no! we lived for many years in the country,-like this;" and she cast a delighted glance at the beautiful landscape around them. 
               They were sitting under the shadow of the little church, and the sacred influence of the spot had its tranquillizing effect upon them, and somewhat tinged their conversation, leading them to speak together of the dead past, more than of the bright and living future. 
               "Is 'Grosburh' any thing like this?" asked Fanny, as Nina spoke of her early home. 
               "You shall judge; we are to visit it soon. Of course, I give it the preference; my remembrance of it is most endearing and sacred; but I suppose things are changed now." 
               "That's the sorrow!" said the brother's wife; "if we could only perpetuate what we love! 
               "I never go to the old homestead now. I could not support the sadness. Neusidle has always been happy to you, hasn't it, Nina?" 
               "Ah, yes, too happy! because it makes every other place gloomy in comparison; but then what would it be without Uncle Carl? Raab will be the spot soon, for they have elected my uncle bishop, and Neusidle will be deserted before long." 
               "What will become of the peasants?" asked Fanny. 
               "There is a successor already appointed, and Father Bonda will remain to assist him." 
               "But your uncle is so much beloved here, 'twill be like losing an eye, or hand, to part from him." 
               "I am sorry for them," said Nina, "but it cannot be helped. Did you know my uncle before you married John?-I fancied it, from the cordial greeting between you." 
               "I'll tell you something, Nina," said the brother's wife, laying her finger upon her closed lip, warningly. 
               "Your Uncle Carl and my Aunt Fanny were to be married; but she died, years ago,-that was when I was a little girl, and many and many a time, have I sat upon your uncle's knee and listened to his pleasant stories, for he was always as affable and kind as he is now, and thought as much of the comfort fort of little people as of older folk. You may be sure I got to loving him very dearly." 
               "And have you never seen him since then?" 
               "Not until John brought me at Christmas time to visit Neusidle,-'twas such a surprise to him to find in his new niece, his old playfellow." 
               "It must have been delightful!" 
               "To me, certainly; and to him, so he was good enough to say: but come, the sun is near its setting, and we must go,-one kiss more, darling. What do you think sisters are like now, Nina? will you be quite glad that we have met?" 
               Nina did not answer, but her face was expressive of a real joy, as she returned her sister's caress, and her silence was better than words. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               "GROSBURH" lay basking in the summer radiance, as Nina looked once more upon the glassy stream and the majestic trees that stood with their sturdy arms outstretched over her as in blessing. 
               Her heart grew almost still as she lingered in one of the densely shaded avenues, listening to the sounds of her early days that came thronging around her. The breezes swept through the rustling foliage, bringing with them the memory of her happy childhood, when roving by the beloved mother's side, the same mysterious whisperings were heard above her. The lowing of the cattle in the distance; the plashing of waters, as the geese performed their ablutions in the pond near by; the yelping of the fettered hounds for freedom;-all these familiar home-sounds made her oblivious of the intervening years, and placed her once more upon her childish feet. 
               But the murmuring of the musical "Burh" was dirge-like and sad, and shutting out the other sounds, recalled to her, how vividly! the change from the former time. 
               The old house stood beckoning her to its hospitable roof; but there came forth no bounding step to hasten her own glad feet, and the face of Frau Dolclein, the strange housekeeper, had no fascinations for her; so she loitered about the grounds until Fanny was ready to accompany her to the spot where all that she cherished in her early home, lay resting. 
               Three women were kneeling beside the grave, as the little party reached it, praying for the good lady who was such a blessing to the poor. 
               It was a worthy tribute to the gentle departed, and brought a truer consolation to the heart of the orphan than any spoken word could do. 
               The pure flowers were nestling among the long grass, and a luxuriant vine crept about the white monument, twining round and round, and sending forth a precious odor from its fragrant blossoms. 
               Nina sat down by the green mound, and resting her head upon it, as if it were the loving bosom of her parent, she gave vent to the pent-up grief that had been so deeply hidden since the sad day long before, when the light departed from the family group. 
               One step separated her from the stalwart form of her father, and as she pictured him lying there so stern and cold, an icy shiver seized her spirit; but the ardent love sprang up through the heavy earth whereon she was reposing, and melted the frostiness, leaving in its stead a perfect glow of warmth and bliss. 
               Fanny suffered her to indulge in a silent reverie, until her judgment told her it should be broken, and then taking the vacant place beside her, she said, tenderly- 
               "Nina, darling, we each have our angel, how blessed are we! Whatever comes to us upon earth, we can still look upward, and descry the changeless faces, with the beatific smile, beaming upon us. Speak to me, sister mine, and tell me that you feel as I do, that the comfort is ever with us, despite the natural tears that would give to the world a different impression." 
               "All is so bright with you," murmured Nina, clasping a tuft of flowers, and unconsciously expressing their sweetness. 
               "'Tis because I grasp the glories," replied the brother's wife, catching at the simile before her; "the very essence comes forth when we are little thinking of it, and the great good is diffused all about us, making our pathway odorous of joy and gladness." 
               "Where did you learn your cheerfulness, dear Fanny?" asked Nina, musing over the wonderful equanimity of her new sister, whose past trials were all known to her. 
               "Suffering has been my faithful teacher," said Fanny, calmly; "'twas many a year before the lesson of patience and faith was so deeply rooted in my heart as to bring forth fruit; but, thank God! the discipline has at length availed, and I am now a partaker of the benefits." 
               "Was Ida willing to die?" asked Nina, thinking of what she considered the deepest sorrow of her sister's life. 
               "So ready!" said Fanny, slightly bowing her head, and looking into the sad eyes before her; "at first there was a natural reluctance at thought of parting with us all, but the end was triumphantly glorious." 
               "Were you with her at the last?" 
               "Yes, darling; her head was on my breast, and her gaze fixed upon me, as yours is now, Nina. I did not know when the angel came, the breath was was gone so quietly; but the heavenly expression lingered until her form was hidden from us." 
               "You love to speak of her?" 
               "To you, dearly; 'tis a subject sacred from most people; few sympathize in one's sorrows, and a kindred feeling is what we seek when we reveal our inmost emotions." 
               "I know; Uncle Carl answers that so fully; glad when I'm happy, and always prompt with words of comfort and love, when the cloud comes over me." 
               "You are young, dear Nina, to be often shrouded with trouble." 
               "And yet I have to look far back to find the clear sky-when this was level," she added, smoothing her hand over the turfy mound, and sighing deeply. 
               "Would you call her back, Nina, if it would restore your perfect joy?" asked Fanny. 
               "Sometimes, yes; but not to stay; I have such an intense longing to look upon her face once more." 
               "You cannot have forgotten it." 
               "'Tis always with me, shadowy and dim; but what I want is the real presence; to feel the fleshly hand upon my brow, and to touch the living face with my lips. O Fanny! 'tis too much, too much to be alone upon earth!" 
                
               The brother's wife looked reproachfully into the eyes that were beaming upon her through the mists that suffused them; and kissing her with the utmost tenderness, she raised her gently, and summoning her uncle, who was lost in his own quiet reflections, they went silently to the house. 
               "Would you like to look over the rooms, Fanny?" asked Nina. 
               "If you can!" replied the sister, wondering at the sudden calmness that possessed her. 
               "It will do me good," said Nina, linking her arm in Fanny's, and commenting on all that they passed on their round. 
               "This is my own little wheel, and here is dear mamma's," said she, as they entered the spinning-room. 
               "No more pleasant labor here together," and she turned tearfully away from the silent mementoes of a former joyous period. 
               "We can have a peep at father's arsenal now," whispered she, with the same nervous timidity that characterized her earlier days. 
               "I never ventured farther than this," and she stopped outside the threshold, while Fanny stepped boldly over, and curiously examined the polished weapons that still glistened upon the walls, as if ready for immediate use. 
               "Are you afraid, Nina?" asked she, taking down a sabre and making a flourish with it in the air. 
               "Not that, exactly; but we were never permitted to come here, and the old dread of an aggrieved law haunts me." 
                
               "You are a nervous, superstitious little puss!" said the sister-in-law, catching her hand, and drawing her to the window, whence they had a charming view. 
               "Never saw this!" said she as Nina expressed an unbounded admiration of the scene before her. 
               "Guess what I should have done with that stern father of yours? Why, nestled up to him lovingly, like this," she added, rubbing her cheek against her young companion's, and putting Nina's arms tightly about her waist. 
               "And then I would have toyed with all these ugly things, and made friends of them," and she glided out from the embrace, and touched the sharp steel, trying on casques, and breastplates, and frightening Nina with the strange freedom. 
               "You are courageous, and would have won him by your very confidence," returned Nina; "but my shrinking nature could not be overcome, and so I lost much true happiness." 
               "You are a dear little sister any how!" said the brother's wife, replacing the armor, and taking Nina's hand as they left the room; "I would not change you if I could; it's easy enough to say what one would do when every thing is imaginary-Uncle Carl! how you frightened me!" added she, laughing, as the good priest came suddenly upon them from a turn in the corridor, reaching out a hand to each of the truants, and greeting them in his gladsome way 
               "Spoiled pets! both of you," said the uncle proudly, bestowing a fond glance upon the two nieces, who were off again to continue their explorations of Nina's birthplace. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE summer was waning fast. Already the decay of autumn had begun to tinge the forests ere the sisters could resolve to leave the rustic seclusion of their uncle's abode. 
               Nina was to go again to the dreaded aunt, and her cousin Christina, who was her companion in the convent, had been with her to Raab to purchase her equipment for the season in Vienna. 
               Half buried in the new purchases, she sat exhibiting them to her sister-in-law, with a vexatious manner, that showed how little her heart was in the brilliant outfit. 
               "Show me that blue 'Gros de Naples,' that peeps so temptingly from its wrappings," said Fanny, pointing to the desired parcel. 
               "Oh, that's Christie's taste! and the pink satin with the white flowers and green leaves, and the lemon-colored, I suppose they are all very beautiful; but I'd give them up gladly, and wear a peasant's dress if I might only stay here," said Nina, turning away from the glistening heap, and moving restlessly about the room. 
               "Do you know, Fanny," asked she with a sudden halt before her sister, "why uncle is so bound up in all Aunt Marguerita's plans for me?" 
                
               "It has often puzzled me," said the brother's wife, "but John says she has such consummate art, that she can transform herself into an angel of light if she pleases, and your uncle has too much real goodness and simplicity to detect her guile." 
               "My destiny seems to be in her keeping," said Nina, mournfully. 
               "There will some day come a release," returned Fanny; "John and I have plans for your future so soon as our own are brought to some degree of perfection. 'Tis so uncertain whether Vienna will suit us after all, and if Raab is our home, you shall certainly share it." 
               "If Caterina's prayers avail, and the witches take my aunt from my pathway, you should add," said Nina, with tragic despondency in her face and a jest in her tone; "I have but little faith in any future good, so long as her sway lasts." 
               "Shall we go to the study now, Fanny?" she asked, as her sister put her hand gently upon her head, and murmured, "Patience, Nina darling, patience; I can see the cloud lifting, and the light beyond is very radiant!" 
               Father Bonda was looking very sad at prospect of a separation from the good priest, who was more than brother to him, so closely and harmoniously were they linked together in the mystic spirit communion; but the room gained in brightness as the two sisters crossed the threshold, and the light diffused itself, until it sat upon the wrinkled face, making it gleam almost joyously, despite the anticipated sorrow. 
                
               "Sit you here, Fanny," said Carl Sponheim, to his new niece, pointing to a chair beside him, "and you, Nina, there," and he moved the low cricket to its accustomed place. "Now, Brother Bonda, come into our circle," he added, drawing a seat nearer Nina's cricket, "and we'll see if any gloom can enter. If any one sees the approach of the dark phantom, he must say, 'Keep back, keep back, the charmed circle must not be broken by such as thou.' 
               "Wilt remember, dear child," he whispered to Nina, on observing the mist upon her dark eyes. 
               "Let not the phantom overcome you, my darling! It has battled sorely with Father Bonda, until you fairies came. I have no fears for him, so long as our circle is complete." 
               "You speak truly there," observed the monk; "if it could remain unbroken, I should be safe from all sombre enemies." 
               "And yet the single-handed combat is the truest test of might and courage," replied Carl Sponheim, thoughtfully. "The contest with fleshly ills must be met alone. That is not a perfect victory which receives aid from extraneous powers. The soul that has truly conquered is serene and calm, whether surrounded by the congenial and loving, or in the deepest seclusion and solitude." 
               "I think you hinted that there is strength in union," returned the monk. 
               "Yes; but it should not unfit us for valor when the phalanx is broken and the foe singles us out breast to breast. You were not wont to cling so to companionship, when you first came to Neusidle, Brother Bonda," said the priest, with a singular smile, as he thought of the grim Carmelite on his first introduction to his notice. 
               "I would forget that period," returned the monk, gravely, "and think only of the better creed which I have since learned of you. And yet," he added, "the solitary days are coming again, when I must be content with my lonely musings." 
               "Say not so," said his friend, seriously. "The burden of souls will occupy all your time, so that there will be no leisure to hang wearily upon you. I intrust my flock to you, in connection with Brother Carlmann, as to faithful and wise shepherds, and in the guidance of it you will both find comfort and blessing." 
               "I trust so," replied the Carmelite; "but it will be quite another thing than our mutual supervision and care; and I shall often sigh for the counsel which it will be my duty to impart,-'tis so much happier to be the disciple than the teacher." 
               "That each one of us will ever be," returned the good priest. "Even though the Popedom were ours, there is still one mightier, whose wisdom should be our constant guide. But we weary these young people with our grave discourse. Tell me of your plans, Fanny," he added, turning from the Carmelite, and gazing fondly upon his lovely niece. 
               "They are scarcely matured, dear uncle. I should be glad, for Nina's sake, to be in Vienna for awhile; but John's inclinations are towards Raab, as being more eligible for his profession." 
                
               "I hope you will decide upon the latter location, 'twill bring us oftener together," returned the priest, pressing Nina's hand, and looking benignly upon her. 
               "I shall be satisfied in that case," said Fanny; "but why not give Nina entirely up to us now, either in Vienna or Raab? John feels as if his claim were no light one; and she is a precious treasure to me." 
               Nina looked joyously at her fond sister, almost feeling that her wish would be gratified; but her eyes fell again, as her uncle replied,- 
               "Her Aunt Marguerita offers her every advantage for the coming year; and her education is the first thought now." 
               It was of no use to continue the subject; and so it was quietly dismissed, and the parting hours were spent by the pleasant group in trying to prepare each other for the great changes that were coming to all. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               NINA was again in Vienna, no longer surrounded by the quiet and order of her monastic life, nor the calmness and simplicity of her country home. 
               Her aunt received her with apparent kindness, and for a while lulled her into a fancied security from the former trying discipline; but it was not long before the old rgime was resumed. 
               There were, however, many comforts to divert her from her troubles, the greatest of which was the renewal of her friendship with Theresa Macholick, who at this time had her residence in Vienna. 
               Amusements, too, were thrust upon her by her Aunt Marguerita, who hoped to make of her a fashionable and frivolous lady; but the genius was wanting, and amid all the temptations and vanities, Nina retained the simplicity of character which to her Uncle Carl was her sweetest charm. 
               The pleasures of her gay life had no power to attract. The whirl from Vienna to Schonbrun, thence to Baden, and back again to Vienna, brought only satiety, save when some congenial acquaintance was the result of the commotion. 
               Resigning herself to the destiny which seemed marked out for her, she gave herself up, in a measure, to the whims and pursuits of her gay relative, for the sake of peace, though sighing continually for a different life. 
               "We will go to the Burg Theatre," said Frau Von Sponheim to her one night, as she entered her aunt's boudoir at her bidding. "You must see this famous ballet." 
               Madame Vigano was at that time ravishing the Viennese with her performances, and her novel style of dress. 
               With her waist short, a gauze tunic, and tights, shoes without heels, turned up and pointed at the toes, and her long tresses flowing about her person, she presented a pleasing contrast to the ladies of the court, whose lofty coiffure and stiff, powdered curls, falling ungracefully upon their bosoms, and their highly rouged cheeks, and profusion of jewels, made them seem like fantastic dolls. The heavy satin and brocade also, then in vogue, were so opposite to the gossamer drapery that adorned the danseuse, that every eye was turned admiringly toward the stage; and even the emperor himself could not refrain from crying out aloud, "She is an angel." 
               The engagement of the danseuse was for several years; but the jealous empress turned to some official, on this expression of her husband's delight, and ordered him to banish her from Vienna in less than twenty-four hours. 
               The people, of course, were vexed at the petty feeling of the empress, and pitied poor Franzel, who was much beloved by them. 
               As Nina leaned forward to get a better view of the stage, her eye fell upon a stranger opposite, whose glance of unmistakable interest caused a deep blush to suffuse her face. 
               "Count Clari is bowing to us, Nina," said her aunt with great satisfaction. 
               Thenceforth the ennui and gloom that had always oppressed the young heart, in the brilliant and glaring room, were gone. 
               The feeling of isolation in the midst of thousands died away; the gorgeous paraphernalia of scenery and spectators vanished, and the fascination came through a silent gaze that often sought her own. 
               Meantime the crisis of her domestic ills was fast drawing near. 
               Carl Sponheim was on his way to Raab, to take possession of his bishopric, and stopping at Vienna to see his niece, was shocked on finding her thin and pale, and apparently wasting with some hidden disease. 
               "Why are you looking so delicate, my child?" he asked, pressing her to his bosom, and caressing her with his wonted enthusiasm. 
               Nina hesitated to speak, as she thought of his past infatuation concerning her plausible relative; but as her uncle became earnest in the matter, and insisted on her telling him every thing without reserve, she said: 
               "Aunt Sponheim gives me too much medicine, and keeps me always hungry. I should be hearty and well if it were not for the constant dieting, and physicking, to reduce me to her refined taste; besides I am subjected to many petty annoyances, which render me altogether as miserable as I used to be." 
                
               The bishop made no reply, but looked very grave; and leaving his niece, he hastened to the presence of his brother and sister, who were toying with the little Misco, their baby boy. 
               Christina, who had accompanied her uncle from Neusidle, was with them; but Nina, trembling at her own daring, went sorrowfully to her room, scarcely breathing, for fear of the result of her rash act. 
               There her cousin joined her, after a few moments, and cried out, as soon as she had ascertained that no one was within hearing- 
               "Why, Nina, what have you done? There is some great mistake; your Uncle Carl has been talking very earnestly with your aunt. I could not hear what he said; but she replied that 'you were always a very wicked, deceitful girl, and that Nettie is so good and amiable in comparison.' 
               "She also told Uncle Carl that you were constantly speaking of his death, and hinting of your future prospects." 
               Thus was the intrigue made plain to the understanding of the young girl; the mystery of the persecution, and dislike, and detraction,-all unravelled by the intriguer herself. 
               "What shall I do, Christie?" asked Nina, sinking upon a seat in utter hopelessness, shocked at the boldness and enormity of the charge, and feeling herself quite powerless to contend with so skilful an opponent as her aunt. "What can I do? Help me, Christina?" 
               Her cousin looked at her for a moment as she sat, despairing and still, with the paleness of death upon her features, and then remembering that immediate action was necessary, if she would avail her any thing, she took her hand, and going towards the door, said firmly and indignantly, "We will confront them." 
               Nina could scarcely speak for weeping; but suppressing her sobs as far as possible, she said, while clinging to her uncle's knees, and covering his hands with passionate kisses: 
               "Uncle Carl, God knows I have never thought of your property, but have constantly prayed for the preservation of your life as my only earthly blessing. My aunt has been always unkind to me; Uncle Edward is better; Nettie I love very dearly. Aunt Marguerita knows that my words are true." 
               The color went and came in the cheeks of the guilty woman; but commanding her rage, and assuming an aggrieved tone, as better suited to beguile the credulous bishop, she said: 
               "Nina, poor child! to what purpose is this wicked outburst? Your uncle has heard what I had to say concerning you, and is convinced of its justice." 
               What could the feeble and truthful innocent do against such impious hypocrisy! 
               Edward Sponheim's heart smote him, as his dead brother's child went forth from his presence without the extenuating word that he could have spoken; but the influence of the evil eye was upon him, and he dared not break the spell that kept him silent. 
               The bishop's indignation was only equal to the suffering which he experienced, as he thought that the child of his every prayer and desire was a dissembler towards him, and cared but for the wealth which it had been really his purpose to bestow upon her, were it not for the machinations of Marguerita Sponheim. 
               Christina consoled her cousin with the assurance that her uncle's love would be restored to her in tenfold measure when he should find out that she was the victim of so base a plot. 
               "Do not despair," said she, as Nina sobbed wildly, and beat upon her breast in the bitterness of her sorrow. 
               "All will yet be well. John is settled now in Raab, and Fanny is sadly in need of your companionship. They intended to send for you soon, and this will expedite matters." 
               "But what am I to do in the interim?" said Nina. "Aunt Marguerita will vent a double spite upon me now. Is there no escape from her at once, Christina?" 
               "Do nothing rashly," returned her cousin, recalling the elopement from Schonbrun; "it would but confirm Uncle Carl in the opinion which your aunt has given him; trust to time and love, dear Nina, and be hopeful; I will not rest until you are really happy." 
               "But Uncle Carl! How can I think of him in his just anger? Just, if he believes me the vile thing my aunt would make me," said Nina, bursting into a fearful fit of anguish. 
               "It will soon soften by reflection, dear Nina, and he will be more tender than ever when he sees things in their real light." 
                
               "Can that ever be?" murmured the orphan, despondently; "how can we hope to prevail against her, and set him right?" 
               "The truth will reveal itself, notwithstanding all her endeavors to hide it," replied Christina, as she smoothed the soft hair of her stricken cousin, and bathed her flushed face. 
               "Have I not promised to help you? and Fanny is a sweet pleader, and must prove an effectual one with your uncle; she seems to have an unwonted influence over him." 
               "So she has," said Nina, almost hopefully, as she remembered the secret intrusted to her by her brother's wife; "I shall be quite resigned if I have you both in my cause." 
               The resignation and the hope, however, vanished with the light of day, and all through the sad night Nina struggled with her grief, lingering with deepest sorrow upon the parting moment which the morrow would bring, and praying that it might not increase the weight of her already wearisome burden. 
               The next day she was walking with her cousin upon the ramparts, when they were joined by the good bishop. 
               The morning was frosty and chill, but all had found the house oppressive, and, as if impelled by one common motive, had wandered forth to escape the gloom of the inclosing walls. 
               It was evident to each that the other was suffering. Neither cared to break the silence that seemed to seal their lips; but the hour for separation was fast approaching, and as Carl Sponheim took the hand of his niece and put it within his arm, Christina made some plausible excuse to return to the house, thus leaving them alone, for the express purpose of a better understanding of their difficulties. 
               The bishop was, however, too much wounded to make the slightest allusion to the subject, and withal too generous to manifest any resentment towards the child of his love and solicitude, whose anguish, he felt assured, was commensurate with her fault. 
               Looking down upon the sad face that was upturned to meet his own, he quietly spoke of the bright hopes that were in his heart for her future. The past seemed but a blank, so studiously did he avoid its mention; but in vivid colors he depicted "the honor and happiness that would surely grow out of a good and virtuous life, and the great and certain blessing that would ever attend the true and godly, even though they might be sadly misconstrued by the shortsightedness of their fellow-men." 
               Notwithstanding the deep grief that Nina felt was gnawing at her uncle's heart, his words were cheering, and revived her patience and courage, and when the final adieus were spoken, the depression and bitterness gave place to the confidence that all would yet be bright and clear, and she whispered: "I shall see the sun once more in his glory, dear Christie, as it used to be in the old house by the 'Burh.'" 
               "That's right!" returned her cousin; "the very hope will bring the glad consummation nearer. Fanny and I will form a mighty league for your rescue, and will soon take you from this place; but we must work judiciously, or Aunt Marguerita will spoil our plans." 
               The bishop unconsciously made the way plain for his nieces, by saying at that moment to his brother and sister, that he had received intelligence from John, of Fanny's ill-health, and that Nina might soon be summoned to Raab, in which case he hoped she would be in readiness to go immediately to her sister. 
               Then folding the young orphan in one long silent embrace, he turned away from Vienna towards the new home and the new trials. 
               Another weary month passed on, illumined only by the dark eyes that still followed Nina whenever she was in public. 
               The spring-time had come ere Fanny gave the anticipated summons, and then her Aunt Marguerita's permission must be obtained before the change could be made. 
               Frau Von Sponheim dreaded her niece's contact with the bishop, well knowing that her own long fabric of deception would be unravelled and scattered to the winds, if the skilful fingers of simplicity and truth did but touch the beginning; but her husband sanctioned the speedy departure of his niece, whose unmurmuring patience had quite won him to her cause; and, insisting that there should no longer be any compulsion in her sojourn with them; but that she should go and come according to her own will and pleasure; he himself prepared to accompany her to Presburg where her brother was to await them. 
                
               The angry aunt had to swallow her wrath, and appear to acquiesce in her lord's measures, lest by an open rupture, she should forever banish Nina from her household, and thus defeat her own intricate purposes. 
               With a bland smile and courteous tone, she seconded the cordial words of her husband, as he assured his niece of a hearty welcome whenever she should return to them. Then she swept majestically from the room and shut herself up in her boudoir, to vent her chagrin and spite alone. 
               "What if these long years of duplicity should, after all, avail nothing excepting to bring an insupportable burden of shame and remorse!" 
               There was agony in the thought; and the fashionable lady, unable to endure the searchings of her own heart, made quickly ready to go with her gay friend, the Baroness Macholick on some oblivious excursion. 
               There were some regrets, as Nina thought, of leaving Vienna, not for the home that had always been sad and distasteful to her; but for the pleasant walks and drives that, in company with her beloved Theresa, she had so often enjoyed. 
               Standing upon the ramparts with her precious friend, she cast her gaze admiringly over the beauteous scene before her, sighing, that amid all the wondrous glory, the shadow of a sorrow would be ever visible to her. 
               Looking over the "glacis" upon the charming suburbs, with their fine palaces and verdant gardens,-seeming again to behold the luxuriant vines that covered the country with greenness, and again to the waters of the Danube, whose silvery arms folded in the shady "Prater," she longed for the spirit of a perfect peace to shut out the phantom that had ever hovered over all these beauties, dimming them to her otherwise enraptured eyes. 
               "Shall we take one more drive in the Prater?" asked Theresa, following the direction of her gaze and divining her thoughts by the sympathy that allied them. 
               "I should like it above all things!" said Nina, pressing the hand of her friend, and bestowing upon her a fond and grateful glance. 
               "You are my true fairy, Theresa, to guess my wish so readily." 
               "It would be strange not to know what is in my own heart," said Theresa, smiling; "but come, we have little time to lose; when we reach the pleasant bank of the river, we can loiter as long as we will." 
               "Was ever any thing more glorious!" said she, waving her hand over the scene before them. "The fresh leaflets, and the glad verdure that stretches itself out all around, and the sparkling waters. Oh, Nina! you must love all this pure and innocent nature, whatever may come between it and you, to trouble or sadden." 
               It seemed as if all the world had poured forth its denizens into the alleys and groves of the great park. 
               Carriages were thickly rolling through the middle entrance. Equestrians were caracolling their gay steeds on either side, and eager pedestrians crowded the outer avenues, all bent towards the one object-pleasure. 
               The woods and lawns were filled with merry or pensive groups; some seated beneath the shadow of the trees, with books or more congenial and sympathetic companions; others gathering about the cafs smoking, or partaking of refreshing beverages. 
               Nina and Theresa, absorbed in their own peculiar interests, bestowed but a passing glance upon the scenes that were transpiring around them; but emerging from the avenue, towards a spot whence many a narrow path diverged, leading to the more sequestered portions of the park, they stopped the carriage. 
               As they were alighting, a graceful and expert horseman swept around a curve near them, and with a glance of recognition, bowed courteously, and passed onward. 
               It was the first time Nina had received so marked a salutation from the stranger, and a deep blush suffused her whole face as she met the inquiring gaze of her friend. 
               "Who is it?" asked Theresa, looking after the noble figure with unfeigned admiration. 
               "Count Clari, a friend of my aunt's," replied Nina. "We have never spoken to each other, I assure you," she continued, as her companion held up her finger in an insinuating way. 
               "Never mind, never mind," said Theresa, as the color still lingered on the brow of the conscious Nina. "Hearts need not tongues to speak their thoughts, and I'll venture, you are not strangers, despite your unbroken silence." 
               "Where do you propose going?" asked Nina, stepping forward a little, to escape the scrutiny of her friend's eye. 
               "Oh, 'tis just here," replied Theresa, following her, and going on until they reached a shady spot near the river. 
               "So you are going to-morrow, Nina?" she added, as they seated themselves upon a rustic bench. "I should scarcely be reconciled, did it not seem to give you so much happiness. You are really radiant today with the foretaste of the pleasure." 
               "And yet there is a sorrow in it, Theresa. I am so uncertain about Uncle Carl. He was very angry with me when we last met; and although his letters are kind, they breathe not the warm spirit that formerly pervaded them. This makes me shrink from him; and yet the only way to be restored to his love is to be near him, and outlive the slander of my aunt." 
               "I wouldn't give it a thought," returned Theresa. "Your uncle is all over it long before this, I'll venture. The idea of doubting such a little piece of simplicity and artlessness as you! I shall have good news of your happiness in less than a month, believe me, Nina." 
               "Your prophecy is agreeable to me now, whether it prove a true one or not; but we will not speak about it, I have other matters to communicate;" and in the shadow of the foliage, by the musical waters, the two friends poured out their hearts, until the waning hours warned them homeward; when summoning the "Haiduck," who had lingered at a short distance from his young mistress, they proceeded to the carriage, and were soon winding out of the lovely park. 
               There were a good many confidences, so sweet to those just entering the rosy path of life, as they roved about the charming retreat, and as they drove slowly along the beautiful avenue; some were of past joys and sorrows, and some of a coming gladness wherein no bitter drops were to mingle. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               "HEART'S treasure!" whispered the gentle Fanny, folding her sister to her loving bosom. "Fine doings, wasn't it, pet, to take all the color out of the rosy cheeks, and make you the dear lily that you are? Never mind, Nina darling, plenty of good cheer now, and many a nice drive with Uncle Carl to bring back the bloom. Let me help you, clumsy one," she added, laughingly, as the trembling hands vainly tried to undo the fastenings of the travelling dress; "you are a nervous little thing any way; fit only to be petted and caressed." 
               "'Tis so good to be really here at last," said Nina. "But, Fanny, you would not wonder that I am overcome by the pleasure, if you could know all that has transpired since we met, and how ardently I have been looking forward to this moment, and yet feeling that it would never come." 
               "Well, we have you fast now, birdie; must we clip the wings to hold you captive, or will you fold them contentedly, and not care to soar beyond our reach again? We need your gay carolling," added she, as Nina looked fixedly at her, just observing the wanness and pallor of the sweet face that was bending over her. "I have not been very merry of late, and John misses the songs about the house." 
                
               "You are ill, Fanny," said Nina, "and I have selfishly thought only of my own sufferings." 
               "Not ill now, dearest," returned the sister, pressing the little figure closer to her; "'tis wonderful what potent medicine a cheerful heart can give. I shall not be depressed any more, for I shall have you when John is gone, and he will be so easy about me, too; since he is appointed surgeon in the army, it takes him much away. 'Tis worth being ill, dear Nina, to know how much tenderness John feels for me; I could not guess all the love before;" and the young wife's head drooped still lower, and a soft blush displaced the pallor, at even this delicate betrayal of her secret emotions. 
               "You mustn't mind me," said Nina; "I like to hear you speak of it, and shall feel hurt if I cannot see your heart just as it is. Remember, there are to be no secrets between us, Fanny; and I have a great deal to tell you, of consequence too, if I am but a lassie yet." 
               "Every thing is of consequence to me that concerns you, darling. Uncle Carl was here yesterday to see if you had arrived, and he will be here presently to meet you, so you had better get a little rest before he comes." 
               "And he speaks favorably of me?" asked Nina, with much agitation. 
               "How can you doubt it! Christina soon convinced him of your sincerity and affection towards him, and he is as anxious to make amends for the bitterness he has caused you, as you can be to receive the fulness of his love." 
                
               "And I am to stay by him now, Fanny? Promise me this, and I shall be truly happy." 
               "This shall be your home, dear Nina, until you have one of your own, with its peculiar attractions," replied the sister, looking earnestly at Nina, and wondering if her confusion had any real cause. "No secrets, love, remember." 
               "I have nothing to tell," said Nina, as the crimson flush faded from her brow; "when I have, Fanny, you may be sure I shall observe my own rules most strictly. 'Twill be a willing confidence that I shall give, dear sister," added she, as she followed Fanny into the apartment allotted her. 
               The sister's delicate taste had prepared a delightful surprise for her in the many rare and beautiful articles that adorned her room. 
               It was so charming to stand in the midst of this fairy-like creation, and drink in both beauty and love. Sleep was banished from her eyes, and she could only lie passively upon her couch, with a sense of dreamy delight, and a grateful, glad emotion towards the heart that had prompted so much for her comfort. 
               "Here you are, at last, out of the fangs of that serpent!" cried Christina, rushing unbidden into Nina's room, and giving her so hearty a welcome as nearly to press the breath out of her body. 
               "What do you think of freedom from the fascinations of your tormentor, Nina; isn't it a comfortable feeling?" 
               "Why, Cousin Christie, how fresh you've grown since you came to Raab; almost beautiful," said Nina, eyeing her guest inquisitively, and paying no heed to her questions. 
               "Fortunately, I make no pretensions that way, dear coz," replied the blushing girl; "but, perhaps, you don't know what can transform even an ugly face into some degree of attractiveness. I'll tell you some time, Cousin Nina; we haven't a minute now, Uncle Carl is awaiting us below; the carriage is at the door, and we are all to accompany him on a drive. Don't tremble so, timid one," said she, as they approached the parlor door, "there is nothing alarming in Uncle Carl." 
               "If I were sure of his love," whispered Nina. 
               "And so you may be, dear child," said her uncle, overhearing her words, and clasping her to his heart, as she entered the room. 
               "Fanny, we must nurse our flower into a little more vigor," he continued, as he noticed the delicate form and white lips of his niece. 
               "Such tintless charms may please Aunt Marguerita; but a more ruddy and healthful physiognomy is to my taste. Christie is a perfect specimen," he added, drawing the robust maiden to him, and placing her between the sisters; "'twould take more than a gentle breeze to fan her away; but come, dear children, I have only a few hours to spare you," and taking Nina's hand he led the way to the carriage. 
               It was the first time she had been in public with her uncle since his elevation to the bishopric, and the respectful homage offered him was very grateful to her; the more so, as it seemed not to disturb his profound humility. 
                
               As they passed through the streets, the nobility stood with uncovered heads, and the common people knelt by the way, with a hand upon the heart, while their bishop was constantly making the sign of the cross in benediction over them. 
               He seemed to regard them all with the most paternal feeling and affection, smiling upon them with a benignant, happy expression, and even when he had reached the outskirts of the city, and the obeisance was over, and the crowd looked not upon him, his features wore a deep and hallowed earnestness, as if the burden of the mass of souls was ever pressing upon his heart. 
               He soon aroused himself, however, to talk with the young people, whose presence and conversation brought new life to him. 
               Old times, old pleasures, old friends, "Grosburh," Neusidle, Father Bonda, the new incumbent, Frau Caterina, all came in for a share of their notice, and altogether the drive was so delightful, that it should be often repeated, so Uncle Carl said, as he set his precious children down at Fanny's home again, and went to his increasing duties and cares. 
               The bishop's palace was on an eminence commanding a plcasant view, and Nina's brother occupied rooms in a monastery in one of the finest squares of the city, not far from her uncle's residence; but the communion of the good bishop and his niece, was far different from their intimate companionship in the old study at Neusidle, and Nina was obliged to content herself with an occasional walk or drive, when her heart was craving the former familiarity. 
                
               The bishop had large estates and a profusion of the good things of this life, but his stewardship was a faithful one, and the poor flocked freely to his doors, and went away again filled and happy, and the blessing of the grateful seemed to hover like a bright spirit over the house. 
               There was another place in Raab once fraught with peculiar interest to Nina, as being the refuge from her unkind relative; but now greatly diminished in attractiveness, as Mother Angelica had gone to her rest, and a harsh and bitter nature presided where the impersonation of love and gentleness had long time been. 
               Within the dingy walls, however, still lingered Mother Augustina, and several of Nina's old schoolmates, to draw her sometimes under the dim shadow of the convent roof. 
               Walking one day with her uncle past the nunnery, the conversation turned upon Nina's former inclination to a monastic life. 
               "Would you take the veil now, dear child?" asked the Bishop. 
               "What if you were secluded from us all, and from these beauties that you so revel in?" and he looked about upon the luxuries of nature, and then gazed inquiringly at his niece. 
               "Don't name it, dear uncle," said she, shuddering with emotion. "I owe you so much for preventing the incarceration; but I was comparatively happy there, that was what governed me; the contrast between that and my miserable life in Vienna was so great; Christina was of the same mind too. There was a sort of fascination about the blind abbess that made us long to be always with her." 
               "She was indeed a worthy and estimable woman," said the bishop; "but if I mistake not, she never urged the young people to assume the vows." 
               "No," answered Nina. "I've heard her say that for those who had eyes, the beauties of creation should never be extinguished, and that it was almost a sin to rob one's self of the joys so mercifully given. She did not dissuade the nuns from what they conceived to be a sacred duty; and she seemed pleased at my desire to remain in the nunnery, but I think it was more that she might have her children, as she always called us, around her, than from any zeal for the peculiar institution." 
               "You spoke of Christina," said the bishop. "Were you aware of her betrothal?" 
               "Christina's betrothal? That must be the cause of her unusual buoyancy," said Nina, musingly. "She had something to tell me; that is it, I am convinced; but we have scarcely had an opportunity for a private tte--tte." 
               "'Tis a sad thing," returned her uncle; "the young man is greatly her inferior; but her heart is in the matter, and I fear resistance will only strengthen her determination. I have written to your cousin 'Gailey' to come and take her away from his vicinage; but it may be unavailing, Christie has an obstinate will, poor child!" 
               "If she will not listen to your advice and pleadings, dear uncle, you may rest assured nothing else will move her." 
                
               "'Tis a pity! a pity!" said the bishop, as they reached the house of Nina's brother, and entered the room where Fanny sat, in earnest conversation with her husband. 
               "John is so distressed about this affair of Christina's," said Fanny, as she arose to salute the newcomer. "He thinks she will throw herself away upon Herr Vietz. What say you, Uncle Carl?" 
               "That was our topic just now," returned the bishop, looking at Nina. "It must be prevented if possible. Cousin Gailey will soon be here, and then we can consult as to the best course to be pursued." 
               "'T wont do," said Fanny; "'t wont do. Christina has an impetuous nature, and will never bear opposition. She loves Herr Vietz, and has determined to marry him at all events. This is her firm decision; why not acquiesce in it, since she alone has the consequences of the rash act to bear." 
               "But our duty in warning her must be performed," returned the uncle. "After that, the responsibility is no longer with her friends." 
               "Never mind Christie, dear uncle," said Fanny; "John has quite worn me out with his anxiety about her; you will leave me Nina to-day; our home has been dull enough without her." 
               "She begged to fly to you," said Carl Sponheim; "the house will be full of company, and my quiet little dove eschews all confusion." And with a parting benediction, the bishop left them. 
               As he went from the door Christina entered, and hurrying Nina into her own apartment, she said, flutteringly: 
                
               "I shall be married soon, dear Nina, to Herr Vietz; they don't like it, and uncle is trying to prevail on me to go to Sclavonia with Cousin Gailey, thinking to divert me from the thing; but you see, coz, I won't be diverted. Say I'm right, Nina; it is not pleasant to go contrary to them all; I want some sympathy in the matter; but give or withhold, 'tis all the same, I shall marry him;" and the resolute girl threw herself down upon the sofa beside her cousin, patting with her foot impatiently upon the floor, and toying with the strings of her hat, while the perturbed Nina looked silently and thoughtfully at her. 
               "Why don't you speak, Nina?" asked Christina; "I meant to tell you about it long ago, but I was afraid you, too, would join with them against me, and so I deferred it from time to time." 
               "But I do not know what to say," returned Nina. 
               "Say! why say that you are glad for the sweet emotions that make me almost beautiful, and that you are prepared to uphold me in all that I am about to do, even to resisting the authority of my lawful guardians." 
               "I am afraid to do that, Christie." 
               "You are such a timid thing! I am not afraid to do any thing in the world that I wish to, Nina, if I do seem to shrink from it somewhat; 'tis far pleasanter to have the countenance of one's friends; but since Herr Vietz is worthy and good, and there is no objection but to his position, I stand by him for better, for worse, despite the opposition." And the excited girl started up, and paced the room until the fervor of her feelings was exhausted; then coming back and taking her seat beside her silent cousin, the current seemed wholly changed, and she spoke again, lowly and sadly: 
               "I have no mother to guide me, Nina; in this we are both alike; and I have never been restrained in any thing until now; and they think that the discipline of a lifetime can be effected in a moment; my heart rushes wildly forth for sympathy; with my plainness, Nina, how could I hope to attract the noble and great; Herr Vietz met the need of my nature so heartily and fully, that before I was wholly aware of it, all the tendrils of our being were so inwoven that it were death to part them; I cannot give him up; they ask my life, dear Nina; only tell me that you should do as I shall, in the face of them all." And winding her arm lovingly about her cousin, she kissed her upon lip, and cheek, and brow, until she almost cried out for mercy. 
               "Yes, yes," said Nina, extricating herself from Christina's embrace, "I do not blame you, Christie; I am only glad you have the spirit that is so deficient in my own soul. I think Fanny would be on our side if it were not for John. You know it would not do to come out in opposition to her husband; but what little I heard her say augured favorably for you." 
               "Uncle Carl is the greatest obstacle," said Christina sadly; "he has such a calm, grieved sort of way when one goes contrary to his wishes, and then he has been such a father to me since I left the nunnery. Only think, Nina, but for him I should be shut up now with that terrible abbess, away from Henry too. It makes me afraid to thwart him in this case, if it shouldn't turn out right; I'm sure it must though," and the hope-light streamed all over her face, and she danced about the room until Fanny came on tiptoe, with her finger upon her lip, to hush her, lest she should disturb the peaceful slumbers of the new treasure. 
               "He's looking so lovely," said she, as she drew Nina and Christie into her own room, and with pride exhibited her cherub boy. 
               "Can any thing in this world be half so pretty?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               COUSIN GAILEY could not prevail upon the refractory Christina to accompany her to her distant home, and with reluctant heart the good bishop at last consented to bind his pertinacious niece in wedlock to the man of her choice. 
               Determined, however, not to have made her journey in vain, Cousin Gailey insisted upon taking Nina with her to Sclavonia for a long visit, and as there was a young artist in Raab whose evident admiration for the orphan Nina had been for some time observed by her watchful guardian, her uncle hailed the opportunity with joy, and decided to send her for a while from his presence, lest Christina's course should prove but the precedent for a similar imprudence. 
               So, with the blessing of the good bishop, and the love of the sweet sister following her, she turned away for her strange journey with but little sadness in her heart, since life was beginning to be wholly pleasant to her. 
               Stopping at Presburg to witness the coronation of the Emperor Francis, Cousin Gailey and her husband quite startled Nina, as they appeared before her, equipped for the occasion in Hungarian court-dress. 
                
               The lady wore a skirt of white brocade, inwoven with gold; corsage of the same material, laced with gold cord over a scarlet velvet stomacher covered with pearls. 
               The sleeves puffed, with a band of diamonds between each puff. 
               Upon the coiffure, in front, was a large diamond pin in the form of an open rose, with a smaller one upon each side. A bow of gold ribbon and gauze, with long ends, flowed from the back of the coiffure to the point of the waist behind, where it was fastened with a diamond hook, and thence fell downwards to the hem of the skirt. 
               Upon her neck she wore one row of diamonds and two rows of pearls. 
               Herr Von Gailey was clad in violet-colored cloth, made so tight that he had to be shaken into the nether garments; vest richly embroidered; gold lace, gold buttons; colbach, or mantle, thrown over the shoulders, with a heavy gold cord and tassels; yellow boots; gold spurs, and sabre, with the handle and sheath inlaid with precious stones. 
               The city was filled with the nobility. Metternich, Prince Esterhazy, Baron Macholick, and most of the lite of the nation joined in the gay festivities. 
               There was much to delay the little party in Presburg, and the weeks sped away almost unconsciously, until the approach of the cold season warned them away. 
               The roads in Sclavonia were very bad, and there were no hotels, so that a traveller was subjected to many discomforts, unless he provided amply for his own wants. 
               The journey threatened to be very tedious, as the snow came on, blocking up the carriage paths, so that the second and third days they were forced to put oxen before the horses, to enable them to make any progress. 
               When they were hungry, a spring in the carriage raised up the floor into a convenient table; and from the side-pockets, and the receptacle beneath the boards, they drew forth many a tempting morsel. 
               The scenery on the route was wild and romantic, and although despoiled of its emerald mantle, possessed many charms to the young Nina and her little cousin Anna, whose eyes were open to every novelty. 
               All about were castles falling into decay, old baskets depending from the walls, and dilapidated drawbridges hanging over precipitous rocks. 
               Tringen, the residence of Herr Von Bacha, Cousin Gailey's father, was at length reached, and the weary travellers were warmly greeted by the stately gentleman, whose lonely domains had seldom welcomed a guest since the beloved wife was summoned hence to her home above, and the only daughter went forth to illumine another household. Gathering the little Anna in his arms, the old man would sit for hours amusing his grandchild with pleasant stories, or watching her as she slept peacefully upon his bosom, while her mother revived with him the memory of the earlier days, when the old castle was merry and glad. 
                
               The winter went pleasantly enough; what with the delights by the cheerful hearth, and the many novelties to be found in the village. 
               Leaving Frau Von Gailey with her doting parent, Nina and Anna went often with their maid to watch the peasants at their labors, as they expertly moulded the black and yellow earthenware. 
               The interior of the huts differed from that of the peasantry at Grosburh and Neusidle, and called forth the scrutiny of the young explorers. 
               The floor was of yellow clay, thatched very tight, and kept neat and clean. Rude pictures of saints adorned the walls, and the crucifix and holy water had their own sacred place. A bench extended around the sides of the room. In one corner was an oven, about the size of a common bedstead, made of clay and bricks. Around it was a broad shelf of the same material where the children slept; and upon the top the father and mother had their nightly repose, with the younger offspring, whose tender years rendered the ledge below a precarious resting-place. 
               In another corner, were the mute companions and comforters of their daily life, supplying them at the same time both with nutriment and amusement for the little ones. 
               It was not strange that, with this constant and close intimacy, they should cling to their cow and goat as to human friendships. 
               Even the babes felt no fear at the sound of the hollow lowings, and would stretch out their little hands for the gentle Nannie's lambative caresses. 
                
               There was to be a wedding among the peasants. Three days before the ceremony, as Frau Von Gailey and his excellency sat talking together, a peasant, dressed in wide, blue trowsers, large boots, and broad brimmed hat, with flowers and ribbons floating from it, entered the room, and saluted Herr Von Bacha, thus: 
               "God be praised! the bride and bridegroom invite you kindly to the wedding, to partake of a spoonful of soup and a forkful of sour krout." 
               His excellency went not, but provided abundantly from the fattest of his flocks and poultry-yard, for the festivities; and Nina and Anna were permitted to grace the occasion with their presence. 
               The maiden was modest and pretty, and bore the honors of the festive season with a certain ease and gracefulness that come not alone from courtly training. 
               She wore her national dress, a black petticoat descending to the knees, very full, with six or seven rows of scarlet ribbon around it; black waist; very low neck, laced in front with black cord and tassels, over a scarlet stomacher, the seams embroidered with gay worsted; collar large, and covered with worsted flowers; muslin sleeves below the elbows, very full, with worsted flowers and scalloped ruffles. The hair was tied upon the top of the head, plaited, and fastened with a silver pin. Around her brow she had a wreath of gay flowers and ribbons; and upon her feet scarlet shoes, laced over leggings of black worsted. 
               Nearly all the women of the country were troubled with "goitre," which disease, however, they esteemed no affliction, but rather a mark of beauty, since the men regarded it favorably. 
               The bride was not exempt from this desirable accompaniment; and the revolting tumor gave no offence, excepting to the two young strangers, who had not yet been educated to the pleasurable, or even indifferent view. 
               For three days the sports continued-dancing and various amusements, and then the newly-wedded settled calmly into their sober domestic routine. 
               Christmas-Eve brought renewed pleasures. 
               All went to the village church to welcome the advent of the "God-Man." 
               The fresh evergreens and bright flowers expressed a silent joy, and imaged to the congregation the fadeless and enduring glory of Him whose coming in the flesh they commemorated. 
               On the right side of the church was a representation of the scene at Bethlehem. 
               Near a manger, filled with hay, stood two wooden oxen of life-like size. 
               The Virgin, Joseph, the Magi, and several shepherds, were grouped around a cradle, wherein lay a large doll dressed in swaddling clothes. 
               A boy clad in white garments, as an angel, stood beside the cradle and rocked it gently, as the organ sent forth a sweet and plaintive lullaby. 
               Services appropriate to the season were performed, and then Herr Von Bacha's family returned to the old castle to participate in festive cheer. 
               In the early spring, Cousin Gailey left the paternal nal mansion to its solitary lord, and went again to Presburg, on her way to her own estate in "Papa." 
               While lingering in the coronation city, the news reached Nina of a paralytic stroke which her good uncle had just experienced, and with all speed she flew to his bedside. 
               "I rejoice that you are not too late, my darling child," said the weak old man. "I shall not be here long, and I had something to say for your future good." 
               Nina chafed the cold hands and gave him a stimulant, as even these few words left him faint and almost exhausted. 
               A moment he waited, and then continued: 
               "It is such a pleasure to have you once more by my side, my love. I had thought that the death-angel would not delay his coming for my long-cherished wish. I bless God for permitting me to speak my last few words in your own ear-they would lose their weight from the lips of another." 
               Nina wept silently, as her uncle paused to gather fresh strength. 
               "I would have you return for awhile to Cousin Gailey, dear child," he resumed, resting his tremulous hand fondly upon her bowed head. 
               "She is a good Christian, and your soul's health will be cared for,-that is the only thing worthy an immortal being,-the fitting and purifying one's self for a glorious destiny beyond the tomb. 
               "Let not your probation be lost or wasted, my children," he added, turning his glassy eyes from Nina to Fanny,-then fixing his gaze upon the best beloved, he said, as she arose from her recumbent posture- 
               "Nina, my precious one, come nearer, and receive my last hallowed blessing. There are many crosses dear child in this weary life; but the end cometh by-and-by. 
               "Your pathway will be more intricate and tedious, as you journey on, unless the shadow of the great cross lies ever before you. Would God I could be your angel, my darling, with power to shield you from every evil or sorrow! But I leave you in His hands who is able to save and bless to the uttermost." 
               Nina and Fanny both sunk down beside the dying man, whose chilled hands were folded upon each beloved head, while the tremulous lips breathed forth an earnest benison. 
               It seemed as if the coming of his cherished niece had brought new life into the failing heart of the good bishop, for when they looked for the pulse to cease its beatings, it rallied once more, as if tenacious of the last fleeting moments, and they began to hope for a long respite from the dread sentence. 
               "He may yet be spared for many years to cheer us, dear Fanny," whispered Nina as they watched beside his couch. 
               With a faint smile her uncle looked upon her brightening face, as he caught her words. 
               "My days are numbered, dearest Nina," said he. "Neither wish nor prayer will stay the firm decree,-I dread not the tomb,-beyond it is life eternal. Kiss me, my children, and leave me for my final preparation. The last solemn rites of the Church await me. Heaven forever bless you, Fanny, Nina, my own dear lambs!" 
               More desolate than ever she had felt in all her sad life, Nina went out from the dying presence, to rejoin her Cousin Gailey at Presburg, whence they would go to another strange and untried home. 
               Father Bonda had been summoned to his old friend some time previous to his illness, as the bishop felt the indications of an approaching death, and desired the presence of the Carmelite. 
               To the very last he lingered beside him, never relinquishing his hand, until it was powerless to feel or return his pressure. 
               Then putting his ear to the stiffening lips, as the breath went out, he distinctly heard the word, "Nina." 
               No wonder the earth looked drear and sad, as the orphan, in her new abode, wept over the tidings of his death, and felt that she was again motherless fatherless, almost friendless. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               MARGUERITA SPONHEIM received a sudden check to the gayety of her career, not only in the death of the good bishop, but in the sundering from her bosom of the sweet bud that had so long refreshed her by its fragrance. 
               Misco, the uncle, who had been living for some time in Raab, having occasion to go to Vienna on business, also died suddenly at the house of his brother Edward, and the strong man and the child lay sleeping dreamlessly in a quiet room. 
               The fashionable lady wept in her sad boudoir; the prattle of the young boy was missing, and the maternal heart was struggling with its first trying anguish. 
               There was no putting away the bitter cup that was held in mercy to her lips; the pleasures of the merry world were but vain comforters, and the companions of her gay life shrank away from her side, as the messenger of sorrow entered her presence; and so, with the sad chalice in her hand, she sat alone, drinking it to the dregs, without the alleviating drops of sympathy and condolence. 
               Her husband, tied to the affairs of state, had no time to cherish the grief that filled his soul, at this severance from his only son. 
                
               Summoned hastily away on some imperative business, he bent his steps to the death-chamber, to take a last look at the silent sleepers. 
               Leaning over the little Misco, whose angel face wore only a serene and peaceful smile, his heart melted within him at thought that the cherubways of his beautiful boy would never again enliven and bless the household; that the palsied arms would no more be outstretched to meet his fond embrace, and that the loving eyes would no longer beam upon him in conscious joy and affection. 
               It was hard to give him up in his pure and innocent age, even though safe in the bosom of the Great Father; and yet as the mourning parent contrasted the spotlessness and perfect peace of his babe with his own sinfulness and unrest, he impressed a grateful kiss upon the dear brow, and turned tearlessly and almost thankfully away, and sought the vigorous frame that had so suddenly been cut down in its prime. 
               The memory of his childhood's days came stealing over him as he gazed upon his brother's features; the sports in the old paternal home, with a mother's smile ever following them and blending with all their pleasures; the pursuits and pastimes of their youth, and the maturer delights and sympathies now so ruthlessly broken up, were all revived in his stricken soul as he stood beside the rigid form. 
               To look upon the little Misco, as he lay there in his innocent babyhood, with his eternal blessedness irrevocably sealed, was not unmingled bitterness. From a parent's shielding arms he had been borne away to a heavenly rest and glory, and the sure confidence in an Almighty care and love, deprived the bereavement of its sharpest sting. Besides, the death-angel came not without warning; there was time for many a lingering caress ere the clasping embrace was forever relaxed, and the light from the dying eyes still blessed the survivors. 
               The strong man had been snatched in a moment, without the slightest intimation of the ghostly footsteps that so stealthily dogged his way. 
               Afar from the beloved ones, he sank down helplessly, with never a parting word to the wife of his bosom, or farewell kiss to the children of his fondest thought, and, sadder than all, with no space for a commendatory prayer to Him in whose hands are "the issues of life and death." 
               It was this that agitated Edward Sponheim as he gazed upon the stalwart form now so nerveless and still; and seizing the cold and passive hand, he wrung it in his agony. 
               Suddenly the dead man sprung from his bier, and grasping at his brother's throat, he asked him in anger and delirium, "if he would bury him alive for his money?" 
               Clad in the cerements of the grave, he stood with menacing aspect and flushed face, as the aroused household gathered in consternation about the door of the apartment. 
               Livid and stiff from terror, Edward Sponheim moved not from the spot where the strange shock had rooted him, until they bore him away to his bed, whence he arose no more. 
               Thus was the living mourner followed to his long home, while the cataleptic, as the restored dead, went back once more to the bosom of his rejoicing family.
                     A fact.
                  
                
               The double bereavement had its due effect upon the wife and mother, for a time at least, and brought a respite from her amusements, giving her leisure for a little salutary reflection. 
               Nettie had now a greater share in her daily care, and grew more deeply in her love and favor; and tender thoughts of the orphan Nina so far moved her, as to elicit frequent invitations to her niece to visit her in their mutual sorrow; but Nina remembered the season of a former harshness and trial, and heeded not the summons. 
               Cousin Gailey's rural home offered many attractions to the suffering girl, as she turned from the world in the isolation of her grief. 
               Herr Gailey's habitation was an extensive brick building, with seven or eight rooms en suite.
                
               Around it was a piazza. On the south of the house was the library, and on the north, rooms for the domestics. 
               Upon the estate were several hundred Csikosses, who furnished Nina with much diversion by the novelty of their attire, and the variety of their occupations. 
               They wore trousers of coarse linen, fringed around the ankle, sandals upon their feet, and over their shoulders a sheepskin, ornamented with sea-shells up and down the sides. 
               The collar of the mantle was of lambskin, and from it depended the legs of the animal, which were highly polished. With the entrails of the sheep they also adorned the back of the mantle, first dyeing them, and tying and twisting them into loops and knots, and these made a clinking noise, in accompaniment to their movements. 
               Their mustaches were long, twisted, and flowing to the breast, and their bodies were offensive from the smell of the fat of bacon, with which they besmeared themselves, to free them from the vermin so common to many districts of their country. 
               So disagreeable was this odor, that whenever the Csikosses came to mass in the little church near Frau Von Gailey's dwelling, she was obliged to have all the doors and windows tightly closed to keep out the effluvia. 
               Within Herr Von Gailey's domains was a dairy-house, also a fruitery, with shelves around, where the products of the orchard were placed in hay or straw, so far apart as not to touch each other, and thus preserved through the season. At Herr Von Bacha's, in Sclavonia, a different method was used. The fruit was taken from the tree upon the branches, and after being dipped in wax, was hung down deep wells or pits, and drawn thence for use. 
               There was, besides, a kennel, where forty or fifty hounds were kept, and an ice-house. The stables were as clean as the house, and the young ladies went often to watch the peasants at milking, and to smooth down the robes of the buffalo cows, or the soft wool of the merino sheep. 
               There were great revenues from this large estate; from the milk of the sheep fine cheese was produced for the market, and the cream from the cows furnished from fifty to a hundred pounds of butter at one time. 
               That reserved for the table was never salted, and always moulded in the form of a lamb-at Easter, larger than usual-with a little flag waving over the right shoulder. 
               The butter not in family use, was put into a three-legged earthen vessel, with live coals beneath, and gently simmered; the foam was skimmed off with a silver ladle, and the oil was poured into casks, and sold for shortening. 
               When the fruit was ripe, numbers of the Csikosses came to the house, and the women made preserves, while the men danced the hornpipe, thus blending amusement with every-day toil, and depriving the labor of its weight. 
               In the midst of the thrift and luxury that surrounded her, Nina's life would have passed very happily, but for the one all-absorbing grief that closed her senses to every pleasure and delight. 
               One day, after an unusual fit of depression on the part of her guest, Frau Von Gailey proposed a visit to the camp at Steinamanger, whither Fanny was going to spend a few weeks with her husband the surgeon. 
               Herr Von Gailey used to send provisions to the soldiers. He had also furnished and equipped three men for the army, not wishing himself to be in actual service. 
               The encampment was about twenty-five German miles from Herr Von Gailey's home, and in the course of a few days, Fanny, and Willie, her infant son, came from Raab to join the little party, and proceed to Steinamanger. 
               All was life and animation among the troops; the prospect of a possible death at any moment, seemed to bring no depression, and the intermediate space between each battle was given to recreation and gayety. Now and then as the chaplain lifted up his voice in prayer, stirring the memory of the home fireside, and the dear domestic joys, some anguished heart went heavenward with its burden, and the strong arm was nerved for greater valor; but in the intervals of leisure between matins and vespers, vespers and matins, the officers at least, betook themselves to pleasure. 
               How beautiful was the sight, as the little party, surrounded by an escort on horseback, drove through the streets of the encampment! 
               A verdant field was outstretched before them, tents of silk, and velvet of various colors, fringed with silver and gold, gleamed in the sunlight. Officers and steeds gayly caparisoned went hither and thither, making all brilliant with their presence. 
               "See what grand accommodations," said Fanny, as John put aside a heavy curtain, and admitted them to his temporary home. 
               Buffalo robes, richly adorned with shells, hung around the sides of the tent, and under their feet were soft mats brilliantly dyed. A couch, covered with silken damask, was partially concealed by its curtained drapery; and bright cushioned divans were scattered profusely about. 
               "Doesn't it look inviting!" said the delighted wife, praising the taste and skill that had provided so luxurious a place. 
               "Yes, indeed! I shall quite envy you," replied Nina, as she sunk down upon a comfortable seat. "But, Fanny, have you nothing to tell me about Raab? Now, while they are gone," she added, as the others of the party went from the tent, leaving them to their pleasant tte--tte.
                
               "Nothing in the world of interest. Oh, yes! there is one thing," said Fanny, laying her hand on Nina's arm, and looking fixedly at her. "Charles Perles is there still, and as frequent in his visits to the house as ever; all through love of you, I do believe, since you are his constant topic when alone with me." 
               "Is that all?" asked Nina, blushing; "because he was not in my thoughts, when I asked you the question. There is nothing left there now but Uncles John and Misco!" 
               "Perles does not even think that there is a person left worth counting. He says that Papa is 'all the world' at present." 
               "It is a very pleasant world to me, Fanny, I assure you," returned Nina; "there is only one thing wanting to make me truly happy there, and that John always claims, sister mine;" and the orphan clasped still closer the hand that lay in hers, and smiled a sad sort of smile that had more of shadow than sunshine in it. 
               "There will be many a day yet for us," answered Fanny. "I shall see you again to-morrow, and every day while you are in the village," she added, holding Willie up to kiss her good-by, as her friends summoned Nina away, to go to their lodgings in the village hotel. 
               The meeting between the sisters had been satisfactory to neither; but both looked forward to a longer and sweeter communion, when the protracted visit at Frau Von Gailey's should end, and Nina should be once more restored to the household of her brother. Mock battles, and balls, and brilliant entertainments filled up the period of their sojourn in Steinamanger; but Nina's heart was still buried with the beloved uncle, and the diversion was but momentary. 
               "I shall think of you as in fairy-land, dear Fanny," said she, as they drove once more through the camping-ground, with the gay escort around them, and the inspiriting sound of martial music swelling upon the ear; "but I shall count the moments until John spares you to come to us at Papa. Now that you are in this sort of dream-life, you must not forget that there is a reality." 
               "So long as you are that reality, dear Nina, I shall surely not forget," said Fanny, playfully. "I care little for dreams in comparison to tangible blessings;" and kissing her tenderly as they parted at the boundary of the encampment, she accompanied her husband band back again to their tent, where the little Willie lay sleeping as peacefully as if there were no clashing nor turmoil upon earth. 
               "Sweet contrast to the great swellings and commotion of this strange life," said Fanny, as they stood beside the couch, lovingly regarding their firstborn son. 
               "And yet we crave for him a place among the mighty and powerful, even though it bring to him the same turbulence and unrest," replied the husband, sighing as he spoke, and brushing aside a fair ringlet from the brow of the babe. 
               The mother spoke not; but her lips were softly moving, and the secret utterance went upwards as a heaven-born petition for her sleeping innocent. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               "ALLOW me only three words, Nina-I love you, and would make you my wife." 
               Cousin Gailey had taken her young friend to visit one of her own relatives on a neighboring estate. 
               One day, while the ladies were at cards, and the gentlemen were off at the chase, Nina had made her escape to the library that she might for one moment indulge in the sad reflections, that would not be diverted from her poignant sorrow. 
               As she stood gazing pensively from a window, upon the dreamy sky, musing upon the other life, and longing to withdraw the veil that shut her out from the presence of the departed, a light step startled her, and turning hastily, she perceived Herr Kovashi, the brother of her host, looking earnestly upon her. 
               She blushed deeply, and would have left the room, but taking her gently by the hand, Herr Kovashi addressed her in the opening words of this chapter. 
               As she remembered his many little silent demonstrations since the beginning of her visit, the crimson flush grew really painful, and overcome by the abruptness of his proposal, and the embarrassment of her position, she burst into tears. 
                
               Herr Kovashi was greatly disturbed at this result of his hastiness, and, with many attempts to soothe her perturbed feelings, and many petitions for pardon, he left her alone, at her urgent entreaties, and, going to Frau Von Gailey, gave her his entire confidence respecting Nina. 
               "You have my good wishes," said the lady, whose plan had all along been to unite these two hearts, so fitted, as she thought, for each other; "but do not press the matter with my cousin at present, she is quite absorbed in her sorrow just now; but I am sure she cannot disregard so happy a prospect." 
               "What a conquest you have made, dear Nina!" said she, when they met; "such an advantageous offer!-Young, wealthy, handsome!" 
               "But I shall not marry him," replied Nina; "I care neither for Herr Kovashi, nor for any other man, and have no wish to marry." 
               "Do not be rash in rejecting this offer, Nina," pleaded her friend; "Herr Kovashi is every way worthy, and my heart is quite set upon the match." 
               "I shall be sorry to disappoint you, but it can never be," returned Nina. "Even if I were disposed to marry, he is very far from my ideal." 
               "One seldom meets his ideal in this life, child, so do not let that whim come between you. What can you object to in Herr Kovashi, pray?" said Cousin Gailey, vexed at the thought that her favorite project was in danger of failing. 
               "The only thing of importance that impresses me is his baldness," said Nina, laughingly. 
               "Pooh! pooh! if his brains are what they should be, it matters little whether there is a hair upon his head," returned Frau Von Gailey. "When you are as old as I am, you will think but little of externals." 
               "But seriously, dear cousin," said Nina, "I have no intention of bestowing either heart or hand upon any one for many a long year yet; and if Herr Kovashi should choose to wait so long, I fear he would find but a cold return for his devotion. No, no," continued she, in an absent sort of way, "'tis of no use urging the matter, my mind is fixed;" and escaping from her cousin's returning volley, she wandered about the woods near the house with the little Anna, whose simple prattle beguiled many an otherwise wearisome moment. 
               Herr Kovashi, unwilling to believe himself finally discarded, broached the subject again, when he found a suitable occasion, but met with so decided a repulse, that he was forced to content himself for the time with the silent yearning for the treasure. 
               Still, when Frau Von Gailey despoiled him of Nina's society, by withdrawing her again to Papa, he used often to join them at the estate of his relative, hoping that his perseverance would meet with an ultimate reward. 
               "Nina, isn't it possible to be pitiful to that poor suppliant?" asked the gentle Fanny, who had left the camp for a short visit to her sister. "You are a merciless little tyrant, notwithstanding your amiable demeanor." 
               "What would you have me do, Fanny? You surely do not advise giving the hand without the heart." 
                
               "I have no advice to offer in the case," replied Fanny; "you must follow the leading of your own inclination, dear Nina,-between John and Cousin Gailey you will have enough mentors without me." 
               "John," said Nina, inquiringly; "is he interested in Herr Kovashi's suit?" 
               "Not that indeed! There is an officer in his affections, whom he hopes to transfer to his beloved sister by-and-by." 
               "Vain hope!" said Nina, decidedly. "I mean to keep free from all such trammels-for a while at least." 
               "'Tisn't a very serious bondage," returned Fanny, while her beaming eyes followed the little Willie as he toddled about the room. "I used to feel as you do, Nina, before John taught me differently. Life wouldn't be much to me now, without him and Willie." And in her maternal ecstasy she caught the precious boy to her bosom, and lavished upon him her fondest caresses. 
               "Perhaps I shall meet as persuasive a teacher in good time," replied Nina. "Herr Kovashi isn't the one, though." 
               "We shall doubtless meet him at the vintage-ground, to-morrow," said the sister. "His importunity is very flattering, to say the least." 
               "And very annoying," added Nina. "I would not make one of the party to Schomlaverberg, if Cousin Gailey did not insist upon it." 
               "There will be much enjoyment," said the brother's wife. "John promises to join us there; but I am almost afraid he will be accompanied by his new friend, and if it will make your pleasure less, I shall be vexed indeed." 
               "If it would only do for me to remain at home," said Nina, thoughtfully. "You would not wonder, dear Fanny, that I so often sigh for an unbroken seclusion, if you knew how distasteful it is to me, in this time of trial and suffering, to be surrounded by gayety and folly, and persecuted by those to whose good wishes I am wholly indifferent. Sometimes I think strongly of Grosburh as a peaceful refuge from all perplexities; and then the nunnery occurs to me as the fittest place for a temporary retirement; but I have not the independence to act as the heart dictates, and so suffer." 
               "This feeling will pass away in time, Nina, darling. 'Tis but natural that you should shrink from the world for a while. You know you are following out Uncle Carl's wishes in remaining with Cousin Gailey." 
               "Yes, that comforts me; and his aversion to a cloister life keeps me from immuring myself from my fellows. I was quite contented here, and as happy as I could be in my sorrow, before Herr Kovashi crossed my path." 
               "You remember how pleasant it was in Raab, when we were there together?" 
               "Yes, but that is past forever." 
               "I think not, love. 'Tis not right to yield to an unavailing grief; only think how Uncle Carl loved to see you cheerful, and it will do much towards restoring your former buoyancy. We shall have you with us again, soon, I trust." 
                
               "Raab will be very sad to me now, Fanny." 
               "At first, truly; but, Nina, the place where one's dearest friends have been, should possess a certain beauty and light for one even when the bodily presence is no longer visible. The house where Uncle Carl lived-his favorite walks and drives-and all the haunts of his preference, must have a hallowed charm for you, which will soothe and tranquillize rather than distress you. 'Twas dreary at first to me, because the sombreness of death overshadowed the great beauty of his life, and hid from me the glory of his immortality; but when the mists that hung so heavily about his tomb were dissolved, the brightness came again, more pure and dazzling than when his fleshly being was before me. That's the way I feel about it now, dear Nina; and Raab is only more sacredly dear to me," added Fanny, taking her sister's arm, and helping Willie along with a finger, as they went to seek Cousin Gailey, and arrange for the proposed excursion. 
               The vintage was celebrated with almost as great festivity as among the ancient Hebrews. 
               The cook was sent on before to made provision for the party who were to dine upon the mountain level. 
               On one side of the ground was a small house-for the accommodation of those who would remain over night-and a shed for the wine-press, and from the top of the elevation was a fine view of the surrounding country. 
               Several families joined Frau Von Gailey's party, and from the exalted position watched the Csikosses-as men, women, and children plucked the luscious cious fruit from the vines, and bore it with shouts to the wine-press. 
               A band of gypsies, wandering along, stopped to play and dance before the ladies, and all was mirth and joy. 
               Nina, yielding to a pensive mood, had wandered off with little Willie, and sitting down under a tree, afar from the rest of the company, was beguiling the time with the prattle of the child, which cheered and amused her, when suddenly the little fellow sprang gleefully from her, crying out, "Papa!" 
               "My sister, why do you shun the merry and glad, and seek this solitude?" asked John Sponheim, taking her hand as she arose from her lowly position and returned his greeting. 
               "Stay," continued he, as she essayed to rejoin her party on perceiving a stranger with her brother, "I wish to present to you Count Gliscoe, of whom Fanny has already spoken to you." 
               Nina blushed, as the memory of her late conversation with her sister recurred to her, and coldly saluting the count, she made an excuse to take her young charge to his mother, and so avoided a further tte--tte.
                
               Herr Kovashi was occupying Fanny with a description of some of his travels; and Nina, to escape the importunity of the new guest, lent all her interest to the rejected lover, so that the dying hope almost revived within him, and his day was not without one gleam of truest pleasure. 
               John frowned with vexation, as he vainly tried to draw his sister into conversation with the count, but monosyllabic answers, were the only responses to the wasted eloquence, and John turned impatiently away, mentally ejaculating, "He will think her a pretty fool!" 
               "You will return soon to Raab?" said he, as they met shortly after, at a little distance from the group. "I see how it is between you and Herr Kovashi; but he is not to be your husband, and I will remove your from his vicinage." 
               It was utterly futile for Nina to persist in saying that she cared nothing for Herr Kovashi, and that her wish to remain at Papa was not governed by any feeling of friendship for him. 
               The brother's mind was made up, and so, with many tears for the kind relatives whose love and sympathy had so long sustained and comforted her, she accompanied Fanny to her house in Raab. 
               John had removed from the old quarters in the monastery, to a new house near the ramparts, and as the former associations were no longer about her, Nina grew cheerful, and often joined the pleasant group in her sister's saloon. 
               Near the door of their new dwelling, was a large tree, where it was her delight to linger, musing on the past, and here Charles Perles first met her on her return to her brother's. 
               "You have not forgotten me?" said he, rapturously, as she met him with a welcome recognition; "bless you for your memory, sweet Nina!" 
               With a winning smile, she led the way to her sister's presence, and in the society of Fanny and the young artist, the time went pleasantly away. 
                
               John had encouraged the intimacy of Herr Perles with his family from the beginning, and it came to be quite natural to find the three, Fanny, Nina, and Charles, pleasantly domesticated in the cheerful parlor, with the little Willie forming a connecting link between them, as he ran from mamma to auntie with the toys his "Perly" had brought him, and returned to the dear friend with his gathered thanks. 
               For a while, all things went on calmly and pleasantly, but by-and-by times began to change for the poor artist. 
               Since the return of his sister, John began to look with a jealous eye upon every word or glance given to Perles, as a wrong done to Count Gliscoe, whom, in thought, he had already bestowed upon the young Nina. To Fanny he freely revealed his chagrin at the frequent visits of the poor artist, desiring her to withdraw from him her wonted friendliness, and by her cool and reserved manner show him that his presence among them was no longer acceptable. 
               To her frank and cordial nature, this course was impossible, and the only effect of her husband's change towards their old friend, was to render her troubled and ill at ease whenever he should chance to meet Herr Perles, which, however, was quite seldom, since John was so much with the army. 
               "Your brother will be much annoyed to find Herr Perles here," said Fanny, in an undertone to Nina, one evening as the well-known footsteps of her husband were heard approaching the boudoir where the three friends were sitting. 
                
               "Let me manage it," said Nina, then turning to Perles, she added, aloud- 
               "To avoid an unpleasant rencontre, supposing you play prisoner for a while;" and opening the door of the wardrobe, she waved her hand impatiently. 
               With a quick appreciation of her motive, he stepped immediately in, when she sportively turned the key, and taking it from the lock, handed it to the maid who was accessory to all their little frolics. 
               "I am in haste," said John, looking about him, evidently in search of something. "Where is the medical work that lay upon the table when I went out this morning, Fanny?" 
               It was not to be found. 
               "I want something from the wardrobe also," added he, going to the door and shaking it in his hurry; "where is the key?" 
               That, too, was missing; and while Fanny was hunting for it, her husband went to another part of the house for some necessary articles. 
               "Quick! quick!" said Nina, getting the key from the maid, and releasing her prisoner. 
               "Good night," whispered Perles as he left the room; "I shall see you again soon, Nina." 
               As he passed through a large apartment, to get to the corridor, he heard John's returning footsteps, and perceiving a spacious chest, he raised the lid, and stepping in, stretched himself out at full length. 
               When the sound of the steps died away, he opened it cautiously, and, going through the long hall, was soon on the way to his lodgings, with the thought of Nina pressing all other images from his mind. 
               John was out all night; but on returning early in the morning to his residence, he was surprised to find the print of a man's foot all along the floor of the corridor, and tracing it by the white powdery substance to the flour chest, he found the impress of a human figure therein. 
               Being cognizant of the many past fooleries of his wife and sister, the truth at once flashed upon him; but what would formerly have excited in him an appreciative mirthfulness, now moved him to a fierce anger, which vented itself in the first harsh words that he had ever spoken to his gentle Fanny, or the orphan Nina. 
               "He must come here no more," said John, as they exculpated their guest from all blame; "and as for you, Nina, I am quite ashamed that you should for a moment cherish a thought of a poor artist, when so many nobler desire your alliance." 
               "I think of Herr Perles only as a friend," replied Nina; "but if you hope to unite me to Count Gliscoe, you will surely fail of your purpose, since I never shall notice him as a lover." 
               Her brother made no reply, being too indignant to speak; but he silently determined to use all his powers for the furtherance of his object. 
               "Charles Perles," said he, as the young man made his wonted call that evening, "your company is no more desired here, and if you say one word of love to my sister Nina, or try in any way to gain her affections, I will surely kill you." 
                
               Restraining his resentment for Nina's sake, the artist, with no answer but a cold, proud bow, turned away from the friend who had erst courted and flattered him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               "MY little sister is causing a great commotion in the world," said Fanny, as Herr Kovashi perseveringly followed her to Raab, to make his last plea with her guardian, in the hope that she might be influenced to turn in his favor. "What if Uncle John says yes?" 
               "Why, I should veto it with a no," answered Nina, with spirit; "guardians have not power over the will or the affections, I believe, Fanny. If they had, I should make no scruple to resist them." 
               "We grow brave in our extremity," said her brother, looking sharply at her over his newspaper. "Herr Kovashi will go as he came, however," continued he, with a meaning smile, as he fastened his eyes complacently upon his journal again. 
               "Herr Kovashi or Charles Perles are either of them preferable to Count Gliscoe, and would be sure of success where he would forever fail," said Nina, provoked beyond endurance by her brother's tone and manner towards her. "You need never mention him to me, for I have quite determined to recognize him only as a common acquaintance." 
               "Well spoken," said John, sneeringly. "Time may give us a different aspect of things. We are not impatient, sister mine; a gem of any value is worthy a long and diligent pursuit." 
                
               "Not if one is previously assured that the search will prove unavailing," replied Nina, taking Willie by the hand, and going out to walk upon the ramparts, in order to avoid a continuance of the hated subject. 
               "Perly!" said Willie, suddenly letting go her hand and running to meet the handsome artist, who was walking pensively along, with downcast eyes and dejected mien. 
               "My good angel," murmured he to Nina, looking up with a radiant expression, and lavishing upon the boy the caresses which his heart appropriated to another. 
               "Do not stop," pleaded Nina, earnestly waving him off, as he walked by her side with the young child in his arms; "it will only bring trouble upon us both." 
               "But I must speak to you, Nina," returned he; "'Tis useless to try to banish me, now that the long desired opportunity has so propitiously come to me. Nina, have you no return to make for all my love to you?" continued he, putting the little Willie down and walking back and forth with her, while the child quietly amused himself. "I have lived upon the image during your long absence from Raab-thanks to those patient sittings for your brother. The portrait is mine, Nina, they shall never despoil me of that. May I not hope some day to possess the original also?" and the young artist clasped again the hand that had been withdrawn from his grasp, and pressed it fervently to his lips. 
               Nina sighed as she looked upon his flushed face, and noticed his eager manner. There was no answering sympathy in her heart. Nothing but a true sisterly friendship, that would burn with no greater intensity for him, though a lifetime of the warmest devotion should seek to inspire it. 
               "Herr Perles, do not ask it," returned she, with a sad despondency in her tone. "'Tis a pity to awaken me to the consciousness that you are not my brother." 
               "'Tis too little. I would be nearer, dearer, Nina, light of my life. How have I longed for this moment, that I might throw myself wholly at your feet! Can you spurn me as I lie there, so powerless in your hands! Will you not lift me up with the gracious words of love and blessing?" 
               "Why distress both yourself and me thus?" said Nina, gazing pitifully upon him; "you have my sincerest regard; be content, 'tis all I have to give you." 
               "'Tis not enough," said the aggrieved lover, turning hastily from her, and as quickly rejoining her. "Will you reconsider it, Nina? We shall meet again," and before she could reply, he had gone. 
               Herr Kovashi was with Fanny, as Nina entered the house. 
               "Your uncle leaves me wholly to your generosity," said he, as Fanny left them alone; "will you send me away sorrowing?" 
               "Herr Kovashi is already aware of my sentiments towards him," replied Nina, with a degree of hauteur in her manner. 
               "Is there no appeal from your harsh decision, Fraulein, or is my condemnation fixed?" asked he, seating himself beside her upon a sofa. "Nina, you are so innocent, so lovely, I cannot give you up without an imperative bidding." 
               "Why make my task a difficult one, Herr Kovashi?" returned she; "is it not better to spare me the pain of repeating that which you already know!" 
               "It troubles you then to distress me?" 
               "I should be strangely inhuman to be unmoved by suffering, of which I am the unwilling cause." 
               "Unwilling. I bless you, Nina, for these words;" and the face of the speaker grew bright and hopeful. 
               "Do not mistake me, Herr Kovashi," said Nina, on observing his buoyancy. 
               "I truly lament your sorrow, but I have no power to avert it." 
               "Pardon me, you have all power." 
               "No, since it requires of me a boon which I have not to offer." 
               "Will not time change your feelings towards me? I will be patient under the longest probation." 
               "'Tis useless," said Nina, "it cannot be; our destinies lie separate. I will never bestow my hand where my affections are not previously settled; think no more of me, Herr Kovashi, you will make the happiness of another." 
               "I cannot love again, Nina," returned he, rising, and bending upon her the same deep gaze that had met her in the quiet library so long before. 
               "Henceforth I am wedded to my sports. I shall seek none other than you for my wife," and clasping her to his bosom before she had the power to repel him, he kissed her franticly upon eyes and lips and brow, and was gone from her forever. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE encampment was now in Raab, and the liveliness of the city was much increased by the influx of so many officers. 
               Nina's beauty, and the charm of her simple, artless manners, made her an object of constant attention and admiration from her brother's guests; but she gave little heed to their flatteries, and spurned all serious advances, however eligible the proffered alliance might be. 
               John had not yet given up his design of marrying her to the officer of his choice, but his efforts had, thus far, failed to excite in her the slightest interest. 
               This he attributed to Herr Perles, who still had his studio in the neighborhood, and occasionally met Nina by chance in her rambles. 
               These casual interviews were, however, highly unsatisfactory to Charles, the fervor of whose love had by no means abated, since his removal from the frequent society of his soul's idol. 
               "Herr Perles desires me to meet him this evening upon the ramparts," said Nina, one day, glancing over a note that she held in her hand. 
               "You will not do so, Nina?" said Fanny, taking the proffered billet-doux, and reading it with interest. 
                
               "Poor Charles!" sighed Nina, without regarding her sister's question. 
               "John must not know of this," said Fanny, folding, and returning the note. "'Twould only incense him, and you will not notice it?" 
               "No," returned Nina; "but I wish Perles would be rational, and give up this useless pursuit. He will get himself into some difficulty with John. 'Tis impossible to prevent his imprudence. He will join me whenever there is an opportunity, although I have forewarned him of the consequences." 
               "You do not care for him, Nina?" 
               "No-yes, as a brother and friend, very much,-nothing further, I assure you." 
               "And Herr Kovashi?" 
               "He is bald," and Nina laughed. "He meets my esteem, but beyond that I have no thought of him," she added. 
               "Count Gliscoe?" pursued Fanny. 
               "Do not name him, the very idea is repulsive to me." 
               "John thinks that you favor Perles; he is aware of your occasional rencontres, and believes them planned; if you would shield him from harm, do not see him again." 
               "If I could avoid it," said Nina; "I cannot convince him that any evil may come of it." 
               "Love will surmount every thing, if it is in earnest," said Fanny; "but I sincerely regret Herr Perles' devotion since it cannot be reciprocated." 
               "Would you have me marry him?" 
               "I desire your happiness, dear Nina. Whatever will conduce to that, I advocate; but I rejoice that you are content to stay with us, rather than marry." 
               "It has been so pleasant," said Nina; "but the shadows begin to come again. If I might only be left to myself, and not have to endure the persecutions of John and his friend." 
               "John is ambitious for his sister." 
               "Ambition!" and Nina spoke bitterly. "That has been the bane of my life, Fanny. Uncle Carl, with all his humility, was actuated by it; but for that, I might have remained with him at Neusidle, and escaped much evil." 
               "'Tis all for the best," said Fanny, holding her to her bosom, and speaking in her low, sweet tones. "Sorrows never come unsent; and surely there has been much good in your cup thus far. I wouldn't waste a tear upon John's whim. It will pass over when he sees that you are firm in resisting." 
               The evening was coming on, and Fanny was summoned to her boy; but she lingered yet one moment to whisper a few more words of encouragement to her sister, and to see the grief-cloud dissolving under the potent magic of her sunny manner, and then she sped away to her treasure, while Nina withdrew to her room, and seated herself by the window in a pensive mood. 
               The tall linden reached upwards, stretching out its arms towards her in graceful beauty. The moon went gloriously through the heavens, casting its shimmering light upon leaf and spray, and shedding a soft brilliancy over the brow of the thoughtful one as she sat silently musing. 
                
               Suddenly a rustling among the thick branches of the tree startled her, and in a moment a hushed voice called her name, and a note parted the leaflets and dropped upon her lap. 
               "Perles!" said she, astonished and troubled; "what rashness!" 
               Before he had time to reply, the voices of Count Gliscoe and John Sponheim were heard beneath the window. 
               "Aha, my nightingale!" said John, "we have you safely now. Let us see if your wings have power to take you out of our hands." 
               Not willing to risk the consequences of John Sponheim's anger, Herr Perles looked around for a clear opening, and swinging himself quickly from the branch, was off like a deer, before his enemies had recovered from the surprise of the meeting. 
               John was highly incensed towards Nina for these clandestine interviews, which he thought she sanctioned, and he resolved to consult with her uncle, and, if possible, bring about a speedy union with his friend Count Gliscoe. 
               A party of pleasure had been arranged for the next day, and this, for the time, diverted him from his purpose. 
               Quite away from the city they drove, until they reached a favorite resort; then alighting from the carriages, they scattered in groups, and sought their enjoyment in various ways,-some amusing themselves with books, or the guitar; others rambling about in quest of flowers, or conversing quietly amid the greenness and beauty of the romantic wilds. 
                
               Nina, lured by the notes of the thrush, skylark, and nightingale,-favorites of her departed uncle,-strayed away into the woods, and gave herself up to the memories of other days. 
               She seemed to hear the beloved voice, saying, "Come, little Nina, we will go into the woods to hear the birds." 
               The groves of Neusidle were before her, in fancy she clasped the hand of her precious guide,-the hollow oak was present to her vision, and the holy Mother looked benignly upon her from the old time-worn picture. 
               With a thousand pleasant reminiscences in her mind, she forgot her companions, and wandered listlessly along, quite out of the beaten path. 
               Aroused to a consciousness of her situation by the approach of night, she strove in vain to gain some clue to the road. 
               Rocks and wilds were all around her, and for a moment her fears nearly overcame her; but on listening intently, she heard in the distance the tones of the flute, and faint voices calling. 
               Bounding from rock to rock, she reached an open elevation, from whence she descried, not far off, the welcome party. 
               "You will kill yourself!" shouted they, as she glided like a fawn over the precipitous places. 
               Pausing as she heard footsteps near, she looked around; but perceiving only the hated Count Gliscoe, she rushed heedlessly on, and losing her footing, vanished from the sight of her anxiously watching friends. 
                
               "I owe this to you, among many other annoyances, Count Gliscoe," said she, holding up a bruised and bleeding wrist as the Count reached the spot. 
               "My wish to serve you is but harshly rewarded," returned he, trying to aid her as she attempted to bandage the wounded member with her handkerchief. 
               Waving him off with a commanding gesture, she leaned upon the arm of her brother, who just then came up to them, and was soon receiving the congratulations of her friends upon her fortunate escape from more serious injury. 
               Count Gliscoe ground his teeth with rage, as he saw all his advances met with aversion and contempt; and settling himself in a gloomy reserve, he scarcely spoke as they were returning from their rural excursion. 
               Once only his face brightened, and he relaxed a little from his moroseness, as John Sponheim whispered, "She shall yet be yours, Gliscoe." 
               The events of the day decided the wrathful brother to hasten his interview with the guardian of his sister; but a still longer delay was occasioned. 
               Vessels filled with French prisoners had come to Raab, bringing with them a serious epidemic, and Nina's uncle was in great sorrow; his little Julia-a sweet child of ten years-was stricken down by the subtle disease. There was sad lamentation in the house, and the moment was not a suitable one to trouble the anxious parent with the trifling affairs that were agitating his own bosom, therefore John Sponheim restrained his impatience, and Nina was spared yet a little while. 
                
               The child died, and the bitter, anxious lamentation was hushed into a mournful resignation. 
               Shrouded in white satin, with a wreath of roses and rosemary upon her head, and a silver cross in her little hand, they placed her in her narrow bed. The coffin was lined and covered with white satin, and sacred pictures were hung around the edge. Wax tapers shed over the room a funeral glow, and visitors, as they entered, bowed the knee before the presence of death, and murmured prayers for the soul of the departed. 
               At the time of burial, the coffin was closed, and upon it was placed a beautiful crown of gold and silver, and flowers. As they went to the grave, a little girl clad in white, walked before the coffin, bearing in her hand a silver plate with a rich crown upon it, and on either side were six young girls in white robes, emblematic of the innocence of the departed. Each of the pall-bearers carried a lemon, in which three sprigs of rosemary were stuck, with ribbons of pink and white attached, and upon the right arm they wore long white silk badges. 
               Four priests went just behind the corpse, and the relatives and friends followed. A dirge-like music accompanied them. 
               Arrived at the tomb, a priest sprinkled holy water upon it, and upon the coffin, and each of the relatives threw a handful of earth into the vault. 
               A week after the death of his child, Nina's uncle sent for her, and taking her into his private room, said- 
               "Nina, dearest, by your Uncle Carl's last testament ment, I am your lawful guardian. I suppose you know that you must be guided by me or forfeit your property. I understand that you permit Herr Perles to pay his addresses to you. We all acknowledge that he is a young man of handsome face and winning address; but he is inclined to dissipation, and, moreover, is unworthy your station. 
               "I am obliged to forbid your receiving his attentions, or having any communication with him. There are others who will be happy to claim your hand. Here is Count Gliscoe, your brother's friend, a gentleman of rank and property, desirous to make you his wife. I wish you to reflect upon the matter, and in eight days come to me again," and with a self-complacent air, as if he had acquitted himself of his duty, and was perfectly satisfied that his counsel would be favorably met, he rubbed his hands together, walked across the room and back again, and then stopped short, as he caught the expression of his niece. 
               "Uncle," said she, as he looked inquiringly at her, "I can decide at once that I will never marry Count Gliscoe. I do not like him; I have not even respect for him. Charles Perles I esteem very highly; but I have no thought of marrying any one at present." 
               "Come again in eight days," said the uncle, coldly turning from her and pacing the room again. 
               With a heavy heart she left his presence, and with thoughts of the nunnery again in her mind she returned home. 
               At the appointed time she sought her uncle once more, and he handed her a letter from the count, in which he proposed to make her his bride immediately. 
               "Never!" said Nina, casting the note contemptuously upon the floor as she finished its perusal. "I will sooner take the veil! This thing has gone too far," continued she, crushing the paper with her foot as she spoke: "John is wrong in allowing him to hope; my mind has been made up from the first." 
               Her uncle's wrath was too great to permit him to reply, and in his anger his hand was raised, as if to strike the powerless but audacious girl. He restrained himself, however, and before he had time to speak, Nina escaped from him and went sorrowfully out into the free and glorious air. 
               Crossing the bridge that spanned the river Raab, she met Perles, who quickly joined her. 
               "You are melancholy, Nina," said he, with a deep sympathy in his tone. "Is there any especial cause, and may I not help to remove it?" and he sighed as he spoke, and he leaned against a tree gazing respectfully and tenderly upon her. 
               "Herr Perles, I am resolved to take the veil, or, at least, to board in the convent for life." 
               The young man started, and almost fell to the ground; but with an effort he recovered himself, and partially availing him of Nina's support, he tried to walk on with her. It was of no use; the color was fast receding from his face, and perceiving that he was fainting, Nina left him at the house of a peasant near by, until he should be able to go on alone, and repairing to the statue of the virgin at a short distance from the spot, she prayed for his peace. 
                
               The incident was soon known to the brother and uncle, who determined to send Nina again to Vienna, as the only means of removing her from Perles. 
               "Your Aunt Marguerita wishes you to visit her, and this is a very favorable opportunity," said Nina's uncle to her, shortly after her interview with the young artist. "I have business in Vienna, and will gladly be your escort." 
               "But I am more contented in Raab at present, dear uncle," said Nina; "I have not thought of accepting Aunt Sponheim's invitation." 
               "It is my wish that you go," returned the uncle; "you will therefore be prepared to accompany me by the day after to-morrow. You refuse Count Gliscoe, it is necessary that we place you in the way of an eligible match." 
               "Uncle John," replied Nina, with more of determination than her guardian supposed she possessed, "my heart alone will be my guide in the choice of a husband. I will go to Vienna, since it is your pleasure; but think not to govern me in the most important act in life. I am ever susceptible to your counsel and advice, beyond that, I acknowledge no right;" and respectfully kissing his hand, she left him to his newly-awakened reflections, and sought her beloved sister, whose sympathy had so often proved her solace in trouble. 
               "They will banish me from you again, Fanny," said she, taking up the little Willie, and hiding her tearful face in his bosom as she spoke. 
               "No, no, Auntie Nina," sobbed the little fellow, putting his arms tightly around her neck, and half comprehending that something was about to occur to disturb the usual serenity. 
               "Willie speaks for me," said the brother's wife, laying her hand fondly on the boy's head, and bending to kiss her sister's brow. "I say 'no, no,' too, to all such propositions; but what do you mean, Nina?" 
               "Why, uncle chooses to accept Aunt Marguerita's invitation for me, and I must e'en submit to be trundled about at his will," and a despairing sneer at her own impotency in the case, marked her words. 
               "I am sorry," returned Fanny, seating herself near, and folding her hands upon her lap, as if she, too, were helpless to avert the thing. "I suppose Herr Perles is the cause of all this, Nina? John will not relinquish the idea that you encourage him." 
               "Do they think the interval between this and Vienna too great to be o'erleaped if our hearts were one?" said Nina, thoughtfully. "What weakness," she added, speaking apparently to herself, and quite forgetting both Fanny and Willie; "driving me from Raab to Papa, from Papa to Raab, and now to Vienna, as if any length of time or space would divert us from each other, if, indeed, we had ever a thought of a union; they may bring about the very thing they are so desirous to prevent." 
               "Nina," said Fanny, startling her from a long and silent reverie, "perhaps it is better that you go away for a while; you will be released from Count Gliscoe, and who knows but you may see the very person who is to banish all your past troubles from your mind. I have not forgotten the flush that met me when you first came to Raab, and we were talking about your future home, and having no secrets from each other. You remember it too, I see," she continued, as the old blush came again to her sister's cheek. "Things don't happen without a purpose, Nina, and all will be right in the end." 
               "You are very consoling, Fanny; but it makes me none the less reluctant to leave you. Aunt Marguerita is no companion to me,-to think of telling her secrets!" 
               "Well, there is Theresa Macholick." 
               "She is precious, indeed," returned Nina; "but you are my sister, and no one can heal the wound of my separation from you." 
               "We will not dwell upon it," said Fanny. "I regret it more than I can tell you; but if Uncle John has determined, it cannot be helped. We can write every thing that we feel, that is a comfort at any rate;" and leaving her with the absorbing care of the young boy, she went from the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               A LETTER from Father Bonda! Not from the old house at Neusidle, for after the death of the good bishop, he had turned towards the land of his yearning, and amid the beauties of Carmel, had settled himself to die. 
               "My life's sands run swiftly, dear child," said he, addressing Nina; "and I trust soon to be united to him who upon earth was my chief joy. 
               "I have strength sufficient to write a few last lines to the beloved of my departed brother. 
               "The faint old man scarcely thinks to find place in the gay young heart; but his memory turns fondly to the little one who brightened the dim study at Neusidle, and he would fain look upon her face once more, ere his eyes are closed in the long, long sleep. It cannot be! The 'Great Sea,' and the weary land are between us, and the flesh resisteth the will to compass them; but every day are my hands outstretched in invocation upon you. The blessing of my earnest prayers would make you richer than all of earth's most valued glories. Will you covet for yourself what my soul implores for you, little Nina? 
               "My thoughts cling to you, not in the graceful beauty of your maidenhood; but as the gentle, affectionate child that ministered like an angel of mercy beside the sick couch, and taught the mature watcher the wisdom that had long been hidden from him. 
               "Often, as I lie upon my lonely pallet, a vision of the past comes so vividly before me, that I reach forth my hand to see if there is any thing real in the face that looks so benignly upon me, and the childish figure that stands beside the godly uncle. I sigh as the illusion vanishes, and weep for very bitterness that my fancy deceives me. 
               "Nina, dear one, I am weak both in body and mind. Feebly I tread the green turf that once felt my bounding feet; my limbs totter beneath me, and my fingers tremble as I try to clasp them around the flowers that are scattered all over my pathway. My eyes see but vaguely the beauties that once gleamed brilliantly upon my sight, and all my senses are fast numbing to the delights of earth. 
               "As I draw near the tomb, and see through its portals the promise of a brighter existence, the littleness of this life becomes strikingly apparent, and the majesty and glory of an immortal being are proportionately increased. My soul, thank God, participates not in my physical and mental debility, but grows potent, even amid the decay and waste of my other faculties, and rising up in its energy, goes forth to speak to my brother's charge. Will you heed the dying monk, dear Nina, when he tells you, with his panting breath, that heaven only is worth the winning? 
               "Earth may be full of good for you; but if the future has for you no store of fadeless joy, it were better to have been born as one out of due time. I seem to see you surrounded by the noble and thoughtless,-flattered and caressed, and ofttimes led astray from the rigid path of right. I am not surprised: it is the way of youth; but oh, Nina! child of much love and many prayers, whenever the spell of this earth would bind your spirit down, and keep it from soaring towards the eternal glory, let the voice of your departed uncle meet your ear as an effectual warning, breaking the subtle enchantment that would cheat you out of your heavenly inheritance, and let the last tremulous movement of Father Bonda's hand point you to the brightness that endureth for ever and ever." 
               It was a fatal effort for the exhausted old man,-the writing to the orphan Nina. They found him, with the pen in his cold fingers, and his head drooping upon the table by which he sat, and they bore him reverently away; and sealing the letter, sent it to its destination, with the added news of his death; but long ere Nina had broken the seal, the monks had chanted a solemn requiem over the still form, and hid it forever from mortal sight. 
               Nina was in Vienna when the tidings reached her, from the Holy Land; and Father Bonda's decease revived the sadness that her uncle's death had occasioned, so intimately were the two priests blended in her memory. 
               Her Aunt Sponheim had recovered from the burden of her grief, and strove to draw her into the whirl of excitement which she herself delighted in; but the niece preferred the solitude of nature, or the sweet companionship of her old friend Theresa Macholick, to all the gay allurements offered her. 
               Often she wandered alone to Prince Schwartzenberg's garden, and there, amid grottoes and fountains, mimic waterfalls, and beautiful statuary, refreshing shrubbery, and majestic shade-trees, spent many an otherwise weary hour. A porter in livery, with a large gold-headed cane in his hand, always stood at the gate ready to admit her to these charming precincts, and he came to watch yearningly for the quiet maiden, who glided about the garden so spirit-like and pure. There were many beautiful and gay, pealing out their laughter and merriment in that sylvan retreat; but the old man's heart had grown weary and sick of the bustle and display of life, and the calm figure cast its soothing shadow over the palling brilliancy, awakening him to thoughts of rest, and peace, and hallowed serenity. 
               Returning homeward, Nina would loiter in the chestnut alleys of some suburban garden, where were many things to entrance the eye, and bewilder the mind. 
               Notwithstanding the commotions that were agitating all Europe, there was no end to the diversions that occupied the excitable public. The Viennese particularly, seemed to give themselves up to a ceaseless round of amusement. The Prater was filled with crowds of gay pleasure-seekers. Cafs and gardens teemed with lounging multitudes, and the theatres were thronged with the merry and glad. 
               Putting away the past as far as was possible, Nina tried to cultivate in herself that happy susceptibility tibility to pleasure that seemed so common to those around her. She was thus enabled to spend several years free from the depression that had hitherto rendered her sojourn in the capital so irksome. 
               Nettie was much with her governess, and Frau Von Sponheim had her own recreations; and falling back upon her congenial friend, Nina had little to wish or regret. Driving one day in the great park, the two friends alighted from the carriage, and avoiding the crowd, sought a quiet spot where they might freely converse. 
               "Do you know, I am betrothed, dear Nina?" said Theresa, casting her eyes down to the ground, and taking Nina's hand in her own as she spoke. "You shall go to Italy and live with me. Venice is to be my future home; would you like that?" 
               "I am not surprised at your announcement," returned Nina, patting the white hand, and playing with the ring that spoke of a willing bondage; "but what will the baron do without you?" 
               "Poor papa! he does indeed seem to feel the anticipated change," sighed Theresa. "Mamma's ambition is greater than her affection; she will not be touched by a separation from me. She has never loved me. Can you guess the reason, Nina? I have tried in vain to gain her motherly regard, still I yield her the love of a daughter." 
               "You are beautiful, dear Theresa," returned her friend, looking intently on the charming face before her, more winning still for the pensive feeling that chastened the expression. "Do you know it?" 
               "God made me as I am; I praise Him that I am not repulsive," said Theresa, with a blush that made her perfectly radiant. 
               "Your mother is beautiful also," continued Nina, watching her eagerly to see if she would catch her meaning, without a plainer interpretation. 
               Theresa grew pale as death, and grasping at the arm of her companion, "You cannot think-" 
               "She is jealous of you, Theresa." 
               "My own mother. O Nina! this is more bitter than the long neglect for which my heart knew no motive; do you really believe it true?" 
               "I shall wound you by speaking," said Nina. 
               "No, no, it is over now; the shock was terrible, but this knowledge will make it less a trial to me to leave Vienna, if papa could only accompany me; but Nina, tell me upon what you found your impressions." 
               "Your mamma is always in society, always stylishly dressed, and always surrounded by admirers." 
               "That is true," said Theresa, thoughtfully. 
               "You are plainly attired, and kept back like a child, and the world speaks freely of the cause; 'tis of no consequence," added she, as Theresa looked deeply pained. "I am sorry I spoke, you should not have asked me, Theresa." 
               "'Tis better to know; I may yet gain her affection." 
               "Where did you meet Count B.?" asked Nina, anxious to turn the conversation into a pleasanter channel. 
               "Papa knew him in Italy, and he came to Vienna to see his old friend, and now refuses to go back alone. I do not mind leaving home now, Nina, since mamma will be made happier by it." 
               "Do not distress yourself," said Nina, as the deep flush upon Theresa's cheek told of internal suffering. "No doubt when you are sundered from her, her love will be rekindled towards you, and she will cherish you as tenderly as you could desire." 
               "Then I shall bless the event that separates us. Nina dearest, it were far better to have mourned over the heart made cold by death, than to lament the iciness that pervades a living bosom. You have sacred memories of a mother's affection." 
               "I have indeed," said Nina, reverently, as the spirit of her gentle parent seemed to rise up in blessing before her. "My mother was not beautiful!" added she, after a moment, as if there were something hidden between the thought and the expression. 
               "No?" and Theresa looked inquiringly at her. 
               "That is, not like the baroness, so brilliant and commanding. Everybody loved her, her face was so quiet and winning; people used to say that it was like an unspoken prayer, so full of devotion and purity." 
               "That is as I would like to be, dear Nina; so that there would be hallowed remembrances for my friends after death. Do you think me like mamma?" 
               "Like, and yet unlike. Your mamma dazzles like the coming meteor, but you shine upon one as a fixed star." 
               "Your comparison is too exalted to please me," returned Theresa; "I would be a true woman, luring all by a tenderness and sympathy that would awaken a like feeling in others, and so bind those I love indissolubly to me." 
               "You are that, Theresa; but tell me about Count B., is he handsome?" 
               "Not so handsome as Count Clari," and Theresa looked archly at Nina. 
               "Who is he?" asked Nina, with well-feigned ignorance. 
               "Oh, you have forgotten the drive here so long ago, and the graceful horseman who spoke to you for the first time." 
               "Never mind!" said Nina; "I am curious about your count now, 'tisn't any matter though, if you do not wish to speak of him." 
               "You shall see for yourself, at the opera this evening, if you will go with us." 
               "Thank you, I shall be happier. Aunt Marguerita has always her own particular coterie, and it is too gay for my mood." 
               "You must come to us for a while, now that I contemplate going so soon away." 
               "I shall be glad to escape from Aunt Sponheim; not that she is unkind to me now, but the old associations are all about me, and I am less cheerful in that house than anywhere else." 
               "Did you ever know the reason for your aunt's former treatment?" 
               "'Twas the property that made the sorrow, Theresa; I was thunderstruck when I found it out. They wanted it for Nettie, and I was uncle's pet." 
               "I see it all," said her friend, with an amazed expression; "did they accomplish their purpose, Nina?" 
               "I think they curtailed Nettie's share. Uncle Carl was not the person to reward duplicity, and they were unable to deceive him to the end." 
               "Things happen strangely," said Theresa, with a look of deep thoughtfulness. "The right always prevails. To think to baffle an Almighty Power." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               THE theatre was crowded to its utmost capacity. The favorite opera Lodoiska was performed. 
               The representations were to the life. A castle among the mountains was visible, and a tower upon a high rock. A carriage, drawn by six horses, and attended by mamelukes, appeared. A bandit, who had captured the betrothed of another, helped the lady to alight, and pointed out to her her future abode, speaking to her, at the same time, of his passion. 
               In another scene, she was hidden in the tower, lest her young lover should seek to rescue her. An old minstrel appeared beneath the walls of her prison, and sang one of her favorite melodies. On hearing the sound, and recognizing the voice, she gave back an answering strain. Close at hand was the retinue of the disguised lover. The bandit finding out the stratagem, met the minstrel in combat. The lover was victorious, and bore off his mistress amid the applause of the spectators. 
               Nina had been intent upon the play. Her eyes scarcely wandered, but on glancing towards the parquette during the closing scene, she espied Herr Perles leaning against a pillar, with his gaze fastened, not upon the stage, but upon her own blushing face. 
                
               It was in vain to try to appear nonchalant. From whatever emotion it might proceed, she was moved, and the lover's heart interpreted it to his advantage. 
               The next day being "St. Ann's," Nina joined the party of the Baroness Macholick in the Prater, to witness the grand pyrotechnic display. 
               A temporary building was erected for the royal family and the nobility, and the exhibition was unusually fine, ending with a decorated pie, from which issued birds, and linked sausages, these last exploding, and casting forth mottoes, with happy wishes for the occasion. 
               Herr Perles had seen Nina, as the carriage of the baroness wound through the principal avenue of the park, and caring more for an interview with her, than for the evanescent brilliancy of the festivities, he left the Prater, and going to the commissary of police, he ascertained her aunt's residence. 
               The next morning a servant announced "an old friend of Fraulein Sponheim," and Nina went trembling to the parlor, for her heart told her that the young artist would find her out. 
               "Herr Perles, I hoped you had forgotten me long ago," said she, extending her hand with a half-gracious, half-chilling cordiality. "You do wrong to come where I am. My aunt will be much displeased to find you here, and my brother will do you some injury, if he hears of your following me to Vienna." 
               "I brave every thing for you, Nina," returned he, passionately. "Your aunt and your brother have no share in my thoughts, if I have your good-will, 'tis all that I desire; the enmity of others is nothing to me." 
               "You have always the good-will, Herr Perles; I shall never feel otherwise than kindly towards you." 
               "Nina," said he, very sadly, as he saw from her easy freedom that he was to her but as a common friend; "Nina, let this plead for me," and drawing from his bosom a miniature, he showed her her own image, which was ever upon his heart, noting its constancy and devotion to her. 
               At that moment Marguerita Sponheim entered the room, and Charles, hastily slipping a note into Nina's hand, made his adieus and left. 
               "You must see him no more," said Frau Von Sponheim, as the door closed upon him. "'Tis scarcely fitting that you should receive the visits of a poor artist." 
               Several days elapsed, and Nina heard no more of Herr Perles. She had responded to the note, which was full of the most ardent professions, and had advised her lover to put away all thought of her, since his devotion would prove but a source of sorrow to both; and she was flattering herself that her persuasions had at last met his acquiescence, when she received a summons to appear before the director of police. 
               "Fraulein Sponheim, is this your writing?" asked he, holding before her the note that she had addressed to Perles. 
               "How came it with you?" returned Nina, chagrin and astonishment mingling in her face. 
                
               "Herr Perles is in prison," was the only reply of the officer. 
               Overcome by the sudden announcement, Nina was for a moment unable to speak; but governing her emotion as far as she could, she at length asked- 
               "What is his offence?" 
               "He was observed in a caf with a rich and elegant meerschaum, and not deigning to tell how he became possessed of it, he is shut up for a while." 
               "Indeed!" said Nina, with a spice of contempt in her tone, "'tis a weighty matter, and quite worthy such severity on the part of the authorities. Do you know if he has proper comforts-good food-a good bed?" asked she, dropping the sneering manner and speaking warmly and earnestly. 
               Looking inquiringly at her, as if to find out her motive for the question, the officer said- 
               "Fraulein Sponheim, you surely cannot be interested in this young man, when so many great ones are ready to bow down before you?" 
               "Can I see Herr Perles?" asked Nina, giving no heed to the words of the official. 
               "That is impossible," replied he, shaking his head decidedly. "Do you know any thing about him?" continued he, still holding the note in his hand, and looking from it to Nina, and back again upon the fine chirography. 
               "Nothing that should incarcerate him," replied she, reaching out her hand for the letter. "Am I at liberty to go?" she asked, with her hand still outstretched towards the note, and her thoughts wandering to the prisoner. 
                
               "In one moment," said the man, letting go the epistle, which she seized and crumpled carelessly. 
               Presuming upon his age and office, and Nina's youth and inexperience, he gave her some advice about "descending from her station to notice those so far beneath her," which gratuitous counsel was quite lost upon her unheeding ear,-and with a bland smile, and a courteous salutation, he permitted her to depart. 
               Going immediately to the prison, and ascertaining that Perles shared the common fare, she forwarded to him the luxuries to which he had been accustomed, and shortly after, through her influence, he was restored to his former freedom. 
               On escaping from durance, the young artist made one more attempt to awaken a tender feeling in the heart of Nina; but meeting with no encouragement, he betook himself with much zeal to his favorite pursuit, and in the adornment of the palace of the Archduke Charles, beguiled his hopeless passion. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               THE Baroness Macholick had removed to new apartments on the Graben. 
               She had taken two floors, the first for her husband and his domestics, the second for herself and Theresa, with their servants. 
               The furniture was new and tasteful. 
               The sleeping apartment of the baron was hung with green damask, and the ottomans and chairs were covered with the same material, with a fringe of gold. The bed was in an alcove, with steps going up, covered with green velvet; the ceiling above the bed was entirely of plate glass, and the remainder was painted  la fresco. The pillows of the bed were green silk, with a covering of fringed linen, fastened with satin bows. 
               The library was a capacious room, well filled, and tastefully adorned, and occupied many of the baron's leisure moments. 
               His secretary, valet de chambre, and others of his household, had their own appropriate apartments. 
               The boudoir of the baroness was both chaste and beautiful. 
               White brocade, inwoven with pink rosebuds, covered the walls, excepting where two large mirrors occupied a space on opposite sides of the room. 
                
               Her furniture was the same that was presented her some time previous by Prince Kaunitz, and was covered with the same materials as the walls, and fringed with silver. A canopy of the brocade, with a fine silver gauze over it, was upheld above the bed by a silver eagle. 
               Adjoining the boudoir was the bath-room, with furniture of yellow damask and silver trimmings. 
               Artificial trees gave a cheerful aspect to the place, and real shrubs and flowers emitted their pleasant fragrance, while Cupids and Psyches peeped out from the verdure. 
               In a recess was the marble basin, with steps leading down. A mirror covered the ceiling above the bath, and a drapery of rich lace partially concealed it. 
               At evening, a soft glow was shed over the room by a chandelier, whose diamond drops sparkled above the green-like stars in the firmament. 
               Theresa's sitting-room was finished with rose-colored damask, and adorned with finest paintings. In it was a fountain constantly playing. Gold and silver fish sported in the liquid basin, and a fresh bouquet always graced the vase in the centre, and exhaled its sweet odor. 
               Here the young friends would while away the pleasant hours with books or work, or in the glad confidences of their happy age. 
               The baroness was to give a party, and Nina and Theresa were looking forward to it with much pleasure. 
               Nina had been spending a few days with her friend, and had just returned to her aunt's to make preparations for the fte.
                
               "I wish you to look your prettiest," said Frau Von Sponheim to her, as they were discussing the all-important adornments. 
               The tailor was called-a dapper little man, who had long served in this particular office in her aunt's family-and laces and silks were spread before him. 
               A rose-colored gros de Naples was the result of the conference,-fitted with low neck, pointed waist, gored skirt, with train a yard and a half long,-long sleeves of flesh-colored tricot, laced into the arm size with silver cord and tassels. A deep lace depended from the neck of the dress. 
               Nina's necklace, bracelets, and ear-rings were golden serpents, with the tail in the mouth, and the eyes formed of diamonds. Her hair was dressed  la cockatoo, that is, in imitation of the crest of that bird, curled in tight ringlets, and raised higher from the back of the head to the forehead, over which hung three curls. 
               At seven o'clock they were at the Baroness Macholick's. 
               Driving into the court, they alighted at the marble steps. Arrived at the top, an usher announced their names. 
               The gentlemen kissed the hand of the baroness-the ladies courtesied before her. 
               The saloon was a very large room, with crimson velvet furniture. An enormous crimson cushion, with gold cord around it, and tassels at each corner, occupied the centre of the floor, and divans and ottomans were all around. 
               In each corner was a porcelain vase, filled with aromatic powder-"pot pourri"-which diffused a pleasant perfume through the air. 
               The floors shone like glass, and were polished to an icy slipperiness. The wax lights gleamed brilliantly, and a glitter of beauty and fashion outdazzled all. 
               At eight o'clock, dinner was announced; and passing through a room furnished with blue and silver, and devoted to musical instruments, the guests proceeded to the dining-saloon. This was painted in fresco, in imitation of the Luxembourg and Schonbrun gardens, and in it were two alcoves, with fountains and shrubs and flowers. The table was costly with silver, and burdened with every delicacy. 
               Nina had been introduced to a young baron, who was her companion at the table. She was not favorably impressed, and preferred the amusement she could silently gather, to the silly clatter of his words, which were too grossly flattering to merit her attention. 
               They were scarcely seated, however, when, on raising her eyes, she encountered the fixed gaze of Count Clari, who sat opposite her. Tall, handsome, becomingly dressed in the Hungarian uniform, with jetty black hair, and deep eyes whence the soul came forth to meet her. What wonder that the long-hidden heart left its secret nook, and bounded joyously, yet shyly, towards him. 
               Uneasy and reserved, Nina passed the long, ceremonious monious hours until twelve o'clock. Then the music stopped, and Fraulein Theresa was led to her harp by her Italian lover. 
               How commanding was she in her beauty that night! Her fine figure was robed in the purest satin, and costly diamonds sparkled in her dark hair, and glistened upon neck and arms. 
               Sweeping across the harp-strings with her white fingers, there came forth a gentle, dreamy murmur, which died away and then was caught up by the sweet voice, that warbled in the honeyed accents of her future home. 
               Even the haughty baroness seemed moved as she watched the graceful motions of her child, and bethought her that not much longer would the beauteous vision answer to her gaze. 
               Count Clari leaned abstractedly against a marble statue; his heart was not in the song. 
               The moments went swiftly. The elder guests had betaken themselves to cards, and the young people had for a long time devoted themselves to music. At the first pause, Count Clari approached Theresa, and begged to be presented to her friend. 
               "Certainly," replied she, as they crossed the room to seek her. 
               "Frau Von Sponheim, Count Clari;" then turning to the niece, "Fraulein Sponheim, Count Clari," she said, loosing her hand from Nina's, which she had for one moment clasped, and gliding gracefully about among her other guests. 
               The count engaged Nina in conversation for a few moments, but her confusion was very great, and she was painfully conscious of her inability to conceal it, so that she did not regret the summons from her aunt to return home. 
               The count had obtained permission to visit them, and on the following day, as Nina sat by the window in her aunt's parlor, he was announced. 
               Approaching her, he admired her flowers, and the birds that were warbling the tunes she had taught them so long before, when they only were the recipients of her sad sympathy. A brighter revelation was now opening to her, the old memories were fast dissipating under the power of a happy effulgence, the ideal of her fondest hopes and wishes was before her. Kovashi, Gliscoe, Perles-all were forgotten as if they had never been but in name. 
               A strange emotion took possession of her heart. Silent, pale, she sat, as if the life-blood were frozen in her veins, instead of rushing more wildly than ever through the swift channels. 
               Count Clari took the seat beside her on a sofa, and ventured to imprison a passive hand. 
               "Why so cold, dear Fraulein?" asked he, as he pressed it to his lips. 
               "I do not know," replied Nina, her pallor giving place to the deepest blushes. 
               "Did you ever love?" asked the count, his searching eyes reading the sweet face before him. 
               "No," answered she, dropping her gaze to the floor, and scarcely breathing both from hope and fear. 
               "I am happy to hear it;" and the clasp grew tighter around the frigid hand. 
                
               "Why so, Count Clari; did you ever love?" asked Nina naively, lifting her eyes timidly to her companion's once more. 
               "Never, but I love now," returned the count earnestly. "Will you permit me to come often, Fraulein, I have so much to say that has long been reserved for your ear alone." 
               "Nina's aunt was at the door, and the happy tte--tte was broken; but as the count took his leave, a glorious halo lingered where his first gentle words of love were spoken; and thenceforth, whatever gloom was in the house, to Nina, one bright spot was visible. 
               In the afternoon, Theresa came for an hour's gossip. 
               "Nina pet," said she; "Count Clari is dying for love of you, I rejoice for you; but, ah me! my heart is set upon your accompanying me to Italy: do not encourage him. How do you like my Italian?" she continued, as her thoughts turned to her own betrothed; then without awaiting her friend's reply, she added, as if to herself, "He is not like Clari, so handsome, but he is amiable and good, and I look for much happiness with him." 
               "Venice must be very charming," observed Nina, thinking of Theresa's future home. 
               "'Tis not the locality that I care so much for, dear Nina," said Theresa, unconsciously sighing. "I find myself wondering if my present joy is such as to brighten all places alike? If one's affection will stand the test of time and change? If one loves after youth and beauty vanish? If one's heart never grows shrivelled and cold, like the outer man? Do you ever question yourself thus, Nina?" and the charming girl bent down to kiss her young friend, while a tear, not of sorrow, but of a sweetly pensive feeling, stood in her eye. 
               Nina saw her emotion, but answered her gayly. 
               "I think little on such stupid subjects, Theresa, darling. When one is ready to be married, is time enough to fret about love. Oh, oh!" she continued yawningly; "what shall we do to amuse ourselves? this afternoon is so intolerably long." 
               "I can pardon you to-day, Nina, for saying that," said Theresa, with a wise look at her friend. "We will go to the Prater, where we can see our chevaliers, will that do?" 
               "'Tis just the thing; there is always pleasure there," returned Nina, as Theresa arose to go. 
               "I will call for you soon, Fraulein. I think I shall be able to satisfy your restlessness. Life will be very tranquil to you by-and-by." 
               On the green lawn, beneath the shade of a beautiful tree, the two friends seated themselves, in the great park, for a pleasant chat. 
               The summer was fading gradually away, and just enough of autumn's breath was in the air to render it gratefully refreshing. 
               Children and poodles were gambolling indiscriminately upon the turf. Ladies and gentlemen were grouped here and there, many of the fair plying their busy knitting-needles, while their gallants plied the busy tongue. 
               Some were sipping chocolate or coffee, or making merry over various bonbons and mottoes. Others carelessly whiled away the idle moments, with never a thought nor a wish beyond the present. There was little gloom apparent to mortal eye in the great and mirthful Prater; but who shall say what revelations of human anguish met the gaze that ever penetrates the outward mask! 
               Perhaps this semblance of happiness is better; our weakness could scarcely bear the visions that reach the Infinite Knowledge. 
               The friends were looking listlessly about, now and then turning to each other with some remark called forth by the strange scenes before them, when suddenly Count Clari and Theresa's Italian lover rode near them, and perceiving them, sprang from their horses, and were instantly beside them. 
               "Are your hands cold, Nina? mine are," whispered Clari, as he seated himself beside her. 
               Theresa heard his words, and the emphasis was not lost upon her, though at the time she only smiled upon the conscious Nina, and gave her a significant look, as they arose and strolled together along the bank of the river. 
               "Somehow there was a very tranquillizing effect in the air of the Prater to-day, Nina," said she, as they were driving homeward. 
               Nina was about to make some artless reply, when she caught Theresa's expression, and bursting into a merry laugh relapsed into her happy reverie. 
               It was better than conversation just then; the hour was thought-inspiring, and there were many silent demonstrations in the short period since she had met Count Clari, that her heart was busy in interpreting. 
               Heaven's brightest angel had descended to have its precious indwelling with her-no wonder the communion was far sweeter than the language of tongues. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               "PRECIOUS Nina, will you be mine?" asked Count Clari, as he found himself alone with the object of his thoughts. Marguerita Sponheim had purposely left the room-her mind was still intriguing for her orphan niece; but neither the count nor Nina suspected her design, and both hearts were unconsciously with her. 
               Nina spoke not; but she looked frankly into the eyes that were bent upon her. 
               The answer was sufficient, and Count Clari, drawing her closer to his side said- 
               "I have a grand-aunt in Bohemia-the Countess F., who will make me her heir, provided I marry a connection of hers of the same high blood that she herself boasts. The young lady of her choice is a proud, spoiled child, and my heart revolts from her, neither does she care for me. Nina, I cannot take to my bosom an indifferent bride. She whom I call by the endearing name of wife, must give me all her heart's deep devotion. Can you do this, dear Fraulein?" 
               Nina was still silent, save that her glance revealed her soul's pure, earnest feeling towards her lover. 
               The count pressed her fondly to him and continued- 
                
               "My aunt thinks to drive me to a union with this simple girl, by threatening to disinherit me; but I shall not be deterred from marrying agreeably to my own will, either by threats, or the execution of them. 
               "I am an officer in the Hungarian army, and have property both in Hungary and Prague, so that I am quite independent of my aunt's fancies. She is so bound up in her foolish pedigree, that she can never unwrap herself; but she vainly hopes to entangle me in the same net." 
               Nina smiled, and half jestingly, half seriously, returned- 
               "I, too, Count Clari, can boast of high descent; and were it not for the cruel confiscation of my maternal grandfather's estates by the rapacious Jesuits, I should be wealthy. As it is, my love is my chief treasure." 
               "Riches enough!" said the enraptured lover. "I cherish you for the warm heart and noble soul, which are worth more to me than perishable wealth or foolish pedigree. I shall always have enough to keep you in luxury and comfort, and my affection is yours forever. What say you to love in a cottage, dear Nina?" 
               "With you, Count Clari, I should be contented and happy under any circumstances, and in any house." 
               "My life is but just beginning," said the count, gathering the unresisting form of his beloved to his enfolding arms, and impressing the first kiss of affection upon her lips. 
                
               "Fraulein, dearest, we will live entirely for each other," murmured he, as she extricated herself from his embrace, and left him that she might dwell in secret upon her new and blessed emotions. 
               On the ensuing day, a note came to Nina from the count, filled with self-gratulations, and desiring her to accompany him on a drive to Luxembourg. "My page," said he, "will take a request to Fraulein Theresa Macholick to join us with her betrothed, and our little party of four will be very pleasant." 
               It was indeed delightful. There was nothing to mar the enjoyment of the day. One noble sentiment filled each heart, and diffused its blessed light and peace around. 
               There were so many objects of interest, too, to Nina, in the charming garden and its wondrous novelties. 
               The Temple de Laune, or Tower of Whims, filled her with the greatest astonishment. 
               This temple was built by Baron Brown, the director of the palace, as a surprise to the empress on her birthday, and was full of singular curiosities, which he had collected in Hungary and Poland. 
               One room upon the first floor was wholly devoted to music-ceiling, walls, and floor, all covered with representations of songs, operas, &c. Everywhere the vision met but painted notes. Gyrowetz and Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, Hummel and Salieri, were pressed beneath the feet, or figured above the head, or stared from every side of the apartment. The visitors seated themselves, and forthwith the enchanted furniture grew melodious. 
                
               Dazzled and bewildered, they passed on through another room, where cards of every description greeted their gaze; and still another, where tuneful clocks and watches wore away the hours in grateful melody-where pictures with blinking eyes, and puppets with moving limbs, kept time to the music; and all that could be gathered of ingenious mechanism, was spread out before them. 
               On the second floor was the representation of nature. Images of beasts and birds adorned the walls, and stuffed skins stood around in almost lifelike majesty and beauty. 
               In the topmost room of the tower, was an old cottage going to decay. Old barrels were standing about, and behind the cottage were several orangoutangs, with their hideous physiognomy, half-human, yet brutal, frightening one by its ugliness. 
               Nina was weary, and sitting down upon a barrel, what was not her surprise and horror, as one of the grinning creatures sprang forward, and laid his bony claws upon her shoulders. 
               The rest of the party had visited the tower before, and being previously initiated, were much amused at the momentary alarm of their companion. 
               "You will dine with me?" said the baron, who was their escort about the garden and tower. 
               At that moment the floor opened, and a sumptuous repast rose up, as if by magic; and whenever the dishes were to be removed, the strange waiters came from behind the cottage, and placed them upon a side table. 
               The machinery was broken to many of them, but several retained their mechanical powers, and occasioned much diversion by their activity in the service of the baron. 
               Returning from Luxembourg, the little party stopped at a theatre in the Leopold-Stadt, where the emperor himself went frequently, to be amused during the perplexities of war, and where comedy in its utmost ludicrousness was performed. 
               There were but a few days before Count Clari's duties would call him to Hungary, and the fleeting moments were hoarded by the lovers with a jealous care. Walks and drives, and every pleasure that would unite them in glad companionship, were planned by the count, and met a ready sympathy from the now happy Nina. 
               They had been to visit Shanau, the place afterwards purchased by Jerome Bonaparte. 
               Artificial islands, beautiful bridges, Chinese temples, labyrinthine alleys, statues, fountains-all that could minister to an imaginative and romantic mind, were grouped together in this enchanting space. 
               Notwithstanding the delights of the day, Nina was oppressed with an unwonted gloom as she and Clari were driving home by moonlight. 
               "You are melancholy, Nina, beloved one," said the count, troubled by her unusual seriousness. "You have not had a pleasant day?" 
               "Can you doubt it?" returned she, earnestly; "if the joy would but last, my Francis. The feeling that it is but evanescent; that at any moment we may be cut off from each other, and our fleeting bliss changed to a lasting sadness." 
                
               "This is morbid, dear Nina," returned the count half chidingly. "Let us take thankfully the present joy, without any looking for future evil." 
               "I will try to banish all but the brightness," said Nina, with an evident effort at cheerfulness. "Truly there is great glory, even here," she added, gazing reverently upon the starry firmament, and the moonlit scene around her. 
               "Of what are you thinking, dear Fraulein?" asked the count, after a long pause. 
               "The day after the morrow," replied she, sadly. 
               "Our separation will not be very long," said Count Clari, pressing her little hand to his lips, and then to his heart. "I shall come often to see you, and shall visit Prague during your sojourn there, so we will look forward to that meeting, instead of dwelling upon the parting moment." 
               "Is Louise pretty?" asked Nina, thinking of the Countess F.'s choice for her nephew, and her chance of seeing her. 
               "There is no beauty to me without soul, and in that particular she is wholly deficient," replied the count. 
               "Is she with your aunt?" 
               "At present, yes; do not think of her, Nina, the subject chafes me. I want no distorted image to disturb my vision of beauty and peace. Live for me only, my beloved one, I have no wish nor thought for another." 
               The next day was spent in visiting with Clari, his disabled officers, to whom his bounty was most freely extended. No less than six poor unfortunates, sans eyes, sans arms, sans legs, were the recipients of a noble generosity, which put them beyond the reach of anxiety or want. 
               It was a sacred memento of the day, this blending the heavenly virtues, love and charity, and was often recalled in after hours by the lovers with a satisfying pleasure. 
               In the evening, all went to the theatre, where was a greater commotion than usual, on the entrance of the royal family, as they were accompanied by Lord Nelson, who was at that time in Vienna. Everybody was on the qui vive to see the great admiral, and La Belle Hamilton, whose names had come to be so continually united. 
               Three ushers announced the emperor, and all the people arose to salute him. Cinderella was performed, in honor of the distinguished guests. Nelson occupied the loge with the royal family, and brought most vividly before Nina and Clari the events of the day, as, with his right arm in a sling, and a black patch over one eye, he was presented to their gaze. 
               Lady Hamilton was not permitted a place in the royal box, neither was she allowed to make her appearance at court; but she received much attention from the distinguished men of the nation, both for her fascinating beauty and wit, and for the sake of the great man, whose favor shielded her from a merited reproach. 
               Prince Esterhazy entertained Nelson and his party in magnificent style at his estate in Hungary, and other eminent persons paid them a flattering regard, while the ladies of Vienna deferred to La Belle Hamilton's taste in dress, and appeared at court despoiled of their long trains. 
               Not long after the evening at the theatre, as Nina was in the royal museum, she recognized Lady Hamilton. Her eyes were tearful, and her frame agitated, as she stood beside a camel, upon which was seated her favorite page, a young moor, who had but recently died, and whom she had caused to be embalmed, and placed upon this animal, with a spear in his hand. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               COUNT CLARI had joined his regiment for a while. There was little joy in life without him. 
               Vienna was full of merriment and gayety, but it palled upon Nina's sick and lonely heart. 
               "I shall be so glad to go to Prague," said she to Theresa, who was her only solace in the absence of Clari. "I could almost love that great-aunt for being allied to my Francis. Who knows but she may be my friend yet. And Count Clari promises to go to me during my visit there. There is that anticipation at least to make the future pleasant." 
               "You are such an impatient pet," said her friend, putting her arm around her, and pressing her lips fondly to Nina's. "We are both knightless now; but I am resigned, you see;" and she smiled so sweetly, and yet so sadly, that Nina could not but notice it. 
               "Your submission is a forced one, as well as my own, dear Theresa. Your cheek has paled a good deal since Count B. left Vienna." 
               "Perhaps so, and yet I am not miserable. I live in the past, dear Nina. Every word, every look, every act, is as if it were present with me, and so I cannot be wholly gloomy; but when do you leave for Prague?" 
                
               "Fanny is coming next week, and her cousin Apolina will be married on the Monday following. I shall accompany the bridal party immediately to Bohemia." 
               "Count B. gives me such delightful pictures of Italy," said Theresa, taking a letter from her escritoire and reading a portion aloud. 
               "Charming," said Nina. "Do you look for him soon, Theresa?" 
               "Not before spring; is that soon, Nina?" 
               "It seems an age to look forward to, but how will it dwindle in the retrospect!" 
               "I wonder what it may bring to us of good or ill!" said Theresa musingly. 
               "Nothing would tempt me to see, even if it might be," returned Nina. "Shadows always seem to darken my horizon. If I should behold them as realities, it would be misery indeed! No, no, dear Theresa, 'tis a merciful veil that separates us from coming events. My hand would be the last to withdraw it." 
               "I did not mean that I would know, and yet I find myself often thinking almost inquiringly," said Theresa. 
               "One would prophesy for us both a very bright future," returned Nina; "and yet how little can we tell if our sky, now so brilliant, will long remain unclouded!" 
               "To be prepared for darkness, that is true wisdom, Nina, darling. It would not then matter so much what is to come upon us." 
               The two friends were in Fraulein Macholick's sitting-room ting-room, and the twilight was around them. The murmur of the fountain fell sweetly upon the ear, and the dreamy spirits of the hour hovered over them, imparting to them a pensive feeling. 
               Theresa's last words had fallen like lead upon the heart of Nina. Wherefore she knew not; but silent and abstracted she leaned against the window by which they were standing, and as the stars came out in glorious beauty, and the full moon spread over all things her serene light, she seemed to hear a warning voice whispering amid all the gleaming brilliancy, "To be prepared for darkness, this is true wisdom!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               "SUCH a plight, dear Fanny!" said Nina, holding out her drenched and muddy feet, as the brother's wife met her with outstretched arms, in her Cousin Sternstein's boudoir. "Don't touch me, pray, if you have any mercy upon your nice dress!" 
               "How did it happen?" asked Fanny, as the maid was removing the soiled slippers and stockings. "You surely did not walk!" 
               "'Twas ludicrous as well as provoking," returned Nina, laughing heartily. "My sedan chair, which I preferred to a carriage, played me a pretty trick, and in the midst of a pelting shower, lost its foundation, and there was I, forced to put my satin slippers through the uninviting puddles." 
               "What were the stupid men about, that they did not perceive your dilemma?" asked the sister. 
               "Why, hurrying along as fast as possible, in order to escape the deluge. I knocked and knocked upon the window, but they heard nothing; and the breath would have been wholly driven from my body, if it had not been for some gentlemen who opportunely perceived my trouble, and procured a carriage for me. Thanks to La Belle Hamilton, my dress is spotless," continued she, examining the pure gros de Naples which she had contrived to keep from pollution. 
                
               "Let Frieda undress you, there is time for an hour's rest before the guests arrive, and you will surely be ill, if you are not careful after such an exposure." 
               "I cannot leave you now, Fanny, 'tis so long since we met, and there is much to be crowded into the little space that we have together. I assure you I feel none the worse for my singular adventure, 'tis rather exhilarating than otherwise." 
               "Take this," said the motherly sister, presenting a cordial; "'twill insure you against cold, and just lie down for a while, I will sit beside you till you are refreshed. You need not sleep." 
               "That will do nicely," replied Nina; "if you are only near, I am quite content any way. How does Apolina seem?" 
               "Quite joyous," answered Fanny, seating herself by the sofa on which Nina was reclining; "there is but little sadness to a willing bride; the sorrow is to the friends that are about to lose her. But tell me of Clari and yourself, love has done wonders for you, Nina; you were never looking so well and happy." 
               "I have cause, dear Fanny; if all men were like my Clari, there would be few broken hearts and sombre faces in the world," and Nina sighed and blushed at her own enthusiasm. 
               "I am so glad for you," returned her sister; "do you know that Count Gliscoe has consoled himself for his disappointment by giving his title to Herr Cleren's daughter." 
               "The lovely Emilia! I grieve for her; she has such a noble nature, and he is so rough and selfish." 
                
               "We will hope that she will soften and polish him; 'tis said that her influence is already perceptible. Are you sorry now, dear Nina, that you were banished from Raab?" 
               "Oh no, not I; I begin to believe that you are right in saying, that every thing happens for the best. I should have lost a great good by not coming to Vienna. If I had persisted in remaining with you, who knows if Count Clari and I would ever have met," and, closing her eyes in reverie, Nina was soon lost to the consciousness of the gentle presence of Fanny, who still lingered near her, watching her peaceful slumbers, and waiting to assist her when she should awake. 
               "Pleasant dreams?" asked she, as the drooping lids slowly opened, and the dark eyes peeped lovingly out upon her. 
               "Ah, yes," replied Nina, shutting her eyes again, as if she were trying to recall her happy illusions. "But, Fanny, this won't do for me," and springing up she was soon in Frieda's skilful hands. 
               "We have but a minute," said Fanny, clasping Clari's parting gift-a necklace and bracelets of gold, with diamond forget-me-nots. "You were fortunate, indeed, not to injure this," she added, smoothing down the rich flounce of lace, that adorned Nina's skirt; "'tis really beautiful. There, all is ready now," and the sisters prepared to accompany the bridal party to St. Stephen's Cathedral, where the ceremony was to be performed. 
               Apolina had gone through with all the Romish preliminaries,-confession, and communion,-and solemnized emnized by the feeling that it was no trifling or worldly compact that she was about to engage in, she looked thoughtfully, but serenely happy, as she advanced to the altar to pronounce her marriage vows. 
               Dressed in white satin and blonde, with pearls in her fair hair and fastening her veil, and rosebuds and jessamine upon her breast, she was the impersonation of purity and loveliness. 
               How few short moments does it take to change the whole current of one's life! A solemn exhortation-a lifting up of heart and voice to the Great Father-a low-breathed vow-the clasping of hands-the placing the magic circlet-the priestly blessing upon the bowed head-and the bride went forth from the hallowed temple another being. 
               Thenceforth, no looking back to the smoothly-gliding river, with its sunny, flower-dotted banks. No retracing one's steps to the verdant path of a gleesome, careless hour. No idle, listless dreaming of the wondrous things that are coming, coming, coming; but the pressing forward to the end, with the heart fast bound to that other heart, and the hand close linked to that other hand. No brightness but that which is reflected, no joy that is not shared. 
               The journey to Prague was very delightful. The leaves were beginning to put on their autumnal brilliancy, and the air was just at a pleasant temperature. 
               The postilion's horn made cheering music on the road, and the merry chat of the little party whiled away the swift hours. 
                
               For a few days after their arrival, the time was given up to explorations, before the influx of visitors should occupy the bride and her companions. 
               The gardens were, as usual, Nina's greatest delight, and attracted her when all other pleasures failed. That of Baron Brekfeldt was her chief resort. In it was a curious cave, the interior of which was composed wholly of human bones. 
               The floor was formed of the bones of the foot, and the walls and ceiling of various parts of the human frame. There was a sofa, the seat of which was made of the bones of the arm; the back and sides, of ribs; and the pedestals, of legs and feet. The ornamental part was of skulls. 
               Before this sofa stood a table formed of hands clasped with the palms downward. The basis was of spinal columns and feet. 
               Suspended from the ceiling of the cave was an alabaster lamp, which shed its lugubrious light over the place, engendering in the visitor a melancholy feeling. 
               Upon the top of the cave was the figure of a hermit standing, and around were willows, with their weeping branches bending over the side of the rock. 
               A week had passed, and Frau Von Kotscue would give a party for her new daughter. 
               The Bohemian ladies were gay and affable, and the affair was anticipated with much pleasure by Apolina and her sister Annetta; but Nina's heart was with her absent Clari, from whom no news had yet reached her, and she viewed the preparations for the fte with somewhat of indifference, yet as the time approached, the spirit of merriment became infectious, and when the guests were assembled, she took an unfeigned interest in the scenes around her. 
               A rich feast was spread. The saloon was decorated with sweetly-blooming flowers, the table shone with silver, and the beautiful glass of the country sparkled and gleamed upon it. In the middle of the board was a fountain, the basin of which was of Bohemian glass, ornamented with flowers of the same material, and filled with wine. 
               Within this reservoir was a vase finely decorated, which held a choicer wine. An arch of glass flowers spanned the fountain, and in the middle of the wreath was the motto, sei glcklich-be happy. 
               Holding a cup in the form of a rose, under a little bud on the vase, the liquid flowed into the tiny receptacle. This was presented to the father and mother, the bride and the groom, after which that in the lower reservoir was dispensed to the guests, who drank it with toasts, and healths, and songs. 
               Party followed party, and Nina must needs go, despite her solitary inclinations, and listen to the flatteries that were vapid and senseless to her preoccupied ear. 
               She had not seen the Countess F.; but it was good to be even invisibly near something that had a claim upon her betrothed. 
               No letter had as yet come from Clari. Could he be ill? Could he forget? Was it possible that he was false? 
               Agitated by these conflicting emotions, Nina strolled away to a beautiful island in the river Moldau, and there, amid the soothing murmur of the waters, and the quiet hum of nature, she read the last fervent note that her lover's heart had dictated, and pressing his silent image to her lips, she wept and prayed. 
               A sweet calm came to the sad spirit, and a voice within her whispered, "Trust in his honor, he will be true." 
               How did all things brighten around her! The pensive music of the stream took a leaping joyous sound, and the bronzed and changing foliage grew lustrous in the sunlight. 
               From the beauteous bridge that spanned the Moldau, the vision of saints and angels shone upon her, not as senseless marble, but as living witnesses to her restored peace. 
               Calmed and happy, she left the charming retreat with regretful steps, and gaining the bridge, lingered before the sculptured images. 
               Breathing a prayer before the "Holy Mother," who looked down from her high pedestal upon her, she turned away, and soon rejoined her friends at Frau Von Sternstein's. 
               "Herr Michael awaits you in the parlor," said Apolina, with a meaning smile. 
               What was not Nina's surprise, when he whom she had seen only for the last few days, met her with an abrupt avowal of his affection. 
               "Fraulein Sponheim, hear me," said he, as she endeavored to divert him from the subject. "I know of your betrothal, it is to Count Clari; but I also know that you can never be united. He is so situated that he must obey his aunt." 
               "Count Clari is master of his own will," returned Nina, blushing for very vexation at what she considered the impertinence of a stranger, and rising from her seat to leave the room. 
               "Listen to me, Fraulein," continued the pertinacious lover, stepping quickly before her. "I saw and admired you in Vienna. Since then I have not forgotten you; but have lost sight of you until a propitious fate brought you to Prague. I am no count, but I am a private gentleman of wealth, and can give you an equal style with Clari." 
               "Herr Michael," replied Nina, "your words are empty; my heart is entirely devoted to another. Why then trouble me with professions that are not only vain, but dishonorable. I am flattered by your preference, but say no more of love to me, now that you know where my thoughts are fixed," and leaving him, she sought Apolina and Annetta, who engaged her to accompany them to the theatre in the evening. 
               Nina scarcely noticed the play. Her eyes were fixed upon the box opposite her own: for she recognized, in the venerable but haughty old lady who occupied it, the aunt, whose portrait Clari had so faithfully drawn for her; and in the short, plump, stupid being at her side, that Louise who stood between her and the object of her deepest regard. 
               Dowdily dressed, she sat a little behind the countess, flaunting her jewelled fan, fixing her glass with shameless stare upon every face that excited her curiosity, and boldly coquetting with the gentlemen who formed her escort, or dared venture for a moment into the box of the august countess. 
               "Soulless, indeed!" thought Nina, as she looked in vain for some indication of feeling in the expression. "To think of binding my noble Clari to such as she." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               THE image of the Countess F. had mingled in Nina's dreams, and through the long wearisome night had been opposing her efforts to reach the side of Clari, who stood near his aunt with sad and downcast mien. 
               The illusion was depressing, and the influence would not leave her even when wholly awake to the consciousness that it was but a phantasm. 
               The hour of eleven had struck, and it was time to prepare for mass; still she lingered in bed, and gave herself up to a dreamy reverie. 
               If she could only hear from her betrothed, this dread suspense and sinking would pass away, yet why so troubled by a foolish, idle vision! There was a knock at the door. 
               "I do not wish any thing this morning," said she, as a servant placed before her a silver waiter with a cup of coffee and a delicate slice of kipfel upon it. 
               "A letter for Fraulein Sponheim," said the maid, directing her attention to it, as it lay half hidden by the plate. 
               "You need not remain, I will summon you if I want your assistance;" and Nina quickly broke the seal, and devoured the contents. 
               Clari had been ill, and busy with his regiment; but his heart was steadfast and true. "I shall strive to be with you in a few days," said he, "and I will then compensate myself for this tedious separation and silence." 
               The letter was full of joy and comfort; and the anticipation of Clari's coming brought back the accustomed appetite, so that the cup was empty and the bread missing when the servant came to remove the waiter. 
               Several days of watching and wishing elapsed, and Clari did not appear. A week had passed, still he came not. 
               The weary days grew chill and drear. The foliage was fast changing to a dusky brown, and rustling downward to its grave. Nina's heart was taking up its doleful strain again, and her steps were frequently turned towards the cave in the garden. 
               The beautiful island had been cognizant of her joy, as her soul had leaped from sorrow and doubt to a sweet peace and trust, and she would not destroy these blessed associations by pouring out there a renewed melancholy. Besides, there was something in accordance with her feelings, in the drooping willows, and the sombre light, and the strange surroundings of a dead humanity, so that the cave became her constant resort whenever a shadow was upon her spirit. Going there one weary day, when the deferred hope grew too heavy to bear, she seated herself upon the sofa, and leaning upon the little table, with her face hidden in her hands, she gave way to her bitter disappointment. Not Clari alone was in that tearful hour. Bygone days,-the gentle mother, the quiet home with the venerable and beloved uncle, the cherished sister, and the faithful friend,-all by turns occupied her, and filled up the measure of her sad regrets. 
               "My Nina, and thus!" said a gentle voice, and her head was resting upon the beloved bosom, and the sunlight sparkled through the diamond drops, and the cave was all radiant with a beauty which these two fond hearts diffused. 
               "So you were beginning to despair, were you, Nina, darling?" and the count chided her in his tender way, telling her how he had flown to her so soon as he could, and how he had trusted to her love and faithfulness, though no word had reached him since their sorrowful parting in Vienna. "I shall be very jealous of my pet," he continued, pressing her fondly to his heart. "Annetta tells me how many forlorn ones are bemoaning their hopeless fate. You are a sad destroyer, my Nina; but you mend as well as break hearts, and I shall ever bless your power. Have you seen the Countess F.?" he asked, after a moment's silence. 
               "Yes," replied Nina, "and Louise; but-" 
               "You did not like her. You do not wonder that I am sworn against such a union." 
               "Ah!" said Nina, "the countess can never urge it." 
               "It would avail nothing, my heart is fixed," returned the ardent lover. "Nina, dear one, we will cling to each other, come life, come death. Say yes, my darling," added he, as her lips moved and yet emitted no sound. 
                
               "I love you, Count Clari!" murmured she, clasping his hand with a convulsive pressure; "but the Countess F.,"-and she shivered as the frigid form of the haughty woman rose up before her. 
               "Think not of her, dear Nina. Let not this bright hour be dimmed by such forbidding shadows. While your fond heart throbs next my own, and your warm breath is on my cheek, I can see no darkness," rhapsodized the count. "Away from you, the light fades into thick gloom; but joy, and beauty, and gladness are with you, Nina, my own, my beloved one!" and Clari whispered to his betrothed words of such soul-fervor and hope, that for a moment her forebodings were all hushed, and forgetting the evils, she abandoned herself to the present bliss. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               THE Countess F. sat in her boudoir in stately majesty. At her feet, upon a velvet cushion, reposed her favorite poodle, and near her stood a servant, with downcast eyes and folded hands. 
               Against the mantle leaned her nephew, occasionally glancing at her stern face, as if to see whether there was any relaxing of the rigid muscles; but oftener looking impatiently at a little clock, and wondering when it would please her to grant him an audience, and release him, that he might seek a more benign presence. 
               "Go, Fanchon," said she, as the hour-hand reached the point specified in her methodical and precise mind. "It is two o'clock-come to me again in one half hour. My nephew, I await your pleasure-you may sit near me," and she motioned him to a seat in front of her. 
               Clari would have preferred any other position, as there was that in the full gaze of his aunt that cowed him in spite of his manhood, and made him a very abject in her presence; but his subject emboldened him, and he almost forgot the pride and sternness of his august relative, as she said- 
               "You have something of importance to communicate to me, Francis: does it concern your property?" 
                
               "I would speak of my betrothed, countess," and the young man looked earnestly at her, to see what impression his opening sentence would make. 
               "Ah, that is well!" said she, with a grim smile. "I had hoped you would come to your senses, and broach the matter. Louise is in no hurry. Indeed, she seems quite indifferent; but she will soon be eighteen, and 'twill be a relief to me to have things sure. This will be a happy combination, nephew-high blood on both sides!" and the stiff face grew almost gracious, as she cast a benevolent glance upon her relative. 
               "It is not Louise that I refer to," replied the count. "I acknowledge no engagement with her." 
               The face of the aunt was wrinkled and hideous with rage, as she replied- 
               "If you have formed a contract with any other, you are no nephew of mine." 
               "Fraulein Sponheim, the lady of my choice, is of noble blood," pleaded the count, when his aunt's anger was sufficiently appeased to admit of a renewal of the subject. 
               "Has she a pedigree?" asked the lady, drawing herself up, as if to represent in her own person her extended line of ancestry. 
               "She has a heart and soul, and we love each other,-she only can make my happiness!" returned Clari, with warmth. 
               The Countess F. laughed, as one laughs who has outgrown all the sensibilities of nature, and so deems the display a folly in others; but as her nephew spoke earnestly of the virtues of his betrothed, and of the deep and tender attachment they felt for each other, the withered heart went back to the early days, when life was full of love and beauty and greenness to it also, and she asked, with a momentary softening- 
               "Where is this young lady?" 
               "She is at present in Prague, on a visit. Will you allow me to present her to you, countess? You cannot but admire her,-she is a proud-spirited, noble Hungarian." And Count Clari gathered a little hope as his aunt paused for a moment with her brow upon her hand; but as she raised her head again to speak, he felt the vanity of his elation. 
               "I do not wish to see her," said she, with emphatic deliberation. "Louise, the girl that I have educated for you, must be yours, or all my large wealth shall go to others. I leave you to decide;" and inclining her head graciously, the tte--tte was at an end, and Count Clari left her, and proceeded to find Nina Sponheim. 
               "Shall we walk?" asked he, as they met in Frau Von Sternstein's parlor. 
               Involuntarily their steps were bent towards the cave. Both were silent and absorbed,-the count troubled by his unsatisfactory interview, and Nina moved by the presentiment of a coming evil. 
               "You are preoccupied, dear Francis," said she, breaking the stillness as they seated themselves upon the skeleton sofa. 
               "The countess irritates me," replied her lover. "She is dead to every thing but her foolish pedigree." 
                
               "You have been speaking to her of our betrothal?" 
               "Yes," and Clari's fingers unconsciously played with a skull which formed the ornamental part of the arm of the sofa. "No feeling," he added, as the bony touch awoke him to a sense of the object upon which his hand rested. "Not a spark of sympathy left in the cold, inanimate frame. God forbid that I should outlive all that is tender and earnest in our humanity!" and the count drew Nina to him, and wound his arm about her, while he explained to her the cause of his unwonted depression. 
               "Tell me no more about her," said Nina, proudly. "You know dear Francis, that next to my God I love you; but be assured that I shall never ally myself to any family that would look upon me as an inferior. Before I permit your aunt to disinherit you on my account, I will freely decline the hand which you offer me. Let us part. I will return to the nunnery, there I may be at peace," and her head drooped heavily upon Clari's breast. 
               "Nina, for the love of heaven speak not thus!" said he. "I can never give you up; it would be my death. Let us put away the countess. What has she to do between us with her ghastliness and sorrow? You must be mine! you shall be mine!" and he clasped her to him with frantic fervor. 
               The willows waved solemnly before the open door, and the autumnal breath came rudely in, and swept chillingly over them, and the dimness conjured up many a mournful phantom, as the lovers sat in the gloom, with the unsettled future before them. 
                
               It was all in vain to try to pierce the dense mist that concealed it from their view. Brightness might lie beyond, but the foreboding was of darkness. 
               The night brought no rest. Sick at heart, Nina tossed upon her thorny pillow, and scarcely blessed the light that had erst awakened her to the joy of again meeting Clari. 
               Through the day he came not; but at evening she saw him at the theatre in the countess' box. Louise was with them, and seemed desirous to secure the attention of the handsome count, whatever was her indifference towards him; but Nina perceived that Clari's eyes were wandering. 
               Soon he observed her, and spoke to the countess, who raised her glass and scrutinized Nina as if she were a part of the senseless scenery. 
               "I do not wonder that you love the girl, Francis," said the countess to her nephew, still keeping her gaze upon Clari's betrothed. "She is charming; but she has no pedigree." 
               The count sighed, and contrasted the object of his choice with the gaudy being at his side. 
               Louise was buried in scarlet satin and feathers, and the profusion of her jewels dazzled and wearied the eye. Nina wore a delicate blue gros de Naples, and her only ornaments were the forget-me-nots that Clari's own taste had selected. A soft blush was upon her face as she perceived her lover's gaze fixed upon her, and her eyes sparkled with an unfeigned joy. Several dashing beaux had accompanied her party, and as the count noticed her animation, he forgot her sweet faith and trust in him, and returned it all with the jealous suspicion that she was more than comforted in his absence by the attentions of the Bohemian strangers. Excusing himself, however, from his aunt and Louise, who had other attendants, he was soon in her box. Nina noticed his agitation, and was consequently herself ill at ease; but by her soothing sympathy she soon banished his distrust, and all was bright once more. 
               "My aunt thinks you charming, Nina," whispered he, as they were on their way home. "You are very much admired here by everybody, dear Fraulein," and a lurking jealousy was in his tone. 
               "Do not say so, my Francis," returned she, with an earnest truthfulness. "I care nothing for the admiration of the multitude. If the one heart approves, I ask no more," and the good-night was full of peace. 
               Such fluctuations! Hope and fear,-doubt and certainty,-distrust and confidence-how do they chase each other through our life's sky! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
               RECALLED suddenly to Vienna by the illness of Annetta Sternstein's father, Nina had only time for a drive with Count Clari to his estate, a small village six miles from the city, containing about forty inhabitants. 
               The castle was built in antique style, and had furniture to correspond, and the gardens were tastefully laid out, and Clari took great pleasure in pointing out to Nina the improvements which he had planned for future execution, when he should give up his military duties, and seek with her the sweet repose of a domestic life. 
               Leaving the castle and the village, they pursued their pleasant way about two miles farther, to the Thiergarten, which was five miles in circumference, surrounded by a high wall, inclosing an abundance of fine game. 
               Standing beside the count, beneath the brown foliage, Nina watched the deer, as they flitted about with swift and graceful feet. Golden pheasants flew from branch to branch, their glittering plumage beaming in the sunlight; and a gentle gazelle timidly approached to gaze upon the strangers who had come to invade that quiet retreat. 
               "Would you be content to live on this estate, dear Fraulein?" asked the count, as he observed with delight Nina's rapture amid the beauties of nature. 
               "More than content," replied she, with an expression of unfeigned pleasure; "but the countess!" 
               "She has nothing to do with this," resumed the lover; "it is wholly my own. With it and my revenues from Hungary, how happy we could be. O, Nina! say that you will let no proud motives keep you from the heart that beats for you only! What is all the wealth of the countess if the one coveted treasure should fail me?" 
               The subject was both painful and agitating, and as Nina had fully determined not to be persuaded to marry the count without the sanction of his aunt, Clari alluded to it no more at the time, but contented himself with the devoted affection that was apparent in every look and word of his betrothed. 
               Once more in Vienna, Nina imparted to her beloved Theresa all her sorrows, and found in her sympathy and approval a comfort in her trying resolution. 
               "Count Clari urges me to a clandestine union," said Nina to her friend; "but my decision is made, and I shall never be moved to a secret marriage." 
               "You are perfectly right," said Theresa. "No good would ever come of it, and it would be humbling yourself too much to that proud countess." 
               "Ah! so terribly unbending as she is! there is but little hope for me, Theresa; but my own pride is too great to stoop to a clandestine marriage. Poor Francis! he is beside himself to propose it to me." 
                
               "Never mind, never mind," said Theresa soothingly. "Let us speak of something else. Mamma is to equip me for my marriage, and I have been thinking of you and your charities. My old wardrobe is at your disposal for the families of your officers; that is, if you remain almoner-general," added she, laughing. 
               "Do you know how bountiful my Clari is to the poor? See what I have to dispense for him," said Nina, dropping a heavy purse into her friend's hand. 
               "Do all the good you can, dear Nina," returned Theresa approvingly; "there is so little time for action before the end comes. I envy you your activity. I am very listless and weary, and seldom get out to see the miserable; and when I am away, the blessing of the suffering will not follow me." 
               "And so you are preparing for your marriage," said Nina, scarcely heeding Theresa's self-accusings, as she thought of a coming separation. "I do not like to believe it." 
               "Sometimes I fear I shall never see the day," returned Theresa, shaking her head sadly. "Count B. wishes to hasten our nuptials; but mamma still delays on account of my health." 
               "Are you getting no better?" asked Nina, with a start of alarm, as she for the first time observed a hectic flush upon her friend's cheek. 
               "Do not be uneasy, I have only an occasional pain in my breast. Count B. has consented to wait until spring for our union, and has gone back to Italy. He gave me one little week while you were in Prague. I am very lonely without him. We will try to be happy during the coming carnival. If you could only be with me always, dear Nina! I have but one friend besides you-the Countess Walenstein, who comes often to see me. She is a volatile thing, and amuses me sometimes; but I so often wish her gone, and you here. Mamma, too, loves you better than anybody." 
               "The baroness! It is not possible, Theresa!" 
               "You may believe it, since she expresses her preference with great freedom. This is so unlike my proud and haughty mamma, that she must be sincere. She is very tender towards me lately, dear Nina;" and Theresa's face grew radiant with a happy feeling. "Perhaps she fears this pain," and she involuntarily pressed her hand to her breast. 
               "Play for me, Theresa," said her friend, observing her momentary sadness, and hoping to banish it. 
               Theresa went to her harp, and leaned thoughtfully upon it for a while, then striking a few plaintive chords, she sang her lover's favorite melody, "Away with Melancholy," from Mozart's Zauberflote. 
               "Yes, yes, dear Nina," said she, pausing at the end of the first verse, "time is indeed on the wing with me." 
               At that moment the baroness entered, followed by a servant bearing a silver waiter, and Theresa, with a strong effort, assumed a cheerful manner. 
               "Does my daughter feel unwell?" asked her mother, with a touch of softness in her haughty manner, as she took Theresa's hand, and looked with solicitude upon the thin face. 
                
               "Yes, excellent, mamma," replied Theresa, pressing her mother's hand to her lips. 
               The baroness caught her eagerly to her bosom, and kissed her with much emotion, then turning to the servant, she bade him place before Theresa the delicious fruits, which she had been in search of for her, and seating herself, and placing Nina beside her, she said: "You know, Fraulein Sponheim, that my daughter loves you better than any one. Will you stay with her?" 
               "If your excellency wishes it, I will spend as much time as possible with Theresa." 
               "Until Count B. returns?" 
               "As often as I can," replied Nina, courtesying as the baroness left the room. 
               "You see, dear Nina, how much mamma desires us to be together. I shall be happy, indeed, if you will not refuse me; but I cannot be so selfish as to ask you to come to me in my seclusion. You have others who have many claims upon your time, and I must content myself with your occasional presence." 
               "Be sure that I shall weary you with coming," said Nina, embracing her affectionately, as she made her adieus. 
               The next day was Nina's birthday, and Clari's beauteous gifts greeted her as she awoke. A little watch lay upon her toilet, with a note beside it, and two charming birds poured forth their sweetest warblings. Her heart was full of gratitude and gladness as she shook off her slumbers, and felt that life and love were yet hers, unbroken, though scarcely unshadowed. 
                
               Often the memory of the Countess F. sent a momentary chill through her frame; but the later joy of Clari's earnest words banished the stern arbiter of her fate, and brought to her spirit a beatific light. 
               A merry party assembled to do honor to the day; but there was a slight drawback to Nina's pleasure in the absence of Theresa, whose failing health was not equal to the excitement of society. Altogether, however, the hours were fraught with much diversion and delight; and as she passed over into another year, the retrospect of her last birthday was without a sigh. 
               Every day she sought her friend's precious companionship, and gathered from the fading life many a lesson of enduring virtue. 
               The weeks sped on, the carnival approached; but the invalid joined not in its exciting pleasures. 
               Perhaps there was not less of happiness in the quiet soul that trusted to its own rich store of good, than in the merry hearts of the boisterous, mirthful multitude. 
               Among other festivities of the carnival was the sleighing party, given by the emperor. 
               The cavalcade began at the royal palace with five or six sleighs, and was swelled by the privileged to a thousand or fifteen hundred. Metternich, Swartzenberg, Walenstein, and others of the highest nobility, were in his majesty's immediate train. 
               The emperor's horses were white, covered with black velvet adorned with gold fringe, and thickly studded with little gold bells, which made a merry music. The harness was of glittering gold, and from the horses' heads graceful plumes were nodding. On the right side were the runners, dressed in the royal livery-black velvet breeches and jackets, with gold-lace trimmings, and tri-cornered caps with white plumes. 
               The ladies were warmly wrapped in velvet, or satin pelisses, trimmed with ermine or sable. Their heads were enveloped in close bonnets, and their feet snugly ensconced in furs. Over all were thrown rich leopard skins. 
               The drivers stood upon a step behind the sleighs, holding the reins between the parties, and every twelfth sleigh had a band of delightful music. 
               Driving to Luxembourg, they had a sumptuous entertainment, and at night returned to Vienna. The runners carried lighted torches; the church-bells were ringing merrily; the whole city was illuminated with transparencies and mottoes, and the scene was brilliant in the extreme, as the gay cortge entered the capital by the Hern Strasa, and proceeded through Hohen Graben to the Burg, where was the royal residence. 
               Masquerade after masquerade followed this grand opening of the carnival, and Nina and Clari, in the whirl of amusement, had little time to think of foreboding ills, though a frequent summons from the august countess to her nephew sometimes startled them in the midst of their delights. 
               "Shall you be at the next masquerade, dear Francis?" asked Nina, as they sat quietly conversing in her aunt's parlor. 
                
               "I think not," replied the count, gloomily; "at least, if these court visitors remain in Vienna." 
               He had been greatly vexed a few evenings previous by the boldness of General Suwaroff and the Archduke Constantine, who had remarked, with more of freedom than politeness, upon "the prettiest brunette in the room," as they had loudly styled Nina, while passing them with the count. 
               "Shall you risk a repetition of this rencontre?" 
               "There will be no attraction to me if your decision is to remain away," replied Nina. "I have, however, no fear of meeting General Suwaroff or the archduke again, as they leave to-morrow." 
               "We will not go, then, if you please," said the count. "I have engagements that will take me elsewhere on that night." 
               For several days after, Nina and Annetta Sternstein and Barbette Cline, were closeted in secret conference, and whenever Count Clari gained access to them, there was a sudden commotion, and huddling away of ribbons, and flowers, and other adornments. 
               They were not so quick, however, as to elude his vigilant eye, which detected their manuvres, and enabled him to gain a certain insight into their plans. 
               The night for the diversion arrived, and the three friends were at the masquerade, equipped as gypsy fortune-tellers, in black short petticoats trimmed with scarlet ribbon, scarlet bodices laced with black, black silk stockings with red clocks, scarlet slippers, and black hoods. Nina wore an old and ugly mask, Annetta's was less hideous, and Barbette's was very beautiful. Each carried a bag of cards and a basket of bright ribbons and osier twisted together, which was filled with artificial flowers so constructed as to expand by a slight pressure of the finger, and display a motto. The crowd was very great, and gathered eagerly around the strange fortune-tellers, enjoying their singularly truthful predictions, and little thinking how familiar they were with the private history of many of their patrons. 
               "Clari is here, Nina," whispered Barbette Cline, pressing through the crowd and gaining Fraulein Sponheim's ear for a moment. 
               "Ah!" thought Nina, "he has played a ruse with me; but I am quite prepared for him," and taking from a sly corner of the basket a motto which she had previously arranged, she inclosed it in a beautiful bud which was sprinkled with otto. 
               "Ha, count! you here!" said she, seeking him out from a group near her; "let me tell your fortune." 
               "Be propitious to me," pleaded he, "and give me a bright fate." 
               Fumbling among the cards, she was intent upon them for a moment, then addressing him seriously, she said: "Count, you will be called away in a few days: on that journey depends your future happiness or misery for life;" and handing him the bud, she added, "Smell how sweet it is." 
               As he raised it to his nose, the petals opened, and there fell from it the motto, Sei treu deine
                   
                  liebe-"Be faithful to thy love," and the gypsy vanished. 
               The count stood for a moment as if bewildered; but a sudden thought sent him also from the spot. 
               The babel of tongues, and the noise of the music gave Nina a headache, and, seeking her colleagues, they summoned their escorts-Herr Von Sternstein and Antoine Cline-who went with them to the saloon for refreshments. 
               They had taken dominos, and were so well masked, that they did not fear detection. Nevertheless, one figure constantly dogged their steps, and wearied and nervous, they returned home. 
               The next day, Count Clari was with Nina as usual. Meeting her with his accustomed tenderness, he said, with a meaning smile, "Well, my dear Fraulein, how do you feel to-day, after last night's rambles?" 
               "What do you mean, Francis?" returned she, calmly. 
               "No secrets from me, Nina;" and Clari pretended to be hurt. 
               "But I cannot comprehend you," said Nina, blushing deeply, as it occurred to her that he might have discovered her intrigue. 
               "Ah, simple one," said her lover, "I allude to the cunning, artless gypsy girl." 
               "But tell me, dear Francis, what induced you to go to the masquerade, after what you said to me the other evening?" 
               "I went to dispel some troubles: besides, I had a sort of insight into that beautiful basket. I felt very sad until my dear gypsy girl amused me. You were soon recognized by me, my Nina, and I took a domino and watched you until you left; but your prophecy haunts me,-how can this journey affect my future?" 
               "You go to make one more appeal to the Countess F." 
               "Yes, but you will not allow her decision to govern your love." 
               "Not my love, Francis, that will forever remain firm and unshaken; but our union is out of the question, unless it can be a public one, and sanctioned by the proud countess." 
               "You have never cared for me, Nina, else you would readily agree to this little stroke of policy;" and the count strode pettishly about the room. 
               Nina did not move from her seat; but her eyes followed him mournfully, and the unspoken sorrow brought him to her side again. 
               "Forgive me, Fraulein," said he, folding her tenderly in his arms. "I am mad with grief when I think that you may cast me from you. There is nothing to hope from the countess. You do not know her, Nina. What is her consent to us! Be mine, my precious one! I want not her wealth!" and Clari held the sweet face from him, and gazed earnestly upon it, as if to study his fate. There was so much deep, earnest love in it, that he would not despair, and so pleaded again- 
               "Suffer me to call you mine before I take this journey to Prague, will you not, dear Fraulein? You will not allow my aunt to disinherit me. Since this is your irrevocable vow, take pity upon me and wed me secretly, and all will eventually be as you wish. Is my happiness nothing to you?" and the count was full of hope, as she put her hand fondly in his own; but her words banished the hope again, as she said very firmly, though sadly- 
               "So much more dear to me is your happiness than my own, Count Clari, that I cannot consent to what you urge. We must await the result of your mission, the countess may relent." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIX. 
               THE Carnival was over, and from the haunts of earthly pleasure, many steps were bent to the sacred altar. A priest advanced to the chancel-rail with a plate of ashes in his hand, and rubbing a little upon the forehead of each kneeling penitent, repeated the solemn words, "Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return." This sudden transition from the most frivolous gayety to the deep solemnities of the Lenten season, did not impress Nina as inconsistent or wrong. The common observance had rendered it natural, and no contrast to the general rule had as yet awakened in her the spirit of inquiry or criticism. Her serious temperament hailed with delight this respite from the turbulence of fashion and merriment; and Count Clari, greeting with joy any regulation that would insure him a greater share of the beloved presence, was a zealous advocate for this long abstinence from worldly pleasures. 
               Lingering still in Vienna, he went daily to mass with Nina at St. Stephen's Cathedral, and there, amid the calm stillness, and the sacred peace of the hallowed sanctuary, they breathed out in blessed unison their heartfelt aspirations. If somewhat of earth blended with the love that went upwards towards the All Merciful, if amid the whisperings of each soul, there mingled the consciousness of a mortal presence-what wonder? 
               Good Friday came with its thrilling associations. The churches were draped in black, and all the people-from the highest nobility down to those whose means were inadequate to the expenditure-assumed a sable garb, and prostrated themselves in the temple, before the image of the crucified, while the dimness and silence brought almost to them the real tragedy so long before enacted. 
               At twelve o'clock the next day, the bells rung out a merry peal, and busy, merry life, commenced again its troublous whirl. 
               On Easter evening, Haydn's Creation was performed before the royal family, at the Burg Theatre. 
               "O Francis!" said Nina, as they turned away from the place of sweet enchantment, "what imagination, what feeling, must not Haydn have had to make every heart thrill with this one effort! I wished so much for poor Theresa; but it would have overpowered her in her weak state. Do you know that Drs. Frank and Happuck have given her up?" and Nina was very sad, as she thought of the beautiful life so surely ebbing. 
               "Is Count B. conscious of her danger?" 
               "She has just consented to have him summoned. I fear he has no idea of the terrible sorrow that awaits him; Theresa has always spoken hopefully of her recovery. We have both of us such a strong hold upon this life, dear Clari." 
               "God preserve you to me," murmured he as they parted for the night. 
                
               Not long after, it happened that one of the guests who came weekly to Frau Von Sternstein's card-party, brought with him a stranger, whom Nina found to be none other than her old lover, Herr Michael, from Prague. 
               The rencontre was embarrassing to the conscious parties, and as Count Clari observed the blushing and constrained manner of his betrothed, the old jealousy touched his heart once more with its withering finger. The evening passed gloomily, and the next day, as Clari came to Nina for a parting interview, the influence of the previous night was with him. 
               "I go to Prague to-morrow," said he; "but I make one more appeal to you before I leave. If you really love me, you will certainly yield to my wish to be united before my departure, that no hand may ever intervene to separate us." 
               "My self-respect forbids a private marriage," persisted Nina; "and a public one would cut you off from a great inheritance, which I have vowed never to be the means of taking from you, so ask me no more, my Clari, until we can be united with the full permission of your aunt." 
               "Your heart is no longer with me!" murmured Clari, casting away the hand that lay so passively in his. "You love the man whom I saw at the card party yesterday,-fool that I was, not to perceive it before!" and he struck his forehead with the palm of his hand, and leaned against the window, musing. 
               "Francis," said Nina, putting away all her pride, and speaking in a subdued and gentle tone, "have I ever deceived you in any one thing? Listen to me now, when I tell you that not one breath of my affection belongs to another than yourself. Herr Michael sought me while in Prague, and laid his heart at my feet. He can assure you with what coolness I saw, and rejected the offering." 
               Clari had unconsciously resumed the seat beside her as she spoke, and with his arm enfolding her, he gazed into her earnest, ingenuous face. 
               "Deceived me! Soul of beauty and truth," he exclaimed, "there is no mystery in thy pure nature! To lose thee! O Nina, be mine! this hour be mine. I cannot part from you without this firm tie." 
               As he held her to his breast, and she felt what joy there would be in his continual presence, she was almost tempted to permit the secret union; but the memory of the stern aunt, and of the sacrifice of wealth which Clari must make for her sake, if she should wed him thus, strengthened her in her purpose, and, almost despairingly, she replied- 
               "Do not tempt me again, dear Francis, I can die for you, but you must never suffer for me. Do not embitter these parting moments," she added, as he was about to pursue the subject. "I cannot be shaken in my resolution, since it is made for your sake; it is for you, my Clari, to comfort, rather than reproach," and hiding her face from him that he might not see the anguish, she wept silently. 
               "Reproach you, my angel!" said he, touched by her unselfish, generous devotion. "Forgive me, Nina, darling, henceforth I will be patient, and await your will,-write often, and let me see your whole heart," and with many a fervent blessing, and caress, Clari turned sorrowfully away, and Nina was again alone. 
               Flying to her beloved Theresa, she whiled away the weary hours beside the failing invalid. The pink flush had wholly vanished from the hollow cheek, and wan, and shadowy, and spirituelle, Theresa yet lingered with her friends, who lovingly clung to her, the while she was surely fading from their grasp. 
               They had brought her one day into the pleasant sitting-room, where it was her delight to be, and propped up by pillows, she reclined beside the fountain, listening to its low music, and dreaming, with her misty eyes upon the water. Suddenly she fixed her gaze upon her friend, who sat near watching her thoughtfully, and said: 
               "Nina, dearest, is life very happy to you?" 
               "I cannot say that my heart is too much set upon it," returned Nina, drawing closer to her, and taking her emaciated hand in hers. "Without my Clari, I should have no binding tie to earth." 
               "Tell me, frankly," said Theresa, "do my physicians say that I must die? You need not hesitate, I have no fear of the last enemy!" and she smiled cheerfully. 
               "They say that we must hope," replied Nina, evading the question, and assuming a forced composure. 
               "I have no hope now, dear Nina," said the invalid. "It would be pleasant to live for my count; we have looked forward to so much happiness. Poor man! he must resign me to God;" and a tear dropped softly from her suffused eyes. "Do you know, Nina," she continued, "my life has been very sad; not wholly without gleams of brightness; but a certain tinge of sorrow has pervaded all. I do not grieve at the approach of death, excepting for Count B.-and then papa will feel my departure so much." 
               "Do not speak of death, dear Theresa." 
               "Tis often in my thoughts," returned the invalid; "pleasantly, not ghastly and drear. When I am alone, I have such beatific visions. Do you remember, dear Nina, the performance of 'Alceste?' How beautiful was heaven to us, even with the meagre representation of white-winged seraphs, and celestial music. My dreams all lead me above now. Choirs of angels seem to surround me, departed spirits in throngs innumerable are hovering near, and an indescribable glory is over all. Sometimes the spirits seem to beckon me, and I reach out my arms to clasp them, but they vanish away, and then I awake, and sigh that it is but a passing illusion. But I trouble you, Nina," said she, observing her friend's serious face. "My count is coming soon, do you know it?" and the pale features lighted up with the happy anticipation; "perhaps I shall be better then." 
               "It may be," said Nina, playing with the thin fingers that were wasting so rapidly. 
               "My ring threatens to fall off," said Theresa, touching the golden circlet that witnessed her betrothal. 
               "Let me manage it for you," said Nina; and finding a white satin ribbon, she passed it under the ring, tying it in a knot upon the wrist. 
                
               "Oh! that is just the thing," said the invalid; "'twill save me so much anxiety, I find myself holding it very tightly sometimes, when I awake from a slumber. You will see to it that it is never removed, dear Nina, promise me." 
               Nina bent down and kissed her as she replied, "I will do all that you wish, my precious friend." 
               "And comfort poor papa when I am not here," continued Theresa, her voice growing tremulous at the mention of the beloved name; "we have been such companions as father and daughter seldom are. I should not have said that my life has been sad, when such a heart has cheered and blessed me; dear, precious papa!" and her lips moved in earnest prayer, as Nina sat by, sorrowing that the beauteous vision was dimming-dimming before her gaze. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XL. 
               MORE deathly in its hue than her own pallid features, was the face of Count B. as he gathered his betrothed to his bosom, and besought her "to live for him." Not to leave him in a desolate world, although such glory beckoned her away to a brighter sphere. 
               Is there no staying the icy hand that snatches our loved ones from our bosom, though strong cryings and tears, and agonizing prayers, and the energies of a multitude of wailing ones, unite to hold back the All-Prevailing arm? O life, life! how strange that this terrible and dreaded change alone can bring to us thy imperishable beauty! What welcome should we not give to the messenger that shall usher us into an existence incorruptible, undying! 
               There was great comfort to Count B. in the society of the sweet invalid, though mingled with the pain of noting her sure decay. Every day found her gradually weaker; but, with that elation which belongs to this peculiar disease, she clung almost hopefully to life, especially since the presence of her betrothed awakened in her a stronger desire for earth. 
               "Nina, dearest," said she, after a few weeks of trying suspense, during which time they were all fluttering between a faint hope and a depressing fear. "Count B. proposes for us to be married immediately, and go to Italy. He thinks the change of climate may restore me. Will you go with us?" 
               "I would do any thing to insure your recovery," returned Nina, smiling sadly; "but are you equal to the journey? Does not the count over estimate your strength?" 
               "I am fearful, yes. He cannot believe the worst. I am always brighter when he is near, and he mistakes it for a favorable symptom. I shall not live to marry him, dear Nina. I only yield to his wish, since there will be an alleviation to him in the consent." 
               Nina pressed her lips to the pale brow. A deadly faintness came upon her friend at that moment, and with a struggle she said, "Count!-papa!-all!" 
               With one hand in the baron's and the other in that of her lover, while a hallowed expression lighted up her features, Theresa Macholick, the pure and beautiful, closed her eyes upon all earthly visions, to open them upon the bliss of heaven. 
               As the breath ceased, Count B. kissed her pale lips, dropped his hand from her cold fingers, and knew no more of life until the grateful swoon was over, and the sluggish pulse recalled him to a gloomy and desolated being. 
               The baron sat as one petrified, gazing with stony eyes upon the departed. The baroness stood beside the bed, her stateliness all gone, and her anguished heart expressed in her anguished face; and Nina was borne away in an unconscious state, and conveyed to her home, where she spent the sad interval between tween her friend's death and burial in bitter and unfeigned grief. 
               Six days after the decease of her beloved Theresa, she went to take a last look at the cherished remains. 
               The delightful apartment, where so many happy hours had been spent in sweet companionship, was draped in black, with white silk festooned around, and fastened by white roses and pink buds, with green leaves drooping. 
               In the centre of the room was a platform with three steps leading up, covered with black. Upon this was the coffin, covered with white gros de Naples, lined with delicate pink satin, with a lace frill depending, and mounted with solid silver. Theresa, still lovely, lay therein. Around her lifeless form white satin and blonde were folded. A silver cross was in her hand. One pink rosebud drooped upon her breast, and a wreath of pink and white encircled her brow. Her long black hair fell profusely over her shoulders, one glossy lock straying upon her white bosom. So winningly beautiful was she in her calm repose, that it seemed but the mimicry of death, rather than a stern and terrible reality. 
               At the head of the coffin was a small stand, with a silver basin of holy water and a crucifix upon it. On the right side sat a priest praying, and at the head and foot stood two men in livery, with white badges upon the arm. Upon the platform were large candelabras, with tapers burning, and upon two of the branches hung the coat of arms presented to the baron by the hand of the Empress Maria Theresa resa, whose godchild had gone to receive a greater than all earthly distinctions. 
               Bending over the form of her dearest, long-tried friend, Nina reviewed the years of their happy communion, blessing God that it was unblemished by a single moment of estrangement or bitterness. 
               What joy is such a consciousness amid the chillness, and hush, and gloom, and mystery of the death-chamber! No accusing phantom, with sad face, haunting one; no wretched, ghastly figure pointing with reproachful finger to days made weary by neglect or harshness; no low wail coming with supernal agony from the silent sleeper, and awakening its miserable echo in the living breast. 
               Late in the evening the coffin of Fraulein Theresa Macholick was placed in a hearse, which was festooned with white silk, with white plumes on each corner, and drawn by four white horses. 
               The mourners followed it to St. Stephen's Cathedral, where it was borne to the high altar, which was draped with black and illuminated. 
               Upon the lid of the coffin was a cross and a crown of white roses. 
               Nina and eleven other young ladies of Theresa's acquaintance, stood near, dressed in white satin, with high neck and long sleeves, covered with mull muslin. Each wore a wreath of white roses upon the head, and carried in the hand a burning wax taper. 
               At the side of the coffin stood the impersonation of Charon, with a long gray cloak and a ghastly wax face, thus mingling the superstitions of heathenism with the light of a Christian faith. 
                
               Count B., supported by Theresa's brother, was more like death than life, as the ceremony proceeded that would tear from him the last vestige of his heavenly bride. 
               After prayers and a short address, several cardinals walked three times around the coffin, chanting in Latin, and sprinkling it with holy water. 
               As it was about to be removed from Count B.'s sight, his arms were outstretched towards it, and with a groan of deepest anguish he swooned again, more deadly than before. His friends conveyed him to his lodgings, where he lingered for many days in a precarious illness; but the death-angel comes not at our bidding, and though his soul yearned to go forth and mingle forever with the beautiful spirit that had preceded him to the realms above, the time was not yet, and life rolled its heavy burden back upon him, to be borne still a little while longer. 
               The baron, bereft of his idol, loitered for some time on the verge of the grave, and although his physical strength returned, his reason tottered and fell. 
               Nina had spent a sad week in her own apartment, struggling with the sorrow that had well nigh overwhelmed her. She was still feeble and tremulous from excitement and grief, when a note came from the baroness, saying- 
               "Fraulein, for the love you bore my departed daughter, come to her afflicted mother." 
               "O Nina!" said she, as the summons was obeyed, and Fraulein Sponheim stood before her, "is it possible my beautiful, my beloved child is no more! Why could she not live to know how much I loved her?" and in the abandonment of her sorrow one would scarcely have recognized the proud and haughty woman. 
               Nina remembered the former hauteur, and the bitterness it had shed over her friend's life, and there was a slight reproach in her tone as she said- 
               "It is the gift of God to have a feeling heart, which I always believed your excellency to possess, only you were deprived by nature of showing it. It will not do to lament now; Theresa is happy. We have only to live in the hope of meeting her again in that bright world where is no more pride nor sorrow." 
               "Fraulein!" and the tone was very humble. 
               "Your excellency, call me Nina, if you please." 
               "Nina," and the voice was full of awe, "do you believe there is a heaven?" 
               "Believe it, baroness! Who can doubt the existence of God, and that there are mansions of enduring bliss prepared for those who truly love Him? To Theresa, all things divine were so real!" 
               "Come to me, kiss me, dear child," said the baroness, wholly subdued, and melted into tears. "I do not doubt, Fraulein. Would that you could stay with me, and comfort me with better things than earth affords!" 
               "'Twould give me pleasure to be of any use to your excellency; but-" 
               "I know," answered the baroness, thoughtfully. "How soon will you be united to your Clari?" 
               "'Tis uncertain," said Nina, "perhaps never," and her voice was scarcely audible. 
                
               The baroness, thinking that she referred to the sudden dispensation that had sundered Count B. and her lovely child, strove to soothe her. 
               "You are strong and healthy, Nina," said she, "and Count Clari is a hearty, robust man." 
               "There are evils more bitter than death, baroness," returned Nina, unable longer to repress her despondent feelings. 
               The baroness seated herself beside her, and, drawing her tenderly to her bosom, calmed her with loving words which she so well knew how to bestow, but which her lofty pride would not often permit her to manifest. Then rising, and going to her jewel-box, she drew from it a rich chain, and putting it upon Nina's neck, said- 
               "Wear this, dear Fraulein, for my sake, and for the sake of my beloved child. You will remember, when you look upon it, this day, and that pride and reserve of manner sometimes cover a sensitive and loving heart,-pray for me, Nina, pray for my beloved Theresa;" and, kissing her affectionately, the baroness relapsed into her accustomed coldness, and Nina, courtesying, withdrew from her presence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLI. 
               NINA'S sad heart was continually dwelling upon her departed friend. Shunning all amusements, she chose a strict seclusion, gathering comfort only from the sweet charities that occupied her, and the words of hope and love that came to her from her devoted Clari. The months passed on, and the autumn's coming brought also the betrothed lover, so that as the chillness pervaded things external, her inner soul gained new warmth and life from a genial presence. 
               There was, however, no change in the position of their affairs. 
               The Countess F. was still inexorable, and Clari-though professing to care nothing for his aunt's wealth, but only for her anger-no longer spoke of a public marriage; but was constantly urging a clandestine union. 
               Two years of alternate hope and suspense passed away, and Altenburg, Raab, and Vienna, were by turns the sojourning place of Nina, whose whole life seemed but one constant change from place to place, and whose physical unrest was but a type of the spirit's strange turbulence. To-day, the sun of hope and love shone brightly upon her, and she could revel in the belief that her sky would be no more obscured. To-morrow, the darkness was thick and visible. 
                
               "It must have an end: this dread uncertainty!" said she to herself, as she anticipated the count's coming again. "Better part at once, than wear away a useless life with the anguish of this constant suspense." 
               Spring clothed the earth in her purest emerald, as the count, buoyant with the confidence that Nina would no longer maintain her firm purpose to await his aunt's consent to their nuptials, found himself once more in her welcome vicinage. 
               A week of mutual joy and happiness sped too swiftly,-and Nina sat in her aunt's parlor with a casket of jewels before her. The count's secretary stood near, wondering what could be in her thoughts, as she looked vacantly upon the gift, seemingly unconscious that he awaited an answer to the accompanying note. At last, seeing that she was wholly absorbed in her own reflections, he ventured to say- 
               "If Fraulein Sponheim knew how devoted my count is to her, she would sacrifice all her pride and unite herself to him. Why refuse his honest proposals?" 
               "Because," said she, awaking from her reverie, "I do not approve of a secret alliance. Then you have yourself told me that Count Clari lives at very great expense. I cannot curtail his means"-and withdrawing to her own apartment, she re-read the note in which Count Clari had desired her to accept the jewels-a necklace and bracelets of diamonds, very costly and elegant-and to preserve them to be worn on the day of their marriage, which he trusted was not far distant. 
                
               All that she had gathered of the expenditures of the count recurred to her; the gift was too extravagant, too recklessly lavish. Slowly and glitteringly the jewels slipped through her fingers back into the casket, and as they did so, she turned the key, and penning a brief line to her lover, thanked him for all his generosity, at the same time saying, that his present was too magnificent for her acceptance, and begging leave to return it to him, when she should meet him again. 
               The next day brought Clari. His salutation was formal, and a sternness sat upon his brow. 
               "You are displeased; am I the cause, Francis?" asked Nina, looking up so fearlessly into the frowning face, that the features suddenly relaxed, and the deep love was there again, as he replied- 
               "Yes, my Nina; you trifle with my feelings. You are obstinate, you would return my gifts, you refuse to bestow upon me your hand. Is not your heart still mine? If so, why this strange inconsistency. Why do I so long plead in vain?" 
               "My heart will ever be yours, Count Clari," returned Nina, with her utterance almost choked; "but my hand I cannot give you, unless publicly acknowledged. My love for you is more than words can express, since it would lead me to renounce my future happiness for your sake." 
               "You would give me up, Nina; this is affection indeed!" and the count turned pettishly from her. 
               "Francis!" 
               "You must form your own destiny," said Clari to the sorrowing, self-sacrificing Nina, unheeding her low, heart-broken cry; and without another word he was gone. 
               For two weeks he came not near her, but every day, Gustave brought letters, the burden of which was, "Marry me, Nina; marry me." 
               Meantime, Marguerita Sponheim, weary of the delay of their union, and determined on other projects, filled her niece's heart with suspicions as to the sincerity of Clari, and extolled to her an English friend who was daily expected to visit Vienna. 
               "Count Clari will never marry you, Nina," said she; "if he really intended it, he would not hesitate to do so in the face of the world. The sacrifice of his aunt's property would be nothing, if he loved you as he would have you believe." 
               The force of her aunt's arguments began to be felt. "'Tis very true," thought Nina; "that Count Clari puts the estates before me, in his affections; if not, why so anxious for a private marriage?" Still, the tide of confidence could not be so easily turned, and she answered, "I know Clari only as a noble, generous, whole-souled man; he would unite himself to me to-morrow, if I would consent." 
               "But privately," suggested her aunt; "if you are so earnest in your love, why not consent to that?" 
               "How should I reproach myself, if his aunt's property should be forfeited for my sake, and his own wasted without the power of repairing the loss?" said Nina, scarcely heeding Frau Von Sponheim's presence. "No, no, it cannot, cannot be!" 
               "Mr. Saunder will dine with us to-morrow," said her aunt, with a sly glance at her suffering niece; "you will like him, I know; he is a gentleman of principle and honor." 
               Nina answered not,-her senses seemed numbed and dead to every thing but the memory of her betrothed. 
               "One loves but lightly, who can occasion you so much sorrow," said her aunt, putting her hand gently upon Nina's head, with an apparent tenderness; "give it all up, child, and think of our new friend; but wait, you will meet him to-morrow," and she left the room. 
               Shortly after, as Nina passed Frau Von Sponheim's boudoir, on the way to her own apartment, she heard voices in earnest conversation, and in a moment, Count Clari issued from the door. His brow was troubled, and his agitation very great, as he crossed the corridor with hurried step, and Nina's impulse was to spring forward, and greet him with her accustomed fervor and simplicity, but her pride, as she remembered his unaccountable absence from her for the fortnight past, made her shrink away into the shadow of a recess, and he saw her not. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLII. 
               MARGUERITA SPONHEIM had withdrawn from the dining saloon to her boudoir, and her Saxon friend had followed Nina to the parlor, and engaged her in conversation. After a few preliminaries, he asked her- 
               "Do you like the English nation, Fraulein?" 
               "Very much," replied she, thinking all the time of Clari, and wondering how long the horrible spell which had fast bound her for the last two weeks would continue. 
               "Would it please you to visit England?" still questioned Mr. Saunder. 
               "It must be a fine country," said Nina, gazing absently from the window by which they were standing. 
               "How would it suit you to marry an English gentleman?" persisted her interrogator, with emphatic meaning. 
               "That, sir, is out of the question, since I am already betrothed to one of my own nation," returned Nina, no longer able to resist his pertinacity. 
               "Fraulein Sponheim," pursued he, "I have heard much of you through our mutual friends. To-day I saw you for the first time, and yet I offer you my heart and hand. Allow me to tell you, I know all the difficulties that lie in the way of your union with Count Clari. You can never marry him. Will you not make me happy?" 
               "That can never be," said Nina; "I have no heart to give. Even if it were free, I could not love you; there is so great a disparity in our ages that I could only respect you as a father." 
               "I would be satisfied with your esteem at first," replied Mr. Saunder, "and trust to time for a warmer feeling. Will you not be my wife, Fraulein?" 
               "How do you mock me!" said Nina, with flashing eyes. "Have I not spoken to you of my betrothal?" and she turned to leave the room. 
               "Stay one moment," and the stranger gently detained her as he continued- 
               "My proposal may seem disrespectful and abrupt to you, Fraulein. Forgive me, I would not displease you. My business is urgent to return to England. Since I have seen you, I cannot go alone. Consider, and let me know in three days if you will confide your future peace to me. I have no splendor to promise you. I am but a simple merchant; but your wishes shall be my study, and I will hope to gain your love and approbation." So saying, he left the house. 
               For some time Nina stood as one bewildered; but as the whole reality of her situation burst upon her, she dragged herself listlessly to her room, and fastening herself in, she tried to bring her mind to a definite and decisive action. 
               Frau Von Sponheim knew that her English friend would propose himself to her niece as her future husband, and persuaded that both Nina and the Countess F. would persist in their obstinacy, with regard to Count Clari, she resolved to break off the old bond at once, and do what she could to further the suit of Mr. Saunder. To this end she had frequent interviews with Clari, in which she gave him the impression that Nina was volatile and fickle, and would fain be released from her vows to him. She also made her niece believe that the count was but trifling with her, since he would only marry her clandestinely, so as not to risk the forfeiture of his aunt's estates. 
               There was another motive in the mind of the subtle woman. Nettie, who had hitherto been absent from the capital pursuing her education, was now to return to Vienna, and her meagre charms would be wholly eclipsed by the winning loveliness of her orphan cousin. 
               Filled with conflicting emotions, Nina spent the period given her by Mr. Saunder to decide her fate. Sometimes firm in the confidence that Clari would forever cling to her, she spurned the thought of becoming another's,-then his strange conduct in absenting himself so long from her, when he must know her deep devotion to him, lacerated her almost to madness. 
               The morning of the third day dawned,-the night had been restless and miserable, and as the first faint light penetrated the gloom, she took the beloved miniature from her bosom, and gazing upon it, with despairing heart settled her future. "To bring him to poverty!-the man who is above all to me upon earth. To see him relinquish one by one the pleasures and luxuries of his lavish life, and all for me! No, no, it shall never be; I will make the sacrifice! If I remain single, he will continue to hope, and implore, and in some moment of weakness, I may be tempted to consent to the union, and so he will be cut off from his great revenues. But, to marry a man for whom I have no affection, what can it bring but darkness and trouble! It matters not! I must not think. The die is cast!" and springing from her bed in a high fever of excitement, she gathered up all the treasured mementoes of the last three years of love, and bound them together, sealing them and directing them to Count Clari. 
               "It is all over!" said she to her aunt, with a forced and unnatural calmness, as Frau Von Sponheim sought her, after a few hours. "I have given up all that is dear to me in life, and will marry this Englishman-tell Clari, not for love, not for money. Nothing can ever repay me for what I relinquish. Prepare for my nuptials; I care not how," and a paroxysm of anguish shook her frame. 
               "Keep up a cheerful spirit, if possible, dear child," said her aunt, greatly elated by the success of her plans, yet touched by the unfeigned misery of her niece. "You may yet have occasion to rejoice in this step," and she left her to her solitary reflections. 
               Bitter indeed were they, as all the hours of her betrothal rose up before her, with their exquisite joy! 
               There was little time for recollection-little time for regret, before she was summoned to meet her new lover. 
                
               "What have I to expect?" asked Mr. Saunder, kissing her cold and passive hand, as she entered the parlor with a languid, indifferent step. "Do not disappoint me." 
               "I have conquered my difficulties," replied Nina, repulsing the hand that would have retained her own. "I resign the count, to whom I have been so long betrothed. If you are content with my hand, the worthless gift is yours. My heart is still another's. My destiny is in your keeping; be kind to me. I will try to be a faithful wife. Attention and fondness will in time soothe my distresses, and the day may come when-" 
               "Say no more, dear Fraulein," said her friend, as her sobs choked her utterance. "I accept the treasure committed to me, as a sacred trust. May you never repent your confidence in one who truly loves you, and would gladly comfort and bless you." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIII. 
               COUNT CLARI sat by the window of his dressing-room, undecided as to what course to pursue with regard to his beloved Nina. 
               He had trusted that a few weeks of separation would bring her to agree to the private union, but thus far her firmness had proved greater than his own. For the last three days he had received no answers to his notes, and the misgiving that all was not right, began to trouble him. 
               All that his page had been able to learn at Frau Von Sponheim's door was, that "Fraulein was indisposed, and could not respond to the letters yet." 
               "I must see her!" said the count, as a rap at the door startled him from his reverie. "Ha! a note! it may be that she consents!" and hastily breaking the seal, he read his doom. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "COUNT CLARI,
                            
                           "With this letter I return to you all the mementoes of a past joy, together with the beautiful ornaments which you desired me to keep for the hour of our nuptials. Alas! my hand this day, at ten o'clock, was given to another,-a man whom I do not love, you may be assured. 
                           "All my future happiness I sacrifice for your sake. 
                            
                           "I would convince myself that you still cherish me, despite the last two weeks of cruel misery; but, Francis, why so continually urge a secret union with one of noble birth, only lacking what you yourself call foolish pedigree? 
                           "I am aware that the fortune of your aunt is in the way. For me you shall never lose it. 
                           "At twelve o'clock I leave for England. Will you take my little dog Fidele? 
                           "May God forever bless and keep you. 
                           
                              "Forget, forget, 
                              "NINA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The letter lay opened in the count's hand long after its contents had burned into his soul. His lips were bloodless and cold, and large drops of anguish fell from his brow. 
               The hum and stir of the busy city were to his ear as sepulchral stillness. He heard not, saw not, felt not. The day wore on, and he heeded not the flitting hours. 
               Often Gustave, wearied with knocking, opened the door, and looked anxiously in; but observing his master's mood, dared not disturb him. 
               Presently, venturing once more, he put the dog gently within, and retired again. 
               Fidele, accustomed to the count's petting, sprang upon his knee, and putting her two fore-paws upon his breast, gazed wistfully into his face. With a bound he cast the animal from him. 
               Fidele moved timidly away, keeping a reproachful look upon the count; but as he seated himself again, she came slowly back, and crouching at his feet, whined piteously. A tender impulse made him reach forth his hand and raise the dog to his knee. The blue ribbon, embroidered by Nina's own hand, was upon the neck, and nestling amid the glossy curls was the motto, in the beloved chirography, Sei treu deine liebe.
                
               He recollected the day, so long before, when he had handed this motto, given him by the gypsy fortune-teller, to Nina, who, in sport, tied it to the collar of her dog, murmuring at the same time, as the animal laid his head fondly upon her lap- 
               "Ah, Fidele, Fidele, how happy that nothing can make thee less my own Fidele!" 
               Was it by design that it again met his eye? Could it be that her own heart was indeed constant still, and that he had foolishly suffered Frau Von Sponheim to deceive him? The thought was madness, now that his betrothed was beyond his recovery. 
               The night was coming on, and clouds covered the glory of the firmament; but the thick gloom that shrouded the heavens was as the noonday sun, compared with the blackness of darkness that filled Count Clari's bosom. 
               "Fool that I am, to have allowed the gold that perisheth to separate me from the only brightness that can ever illume my being! Gone! gone! forever gone! Nina, angel of my life! Henceforth must I wander alone, feeding upon the bitter fruits of my own mad folly, when I might have revelled in an unbroken joy and bliss. The Countess F."-and he ground his teeth as he hissed her name. "What had she to do with the cup of my delights? Her bony hand, I see it now, pouring forth the precious contents, and refilling it with the nauseous drops of her wretched, wretched pride! And I must drain the hateful dregs, since I spurned not the sacrilegious touch, but suffered it to pollute another's sacred joys! O Nina! Nina! could I bring thee back but to this morning's light, how gladly would I dash away this selfish life to save thee from one moment's ill!" 
               Once more Gustave came, but looked aghast, and retreated with a hasty step, as he perceived the count, with frenzied stride pacing the room. Fidele was cowering beneath a sofa, with her affrighted eyes following every movement of the excited man. The letter lay upon the floor, and the treasures were scattered here and there, crushing beneath his every tread. There seemed a sort of soothing in this strange and heedless destruction, for as the jewels grated under the count's heel, he gradually slackened his maniac step, resuming his seat beside the window, and falling into a stony, dead, unmoved quiet. 
               Gustave came stealthily in, and lighted the candles, and gathering up the scattered, broken gems, replaced them in the casket, and removed it from his master's sight, folding the letter, and hiding it also in a cabinet with the other mementoes. Then placing some refreshments upon the table, he took the half-famished Fidele in his arms, and sitting down at the count's feet, watched the dog as she snapped greedily at the crumbs in his hand. 
                
               The rush and hurry and noise of the streets, died away. The clocks chimed out the waning hours, ten-eleven-twelve-one. The moon came forth gloriously from the darksome clouds, and the gloom was banished from the heavens. 
               "Count Clari," said the voice of the page, and his hand touched his master's gently. 
               "Gustave," answered the count, mechanically. 
               "You will eat something?" asked the boy. 
               The count cast his eyes vacantly upon him. 
               "You are faint from fasting," pleaded the page; "and the dog, Fidele, is hungry." 
               "Fidele-Fidele," murmured the count, moving his hand over the glossy head, as Gustave installed the little pet upon his master's knee; "I should remember that name," and yet his gaze was wandering, and his thoughts were stagnant, senseless, dead within him. 
               Fidele, encouraged by the kindly movement of the hand, crept closer up to his bosom, and laying her head upon his arm, nestled quietly and composedly next the troubled heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIV. 
               MEANTIME, Nina, wearied with the sad journey, and exhausted by the exciting events of the last few days, drooped heavily against the side of the travelling carriage, and was lost to all waking trials. 
               Mr. Saunder, really in love with his beautiful bride, and appreciating the feeling that rendered his attentions at present distasteful to her, had contented himself with a common courtesy, hoping by his very consideration, to win her gradually to the welcome acceptance of a more assiduous care and regard; but as her head fell helplessly upon her breast, he drew her tenderly to him, and placing a silk cushion upon his shoulder he supported her through the calm night. Thus they journeyed away from the home of her many struggles, the moon looking serenely down the while, and the merry stars glittering and dancing above the turbulence of earth, as if all things below the skies were as full of peace and joy as they. 
               Once only did Nina stir, and looking wildly into the eyes that were bent upon her, whispered "Clari." 
               Mr. Saunder felt the beatings of his heart throb quicker and quicker at the name; but his nature was generous, and pitying the sorrow, he clasped his treasure closer to his bosom, saying, in low and soothing tones: "Nina love, resign yourself wholly to me, you shall not repent it, my precious one." 
               With a repellant motion, she raised her head from its comfortable position; but the spirit of slumber was too potent to resist, and it pressed her softly back again, laying its finger upon her lids, and quieting her into a sweet and refreshing sleep. 
               Arrived at Prague, the reminiscences were so painful that Nina would not linger, lest her sorrow should be strengthened by the images of a banished pleasure. 
               Two more days of travel through scenes of sprouting verdure and picturesqueness. Over mountains covered with snow. Along the beautiful Elbe, with its gurgling music, and dotting towns, and Dresden was before them. Dresden, the capital of Mr. Saunder's native Saxony. 
               With what delight did he exhibit to Nina the treasures of nature and art,-the far-famed picture gallery, whose beauteous wonders rapt her, even despite her absorbing grief. The fortress of "Konigstein," with its rugged steeps and subterranean riches. The "Rustkammer," or Armory, and the "Grne Gewolbe," or "Green Vault," with its glitter of gorgeous jewels, and dazzling curiosities of gold and silver and other materials, in every variety of mechanism. 
               At Leipzig, the next stage of their journey, the travellers were to rest for a few days. 
               It was at the time of the "High Mass," or "Great Fair;" but the influx of merchants and the crowds of visitors who filled up every public accommodation, did not inconvenience Mr. Saunder, who had his own house in the city, the first floor of which he had furnished for his own especial comfort on his frequent journeys, when he often stopped for a few days to recruit his exhausted strength. The remainder of the house, with the exception of a room upon the third floor, where much of his leisure had been spent in alchemical experiments, was occupied by an elderly lady and her family. 
               "We shall remain a fortnight here, at least," said he to Nina, as they alighted at their temporary home. "I think the quiet will not come amiss." 
               Rest was indeed most grateful to Nina, who was quite worn out with weeping and sorrow. 
               Weary and dispirited she retired to her room, and overcome by the fatigue of her journey, passed a peaceful and refreshing night. The morning dawned in sweet serenity. The springing verdure and bursting buds greeted her cheerfully, as she arose and looked from her window. The scene was in harmony with her feelings. The turbulence of the last few days gave place to a welcome composure, and thanking the great Power who alone could calm the troublous waves, she joined her husband at breakfast. 
               "I rejoice to see you looking better. You have slept well?" said he tenderly, as he led her to a seat. "I am obliged to leave you to amuse yourself with Mrs. Shene," he continued, "as my business will call me from you, during our sojourn here; until evening, you will excuse me, Nina?" and he sighed, as he felt how little the apology was required. 
                
               "Certainly," replied Nina, "Mrs. Shene seems an agreeable lady. No doubt we shall get on nicely together," and she recalled with pleasure the affable and kindly manner of her husband's tenant. 
               "You will go out with her and purchase whatever you desire," returned Mr. Saunder, handing Nina a well-filled purse. 
               The booths were very beautiful in their rich and varied products, but they presented no attractions to the absorbed mind, which returned to the subject of its harrowing reflections, so soon as the glare and bustle of the day awoke the weary orphan to a sense of her position. In the hallowed stillness of the morning, alone in her quiet room, she had shut out every unwelcome and sinful memory. Now, the busy thoughts came thick and fast. Thoughts of the treasured heart so far away with its sad, sad grief,-thoughts of the solemn vow "to love and to cherish" that must haunt her continually with a bitter remorse,-thoughts of the noble soul that was pouring out its devotion upon her, though no answering gush of fondness met and blessed it,-thoughts of the distant home, the native land, with all its associations and joys, receding, receding from her,-and thoughts of the unknown, untried future, to her present vision, so characterless and blank. 
               For the rest of their stay in Leipzig, she was diverted from her sadness by her husband's friends, who flocked to pay their respects to the young and lovely bride, overwhelming her with attentions and presents. 
               Mr. Saunder himself always came to her laden with gifts, which her new friends-in order to evade the scrutiny of the English custom-house-managed to secrete; sewing rich shawls between skirts, and trimming her pelisses and dresses with elegant laces, until they were quite ludicrous in their adornments. 
               At a charming villa in the suburbs of Leipzig, was an old acquaintance of Mr. Saunder's,-a Miss Bartulph,-with whom the young wife took sweetest communion. Her physical being was shrouded in thick darkness, but her mental vision was blessed with inconceivable glory and delight. Around her seemed to float every perfection of majesty and grace, so that if any thing was lost to her with the sight of the eyes, it was more than repaired in the added vividness of her imagination. 
               It was the last day of Nina's sojourn in Leipzig, and she was spending it with the blind lady. They were sitting together in an arbor, in a pleasant and retired part of the garden, and as Miss Bartulph drew a pensive melody from her sweet harmonica, Nina unconsciously sighed at the recollections it brought to her. 
               "You are sad, dear child," said her friend, gently, as her hand sought that of the young bride, and pressed it tenderly; "I feel it instinctively, though I cannot see your face; do not give way to depression, 'tis natural I know, when so many old ties yield to the new; but you have a kind, good husband, who will cherish you with the utmost care;" and she wound her arm about the slender figure, and passed her fingers lovingly over the features, recalling to Nina-how vividly!-the old abbess, in the far distance, now revelling in the clear light of an immortal glory. 
               "My friend tells me that you are beautiful, Nina; I would so gladly see for myself; but it needs not the outward eye to perceive that you have a heart alive to deep and holy sympathies,-that is true beauty;" and she embraced her fondly as she spoke. 
               "Are you fond of company?" she asked, after a moment's silence; "because I have invited a few guests to dine with us this evening." 
               "I am afraid my mood is not in tune for gayety," returned Nina; "I shun society of late, but I will try to banish my sombreness, since you do me this honor." 
               "You shall only observe, to-night, dear, if you please," said Miss Bartulph; "they are chiefly your husband's friends, and will delight to meet you. But we shall have a great deal of music, and you need not come out of yourself." 
               The guests assembled early. There was no stiff etiquette as in Vienna, but all was suavity and warmth. At dinner, the sparkling wine went round, and health to "the happy bride" was freely drunk. Poor heart! how did it long to escape the trying ordeal. After meat, the guests proceeded to a saloon in the middle of a garden, where the blossoms of the peach and almond sent forth their precious fragrance, and there partook of delicious fruits and confitures. In the centre of the table was a fountain, with a garland of flowers, and the motto, "God grant us peace." Alas! how long was it before the vain sigh was answered. After the repast, the guests returned to the house, to listen to the blind lady's delightful performance upon her harmonica. 
               Nina had taken her position near the door that led to the garden, and was musing, in her old accustomed way, when the enlivening strain, "Life let us cherish," awoke in her memory many a glad scene in her former home, and brought to her a painful consciousness of her present isolation. 
               Her husband stood near, watching her varied emotions, as they betrayed themselves in her expressive face, and he was troubled by the depth of anguish that at intervals seemed to overshadow her brow. Presently the strain changed to Mich fliehen alle freuden,-"All joy has fled from me,"-from a cherished opera. It was too much for the overburdened heart, and gliding softly from the door, Nina sought the rustic arbor, where she might freely indulge her pent-up feelings. 
               "Do not yield to such passionate sorrow, dearest Nina," said Mr. Saunder, who had quietly followed her to her retreat. "I would give my life to save you one moment's distress. Can you not at least make me a cheerful return for my unbounded interest? They will think me a sad tyrant," continued he, "if my newly wedded bride is constantly weeping. Would you wrong me to my friends by exhibiting to them the traces of tears alone, when they look for happy smiles?" and the husband stooped to arrange a dishevelled curl, and to imprint a fond kiss where the straggling lock had lain. "Let us return to the house," said he, taking her hand and leading her back to their hostess. "We shall be missed in a moment." 
               Pride prevailed over the sorrow, at least so far as to repress a further demonstration, and for the remainder of the evening no signs of the deep emotion were visible, excepting to him who was absorbed in his wife's misery, and whose unwearied strife was to avert from her even the shadow of grief. 
               When the guests were all departed, Mr. Saunder and Nina lingered to hear one more tune from the melodious voice that so entranced them. 
               What was it that made the light so strangely beautiful upon the face of the blind musician? Her eyes were not closed, and as she raised them heavenward, while she breathed forth some of the earlier strains of her fresh young girlhood, a tear stole softly down her cheek, and her lip quivered with a transient emotion; but she had learned the mastery over all her feelings, and a seraphic smile blended with the tear. 
               It was a precious lesson for Nina, who felt that whatever of serenity was now evident in the character of her blind friend, her life had not been exempt from the ills that hover over every mortal being; and kissing her again and again as they were forced to the parting moment, she whispered, "I would that I could be like you, my dear Miss Bartulph, in self-restraint and calmness." 
               "Dear child," replied her friend, returning her affection with a hearty embrace, "I will pray that you may imitate the Great Exemplar, that will bring a certain peace." 
                
               How many times after, when Nina's heart quickened into tumultuous throbbings, did the remembrance of the serene face of her Saxon friend still the commotion into a perfect calm! 
               At Madgeburg, the travellers visited the prison where the unfortunate Baron Trenck spent so many years of his weary captivity. 
               Nina had frequently seen him at her aunt's in Vienna, and she viewed with interest the place where so many solitary hours went laggingly away. The marble block where he sat enchained, sighing for the very treasure that had deprived him of his liberty, was pointed out to her, and the stone in the floor, with the inscription upon it, that awaited the last moment of his existence. Strange that he should at last escape from his sad imprisonment only to be overtaken by the reign of terror, and the axe of the guillotine, which brought to him a bloody and horrible death! 
               Passing on towards Hamburg, the night overtook the travellers in a wild and solitary place. The wind wailed piteously, and the postilion was reiterating his pleasant testimony as to the danger of that particular spot in the darkness and gloom, when Nina, with a loud shriek, pointed to the roadside. 
               Back and forth, back and forth, swinging in the breeze, were the horrible figures of three robbers, who had met the ends of justice; and the gallows creaked and groahed, as in pain, beneath the ghastly burden. Horror of horrors! How would the vision ever dangle before her, with empurpled faces and distended eyes, and troubled, phantom look, whenever ever a like dimness and wailing should overtake her. 
               "I am well armed," said Mr. Saunder, calming her fears, as the sight of the dead awakened a dread of the living; "I can defend you with my life, if need be, dear Nina." 
               "Our turmoils are not over," said she despairingly, as they reached what they believed a fording point in the river, and were not able to get over. 
               Mr. Saunder looked anxiously and almost hopelessly about. He had thought to obtain comfortable lodgings for the night; but here they were in a desolate and fearful place, far away from the desired destination. 
               "We have no alternative but to put back, and find such accommodations as present; I am sorry for your sake, but it cannot be helped," said Mr. Saunder; "keep up a brave heart, dear Nina, if possible." 
               Coming upon a small roadside tavern, he begged for a room for the night, but there was not an empty bed in the house. 
               "My wife is ill, and needs rest," said he, putting a couple of coins into the landlord's hand. 
               The money had the magic effect to rout the wife of the man from her repose, and spreading her silk comforters over the bedclothes, Nina lay down, and tried to sleep, while Mr. Saunder sat beside her, watching and soothing her. 
               Scarcely had she fallen into a troubled doze, when she was awakened by strange, loud voices, calling for beer; and starting up in terror, she looked about her novel lodging-place. 
                
               The room was low and dingy and black, and around the sides were tables, where many a rough Dutchman sat sipping coffee or beer, or puffing out a stifling smoke. 
               From the ceiling was suspended a rope, with a large piece of candy upon the end, which each would put to his mouth before drinking, regardless of his neighbor's previous appropriation. 
               By daylight, the carousing was over, and the men departed, leaving Nina frightened and ill, and half-suffocated by the vile fumes of beer and tobacco. 
               With what joy did she not leap from the dismal bed and hasten on towards Hamburg! Arrived there, she would proceed no farther until remarried by a Romish priest. Thus far she had refused to recognize Mr. Saunder as her husband, regarding him only as her betrothed, as they were hastily united by a Lutheran minister in Vienna, which, according to her creed, was no marriage at all. 
               Respecting her prejudices, and quite willing to indulge her in any thing that would render the bond legal and sacred in her eyes, Mr. Saunder procured witnesses, and proceeding to Altona, on the Denmark side, the knot was tied to Nina's satisfaction. 
               After a few weeks in Hamburg, they crossed to Hull, and thence pursued their way to London. The novelty of the country delighted Nina. The great rural beauty as they proceeded on the road,-the neatness and cultivation, and the fresh luxuriant verdure, charmed her on her advent to the strange land. It was a propitious season. Clustering vines clambered about the roadside cottages, and mossroses roses grew profusely within the pales, while trees and hedge-rows were in their most beauteous robes. It was almost sad to leave the brightness and cheerfulness of the natural scenery, for the bounded streets of the mighty city, and yet there were such wondrous attractions amid the smoky dinginess. 
               The palaces and gardens, the museums and galleries, the magnificent stores, the parks, the towers, the monuments and churches, that mark almost every spot in that immense Babel, casting around it a magic and inviting glory. 
               At the opera, Nina was greeted with the vision of King George and the old queen, who was dressed very plain, and wore a satin apron with a pocket in it, from which she often drew her snuff-box, and, tapping upon it, refreshed herself freely with the powdered weed. Many officers were scattered about, in their brilliant uniform; and the gay scene, and the enchanting music, served to dissipate the ennui that had begun to creep again over Nina's isolated life. 
               Cut off from kindred, and troubled by the turmoils that were rendering the communication between the different nations rigid,-knowing nothing of the language of her adopted country, and altogether ignorant of the mode and manners of the people,-what wonder if she looked forward to her new home with somewhat of anxiety and misgiving, and felt a certain foretaste of the sadness that would settle yet more densely upon her spirit! 
               There were many vexations to try and perplex her. Her fine laces and many other valuables were detained tained by the custom-house officers, and as she was about to leave the city, she perceived that her passport prohibited her joining her husband in his travels, and limited her walks and drives to a few miles around the city of their abode. 
               "A strange spy, indeed, I should be, so intimate as I am with the English tongue!" said she, laughingly to her husband, upon making this discovery. "How long must this ban last, pray?" 
               "Not long I can assure you," returned Mr. Saunder. "I will apply to our Saxon friend, the ambassador, to arrange the matter for us." 
               Home was not home to Nina in Manchester. The domestics she could not order, and was forced to depend wholly upon an English housekeeper. The cookery was unfamiliar and distasteful,-she had no companion save an elderly lady who was engaged to teach her the language of the country; and her husband was all day at his business, and at night betook himself early to his rest, so that her thoughts, despite the strife to put away forbidden objects, wandered to the old memories, and to Clari, the still cherished, but forsaken one. 
               No news reached her from Vienna,-she had made her doom, and must meet the end. 
               Fanny's gentle heart bled for the orphan sister, whose confiding lips had so often revealed to her, her deepest, holiest feelings. She knew the anguish that must follow her late rashness; but no word of pity or sympathy escaped her, lest she should fan the flame that should now be forever quenched,-and so Nina went on in her loneliness, singing the old airs, and musing upon the well-remembered and treasured words, and thinking of Clari, the while her husband dreamed in his silent chamber of his well-beloved and beautiful bride. 
               It could not be always thus. Mr. Saunder observed her gloomy despondency, and coming suddenly upon her one evening, as she sat weeping in utter abandonment, he besought her to be reconciled and happy. 
               "That cannot be!" said she, with a despairing sigh. "I am away from my country, with none to love, and no one to speak to, excepting this maiden lady, who knows nothing of my temperament and desires. So great a change from the gayety of Vienna, and the pleasant associations there, must needs affect me painfully." 
               Mr. Saunder sat for a moment in deep thought. His age was double that of his young wife, and he had selfishly forgotten that the aliment suited to him was quite unfitted to her youthful buoyancy. 
               Thenceforth he went more into society with her, often denying himself in order to accompany her to places of amusement, and he had the reward of drawing her gradually from her absorbing sorrow. 
               He also sent to Hungary for a handmaiden from her Uncle John's family, and the presence even of an inferior, who had breathed her native air, relieved her somewhat of the desolate exiled feeling. 
               It happened that one evening as Mr. Saunder was at a concert with his beautiful wife, he observed all eyes turned upon her, and also heard some half audible remark about "the charming Hungarian." 
                
               Emerging suddenly from his business absorption, he fixed his gaze also upon her. 
               She was indeed beautiful! There was a flush of pleasure upon her cheek, and her eyes beamed gladly as she felt once more at home amid the delightful music that fell upon her ear. She seemed wholly unconscious of the admiration she excited, so intent was she upon the enchanting melody Dressed in a delicate satin, with a scarlet shawl, embroidered with silver oak-leaves, and ornamented by three silver tassels, disposed carelessly about her shoulders, and a white lace veil thrown gracefully back from her head, she bent forward, dreaming of nothing but the diversion, until awakened to other thoughts by her husband's vexed manner, as he said, with a piqued and troubled tone, "How brilliant you are to-night, dear Nina! We had better go home, your dress is so conspicuous. Why can you not adapt yourself to the English style? Satins are not worn now on account of the non-importation. Will you not cast them all aside, and dress like your country-women? You shall have the best goods the city affords, if you will gratify me in this." 
               "How provoking to be dictated to in such trifling matters!" said Nina, casting a contemptuous look upon her husband. "I am in the attire to which I am accustomed; it suits me. I shall not change it until I know a better reason than you have given!" 
               The husband made no reply, but his earnest, aggrieved glance spoiled the pleasure of the evening, and Nina rejoiced to find herself at last at home. 
               Mr. Saunder had seated himself upon the sofa beside her, and taking her hand, seemed desirous to say something, but loth to begin a disagreeable subject. 
               "Why did you not tell me before the concert that you were not pleased with my dress, Yohann?" asked the wife, opening the way for a reconciliation. 
               "There was where I erred, dear Nina," replied he gently. "I have never thought how unsuited to a merchant's wife your wardrobe is, particularly in the present state of the country. The public gaze and curiosity brought the question most painfully to me. Nina, my precious wife, I cannot bear cold, and indifferent, and inquisitive eyes to meet the idol of my heart! You are all I have of life, and joy, and blessedness. 'Tis for this that I would keep you so enshrined from the careless gaze," and he pressed the passive hand, and wished so yearningly that it were less nerveless in his grasp. 
               Nina was touched by his earnest, gentle way, and throwing her arms about his neck, impressed upon his lips the first voluntary kiss of affection. 
               "You may send me some muslins to-morrow," said she, "and I will equip myself agreeably to your wishes." 
               "Such concessions are always graceful and endearing," said the happy man, as he clasped his lovely wife to his bosom. "O Nina! give me all your love, and I shall be blessed indeed! I thank God for this evening, with its unpropitious beginning, since the end is so welcome!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLV. 
               TIME wore on, and another Nina, of tiny form, and heavenly mould appeared to bless them. Thenceforth the mother put away all sadness, and lived in the smiles of her beautiful babe. Every look, every breath, every motion, was watched with a passionate idolatry. Ten months of exquisite happiness sped like the summer's choicest perfume, and no shadow of evil had threatened the perfect brightness of the young mother's joy. 
               "Bring Nina to me, Belinda," said she one day, to the Hungarian nurse. "'Tis strange what a blank my existence is, when that sweet child is out of my sight. 'Tis a whole hour, now, since I held her in my arms, and it seems as if some terrible thing had come between to separate her forever from me. I could not live without that babe," and she motioned the girl to hasten her steps. 
               Crowing, and laughing, and stretching out the little hands in eager expectation, the precious innocent met the mother's showering kisses. 
               Suddenly it straightened back in her arms, and a low moan escaped it. Clasp it tighter! tighter! poor weak mortal! the death-angel is struggling with thee for thy treasure! 
               She felt it, as the limbs quivered convulsively, and the beaming face grew rigid and stiff, and, with a heart-rending cry, her own life fled temporarily away. 
               Belinda summoned Mr. Saunder, and they two stood long over the stiff form, trying to bring back the vital spark, yet dreading its return to the shock of a certain grief,-for the babe was dead. Dead! how does the very word bring the chilling earth-damp to the heart! and yet the mother, who had clung with such sinful tenacity to her child, quailed not at the tidings, but smiled when they spoke to her of the angel Nina. They brought her the little frocks, hoping to touch some tender chord, and start a soothing tear; but she gathered the clothes to her bosom, murmuring over them a plaintive lullaby. They held up to her gaze a little shoe, with the forming impress of the tiny foot; but her eyes were sparkling and dry. They gave her the toys that had pleased the infant daughter, and she laughingly grasped them, shaking them in the senseless air, and looking gleefully downward the while, as if the child were still upon her knee, amused by the sport. 
               It was of no avail, the spell worked not upon the palsied reason, and the husband had all traces of the sweet child removed from her, and with his sad gaze fixed upon the piteous wreck, he awaited God's own good time, to scatter the mental darkness, and bring back the lucid light. It came at last, slowly, gradually, but earth had changed to the stricken heart, and it went upward with a more clinging trustfulness. That was well! the purpose of the sorrow was accomplished. 
                
               Subdued and calmed, and brought out of her own immediate self, she could notice the cloud that sat upon her husband's brow. 
               Fearing to impart his business anxieties to his wife in her delicate state, Mr. Saunder had borne the burden of sad reverses alone, hoping that the impending evil, which had been long hanging over him might be averted,-the hope was vain, the crash must come. Bad tidings were in his hand as he sought Nina in the garden. 
               The French had seized upon the English goods that were awaiting exportation in Hamburg, and piling them up between that city and Altona, had burnt them to the ground. Several merchants, who were suspected of secreting goods, were blindfolded, and near the burning heap were ruthlessly shot. Among these was a most intimate friend of Mr. Saunder, and as he read to Nina the cruel news, his agitation almost overpowered him, but gathering momentary strength from her welcome sympathy, he went on to tell her the consequence to him of the disaster. 
               "I am a ruined man," said he. "I care not for myself, but to bring you from luxury to comparative want is more than I am able to bear. O Nina! such dreadful thoughts have oppressed me since these troubles have weighed me down, that I would sometimes flee from myself in affright. Strengthen me my wife, lest in some evil moment the tempter overcome me, and drive me on to some dreadful deed." 
               "Yohann, dear Yohann, what is it?" said Nina, alarmed by his wild manner, and catching at his terrible meaning. "Do you think that a consciousness of my husband's weakness, in rushing unbidden from the ills of life, would be less bitter to me than the petty discomforts which your losses will occasion me? No, no, take heart again, there are many worse trials than poverty can inflict." 
               "But you little know the extent of the evil, dearest Nina," returned the husband, with a sigh. "Every thing must be given up-house, furniture, all, but what belongs exclusively to you." 
               "It cannot be helped," said she, cheerfully. "I can be strong when the necessity comes;" and she smiled with a subdued sort of buoyancy, as she thought of the great sorrow that would flow to others than themselves from the sad calamity. 
               "That you can, my heroic Nina," said Mr. Saunder, pressing his wife to his bosom. "You have relieved me of a heavy burden." 
               The business was amicably arranged, but the small stipend allowed them by the creditors was not sufficient to support them even in an humble way, and Mr. Saunder was forced to engage as bookkeeper for a house in Liverpool. 
               It was hard to be severed from the new friends that had grown doubly dear to Nina in her isolation from her kindred,-hard to turn away from the objects of her daily bounty, who came flocking around to bewail her departure,-hard to seek again a strange home, when her heart sighed for rest, rest! But with stern courage, she followed her husband to their temporary dwelling-place. 
               The new occupation was distasteful to the unfortunate tunate merchant, and with his mind full of bright visions of good fortune, he turned towards America. 
               "What! to live among heathen and savages?" said Nina, as he asked her opinion of his proposed project. "No, no, I can never go there; do not ask it, my husband; we are better as we are, with our moderate means, among the Christianized and civilized, than if revelling in wealth, with none of the blessings of refinement around us." 
               Still the husband pleaded in favor of the plan, and after two uneasy years in Liverpool, wrote to New York, in order to ascertain what were the prospects for advancement in the "new world." 
               Receiving a favorable reply, he resolved to follow the dictates of his judgment, and venture upon the untried shores. 
               A captain of his acquaintance, from Philadelphia, was in port with his vessel, and urged him to return with him to his native land. 
               The disposition was not wanting on the part of Mr. Saunder to accede to the proposal; but how persuade Nina to that, against which every thought revolted? 
               "I will manage it with your wife," said the captain; "her aversion to the voyage is quite natural, and her impressions of the country and people such as many cherish who have had no better opportunities for judging. Get your traps ready and on board, and I will ask a party of ladies and gentlemen to come and eat American nuts with us,-you understand?" and he gave a knowing wink at his friend. "'Tis a pardonable stratagem," said he, as Mr. Saunder hesitated: "your wife will forgive you when she has once set her foot upon the shores of liberty," and after a short discussion the matter was settled. 
               "I feel an unaccountable depression to-day, dear Yohann," said Nina, as her husband urged her to accept the invitation of Capt. --. "I shall be miserable company for any one, and should certainly damp your gayety,-go without me this time, I am far better at home," and she seated herself listlessly, as if no power could move her to the desired effort. 
               "It will divert you, Nina," returned Mr. Saunder. "There will be a merry party on board: besides, the captain particularly desired your presence, and, as he is a good friend to me, this attention of his should not be slighted." 
               The heart of the treacherous husband smote him, as Nina arose languidly and prepared to gratify his wish, all unconscious as she was of the deception practised upon her,-but he heeded not the voice that bade him deal fairly and openly with her, and so she was entangled in the snare. 
               After a few hours of merriment and joviality, the party went on deck, leaving Nina in the cabin, where her husband detained her for a while in cheering conversation. 
               "What is that, Yohann?" asked she, as a sudden lurch of the ship made her ill. "Take me on deck, I am fainting." 
               How bewildered was the glance that she cast around, as she lay in her husband's arms, so pale and helpless! 
                
               The vessel was fast receding from the shore, and her friends, severed from her by the intervening waves, fluttered their handkerchiefs in the air for a last adieu. The boatmen were busy with the sails and cordage, and all seemed as if outward bound. 
               It was then no joke,-no illusion! She was stolen away from England, and really en route for the dreaded land of "heathenish darkness and rudeness." 
               Too wretched and ill for any reproaches, she crept to her berth, where her husband tried, by his assiduous attention, to efface from her mind the bitter remembrance of his ruse.
                
               His self-accusations were a sufficient punishment, as the storm-gods howled around them, in their blackest fury, threatening to cover and hide them in the watery abyss. 
               Then was the wife's forgiving temper fully exhibited, as she turned to comfort her husband, instead of murmuring that he had led her into so great misery and trouble. 
               "It matters little, dear Yohann, where we find our grave," said she, as the mighty waves seemed ready to engulf them. "God's hand can fathom the ocean depths, and raise us up to His glorious presence." 
               The danger went by for the time, however, but the voyage was long and tedious, and before they reached their destination, starvation stared them in the face. 
               The gaunt figure did but touch them with its shrivelling finger, when the desired haven appeared, forcing it to give place to a more welcome apparition. 
                
               Arrived at New Castle, plenty of provisions were sent on board; and to the grateful Nina, the sight of land brought such sweet relief, that she could have kissed the very earth that had, in prospective, been but a haunting phantom of evil. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVI. 
               "HOW can I make you sensible of the joy I experience at finding myself once more upon land,-even this terrible and dreaded continent,-after a long and perilous voyage!" wrote Nina, from Philadelphia, to her English friends. 
               "You could scarcely expect me to be otherwise than gloomy and depressed among 'savages' and 'heathen.' If, then, I send you a buoyant and cheerful letter, you will attribute it to the reaction from my great distress and danger while crossing the ocean. You mistake, I am truly grateful for the stratagem that brought me to this beautiful city. 
               "We have been so fortunate as to meet with some delightful people from Germany, whose hospitality we have thus far shared. Mrs. T. is highly educated, amiable, and charitable,-together we mingle in scenes of social pleasure,-together visit the poor and suffering. Our hearts are firmly united, and I shall never cease to bless the Providence that has given me so congenial a friend. 
               "Her father too,-a venerable and charming gentleman,-adds much to our little circle, by his agreeable and intelligent presence. He was sculptor to Frederick of Prussia, but obtained permission from the king to leave his country soon after her terrible struggle with her enemies. How often has he recounted to me the horrors of that dreadful period, when he used to ride from Potsdam to Berlin, over the mangled bodies of the slain. 
               "It was too much for his delicate sensibilities, and gathering up his treasures, he reached Hamburg, on his way to England, and finding, to his dismay, that he could not proceed, he chartered a vessel, and came to Philadelphia, where he now resides with his lovely daughter, who married a German gentleman soon after her arrival in this country. 
               "I frequently meet American ladies, and am agreeably impressed by their nobleness of heart and cordiality of manner. 
               "To be sure, I miss here the vivacity and gayety that distinguish Vienna, the home of my youth, but I am more and more indifferent to the whirl of pleasure, so constant in some of our European cities, and rather enjoy the quiet repose that characterizes this city of Quakers. 
               "I beg pardon; but it is so preferable to Liverpool or Manchester, that were I once more placed in either of the old spots, I should pray for Captain -- to invite me on board his vessel, 'to eat American nuts.' 
               "You will smile incredulously, and say that I make the best of a bad bargain; but I assure you in all sincerity, that I am wholly pleased with my two months' experience in this new country. What a longer residence may bring forth, is as yet hidden from me; but my anticipations are propitious. 
               "Mr. Saunder is in New Orleans pursuing his business, and this separation from my husband is the only drawback to my complete happiness. 
               "I go seldom to places of amusement, as the one sore affliction of my life deprived me of the desire for exciting pleasures; but in the society of my charming friend and her American acquaintances, I pass the time with profit and delight. 
               "I only regret that I have not visited the many places of public interest, since I cannot now describe them to you. There is nothing, however, that you cannot more satisfactorily gather from other sources, and by-and-by, when I feel in the mood, I may, perhaps, give you my own ideas of things. 
               "I could not conceive before now how the government institutions of the United States could inspire one with a sense of protection; but one has such a sweet, calm peace, and a feeling that his rights will be respected and secured to him, and that without the strict surveillance of monarchical countries. I had always a spice of republicanism, and can feel the dormant spark kindling up into a warm and enthusiastic flame; but this will not interest you, and I leave you for the present, with the hope that the spirit of emigration may so possess you, as to draw you irresistibly to this land of promise." 
               Frequent news came from Mr. Saunder to his beloved wife, who was never for one moment absent from his thoughts. At first his communications were full of hope; but by-and-by a deep depression was evident. 
               "Come to me, Yohann, come to me," wrote the anxious Nina. "Even the rich treasures of the Grne Gewolbe, or Konigsteins' heaped up vaults, would not compensate for this continual severance from each other. Why not return and be content with a comfortable and moderate living? I am quite satisfied that dissipation, and display, and vanity, to which unbounded wealth often leads, are not the end and aim of our being, but that social and domestic joys far transcend all other pursuits and pleasures. I learn so much of this quiet sort of happiness from our dear friends, Mr. and Mrs. T., without whose companionship my isolation would be intolerable. I have also delightful acquaintances in Mr. and Mrs. Neef, with whom I have spent many pleasant weeks on the Schuylkill. 
               "This Mr. Neef was sent to Paris by Pestalozzi, at the request of the Emperor Napoleon, who demanded one of his best teachers. A year after, on inspecting the result of the new system, Napoleon said to Mr. Neef: 'Sir, you must quit,-if I have a nation like these boys, they will soon overrule my empire.' Accordingly, Mr. Neef came to Philadelphia, for which I have to thank the emperor, who, though causing me many a sorrow through my country's suffering, has at least conferred on me a lasting benefit in the friendship of this esteemed family. 
               "We are in some commotion at present. Rumors of war with England are afloat, and a contest seems inevitable. This, of course, increases my anxiety for your return." 
               Soon after, Congress declared war against Great Britain, and for nearly three years, the country was agitated by alternate hope and fear. 
               Nina, grown thoroughly republican by contact with the sons and daughters of freedom, watched with intense interest, every conflict with the kingly power, and exultingly hurrahed at each victory achieved by her adopted countrymen. 
               News reached Philadelphia of the attack of the British upon Washington, and the wanton destruction of the public buildings; but the depression occasioned by this disaster was followed by great rejoicing at the gallant defence at Baltimore, by the American forces. 
               The bells were ringing, and the whole city, men, women, and children, were echoing the glad tidings. Nina, catching the general infection, rushed forth into the street, crying "Glorious news! glorious news!" while at the same time, a portly old gentleman, coming in an opposite direction, swung his hat in the merry air, and seizing upon the patriotic Nina, in the excitement of the moment, whirled her round and round, exclaiming "Victory! victory! hurrah! hurrah, madame!" 
               Mr. Saunder, urged by his own inclinations, as well as by the entreaties of his wife, had hastened to her soon after the commencement of hostilities, and turning his various talents to account, found no difficulty in meeting all the reasonable desires of his own heart, as well as Nina's. 
               An attack of yellow fever, while in New Orleans, struggles and anxieties with the negroes, the change from climate to climate, and the annoyance consequent quent upon his reverses, had, however, seriously impaired his health, and rendered a sea-voyage, or a temporary residence in his own country, necessary to his restoration. 
               Nina's health was not sufficiently robust to admit of her accompanying him across the water at this time, and the parting hour had come again. 
               "My life is made up of sorrows, dear Yohann," said she, as he imparted to her his physician's advice. "One would think I have been well taught that all things here below are vexation and vanity." 
               "Speak not so despondingly, my beloved wife," returned he, kissing away the tears that fell upon her cheeks; "I will be with you in a few months, at least, and then we will hope for an uninterrupted union. You have been a good wife to me, dear Nina, faithful and true, and the blessing of my grateful heart will ever follow you. Sometimes I have chided myself for binding your young life to my old and wearisome being; but Nina, love, if there is any excuse in an undying love, in the rich and constant outpouring of the heart's deepest affections, I am not culpable;" and he sighed as he gazed upon his precious friend, and felt that, perhaps, this was their last meeting upon earth. 
               "Why do you speak thus to me? my Yohann," asked Nina, forcing back the rising grief. "'Tis true I had no heart for you, when this poor boon was granted," and she laid her hand affectionately within his own. "You knew that, full well; but have I not proved to you for many a year, how firmly I am at last knit unto you in the closest and tenderest feeling. I cannot allow you to leave with the false impression that our union has been but a heavy bondage to me; tell me that you believe me, dear Yohann, when I say that I have no regret for the past." 
               "You make me too happy, Nina, my idolized wife!" said the invalid, overcome by his emotion. "'Tis more grievous than ever to go from you, now that I have this blessed consciousness." 
               The few last moments were spent in plans for the future, and in vain endeavors to strengthen each other for the trial which awaited them; but neither could banish the unwonted depression that hung over them like a gloomy and foreboding cloud. Nina felt it, when the final word had been spoken, and the face of her husband had vanished from her sight, coming nearer and nearer, and wrapping her about with a strange and chilling darkness, and her heart sunk within her, as she found herself without one kindred link in the land of strangers; but as her friends gathered around her with their affectionate condolences, she rallied, and grew cheerful and hopeful again. Several months wore on, and still no tidings reached her from the absent one, but she remembered their long and eventful voyage across the deep, and was not troubled. 
               "He will surely write, when he reaches England," said she to herself; "and even if he waits until his arrival in Saxony, I ought not to be disturbed at so natural a delay." 
               Five months more had passed, and the surprise changed to alarm, as she heard nothing yet, when one day, a gentleman came to the city to give a concert. 
               "I am sorry," said he to Mr. Neef, at whose house he had called; "that my friend, Mr. Saunder, is dead. I would wish him to aid in this affair, he had uncommon musical talent. Poor man! he was suddenly cut down." 
               "Yohann Saunder dead!" said Mr. Neef, in surprise; "his wife has this moment left the room. God pity her! she thinks him in Saxony." 
               "Is it possible!" returned the gentleman. "He died nine months since, at Havre de Grace. I have but just learned the news of his decease." 
               The intelligence was divulged as gently as possible to the unsuspecting Nina; but the shock was very severe, and her feeble frame could scarcely bear up under the melancholy affliction. 
               "Alas!" sighed she, in the bitterness of her grief; "so sad an end to this good man! Away from all he loved,-no native air to fan his brow,-no native sky bending in beauty over him,-no tender heart to respond to his last pulsations,-no moistened eye to meet his fond, expiring gaze,-no wifely step about his dying bed,-no anguished tear upon his lowly grave!" How did she reproach herself for that which was no fault! Nine months of mouldering in the quiet earth, the while she lightly trod the sunny sward, with smiles and gladsomeness, dreaming on of hope, and life, and love, and many an hour of future bliss, even when the web was weaving that would enshroud the glory and brightness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVII. 
               WHAT was there left of joy in the fainting soul of the widowed one, as the wretched consciousness of her desolate situation burst fully upon her? 
               With that passive indifference that follows a sudden and overwhelming sorrow, she doled out the miserable days of the few subsequent months, scarcely heeding the soothing words of her beloved friend, Mrs. T., whose heart and home were ever open to her. 
               Mr. Saunder had, by perseverance and economy, accumulated a sufficient sum to provide for several years, so that Nina had no thought to keep her from the gnawing grief. The struggle for daily subsistence, which to so many proves a blessing, by numbing the poignancy of a sorrow, was not yet for her; and the keenness of her anguish, preying continually upon her mind, had its natural effect upon the already enfeebled frame, pressing it down almost to the grave. 
               The physician who had banished her husband to another clime, prescribed also a change for her, and as she had received frequent invitations to visit Santa Cruz, she resolved to avail herself of the urgent request, and try the air of the tropical region. 
                
               Mrs. Vandendredt, whom she had seen several times in Philadelphia, in a favorable aspect, and whose praise of her island home, and frequent persuasions to Nina to "come and see its beauty," were all that decided the invalid towards that particular spot. She had written to Nina to take with her a quantity of such goods as would be salable on the island, as she would thereby reap a great profit, and it would be a good investment of her funds. Accordingly, expending seven hundred dollars in various commodities, she set sail for another strange land. 
               Mrs. T. had accompanied her on board the boat, and seating herself beside her on the busy deck, while the sailors were making ready to leave the moorings, she cheered and comforted her. 
               "You will have so charming a voyage," said she; "and return to us with your health and strength quite restored. I should like to escape this northern winter myself," and she wrapped her cloak closely about her, and shivered in the December breeze. "Come," she continued, taking Nina's hand, and leading her to the cabin door; "this is rather too stiff for an invalid, as the sailors would say." 
               "I cannot go below, so long as the city is in sight," returned Nina, gently resisting her persuasions, and resuming her seat near the railing; "I am well protected, I assure you." 
               "Do you feel quite equal to this voyage?" asked her friend, with much tenderness. 
               "Dr. -- is my oracle, I must be governed by his voice," replied the mourner; "although I fear that the separation from you all, will do more evil than the change can repair." 
               "Remember," said Mrs. T., "we claim you again, so soon as you are weary of your island retreat; the time will be very long to me during your absence;" and she leaned over the taffrail, hiding her face from Nina as she spoke. 
               "I feel that I shall be miserable without you, dear 'Theresa,'" replied Nina, unconsciously wandering back to the old days, and identifying the late friend and companion with the beloved one of her earlier years. Then, starting up with a bewildered expression, she looked about, taking in every item in the scene,-and, letting her intelligent gaze rest upon Mrs. T.'s face, she said- 
               "You recall her to me so vividly! Sometimes, when I am in reverie, and you speak to me, I quite expect to look upon the very surroundings that marked our favorite sitting-room in Vienna;-those were happy days! I have to thank you for many like precious ones. God grant that they may soon be renewed," and she gave way to the deep emotion that possessed her. 
               There were hurried but affectionate adieus, and many earnest wishes on both sides, and the fervent uplifting of silent petitions for blessing from above,-and then the white sails dwindled in the distance, to the one,-and the figures upon the wharf grew dim to the other solitary watcher, who was fast gliding away from her long-time happy abode. 
               How often had her frail bark been tossed upon the tumultuous life-waves! Only an occasional peaceful haven, which gave but a momentary rest, and then off again, amid the raging depths and the whirling eddies, and the surging, writhing, struggling billows! 
               Not alone upon the great deep of this strange being art thou, O wrestling mortal! Thy fellows are drifting onward with the rushing current-lifted heavenward on the swelling breast of some perturbed wave, or hurried down with desperate plunge into the threatening trough. Sink not then despairingly, with the feeling that thou art solitary in the momentous struggle, but take fresh courage and hope, with the thought that others too are combating the elements, and that thy chance is even with thy brothers, to reach the desired refuge! 
               There was little pleasure in the sail to the weary invalid. Mr. Spence, the supercargo, an amiable Quaker, was ever ready in polite and agreeable courtesies; but the intervals from sea-sickness were too short for her to avail herself of much of his pleasant society. 
               On crossing the line, the effluvia from the vegetable cargo was so terrible that Nina had scarcely life left, and was reduced almost to the helplessness of a child. As they reached the island, however, the captain assisted her on deck, and the perfumes of the blossoms revived and cheered her. How delicious was the atmosphere after so long confinement to the close cabin, where decaying produce tainted the already noxious air! 
               The Christmas time, with its wreathed snow and chilling breath, had just passed among her northern friends, and the dearth of the wintry season spread around them its leafless mantle, while she was entering upon greenness, and beauty, and warmth, and life. 
               With grateful alacrity she stepped upon the sea-girt shore, glad to have escaped once more the terrors of the deep. The negroes flocked around. Children in their Eden garb, and men and women with ebony skin shining in the naked sunlight, with scarce a rag to hide them from its piercing rays. 
               Escaping the importunities of the blacks, all of whom had some favor to ask, Mr. Spence found, for the invalid, a comfortable room in a hotel near. It was quite spacious, and well ventilated by two large windows, and the sea-breeze came in through the mosquito-netting, tempering the heat, and rendering it quite a refreshing resting-place. 
               "I will see thee safe with thy friend," said the kind Quaker the next day, as Mrs. Saunder proposed pursuing her route alone to "Christiansted." 
               "It would be unpardonable to let thee venture without an escort, in thy feeble state,"-so procuring a barouche, they drove on towards their destination. 
               The road was even and smooth as a carpet, and all nature was fresh and charming, and the negroes swarmed in the fields, the gay turbans of the women flaunting like gaudy flowers amid the green. 
               Running out to the carriage, laden with guavas and sugar-cane, they cried out, "Oh, good massa, good missus, give me a stiver, only one stiver!" 
               "Poor things," said the humane Quaker, as they drove on, leaving the dark group behind them, "they are no doubt often oppressed; but I see no help for it yet." 
               Nina made no reply, but her thoughts went back to her own country, where the nobility exercised such barbarous authority over their dependants, and her heart went upward to the Disposer of all things, with the prayer that He would, in His own good time, break every yoke, and set the weary captives free. 
               Arrived at Christiansted, what was not Nina's surprise on finding Mrs. Vandendredt quite unprepared to receive her-the house in the utmost confusion, and the only room in which she could put her visitor filled with quantities of vegetables ready for market. The lady herself had lost the apparent refinement that characterized her while in Philadelphia, and seemed changed into a regular huckster-woman. 
               "This will not do for thee," said the distressed Quaker, looking despairingly round the premises. "I will try to find thee a room elsewhere." 
               "If you please," replied Nina; "for this night only. I will return with you to Fredrickstadt tomorrow, and will remain there during my sojourn on the island. I could not survive here a week." 
               Mr. Spence came back from his search disappointed. There was no room to be found but in a hut full of negroes. "Thee will have to content thyself here until the morning," said he; "but I sincerely pity thee." 
               Nina smiled faintly at his dolorous face; but the smile was soon changed into a groan. What a night was that! Shut up in a stifling room, the joint refuge of her hostess, innumerable cockroaches, and enormous spiders; inhaling the odor from cabbages, onions, and various other edibles; disturbed every moment by the low growlings of the canine protector that slept beside the bed, and now and then startled by a frightened scream from one of the twelve negresses who, sleeping with her companions sitting upon the stairs, each with her head in another's lap, would occasionally lose all consciousness of her position, and, performing a rotary movement, land in a heap at the foot of the strange lodging place! Closing her eyes to keep out the vision of the creeping things that clung to the curtains of her bed, the tired traveller tried to sleep. Ugh! how did the crawling monsters swell upon her drowsy senses into mammoth and hideous proportions, gliding over her very brain, and sending a thrill of terror to every nerve! 
               The daylight came faintly in as she arose, and performing a hasty toilet beneath the protecting net, made her escape from the place of torment, and went out into the grateful air. The morning's breath was pure and delightful, and regaling herself with the precious perfumes that floated all about, she forgot for the moment the annoyances of the past few hours. 
               The town was neat and healthy, and in the gutters large pink shells were placed, cut at each end, and so disposed as to form a channel for the refuse water, thus presenting a novel and unique appearance. Enjoying the deep silence that reigned over all nature, Nina roved about, solitarily musing, until the sluggish scene was changed to one of busy labor. The negroes, scratching their woolly heads, and rubbing their sleepy eyes, went yawningly forth to their daily toil, and the island was alive with moving feet and active hands, as the stranger retraced her steps to the unattractive home of her singular hostess. 
               There was no regret as she left the abode of Mrs. Vandendredt, and turned again towards Frederickstadt; but there were such sinkings of spirit as only the weary and heavy laden could appreciate, as her burdened mind felt itself alone in its sorest struggles. No drop of kindred blood for her in all the western world! 
               In a few days her soi-disant friend wrote her that the governor was to give a ball, and that if she would forward some head-dresses and other adornments, which, at her instigation, she had brought to the island, she would dispose of them advantageously. 
               A short time elapsed, and they were returned, with the plea that they were "too expensive, and she could not find purchasers, as she had hoped to do." 
               This was very true, as the unsuspecting Nina afterwards learned, since the ladies had paid a handsome price for the temporary use of the ornaments, which profit Mrs. Vandendredt unhesitatingly pocketed. 
               Wearied and disgusted with the show of kindness, which but covered a deceitful heart, weak and dispirited, and caring little for the withering life, the disconsolate widow spent the first fortnight in her new sojourning-place, but gathering fresh hope and courage as her physical strength improved, she made the most of her tropical retreat, and sought, in daily rambles, a diversion from her troubles. 
               Down upon the beautiful beach, she spent the idle hours, listening to the thunderous ocean as it broke in foaming waves at her feet, or spread its pearly veil over the little darksome imps who danced gayly about in the surf. Or, as the merry negroes gambolled around her, finding bright shells for "pretty missus," she would sit listlessly dreaming, scarcely knowing that there had been any other life to her, and sighing, as the awakening came, that she must arouse her from her lethargic state and think for the unknown future. 
               While she was musing, with the billows kissing her feet, and the sunlight coming down upon her bewildered brain, the fever crept slyly into her burning veins, and it was thought advisable to remove her immediately to Philadelphia again, so the good Quaker and the captain carried her back to the boat, and while the crisis was upon her, and she was crying out in delirium for help against the centipedes and cockroaches and spiders, she was unconsciously gliding over the glad waters homeward again. 
               A violent storm shook the vessel, but she heeded not its rage; the captain and the Quaker talked in low tones beside her berth, making arrangements for the disposal of the remains, when the last breath should have sped; but she tossed her arms gleefully in the air, and laughed, as they bent over her to bathe the parched brow, murmuring, as the cooling ing liquid touched the hot skin, of the beautiful things of earth. 
               They shook their heads mournfully, and the tears escaped their manly eyes as they felt how soon all that was mortal before them would be changed into the repulsive coldness of death; but God had other purposes concerning her, and once more she was restored to the embrace of her friends. 
               It would have been so pleasant to sit calmly down, with the happy assurance that all her rovings were over; but her means were fast wasting, and her thoughts turned to her inheritance in the old country,-the income from her uncle's property would be hers so long as she remained in her native land, and some valuables left in charge of her command. 
               A letter lay before her from her brother Francis,-the first news for many a long year, and it revived her yearnings for the earlier scenes. 
               Stopping only to close the eyes of a dear friend, whose love had cheered her through many a vicissitude, she prepared for her eastward journey, despite the entreaties of Mrs. T., who clung to her with all the tenacity of a sister, and wept at the very mention of her departure. 
               "Why should you care for other wealth than our hearts can offer you, dear Nina?" said she, as they spoke of the anticipated separation. "You need say nothing of the necessity of going," she added, playfully putting her hand over Nina's mouth; "we are sisters, and all that I have is yours: there is no obligation where souls are one, so please forever hold your peace on that point." 
               "But I have a strong desire to see my native land once more," said Nina. "You will surely praise me for my patriotism?" 
               "I thought you were with us, heart and soul," said Mrs. T. earnestly; "You must not cast aside your republican principles, and go back to the old rgime." 
               "Germany is ours equally by birth," replied Nina; "but I can say with you, when comparing governments, America, America forever!" and the two friends whirled their handkerchiefs in the air, and laughed merrily over their growing enthusiasm. "Famous politicians that we are!" said they. 
               "I have a firm hope that our parting will be but for a little while," said Mrs. T; "one's home so changes by the lapse of years, that the return to it is like visiting the graves of the departed,-there is more of melancholy sadness than of joy, in wandering amid the ashes of a past glory." 
               "I agree with you," replied Nina, with a regretful tone; "if there were not cogent reasons for my visit to the early haunts, I should be quite content with the untarnished memory of what has been; but I have no alternative. Even if there is a sorrow in contemplating the remains of a former beauty, there is a profit in it," she added, after a moment's thought; "it leads one to look more earnestly to that which is changeless, imperishable." 
               "I do not think you need the lesson, dear Nina," said her friend; "what I covet for you is, an exemption emption from all troublous recollections, and a peaceful and undisturbed future. If you would but be persuaded not to make this journey," she added. "You cannot tell how deeply we are indebted to you for your companionship. My life will be very solitary without you." 
               "If one regret follows me, I shall be most happy," returned Nina, with a fond pressure of her friend's hand; "as for me, I have had too much joy in your precious family circle, to be otherwise than sad even at the prospect of a short severance, and with the vast ocean between us, I shall be not only sad, but apprehensive." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLVIII. 
               "A LETTER from Nina," said Mrs. T. to her husband; "shall I read it? 'Tis so pleasant to have news at last." 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "From the harbor of Cruxhaven, seventy miles from my destination, I write you, dear friend, the events of my voyage thus far. What comminglings of hope and fear possessed me, as I found myself off again, amid the treacherous waves, my face turned towards my birth-land, and every moment bearing me away from beloved shores and blessed associations. 
                           "Folding my wrappings closely about me, I stood upon the deck, musing upon the strange and busy past, and wondering what my future might bring forth. Whether the hearts of my kindred would recognize me with the same warm beatings that once quickened in my presence; would the old haunts beckon me fondly to them, brightening with a perceptible joy at my coming; or should I feel a deeper isolation on the bosom of my mother country, and in the embrace of my own family circle, than when treading a foreign soil, and resting in the friendly arms of strangers? 
                           "My thoughts were very sad, and putting them from me as far as I could, together with all speculations lations as to what was to come, I went to the cabin and essayed to write to you. 
                           "You would have wondered at my courage in the effort, had you seen my vain, but frantic endeavors, to keep my shuffling pen in order, amid the tossings of this vacillating ship. Giving up the attempt, I abandoned myself to the listless sort of idleness which the motion of the boat engendered. There was, however, a sudden awakening from my passiveness as we neared Henlopen, and the tempest came wrathfully upon us. Up, even with the clouds, and down again into the bowels of the great deep, went our bark, reeling to and fro like a drunken man, and threatening to succumb in the terrible struggle. In a lull of the storm we rounded the cape, and I was conveyed on shore by the mate, to await at the hotel a more propitious moment. By the next day the heavy sea was hushed into a comparative calm, and I ventured on board again, laden with presents of delicious sweetmeats, which the ladies of the hotel heaped upon me. 
                           "The weather grew peacefully beautiful, and gliding onward, as a bird pierces the subtile ether, with her white wings unfurled to the breeze, our proud brig cleft the foaming waters. 
                           "After some days, when we were quite out of sight of land, I was on deck amusing myself with the chickens, when my attention was diverted to a sail in the distance. Like a pure cloud driven by the winds, nearer, and nearer, and yet nearer it swept, until it stood tangibly before us, and a voice was heard distinctly above the din of the ocean, 'Ship, ahoy!' It was the Atlas, Captain Green, bound for Philadelphia. Adverse gales had driven her about until nearly all the provisions were exhausted, and the crew were reduced to one biscuit apiece, the last of their resources. 
                           "Our captain refused to sell them any thing, saying that we had a long voyage before us, and had nothing to spare. 
                           "Remembering the hoarded treasure with which the bounty of my friends had supplied me, I spoke to our commander, who gave permission for the captain and mate to come on board. 
                           "At the waving of my handkerchief, they lowered the long-boat, and were soon in the cabin of our brig partaking of a hearty meal. Poor fellows! Nobody but one who has experienced the gnawing pangs of an acute hunger, can have a proper appreciation of the joy I felt at their relief. 
                           "Kneeling at my feet, they invoked blessings upon me, as I dispensed to them ale, port-wine, coffee, sugar, and biscuit, for their further necessities. Never did I realize so fully the comfort of riches, as at that moment, when the giving of so simple a portion brought hope and life to a whole ship's crew! 
                           "Our captain, ashamed to be outdone in generosity-or, rather, humanity-by a woman, sold them a barrel of pork and a quantity of sea-bread, and, with the most fervent expressions of gratitude, they returned to their fellow-sufferers, bearing with them the means of cheer. 
                           "I intrusted to Captain Green the few lines I had been able to pen for you, and as the ship bore away in the distance, fast fading from my straining vision, how earnestly did my spirit follow it with loving benedictions for the kind friends for whose presence I so continually sigh. 
                           "As we approached the English coast, our troubles commenced again, and when in the English Channel, we experienced another severe gale. I think I can truly say, I have been in 'perils by sea.' 
                           "Stopping at Portsmouth for water and provisions, I had only time to set my foot on land; but how grateful was even this momentary pressure of the welcome earth. Crossing the North Sea, I was one night aroused from a deep slumber by a terrible crash. Wrapping my blankets around me, and holding fast my casket of valuables and checks, which I always keep beside me in my berth, I rushed to the cabin-door to learn the extent of our danger. In my bewilderment, believing the brig to be sinking, I called out to the captain to lower the long-boat and save us; but in the midst of my speech, as great wave washed me back into the cabin, leaving me prostrate upon the floor, wholly exhausted by these continual shocks. 
                           "Fortunately, no harm was done by the collision between our brig and the English vessel that caused the commotion. 
                           "At Heligoland we found a pilot, and were soon at our present moorings, between the Elbe and the Weser, where we have been shut in by ice for several days. 
                           "I am weary, and bruised, and sick of every thing but the memory of you, which will be still my comfort fort, though I stop writing for the present. I will leave space in this letter, to be filled on my arrival in Hamburg. 
                           
                              "Until, then, dear friend, 
                              "Adieu."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "HAMBURG, --.
                            
                           "Though in the embrace of a kindly hospitality in the delightful haven of your sister's family, my dear Mrs. T., I return again to my icy prison between the Elbe and the Weser, where your memory's vision last beheld me. 
                           "The bonds of our captivity were soon loosed, and we went freely on as far as Gluckstadt. From thence to this, our place of destination, we had to force our way through the frozen waters, upon which we were tossed about for several days. Without fire, destitute of food, unable to lie or sit, I gathered my clothes about me, and, like a frog, leaped from side to side of the rolling brig, battered and bruised at every lurch of the vessel. 
                           "How delightful to me was the approach to the city, and the certainty of an unwavering repose, so wearied as I was by the continual motion of the troubled sea. 
                           "A gentleman met me on board, and handed me the polite invitation from your kind relatives, to make their house my home so long as it should be my pleasure. 
                           "Mrs. P. received me with as kindly a welcome as if we had been long-tried friends. Towards evening, her three sons, with their wives and daughters, assembled to honor me. Their unexpected cordiality overwhelmed me, and I wept for joy at this termination of my sad voyage. They little knew what suffering I had endured, and how soothing to my poor heart were their expressions of interest and affection. 
                           "At dinner, my voracity prevailed over my sense of propriety, and I found myself the observed of all the guests; but my apologies excited their sympathies, and quite excused my craving appetite. At dessert, my sleepy lids refused to keep asunder, and one of the young ladies went with me to a sumptuous apartment, where the first object that met my delighted gaze was your very self, so truly portrayed that I greeted it as a living person, and was overcome with the deepest emotion and joy. 
                           "'Mamma has had this likeness always in her own room,' said my sweet companion, 'but thinking it would give you pleasure, she had it placed here, that you may speak to it when you like.' 
                           "How can I feel otherwise than blessed, with such thoughtful friends around me! My heart warms with gratitude for all the pleasant things of life. Sitting here, in the quiet of this peaceful room, I forget all the misery, and dwell only upon the great and boundless mercy. 
                           "Your placid face, beaming upon me from its exalted position, helps to swell the vision of retrospective delights, and quite deadens the memory of my sorrows. 
                           "As I need much rest after my perilous wanderings, and as a package from your friends will accompany pany this letter to you, I will add nothing concerning your relatives to this hasty account of my voyage and arrival. 
                           "My heart's impulse, is to free the ocean that lies between us, and press you to me once more; but this cannot be, and I must for the present content myself with wafting to you, through this silent medium, the faint expression of a love that will never die. 
                           
                              "NINA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIX. 
               HAMBURG was not the same, as when, a young bride, Nina first met its verdant, blossoming brightness. 
               The chilly season, so emblematic of her changed life, sat upon all things. Neither could there be a looking forward to a renewal of the greenness, at least until many a long year had passed away and banished the traces of a devastating tread. 
               Every tree around the city had been cut down by ruthless hands, to make a way for hostile feet. 
               Hamburg was a singular city,-the houses built mostly after the manner of the Dutch, and having the front almost wholly of glass, in various shapes. Every third or fourth street was a canal-cut from the river-upon which merchandise was transferred from the ships to the warehouses. The broad Elbe opposite the town, and the beautiful walks upon the ramparts, together with numerous fine structures, gave it an attractive appearance; but there were some drawbacks to the general advantage. 
               Often in the night, the loud report of cannon, thrice repeated, awoke the inhabitants to a knowledge of the river's overflow. 
               The poor creatures who dwelt in basements, had to hasten out, with their scanty goods, to await the reflux of the waters, when they returned to their abodes,-and this accounted to Nina for the crippled figures that had startled her everywhere in the streets, walking upon the hands and feet, or hobbling upon crutches, or limping about, with the constant apprehension of a worse evil to come. 
               The days passed too swiftly on with the kind friends, who took the widowed Nina into the very bosom of all their joys. Spring and summer had come and gone, and yet she lingered. Christmas was at hand, and the children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren assembled beneath the old family roof. 
               The saloon was decorated and brilliantly illuminated, and a long table was spread with various gifts, with the name of each recipient pinned upon it. After the distribution to the young people, "Gross-Mutter," led by her eldest grandchild, proceeded to her own apartment, where the handiwork of her children was displayed to her grateful eyes. Ottomans, chair-covers of bead-work, pincushions, needle-books, fine caps, every thing that would conduce to her pleasure or comfort, was made by skilful and beloved fingers. 
               Returning to the saloon, her sons handed her a silver plate, upon which were rolls of Louis d'ors. Calling each child separately to her, she distributed the golden gifts. A splendid supper succeeded this ceremony. The next day, the Lutheran ministers came, and received each his glittering roll. 
               A few weeks after, the eldest son returned from Paris, where he had been minister plenipotentiary from Hamburg, and being elected senator, his fellow-officers officers met at his house to tender their congratulations. The members of his family also assembled. Madame P. chaperoned Nina. The old lady looked proudly upon her son, who returned her fond glances with admiration and respect. Resplendent in satin and diamonds, dignified and majestic, she seemed a queen, receiving the homage of her court, as the senators pressed around to pay her their compliments. 
               Turning graciously to Nina, she introduced her as her "particular friend from America." 
               The old senators in small-clothes, double-ruffles, and periwigs, holding their sugar-loaf hats under the arm, gathered around to question the stranger guest concerning the "new country." 
               Wherever she went, that one talismanic word-"America," drew to her circle an inquiring group, and made her the heroine of the hour. 
               It could not always last, this lingering amid the pleasant friends;-and as the spring-time came again, Nina pressed onward towards her early home. 
               An acquaintance of Madame P. was going in a private carriage, as far as Frankfort-on-the-Maine, and availing herself of his proffered escort, the traveller bade her friends a reluctant adieu, and proceeded on her journey. 
               She was too weary a voyageur to tarry long on the road that led to her native home, so skipping past the objects that in a less absorbed time would have presented powerful attractions, she sped onward towards the anticipated good. 
                
               At Hanover, she stopped only to visit the royal palace. 
               The antique furniture, the beautiful pictures and curiosities, and above all, the delightful gardens, assured her that she was really again in the land where so much of life is given to a noble and tasteful pleasure. 
               "Gottingen," with its famous university, occupied her for a time; and "Cassel,"-the scene of Jerome Bonaparte's transient elevation. 
               At Nuremburg, the great toy emporium of Europe, a day or two was devoted to rest. 
               In this city, the houses were built flat upon the ground, without steps at the entrance. On the front of almost every house was a mirror, so arranged that, sitting at the second story window, the lady of the mansion could see the reflection of the visitors who sought admittance at the door below, and so govern herself as to their reception, or non-reception. 
               Meeting among her friends, Baron von Oberlander, a Hungarian officer, who was returning to his country, Nina gladly accepted his escort, and together they hastened on towards the Austrian frontiers. 
               With what joy did she embark upon the beautiful Danube! 
               The glad river seemed to stretch out its arms lovingly towards her, murmuring old melodies as she yielded herself to its embrace. 
               Rocking gently upon its bosom, she dreamed of the early days, and the remembered faces, and the endearing haunts. The quiet paradise of her mother's home, where her little feet first learned to tread alone, and her little heart beat sadly with its freshest grief, was vividly before her. 
               The peaceful study,-with the old man sitting in the shadowy twilight, his silvery hair gleaming through the mist, and his fond hand placed gently upon her head,-seemed like a sweet reality to her revertful gaze. The dove-eyed Fanny once more clasped her to her welcoming heart;-Theresa, in her calm and heavenly beauty, breathed again the words of hope and love;-and Clari-he whose image had for years burned deeper and still deeper into her earnest soul-came, with an answering greeting, at her spirit's call. 
               O early days! O love! O youth! Why do ye mock us with the semblance of such perfect truth; luring us on, to follow, to pursue, to touch, to clasp, what proves but senseless air? 
               Hide in your lowly graves,-come not in phantom shape, to torture those who long since laid away your dead and shrouded forms. 'Tis not for ye to bring again the bloom to faded lip and cheek;-ye have no power to send the sluggish blood in quickening torrents through renewed veins. Ye cannot make the palsied limbs "leap as the merry hart,"-or waken from the heavy sleep the numbed and wearied faculties. 
               Wait for the other life,-then come again, in all your glorious beauty, with bloom that is immortal, and vigor that abateth not. 
               How harshly come the strife and bitterness of earth-the tone of anger, and the word of wrath-unto the soul that wrappeth up itself in quiet, pensive reverie! 
               Awakened to the consciousness of what was transpiring around her by an oath from the captain, Nina beheld in his rude grasp a delicate lad, who struggled to be free. 
               "What is it?" asked she, drawing near the scene of commotion. "What has the boy done?" 
               "He has no passage-money, the young rogue!" replied the unworthy son of Neptune. 
               "How much is it?" pursued Nina. 
               "Two florins," returned the captain. 
               "And for this paltry sum you treat him thus!" said Nina, indignantly, handing him the fare, and leading the boy away from his vicinity. 
               "Now tell me how it happens that you are here without money, and without friends," said she, as they seated themselves by the railing of the boat. "I cannot understand it all." 
               The boy wept as he related a pitiable story of harsh relatives, from whom he was trying to escape to a more compassionate fate, and, as he spoke, the listener's thoughts roved far away, to a foot-sore, troubled child, who, wandering all day long, had sunk down exhausted by a peasant's hut, wishing, the while she lay upon the verdant earth, with the blue and starlit sky above her, that some bright angel would bear her up, up, beyond the reach of sorrow and pain. 
               Many a year had passed since that woful day, and the ills of life had thickened around her, until she could scarcely see the glory that still shone above the heavy mists, and yet, closing her eyes, and shutting up her soul from all that had come between, she looked up, with her spirit's vision, to the same beauteous heavens, and breathed again, more earnestly, the prayer for rest, peace, unbroken serenity. 
               Baron Von Oberlander often essayed to draw his companion into conversation; but the gentle gliding down the river engendered a thoughtful, quiet mood, and he relapsed into a deep silence, after several vain attempts to amuse and be amused. 
               Nina had been on the broad ocean, with the swelling waves roaring and heaving around her; but a solemn awe had accompanied the majesty and sublimity, as no spot of earth was visible amid the wide expanse of waters; no foothold but the subtle planks that so often threatened to give her up to the raging element. Now the green banks greeted her on either side, and castles, and ruins, and rocks, and verdant hills, varied the picturesque scenery. Earth was once more springing into new life, and a soothing calm diffused itself upon the freshness and beauty. 
               Soon the stream grew narrow, and the boat almost touched the verdant shores. 
               "We are nearing the eddy," said the captain. "Off with your hats and kneel, or we may be swallowed up in the whirlpool!" 
               Quick as thought, every knee was bent, while the vessel was clearing the dangerous passage. Upon the opposite bank gleamed a white marble chapel, where the holy Mother was enshrined, ever watching over the traveller, to avert from him all danger. Nina, only, of all the little company upon the flowing river, passed by the senseless image, and looked up to Him who alone has power in heaven and on earth. 
               There was so much ceremony before reaching her destination, that the weary pilgrim was quite worn out. It seemed so puerile to be delayed continually for such trifling matters as the minute inspection of every feature, when all America could be traversed without annoyance or interruption. 
               Stopping near Vienna, the passports were examined. At the toll-gate they were taken from them, and sent on to the director of police. At the hotel, the waiter brought a printed note, to be filled out somewhat like a passport, with name, religion, destination, &c. This also was sent to the authorities. 
               Promenading, the day after her arrival in Vienna, on St. Stephen's Platz, Nina met a young officer about twenty-one years old, the exact counterpart of her brother John. The resemblance was so striking that she asked his name. 
               "Sponheim," replied the officer, with a graceful salutation; "William Sponheim, at your service, madame." 
               "My precious Fanny's child!" cried she, clasping his hand in hers, as she made herself known to him. Could it be! the same little Willie that hid his curly head in her bosom, and wept when she was banished from Perles and from Raab! 
               "Where are you staying, and where do you propose to go now, dear aunt?" asked the nephew; "it is such a delightful surprise to see you. Why not seek my mother immediately?" 
               "I am to go to my brother Francis first; I only await my passport," replied she. 
               "And I will accompany you," returned the young man, "as far as my uncle's, whence my father will take you home at your pleasure." 
               On the announcement at the Bureau of "Madame Saunder, from America," every courtesy was extended to her. Asking her inside the inclosure, they plied her with questions concerning the "strange country;" and as she spoke in favorable terms of the "land of freedom," the eyes of her auditors sparkled with ill-suppressed delight. The spirit of liberty, which animates every human breast, seemed struggling to escape from the rigid vigilance that so continually crushed it. 
               Repairing to the Hungarian cabinet, to which she was referred for the passports, she met some friends of her deceased uncle,-the secretary,-who on learning her relationship to their departed comrade, and whence she had recently come, regarded her with the deepest interest and curiosity. 
               It was scarcely a moment before the room was full of Hungarians, eager to learn something of her impressions of her late home. Not one of all her interlocutors, but had the same idea,-"Heathen and savage, heathen and savage," greeted her on every side, as appropriate terms for the continent across the waters. 
               With what surprise did they not listen to her enthusiastic praises of the "New World." 
                
               "And you were content to dwell there,-you would go again to make it your home?" asked they, wonderingly. 
               "I was indeed most happy there, gentlemen; and have many yearnings to see the beloved shores again," returned she, as she received the passports, and their congratulations, and departed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER L. 
               FRANCIS SPONHEIM was superintendant, or chief steward, of an estate of the Archduke Charles, near Altenburg. He had written his sister Nina, to give up every other plan, and return to her native country, to dwell thenceforth with him, but as a long time had elapsed without tidings from her, he had quite abandoned the hope of her coming, when he was one night aroused from his slumbers by the Haiduck, who asked permission for some belated travellers to lodge there, as they were not able to find room in the hotel near. 
               In order to tend them a more gracious hospitality, the master of the house arose and went to meet his guests. 
               His nephew had so disguised himself, that he was not recognized, and Nina kept her veil over her face. 
               "I understand," said she, after a few moments' conversation; "that you look for a sister from America; do you think you would know her after so many years' separation?" 
               "Out of ten thousand," returned the confident brother. 
               Nina raised her veil and gazed fixedly at him, but he gave no token of recognition, and overcome by her emotions, she fell, almost fainting, into his arms. 
                
               Holding her a little from him, he looked earnestly and sadly upon the changed face, and then, with a hearty embrace, welcomed her to his home. 
               Julia, the wife, she had never before seen, and there was a chilliness in her greeting, that gave promise of but little pleasure in her society. Wearied with the constant change that had marked her being from her earliest days,-sick at heart with her many reverses and sorrows, and yearning for the precious sympathy which alone gives blessedness to earth, she had pressed forward to the land of her birth, and the embrace of her kindred, as a sure asylum from every trouble and oppression. How did this icy reception from the new sister, check the enthusiasm that accompanied her return to the scenes of her youth, and dampen the ardent joy with which she had entered her brother's domains! 
               There was yet another anticipation,-the meeting with her beloved Fanny. Would the few years of severance stand between them as a gloomy impassable gulf, or would the old beaming smile shine upon her inmost soul with an unchanged, undying love? 
               John had hastened to press her to his bosom, and every past difference was forgotten in his delight at once more beholding his only sister. 
               "I have first to go to Raab," said she, as he begged her to accompany him immediately to "Csorna," where he was "Comitat" physician, and where he now resided with Fanny and six children. "I shall look after my property, and then give myself up to the pleasure of seeing you all." 
               "You will find only Cousin Barbara left," returned turned her brother, "and I fear that the goods intrusted to her father, will never see the light again. Uncle John's wife died soon after you left the country, and he married again. All believed you dead, long ago, and I doubt if the jewels and valuables reserved for you, are not disposed of without recall. The principal of your property, of course, no one could touch; but the interest fell to your guardian, every year after your departure from us. It will be useless to seek it." 
               Notwithstanding the hopelessness of the case, Nina chose to satisfy herself with regard to her possessions, and so repaired to Raab. 
               It had few attractions for her, excepting the grave of her departed uncle, and the Ursuline nunnery, where a few of the old forms still lingered. 
               Barbara soon convinced her that nothing but a trifling portion of her property remained for her,-and so, putting the thought of money and jewels out of her mind, she went to the convent to seek the purer treasure of imperishable affection. 
               On asking for "Mother Augustina," she was ushered into a solitary cell, where the old nun was praying out the remnant of her days. 
               Nina's heart grew sad, as she looked upon the faded, wrinkled figure, kneeling in the gloom, and laying her hand softly in that of her former teacher, she asked, "Do you not know me, dear mamma?" 
               The nun scanned her features narrowly, but memory's light cast not one ray upon them, and she shook her head doubtfully, and seemed pained because there was mystery. 
                
               "Is there then nothing left of my former self?" said Nina, with a regretful tone. "'Tis your 'little lamb,' dear mamma." 
               A sudden gleam shot over the face of the old nun, and putting her hands upon the bowed head, she said- 
               "Nina Sponheim! is it possible! I heard that you had married in England; and where do you come from now?" 
               "From America," replied Nina. 
               "America! then you are from the place of darkness and spiritual death!" and an expression of horror displaced the bright gleam upon her brow. 
               "They are Christians, dear mother, but not Roman Catholics," and Nina trembled at this avowal, as if she were still a child, bound by the fatal belief of the convent. 
               "And you mix in company with them? Do you go to church there?" continued Mother Augustina. "Reflect, dear lamb," said the nun, clasping the hand of her visitor, and speaking in the old endearing way. "None can enter the kingdom of heaven but such as are in the true Roman Catholic church." 
               "That cannot be, my mother," returned Nina. "God will be merciful to us all. He surely will not condemn all but the small flock." 
               "Oh, my child! I see you are lost, and I shall not meet you in heaven," said the distressed nun, shedding bitter tears over her little lamb, whom in fancy she saw wandering irretrievably away from the true fold. 
               Nina was moved by so manifest an interest, and asked her blessing and her prayers, with something of the same feeling, as when an offending scholar she bowed in penitence before her; but as the good old nun murmured her benedictions, Nina's soul breathed forth the earnest petition, that the light of God's pure spirit would banish the superstition that like a thick veil hid from her friend the glorious light. 
               Mother Augustina had changed materially since the earlier days. 
               A long contact with the rigid sisterhood, and an increasing age, which always strengthens in one a cherished dogma, had rendered her childishly tenacious of her peculiar faith, and timidly observant of every strict rule of the nunnery. 
               Retiring from her office, she spent her time in penance and devotion, afar from the young hearts that had once rendered her seclusion happy. 
               It was very sad to Nina to see her thus depriving herself of every earthly joy, with the vain belief that these useless inflictions would further her acceptance with Him who requireth no sacrifice save that of a broken, contrite heart. 
               The old nun at last wiped away her tears; crossing herself devotedly, and sighing, as she gazed yearningly upon her wayward pupil,-and summoning the former playmates, who had tasted the strange gall with Nina during their sad "Novena," so long before-she presented to them their erring companion. 
               "You are happy, sisters?" asked the widowed one, saluting them with much delight. 
               "Yes," replied they, "we belong to God; had you married the Saviour on the cross, and devoted yourself to our holy religion, you would be happy as we." 
               "Perhaps!" said Nina, thoughtfully; "but if penance and suffering merit a future bliss, I am not without hope." 
               "The world, then, has not given you the delight that it promised?" asked they. 
               "My life has not been without its discipline," replied Nina, as they eagerly asked her her past history. 
               Sitting there, in the narrow cell, with the playmates of her youth around her, she recounted the principal events of her singular career, and with their sympathy and blessing left the convent forever. 
               How did the iciness of death fall upon her, as she went from the portals of that strange tomb, where living hearts were beating, beating, beating, still! 
               In the church of the Carmelites were the coffined remains of the good uncle; and there alone, beside the mouldering form, she gave vent to a bitter anguish, praying for support in the further struggles of life. 
               "Oh, for the end! the peaceful end!" sighed she, as the remembrance of earth's vain hopes and empty joys swept over her stricken and subdued soul. 
               It seemed impossible to quit the spot, where was all that her heart had once held dear; as often as she essayed to go, so often was she irresistibly led back to the resting-place of the saintly bishop. 
                
               She felt not the damp of the charnel-house,-the ghastly visage of death came not with frightful, repulsive might, before her; but a light, as from Heaven, cleared the mists from the tomb, and a glorified face seemed to greet her with benignant expression. 
               Clasping her hands in the quiet air, her loving words went forth, as if a mortal ear were listening still. 
               "Once more thy child has sought thee!-through the wilds of her intricate way, her feet have trod until they reach thy side again. Torn, bleeding, weary, pierced through with many an anguished dart, she comes,-her hands outstretched to meet thee, and her yearning soul panting for thy embrace! O heart of hearts! whose warmest throbs were for thy little one, breathe yet again upon her fainting life! Let the deep love that was all-pitying,-all true,-still follow and support!" 
               Then sinking down, lowly and reverently, and looking up above all earthly visions, until her faith caught sight of Him, unto all mortal eyes invisible, she sought the strength that never faileth; and with regretful step, turned from the silent habitation of the dead. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LI. 
               "THAT cursed America has made a complete fool of you, sister!" said Francis Sponheim, after many fruitless attempts to draw Nina from the retirement of her room, to play at bowls and cards on Sunday. 
               Several priests, who were the guests of the family, joined in their host's entreaties that she would give them her society, but all to no purpose; and Julia was seriously offended at her obstinacy in conforming to the notions and customs of a strange land. 
               There were many causes of difference which rendered Nina's life any thing but agreeable in her brother's house. A long residence where the restraints of a severe etiquette were withdrawn,-an unlimited freedom of action, and speech,-stricter views concerning religious obligation,-and opinions quite contrary to the reigning government of her country,-all these operated against her in the mind of her sister Julia, whose enmity found vent in many little annoyances. 
               "I really hope you will try to be more circumspect than usual to-morrow," said she to Nina, as they were anticipating a visit from the archduke, who was coming to inspect his estate. 
               "If you mean by that, that I am to advance no sentiments but such as are in strict accordance with those of his highness, you will scarcely be gratified," returned our heroine. 
               "I have no fears that your opinions will be called forth by the archduke," said Julia, haughtily; "but, really, it is high time that you should come down a little from your independence, Nina, since you are no longer in that levelling country. You must remember that you are once more where some deference is paid to those in authority." 
               "I never heard the duty of giving 'honor to whom honor is due' more strongly inculcated than in America," said Nina; "but to worship a man as a god is quite another thing!" So saying, she left the room. 
               The morrow brought the expected visitor, together with his brother, Prince John, and several other gentlemen. 
               "Who is the lady in black?" asked the archduke of Francis Sponheim, approaching the house, where Julia was awaiting him upon the lawn, with her children and guests. 
               "My sister from America," returned Francis, presenting Nina to him. 
               With a dignified courtesy she met his salutation. 
               Julia frowned as she observed her, and herself made an obeisance almost to the ground. 
               "So you have been in America," said the archduke; "that is a long voyage-how did the country please you?" 
               "I liked it exceedingly, your highness; so much so, that I desire to return again to that happy country of liberty." 
               "That certainly is not the right feeling for your own father-land," replied the archduke, entering into an animated conversation with Nina upon her experience in her foreign home. 
               As they were about to take their leave, Prince John and several of his party requested permission to return the next day for a longer discussion of America. 
               "What shall we do?" said Francis to his wife, when they were withdrawn from his sister's hearing; "if Nina sees these gentlemen she is undone, for her heart is always upon her tongue;-can we not contrive to avoid the meeting?" 
               "There is the peasant's wedding to-morrow," replied Julia; "she shall go with us-that will obviate the difficulty." 
               "What will the gentlemen say, if I do not keep my appointment?" said Nina, as her sister proposed the excursion to her. "I cannot go." 
               "They will never have a thought of you again, be assured," returned the amiable sister-in-law. "You receive their flatteries too easily." 
               Piqued at Julia's manner, and resolved to show her that she was quite indifferent to their attentions, Nina made ready and accompanied her to the wedding. 
               The prince and his party called, as they had agreed; but not finding Nina, and learning from the domestics whither she had gone, they proceeded to the place of rendezvous. 
               "You ran away from us," said they; "but we would not be disappointed, and so presumed to follow." 
                
               "My sister is responsible-I shall leave her to apologize," replied Nina, with a triumphant glance at Julia, who could scarcely conceal her chagrin. 
               Repairing to the pleasant shade of some woods, they sat down in a circle upon the grass, at a short distance from the spot where the peasants were having their festivities, and whiled away the merry hours in happy converse of the far-off land. 
               The day in the woods had grated sorely upon Julia's mind, as she remembered the many animadversions of her sister upon her own country; and it was with unfeigned delight that she heard Nina's intention to go to Csorna, to spend some time with Fanny, whose placid face had not yet greeted the wanderer. 
               As for Nina, she could not sufficiently speed the preparations for her departure. Fanny's presence, she felt, would soothe her troubled soul, if there was yet rest for her upon the earth. Nor was she disappointed. There was no mistaking the gushing love that rushed forth to welcome her to its embrace. The same warm heart that pitied the orphan, as she sobbed upon her mother's grave at Grosburh, now beat in sweetest sympathy for the lone widowed one, who wept over buried hopes and perished joys. 
               Then came visitors flocking to see the new and strange guest, whom contact with a foreign heathen land had rendered an object of great curiosity and attraction. Among others, the prior of the monastery of Premontres, who welcomed Nina with the same holy benevolence that characterized her beloved uncle. 
                
               Thenceforward, she and Fanny went often to the monastery garden. No wonder it seemed so bright and cheerful, as they sat in the sunlight of the old man's smile, and recalled a happy, blessed past! 
               Prior Salvo was fast nearing the other life, and his spirit partook more of heaven than of earth, as did also his wise and holy conversation, and it was perfect joy to linger amid perfume and verdure, drinking in the delights of the kindly nature, whose every word and look brought peace and blessing. 
               Several weeks had passed, and the sisters were in Fanny's boudoir alone. 
               Nina had been long wishing to enter upon the subject nearest her heart-the destiny of her beloved Clari; but as often as she essayed to speak of it, an unconquerable emotion had impeded her utterance. The thought of his unknown fate was too burdensome to endure longer, and, with a desperate effort, she opened her heart to Fanny, and, with tremulous lips, asked his history during her long sojourn abroad. 
               The brother's wife, afraid to venture upon so exciting a theme, and thinking to divert her from it, spoke of other friends. 
               "I had forgotten to tell you of your old acquaintances," said she, evasively. "Apolina Sternstein-you remember her?-she lives at Prague, and is the mother of five children. Annetta married without the approbation of her parents, and afterwards separated from her husband. She is now in the Burg theatre, as opera singer. Her mother is dead, and her father is still at court. Aunt Sponheim is living in great style in Vienna, and is as full of intrigue as ever. Nettie is married to a Hungarian, and has a son in Vienna." 
               "But tell me of Clari," interrupted Nina. "I am able to bear it," continued she, as Fanny looked inquiringly at her. 
               "Would that you had married him," said Fanny, sadly. "I always blamed you, Nina, for the part you took in that affair. His devotion to you was unbounded." 
               "You knew my motive," returned Nina. "I could never have permitted him to sacrifice his wealth for me." 
               "It need not have been," said Fanny, regretfully. "If you had only been content to wait. One year after you left, his aunt, the Countess F., fell upon her highly-polished floor and broke her leg, which caused her death. How different would your situation have been, if you had remained in Vienna a twelvemonth longer as you were!" 
               "Aunt Marguerita was at the bottom of it all!" said Nina, with a look of anguish upon her brow. "I feel that she alone stood between me and my greatest good. God help me to forgive that woman! My whole life has been troubled by her machinations!" 
               "And Clari found her out," said Fanny. "She said to Cousin Sternstein, one day when they were alluding to you and your affairs, 'Count Clari came to me, reproaching me bitterly, after Nina left, for persuading her to marry as she did, and cursing me for the shadow that would darken his life. Fidele was with him, and after venting his wrath upon me, he took the dog under his arm and left.' She had the boldness to acknowledge to Cousin Sternstein that she had used every effort to break off the match between you and Clari, through what motive nobody can tell. Six months after, the count visited Apolina in Prague. He was very sad, and spoke about selling the estate 'where he meant to live with Nina, if her pride and obstinacy had not blasted his happiness for life.'" 
               "What then?" asked Nina, as Fanny paused a moment. 
               "Joining his regiment," resumed the sister, "he grew reckless, and at last married a Hungarian lady, full of cunning and ambition. He left her for the army, and was slain upon the battle-field." 
               This melancholy account had its due weight upon Nina, and for many days she walked as in a stupor; but Fanny's gentle manner and kind soothing, restored her soon to a degree of cheerfulness, and rendered her less dreamy and sad. Still she clung to and cherished the old pensiveness, wandering in solitary places, and sitting for hours in deep reverie, so that Fanny advised a visit to the capital, thinking that perhaps a temporary sojourn amid new scenes and new faces would bring to her a more healthful buoyancy. 
               "I cannot yet consent to leave you," said she, as her sister proposed the change; "be assured, I am better here, at least until the winter makes a residence in the city desirable. I am quite happy in your society, and the occasional presence of Prior Salvo. If I am sometimes depressed, it is from causes which I carry about with me, and is not contingent on my surroundings. Csorna and Vienna are all the same to me when these moods trouble my soul." 
               "We must contrive some diversion for you then, dear sister," replied Fanny. "The vintage promises some pleasure, will you join us? You remember Schomlauerberg?" 
               "Perfectly, and shall be glad to revive some of the old scenes," returned Nina. 
               "We make a great gala time of it here," said Fanny; "there will be a merry party of us." 
               A merry, happy time indeed they had. For many a mile they pursued their way through beauteous vineyards and fine villages. The sentinels who kept watch over the luscious fruit, made the air resound with the music of their horns, as the carriages rolled by, and the peasant girls came forth from their simple houses, bringing grapes for the party, who halted to give a pleasant word, and to feast upon the blooming beauty of the young maidens, as well as upon their palatable offerings. 
               After a few hours' drive, they stopped in a green valley, at a rustic and romantic cottage, in which was a saloon with a long table, ready spread with refreshments. 
               Fortifying themselves for the tedious ascent of the mountain, the joyous party fastened bags upon their backs, after the manner of the peasants, and climbing up the steep, betook themselves to their playful labor. 
               Arrived at the top of the elevation laden with rich clusters, they deposited their treasure, and prepared for the feast that awaited them, beneath an arbor covered with shading foliage. 
               In the middle of the table, was a pyramid of transparent fruits,-peaches, grapes, red and yellow figs, and golden pears, interspersed with English walnuts and almonds, all entwined with fresh vine-leaves. 
               Glass pitchers, in the form of a bunch of grapes, with the handle a vine-leaf, held the "must," or juice of their late vintage, which furnished a delicious beverage. 
               At evening, they descended the mountain again. In the distance were gypsies playing the bagpipe, while in the valley below them, the priests drew sweet sounds from the guitar or violin, or broke forth in the song of the "Swiss Mountaineer," so directing their voices, as to echo back the grateful melody. 
               The night recalled to Nina the evening with her beloved Clari, as they returned from Shanau, so full of hope and joy. 
               "O God!" sighed she, withdrawing a little from her companions; "how full of swift, and transient changes is my strange, eventful life! Shrouded in black, mourning not only the best of husbands, but my dead and buried past, and my hopeless, cheerless future, for what have I to live?" 
               "Why so melancholy, dear Nina?" said the sympathizing Fanny, seeking the weary wanderer; "there is much for our serenity and happiness, every thing is so beautiful to-night. Let the spirit of peace, that diffuses itself over all nature, infect your troubled soul. The foretaste of an enduring glory is in all things lovely here below. Let us look away to the happy time when we shall be the partakers of unalloyed delights;" and the kind sister led her back to the merry group. 
               Fanny's consoling manner had helped to vanquish her sadness, and as they approached the village where they were to spend the night, apportioned round among the peasants, she gave herself up to the enjoyment of the moment. 
               She and Fanny were together in a simple cottage. Every thing was humble and lowly; but a sweet content sat upon the features of the inmates, casting over the very simplicity an attractive charm. Sacred pictures hung around the walls, the holy water was beside the door, and, after her guests had climbed into the plump feather-bed, the pious hostess came softly to sprinkle them with the mystical drops, praying the while that St. Florien would preserve them from the devouring element. 
               In the morning they went again to the vintage ground, to breakfast; after which, they returned to their homes, refreshed and cheered by their simple pleasures. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LII. 
               SOON after the excursion to the vintage ground, Fanny planned a visit to "Eisenstadt," an estate of Prince Esterhazy's, near Neusidle. 
               The palace was magnificent,-the walls were covered with gold and silver brocade, and the ceilings represented, in fresco, Roman and Scripture history, and various landscapes. Next the bedchamber of the prince, was a room covered with rich tapestry, and hung with hundreds of timepieces, some in finger-rings and breast-pins, surrounded with costly diamonds, some playing different tunes, and others still, with figures moving with the working mechanism,-surpassing even the fine collection in the "Temple de Laune" at Luxembourg. 
               The garden presented every attraction,-statues so lifelike as to startle one as a real presence,-grottoes and fountains,-delicious shades and murmuring melodies, mingling their enchantment, and bathing the entranced senses in a flood of unearthly delight. 
               "We will go to the family tomb and see the end of all this greatness and luxury," said Fanny. "Perhaps it will furnish a better and more profitable lesson for us, than the contemplation of the magnificence alone." 
               Repairing to the Carmelite monastery, they followed lowed a monk to the vaults beneath, and were soon encompassed by the marble walls. 
               The first object that impressed them, was the figure of one of the old princesses standing in a niche on one side of the vault, and dead for many a long year. 
               A robe of black enveloped her, as with folded hands, and head inclined upon her breast, she kept her dreamless vigil. Her skin had changed to a dark chestnut color, and hung in folds over the fleshless bones. 
               Marble coffins, the lowly habitation of many a great one upon the earth, spoke forcibly to the living of the emptiness of life's fleeting honors. 
               How often had Nina seen one of the noble princes of this same family riding before the royal carriage, upon his richly-caparisoned horse, dazzling the admiring multitude with his splendid equipments, which alone were valued at three millions of florins. Frequently as his jewelled boots brushed against the side of his steed, the costly gems would rattle off, and fall to the ground; but his disdainful eyes stooped not to seek the glittering baubles that could easier be replaced by a single word. 
               And was this the consummation of all the pompous pageantry-to lie down in the dim sepulchre with the silent dead around, and the dampness and gloom hovering over the form once resplendent with an overpowering brightness! 
               Leaving the princely vault, the monk showed them, in another compartment, the confessor of the old princess. Touching a spring, the rattling bones sat up in the coffin-bed, yet helpless to pillow again the brainless head. Sad thought! that this proud will, once powerful to move not only our own nerve and muscle, but e'en the minds and actions of our fellow-men, should leave these cherished frames to the rude sport of senseless puppet force! 
               Turning from the mournful spectacle, the sisters proceeded to "Calvary"-a winding staircase in a tower, seven stories high, with statuary all along at various stages, representing our Saviour's sufferings, as at the mountain in Baden, that greeted Nina's childish vision so long before. 
               "I have a great pleasure in store for you," said Fanny, as they left the monastery, and followed a circuitous road. "We are on the way to the old house at Neusidle." 
               Nina could not speak,-her emotions were of mingled joy and grief, and kept her silent until they reached the door,-and yet as she stepped from the carriage to enter the house, there was nothing in the changed building to recall the days of her happy sojourn there. A fire had partly destroyed it, and rendered the transformation necessary, and with a disappointed feeling,-as one would look upon the glossy wig and rouged cheeks, that hide the silvery hair and venerable wrinkles of a beloved and aged parent,-she gazed upon the new and changed exterior, while her heart sunk within her. 
               "The study is preserved as it was," said the kind priest who received her, and had observed her sadness; "our efforts all centred on that, as the most valuable part of the building. Here is the passage, also perfect," he continued, as he led them to the corridor that would usher them to the desired haven. 
               With reverent, quiet steps, as in the precincts of the dead, the sisters entered that blessed sanctum. Not a thing was changed from its original place. A table of antique workmanship, that Marie Sponheim had left for her orphan daughter, stood in the centre of the room, and the old arm-chair, with the low ottoman near, seemed as if just occupied by the gentle priest and the loving child. 
               The sunlight came in, casting a bright ray athwart the back of the chair, just where the hoary head had often rested. A book lay upon the table, with open leaves, turned downward; and a pen dipped in the ink, and a half-finished manuscript beside it, completed the illusion of the old man's real, living presence. Even the atmosphere of the room, the musty smell of the quaint volumes, and the odor of the fruits gathered by the peasants to refresh their master, and lying all about, to mellow for his taste, came to Nina, as in the early days, and brought a strange dreaminess to her spirit, which she longed to perpetuate. 
               Sitting down upon the lowly stool, she leaned her bewildered head upon the arm of her uncle's chair. A caressing hand smoothed her soft locks, and a loving voice breathed in her ear low words of tenderness. She was again a simple, artless child, with no wish but for her uncle's smile-no ambition, save to be the only darling of his heart. 
               The stranger priest had left his guests to their solitary reminiscences; but returning, after a little while, he took from the shelves some books which bore the frequent impress of the old man's fingers, and writing Nina's name in them, placed them upon her lap. 
               Her heart appreciated the delicate act, and thanking him with tearful eyes, she pressed the volumes to her lips, and went forever out from the dear old study. 
               Up by the quiet church she sought Frau Caterina's humble grave, and plucking from above the withered head some simple grasses, to press within the sacred books, she bade adieu forever to the spot where all life's calmest, sweetest hours were spent. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LIII. 
               AT the first wintry breath, Nina left Csorna for Vienna, urged by the entreaties of the unselfish Fanny, who yielded her ardent desires for her sister's companionship, to the feeling that her health demanded change and amusement. 
               Arranging for board with the widow of her guardian uncle, who was a gentle, amiable woman, Nina prepared for a season of pleasure. Vienna promised little to her thoughtful, pensive nature; but she had made several new acquaintances through Baroness Bowern,-the mother of Madame Rewadi, a lady well known in Philadelphia as the teacher of a select school in that city,-and also through the Countess Lazanski; and among these were some congenial and welcome friends. 
               The son of Madame Rewadi had sent letters to his mother, whom he supposed to be in Vienna, and Nina went to the residence of the Baroness Bowern, to deliver them in person. 
               The baroness was in bed, so surrounded by dogs that it required great courage to venture into her presence. Nina, however, fearlessly entered the room, but the brutes kept such a continual snarling and barking and jumping, that their mistress was forced to request her guest to retire and call again the next day, when she would have her canine friends removed for her accommodation. 
               "Look at this picture," said the old lady, on Nina's subsequent visit, showing her the miniature of a young and beautiful person. "This is my child, when she married, many a long year ago. From that period I have received no tidings of her, until six months since, when there came to me a woman with bowed figure and ugly visage, claiming to be my daughter. I sent her away as an impostor, but she returned to me again with family secrets, which convinced me that she was really my own flesh and blood. For three months she was with me; but she disliked the dogs and the living, and made me miserable. After that she went to Trieste, where she is remarried to Count Bacely. I am resolved to disinherit her. I am surrounded by doleful people, who only love my card-parties;-they know that I have large estates, and will try to flatter them from me. I am left alone, when a daughter's love should cheer my declining years;" and the solitary woman felt about for her strange companions, moaning, as she missed their wonted touch. 
               "The only thing, baroness, is for you to forgive your child, and make over your property to her and her children. Recall her, and let her be to you a comfort in your weariness," said Nina, touched by the isolation of the infirm invalid, and conceiving the thought of bringing about a reconciliation between her and her daughter. 
               "You have kind feelings," said the old lady, looking earnestly upon Nina; "come to me often; every Wednesday and Friday. 'Twill be cheering to have one tender heart near;" and with every demonstration of regard, she permitted her to depart. 
               From this time, Nina was a frequent guest at the card-parties of her new friend, where she met with much to divert and cheer her. Among other eccentricities, was Duke Sallm, a kind-hearted old gentleman, walking about with his pack of white gloves, which he would present to the ladies, when he perceived that theirs were not quite fresh. The duke's pack was a welcome convenience, inasmuch as the etiquette of these parties was for ladies never to remove their gloves, and the constant handling of the cards, made a new pair frequently necessary. Another object of interest to Nina, was a maiden lady, whose curious gaze had often been fixed upon her, as she spoke unrestrainedly of her predilection for America, its government, and its religious freedom, and descanted fearlessly upon the crushing policy of the Austrian dominions. By-and-by, the scrutinizing gaze turned to one of deep sympathy; and one evening, as Nina withdrew from the company to a secluded corner of the room, she was not a little surprised to find the strange lady at her elbow. 
               "I wish to be your friend," said she, as Nina looked inquiringly at her; "I beg you to veil your sentiments a little more. If you are so incautious, there are others who will inform against you, which will be mortifying to you, and a source of trouble and annoyance to your great acquaintances." 
               "I am not used to dissembling," returned Nina; "in America, there is perfect liberty of speech." 
                
               "But remember, you are no longer in the country of freedom," said the stranger, with a sigh; "it will not do to breathe republican principles here; but I must not be seen longer with you; do not forget, however, that I am your friend," and she was about to move away again. 
               "Stay," said Nina, with a grateful expression; "come to my lodgings to-morrow at two, I wish to have further conversation with you." 
               "We are free from observation now," said she, the next day, as she was alone with her singular companion; "will you tell me why you caution me so earnestly?" 
               "Perhaps you are not aware," said the stranger; "that all about you in society are spies, paid by the police, to ascertain the opinions of the people, and to report to the authorities." 
               Nina looked up with great surprise as the old lady resumed, "I myself, serve in this capacity, and have a regular salary. You need not fear me," she continued, as Nina's face betrayed a certain distrust; "I desire only your good. But I am not alone; there are a good many others mingling in society, known only to each other by a secret sign, and these lie in wait for the unwary. Old Count -- is one of these spies. What I reveal to you is out of pure friendship; if it were known that I had divulged this mystery, I should be lost." 
               "What can I do?" said Nina, vexed and troubled beyond measure at this revelation. 
               "At the Countess Zelinska's," pursued her friend; "you will meet one Frau Von Ellis, a bad-hearted person. She is a flatterer, and will ensnare you, unless you are on your guard; I have been long watching an opportunity to warn you. If you ever desire to return to America, you must be more prudent in your expressions, or you will never be permitted to leave Austria." 
               "I cannot sufficiently thank you," said Nina, grasping her hand as she arose to leave; "but my life, in my native land, will henceforth be full of distrust and suspicion." 
               "Better thus, than to moulder in a prison," returned the spy earnestly; "there are many now, shut out from the light of day, whose only error was in not bridling the tongue; since we have no power to alter the government, we must be careful to keep out of the clutches of its iron law." 
               This tyrannical vigilance on the part of the authorities made Nina always distrustful and timid, and took from her all the pleasure of society. To feel that every word was weighed by the emissaries of a stern and arbitrary power, was too much for her free spirit to endure, and she resolved to go no more where even her innocent thoughts might be made the instruments of her destruction. 
               In the English chapel she often found a refuge from the worldly evils that encompassed her; and in the solitude of her room, and the sacredness of her thoughts, a safe retreat from every prying eye. 
               It was in vain that her friends entreated her to give them her frequent presence. Differing from them in almost every feeling,-exposed to the hateful scrutiny of the police-agents, and worn out by sufferings and trials,-what had the gay and bustling world to offer of soothing and peace! 
               In the friendship of Duke Sallm, Baron Retzer, and some American families, she passed the time agreeably, however; with these last she repaired to a private saloon in the "Prater" when the birthday of their freedom came round, and while demonstrations of joy were filling all America, they celebrated, in their secresy, their glorious heritage of liberty, singing with suppressed voices, the national song, "Hall Columbia," and blending in their speeches the names of "Washington," "Lafayette," and "Adams." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LIV. 
               THE Persian minister-Prince "Mirza Abdal Hussun Khan"-was in Vienna making a great stir in the city, and Herr Von Sternstein had come for Nina to go with him to the palace and witness the audience of this dignitary with the emperor. 
               The minister was riding in the royal carriage,-his younger brother with him,-twelve mamelukes walking beside the carriage, and the royal guard accompanying. 
               As he alighted, Princes "Metternich," "Esterhazy," and others of the court met him at the entrance of the palace, leading him through the spacious saloons, adown the aisles of noble guards, to the throne. The mamelukes came after, two and two, bearing gifts. 
               The first brought, upon a crimson cushion, a medallion portrait of the Persian monarch, composed wholly of precious stones of immense value. It would seem impossible for human skill to form, from little gems, so perfect a likeness of the human face. 
               Another slave carried a similar cushion, upon which was a sword, the sheath and handle of solid diamonds. Another had three rows of pearls, as large as hazel-nuts, and twelve rows of smaller size, and still another bore a silver waiter up-heaped with beauteous shawls. The rest had each a rich carpet dragging after him. 
               The minister wore white satin trowsers and vest, covered with gems; a tunic and sash of crimson; crimson shoes, adorned with precious stones; and a turban of white, bound about his head with a crimson girdle, entwined with large pearls. In front of the turban was a crescent of diamonds. His poniard was glittering with jewels. 
               Bowing slightly to the emperor, he spoke in the Oriental language through an interpreter. 
               As he left the throne, one of the mamelukes awkwardly pressed too near his imperious master, and quick as thought, the poniard would have done its deadly work in the royal presence, had not Prince Metternich seized the hand of the minister, saying, "that will not be suffered here." 
               Scowling upon the menial who had contaminated him by his vile touch, Abdal Hussun Khan restrained a further demonstration of his wrath, and restored the weapon, for the time, unpolluted to its welcome sheath. 
               Two beautiful Arabian horses, also the gift of the Futeh Ali to the Emperor of Austria, stood near a balcony awaiting the inspection of the royal family, when the audience should be finished. 
               Repairing to the hotel of the prince, with her Cousin Sternstein, Nina saw his favorite slave, seated cross-legged upon a cushion. She was very beautiful, as she sat there, bedizened with sparkling gems and rich attire, chatting in an animated, merry way, with her two handmaidens, while curious eyes were fastened upon her. 
               In the evening, Cinderella was performed before the illustrious visitors. The prince occupied a private box. His brother stood beside him, and behind him were three mamelukes, in a bending posture throughout the play. 
               Time wore on, and Nina was growing weary of Vienna, and longed for the companionship of her beloved Fanny; but her physician ordering her to try the baths of Baden before rejoining her sister at Csorna, she proceeded thither for a while, accompanied by Frau Von Sponheim, the widow of her Uncle John, and a young cousin, who renewed with her the scenes of other days. Going to Calvary at an hour when all was silent around, and not a step beside their own broke the stillness, they ascended the hill, and entered the little chapel upon its summit. The crucifix, before which Nina's youthful knees had often bent, was in its accustomed place; but her enlightened mind revolted at the strange offerings that completely covered the cross, and the image of the crucified. Decayed teeth, hair that had fallen from sickly and diseased heads, amputated bones, and useless crutches, hung upon the nails that pierced the feet, and polluted by their loathsome proximity, even the emblem of the All-Hallowed. 
               Frau Von Sponheim, a sensible and intelligent Christian, and her daughter also, shared Nina's feeling with regard to these vile superstitions, and, without a thought of the consequences, they stripped the crucifix of its disgusting appendages, and taking them to the river "Suechat," sunk them in its gurgling waters. 
               The next day there was a placard in every house for the detection of the perpetrator of the sacrilegious deed, and Frau Von Sponheim and her little party found it expedient to quit Baden much sooner than they intended; but fortunately no one suspected them of so unprecedented an act as the despoiling the consecrated temple. 
               "I go to Csorna in a day or two," said Nina to Baron Retzer, who had called immediately on her return from Baden; "but I desire to pay a visit to Baroness Macholick first. Do you know her?" 
               "Perfectly," returned the baron. "I saw her often in her day of beauty and splendor; but she has descended greatly from her lofty pedestal." 
               "I sincerely pity her," said Nina; "for such pride as hers to be broken, must be terrible indeed." 
               "She is not alone," said the baron. "There is scarcely a trace in Vienna of the pompous style once visible. The nobility are sadly reduced, and I can point to many a lady, now speculating in jewelry, and other goods, through a hired agent." 
               "Is the baroness much straitened?" asked Nina, thoughtfully. 
               "She is, truly," said Baron Retzer. "All her magnificence has fled." 
               "Will you go with me to see her?" 
               "Certainly. I am at your service." 
               And Nina prepared for the sad meeting. 
               It was melancholy to gaze upon the pitiable wreck of a former dazzling brightness, and Nina wept as the baroness cordially embraced her, after ascertaining that she was indeed the friend of her angel child. 
               "We are both changed, dear Nina," said she, returning the eager look that was fastened upon her. "If my poor Theresa had lived, things might have been different with me. Now I am alone, and weary!" and the face of the once joyous and thoughtless one showed how heavy the burden of life had at length become. 
               It was well that the associations of a former happy time were not around Nina, as she sat with her hand in that of the baroness, while they spoke of the dreamy past. Even now, the thought of the days gone by, swept like an overwhelming flood upon her soul, and forced her to shorten the painful interview. 
               As she arose to depart, the baronness took a valuable ring from her finger, and putting it upon Nina's, said-"It was once hers, my darling child's. You will cherish it when I am gone,-remember me in your prayers, dear Nina, I am not wholly given over to pleasure," and with something of her former hauteur she bade her adieu. 
               As Nina descended the stairs she stopped, thoughtfully looking back, as if she had forgotten something, for which she would return. 
               The baron was in her mind, and it seemed impossible to leave the spot without seeing him once more; but he had long since rejoined his beloved daughter, after lingering awhile in sad lunacy. 
               Baron Retzer told her something of his life subsequent quent to the death of Theresa,-"The constant moaning for the sweet flower, so early faded and gone; the gradual drooping and despondency, and the final overthrow of his troubled mind,"-and Nina went away rejoicing that his rescued soul was no longer subject to mortal depression and sorrow. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LV. 
               SEVERAL years had passed between Vienna and "Csorna," since Nina's return to her native land; but her heart was ill at ease, and she earnestly desired to retrace her steps to the shores of an unrestrained freedom. Besides, her friend Mrs. T. had written of her failing health, entreating Nina to hasten to her before her eyes should forever close. 
               It was all in vain to try to persuade her to spend the remnant of her days beneath her native sky. The taste of freedom had awakened an unconquerable desire to drink more deeply at the blessed fount,-and making the necessary arrangements for her departure, she declared her determination to the object of her fondest regret-the ever affectionate and faithful Fanny. 
               Prior Salvo had left the convent for an hour, and was sitting with the sisters in the dusk of the evening, mingling his prayers with Fanny's, to detain Nina in the home of her nativity. 
               "Have you no yearning for your fatherland," said she, "when the eyes of a strange people are upon you, and your feet press only a strange soil? Do you not often long for some kindred hand to touch your own, and some familiar voice to speak to your soul? and does not your mother's faith also call to you with an irresistible earnestness, 'Return, return!'" 
               The old monk sincerely deplored the delinquency of his newly-made friend, whose faith he plainly saw was fast detaching from the church of her ancestors; and as he spoke of a return to her parent's creed, a tear came in his eye, swelling and rolling down his furrowed cheek, as she replied- 
               "Father Salvo, there are times when I think of this land, where my first breath was drawn, with a daughter's fondest love; but the stifling policy of its rulers makes me revel in a freer, purer atmosphere; and as my eyes turn towards my early home, from the place of my adoption, there is more of pity in my soul than of desire. My mother's faith-peace to her sainted memory!-is too clogged with senseless superstitions to win me again to its embrace,-the light of a nobler day was not permitted to reach her spirit; but my soul has been mercifully illumined, and will never again be darkened, and closed against the truth." 
               "Have your friends no power to bind you to them, dear Nina?" asked Fanny. "Is there greater attraction among strangers than with your own kindred?" 
               "My relatives are dear to me; but they are greatly estranged from me by our difference of sentiment, sister mine," replied Nina. "We should never clash, because your gentleness is careful not to wound; but there are many with whom I come necessarily in contact, whose persecutions I am not not able to endure." 
               "Then you are fully resolved to go?" asked Fanny ny, sadly, casting a reproachful glance upon her sister. 
               "Mrs. T. has written again, more urgently," returned Nina, "and I owe her all devotion. She cherished me when I was a stranger, and friendless, and I should be basely ungrateful to disregard her last sacred wish." 
               "You were always very precious to me, dear Nina," said Fanny, hiding her tremulous accents as well as she could; "I hoped that our reunion would be no more broken, until the separation that none can avert, but I shall be ever with you in spirit." 
               "And my prayers will follow you, my child," said Prior Salvo, whose noble Christian feeling embraced even the wanderer, as he felt Nina to be. 
               "I thank you, father," returned she, tearfully; "you recall to me-how vividly!-a departed blessedness. You, too, have my sincerest gratitude, dearest sister, for all that you have been to me; there are many bright, sunny spots in my past life, that will reflect warmth and light over the future, when I shall be looking back across the ocean towards you. Do not believe that there are no regrets on this second departure from my home. The current of my destiny seems to bear me onward,-I must drift with it until the end;" and an involuntary sigh escaped her, as she thought how mysterious her future was to her present view. Peacefully and calmly she might glide along, but turbulence and unrest were in her gloomy anticipations. 
               The night was fast gathering around the old prior and the two sisters, as the last words that would ever be spoken to each other on earth, broke the stillness; but the conversation turned upon the things that know no change, and it brought a heavenly calm to every breast. 
               Francis and John had made their final adieus, and ere another day had reached its close, Nina, the beloved one, had turned again from the early friends and the remembered haunts, and was journeying westward, toward the setting sun. 
               When would she reach its dying rays, and would they cast up a glowing radiance for her, or would lowering clouds obscure the glory, as it sunk away from her mortal vision? Who could tell! 
               At Toplitz only, she lingered to visit the battlefield where her beloved Clari had yielded up his weary spirit. Looking about upon the monuments erected to departed heroes, her partial eyes hopefully sought the cherished name, but no marble spoke the praise that filled her secret soul. A token to Prince Schwartzenberg, attracted her, and recalled to her the recent day, when standing upon the ramparts in Vienna, she had witnessed his funeral obsequies, as his useless armor lay upon the coffin, and the noble war-horse, whose nostrils would no more breathe out smoke at the exciting battle-hour, was led behind him covered with a sable pall, while the soldiers followed their silent leader, with the sound of tolling bells, and solemn music, and muffled drums, ushering him to the grave. 
               The journey to Hamburg was too deeply fraught with pensive memories to be happy to the weary traveller. Dresden revived the tender accents of her husband, whose words still met her ear, as when they drove from Konigstein, "Nina dearest, I hope you will one day love me, and that we shall be able to return to this beautiful spot for our home." They had not touched a sympathetic chord at that time, but now, through the sacredness of the tomb; they reached and blessed her. 
               At Leipzig, she would have tarried for a while, where the blind friend once dwelt, and where as a bride she had lingered; but it could not be,-the retrospect of her sojourn there was too saddening, besides, her friends had written her that Captain Brown was soon to sail for America, and so, with all speed, she pushed on to Hamburg, whence she gladly embarked for the promised goal. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LVI. 
               WHAT joy was it, to be once more upon the shores of the welcome land, and in the embrace of the constant friend. 
               Mrs. T. was but the shadow of her former self, and the delight of looking upon her sweet face, was mingled with the sad feeling, that the grave would soon forever hide it from her view. 
               "You will never leave me again, dear Nina," said the happy invalid, winding her arm about her restored companion. 
               "Not willingly," replied Nina, in an earnest, decided tone; "I regret that I went from you at all. My heart has been ever with you. But I must think of something to do, since I have quite determined to live in America. My little means were forfeited so soon as I left my native land." 
               "Why speak of that, Nina dearest. Have I not often told you, that we are sisters, and all that I have is freely yours?" 
               "But I am too proud to accept any thing but your love, since I am abundantly able to do something for my own maintenance," replied Nina. 
               "What do you propose?" asked Mrs. T., smiling incredulously, as she felt how little suited to the business of life the delicately nurtured one was. 
                
               "I am really in earnest," said Nina, observing her friend's manner, "and have some projects already in my mind, the most plausible of which is millinery!" and she blushed as she caught Mrs. T.'s shocked expression. 
               "How mortifying that would be, dear Nina; you would have to drop all your acquaintances, or rather, they would quickly drop you," said her companion, still believing it all a joke. 
               "Then the loss of their society will be nothing to me," replied Nina, with spirit. "If they cannot distinguish between the nobleness of self-support, and the servility of an idle dependence, they are scarcely worth retaining." 
               "But you know nothing of that business," persisted Mrs. T. 
               "To be sure it is not in my fingers," replied Nina, "but I have all the fashions in my head, and could easily bring them out; there are sewing-girls enough ready to aid me in my designs." 
               "Why not teach the piano, if you will persist in making a living for yourself? it would not seem such a dreadful descent," and Mrs. T. sighed audibly. 
               "I do not feel the confidence in my own powers, so necessary to success." 
               "Well, singing; you are surely fitted for vocal instruction, your voice is so often compared to Madame Catalani's, dear Nina." 
               "I must differ from you," said Nina, troubled that she could think of no plan that would be agreeable to both. "I do not feel competent either for vocal or instrumental instruction, and must, therefore, keep to my humble proposal. It is not the labor that degrades; the most abject employment can never debase the truly noble and exalted mind." 
               Mrs. T. was silenced, and the heroic Nina prepared to carry her projects into execution. With much astonishment, her friends, soon after her return from Europe, received advertisements of a grand opening, upon a certain day, of the millinery establishment of "Madame Saunder." 
               A few simple and weak-minded ones sneered over her "fallen greatness," and queried whether she had not, at last, "returned to her rightful vocation," but the majority clung to her in her vicissitudes, and lauded her meritorious exertions. 
               The important day arrived, and tremulous and anxious, Nina stood in mourning garb beside the showy table, where her new inventions were arranged for display. 
               The thronging visitors looked with wonder and delight upon the unique exhibition. 
               Nina's imaginative mind had hit upon appellations for each brilliant production. Topmost among the group was "Madame Catalani," surmounted by a glistening "bird of paradise." The "Empress of Austria," "Princess Esterhazy," "Princess Schwartzenberg," "Lady Stuart," with other celebrities, were assembled in beauteous harmony; and the exclamations "charming!" "incomparable!" "lovely!" met the listening ear of the widowed one, whose sombre garb formed a strange and striking contrast to the gayety that surrounded her. 
                
               For three days carriages were lining the street, and ladies were flocking to admire; but not one single purchaser had yet appeared, and the heart of the adventurous Nina began to sicken within her. 
               What if she had but made herself an object of ridicule; and, worse than all, had expended most of her dwindling means in the attempt at something of which she secretly confessed herself wholly ignorant! 
               At the end of the fourth day, "Madame Catalani" stood alone upon her lofty eminence, being too gaudy and expensive excepting for show. All else was swept away by the delighted patrons, and work for many a busy day was bespoken. 
               It was well that the resolution to gain her own livelihood was not abandoned, since the friends whose hearts were free to provide for the stranger every luxury, had themselves met with sudden reverses, which brought them from affluence to a state of anxiety and effort, and rendered their proffered and willing aid quite impossible. 
               There were many depressing circumstances in the daily struggle for bread, when Nina's former life had been so exempt from thought of toil, and yet a conscious independence kept her up, making great joy in the midst of the changes that marked her way. 
               The severest sorrow was the perceptible fading away of the beloved friend. Nina had taken a large house, and Mrs. T., desiring to spend every moment of her failing life in her companionship, had come to her with her husband and child, that all might still be one family. 
               Drooping daily, yet exerting herself to go about among the poor and destitute with food and raiment, she seemed an angel of mercy, leaving her blessing before ascending to the skies. 
               Christmas time had come, and the "Polish hat," and "Austrian helmet," ornamented the show-window of the Hungarian milliner, and covered many a lovely head. 
               While the merry and gay sported these fashionable adornments, Nina, the beautiful,-who had revelled amid the brilliancy, and luxury, and grandeur of the wealthy and great, in Vienna,-sat in a room adjoining her sick friend, busying the weary fingers that had erst known no other employment than to draw sweet melody from pearly keys. 
               Her wandering thoughts would often flit away with the dreamy past, until a hollow cough from the precious invalid would bring them back to present realities, and speak to her too forcibly of a coming change and a deeper grief. 
               The winter passed in dread anticipation, and the early spring-time brought the certain gloom of a final separation from the long-tried and faithful companion. 
               Bending over the light to finish some necessary labor, which her own skilful and tasteful hand alone could perfect, she was musing on the sad stroke that awaited her, when she was summoned to the other apartment. 
               Feeling for her hand, the sick friend said, "Nina dearest, why have you no light in the room, it is dreary to sit in the dark." 
               "There are two, my Charlotte," replied Nina, trembling with apprehension. 
               "I cannot see them," said the invalid. "My eyes are very dim,-if I summon you at any time, do not be frightened; and Caroline, poor child! do not let her scream, it distresses me beyond measure, pray try to soothe her," and a tear fell from the maternal eye and moistened Nina's hand, as she pressed her friend's cold fingers to her lips. 
               "Are you not as well this evening?" asked Nina, counting the feeble pulse and stooping to kiss the damp brow. 
               "There is no pain," returned the sick woman, faintly, "but the dimness made me think that you were not near, and I am never so well without you. I am better for your touch; but your work presses, and I must not be selfish," and drawing her down once more to the pillow, she kissed her fervently. 
               "Is my husband yet in?" she asked, as Nina turned from the bed, and she sighed as she received a negative answer. 
               Two silent hours had passed, and the voice called again, "N-i-n-a." 
               It was low and panting, and struck a mortal terror to the anguished heart of the watching, sorrowing friend, who was in a moment by the side of the dying saint. 
               There was a fluttering of the white arms that were outstretched to meet her, and an expression of intense affection in the gaze that was fastened upon her, and the afflicted one clasped to her bosom the inanimate dead. 
               Poor Nina! poor Nina! To whom could she go with her wailing accents but to Him who pities though He smites. "Gone, all gone! and I alone! alone! Oh, wherefore is this earth, to me so full of bitter woe!" 
               Crying out in her sad misery, the stricken husband found her, kneeling beside the quiet bed. 
               Intuitively he felt what she had not power to reveal to him, and murmuring piteously, "Lottchen, Lottchen!" he also bowed humbly before the Almighty dispenser. 
               With frantic shrieks, the young Caroline clung to the cold and lifeless form, calling on her departed mother "to look once more upon her,-to give her but one word of love and blessing,-to come again, if only for a little moment, that her hand might rest upon her daughter's head, and her fond lips bestow a parting kiss!" 
               All vain; all vain, dear orphan child! Go, smooth thy troubled soul into a calm and quiet resignation. Then come again, and sitting by the dreamless pillow, take the cold hand in thine, and looking on the still, dead face, think on thine angel, up above the turmoil of this weary life,-watching thine onward way,-guarding thee from the evil,-shedding upon thee, like a hallowed balm, a pure and heavenly love,-and luring thee, with strong and subtle bands, away from all thy sorrows, to the regions of immortal joy and peace. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER LVII. 
               THE house was very desolate, bereft of the comforting presence of the cheerful invalid, and Nina's health was sinking under her sore bereavement, when-at Mr. T.'s earnest entreaty-she gave up her business, and, repairing to a pleasant village upon the Schuylkill, rented a house which she filled with boarders, retaining also the husband and child of her beloved friend. 
               Trouble seemed to follow trouble. A serious epidemic breaking out just as she was comfortably and prosperously settled, scattered the inmates of her house, and banished from the infected region many of the inhabitants. Lingering amid the sick, Nina, and the governess of the young Caroline ministered to their necessities, dispensing broths and other needful refreshments, which their own hands had prepared. 
               Meantime, an old friend of Mr. T.-Baron Steiger, from Steiger's Rest, near Marietta, Ohio-had written the disconsolate man to go to him with his motherless child, and in his pleasant retreat, spend the remnant of their days. 
               His declining years, and feeble health, together with the feeling that Baroness Steiger would, in a measure, fill the place of the departed to his daughter, urged Mr. T. to accept the offer; and bidding the faithful Nina a reluctant adieu, the travellers left for their sequestered refuge. Charles B., the son of Mrs. T. by a former marriage, claimed the privilege of providing for his mother's devoted friend; and after many solicitations, she sold out her effects, and departed from the scene of her temporary sojourn for Lexington, Kentucky. 
               Stopping for a few days in Baltimore, to visit the many objects of interest, she went on in a stage-coach, with two companions, over the Alleghany mountains. 
               How delightful was the journey through greenness, and glory, and majesty! Flowers of many a variety were nestling among the cliffs, or peeping out from verdant shrubbery; wild vines were trailing from lofty branches, feasting the eyes with their blossoming and graceful beauty. Sometimes the dense shadow of woodland spread over them its refreshing coolness; sometimes the broad splendor of the sun revealed to them a charming and extensive landscape, while issuing streamlets murmured a gushing melody o'er their way. The blue and gray rocks, that stood sombrely out upon the vision;-the green foliage, through which the heavens serene-peeped;-the lovely flowers, breathing out their delicious odor;-the quiet valleys, with the silvery waters gliding along beside the dotting cottages, and the occasional signs of cultivation, that but heightened the charms of the wild and rustic nature, all gladdened and cheered the delighted Nina, whose heart, wearied and depressed by a continual sorrow, turned joyously to meet the diverting glory. 
               At Lexington, a cordial reception awaited her; and her advent thither was made glad by the promise of many a happy day in her new home. Among other delightful and congenial acquaintances who took a deep interest in the new-comer, were Colonel Dunham and his charming wife. 
               "You must come to us until after the visit of General Lafayette," said Mrs. Dunham to Nina. "We are to plan a little reception, and need your taste. You are quite accustomed to such demonstrations." 
               With her heart leaping for joy, that she was to meet this great and good man, she gladly accepted the invitation to spend a few days at "Colonel Dunham's castle." 
               All was bustle and glee and preparation, and at last the happy moment came that was to usher into the presence of the expectant ones the distinguished guest. 
               Triumphal arches were raised in the garden, and beautifully adorned with laurel and flowers and banners; and as the general advanced through the rich grounds, and drew near to the house, "Hail Columbia" swelled from sweet voices, and fell pleasantly upon his ear. 
               A large room was finely decorated, and at one end was a sort of throne, ornamented with flowers-freedom's brightest crown. Opposite this throne was a well-executed portrait of Lafayette, over which the American banner proudly waved. As the general eral stepped forward to ascend the throne, three young ladies encircled him with long garlands of flowers, and one of the number welcomed him in an original poem. 
               With tearful emotion he received their respectful homage, saying, as he turned gratefully to them- 
               "This is too much-too much, young ladies! I do not deserve it." 
               After a speech from Colonel Dunham, and various other exercises, the ladies formed a line on each side, through which the revered general walked, with his son, to the dining-saloon, where a fine collation was served. 
               "I thought of you at Olmutz, on my travels," said Nina, kissing his hand with ardor, as she was presented to him. 
               "You have been at Olmutz? Ah! then you have looked upon the scene of my greatest earthly troubles! You do well to leave the Austrian tyrants and come to this happy country! You will not go back any more, I think?" 
               "Never! never!" replied Nina, with empressement. "This is my adopted home, General Lafayette," and her heart trembled with secret rapture as she pressed once more to her lips the dear hand that had fought for liberty. 
               The hero kissed her brow, and she retired, after handing him some refreshments. A ball in the evening completed the festivities of the day. 
               Nina had not been long in Lexington when, one one day, Charles B. requested her audience. 
               'I propose taking a house, my dear madam," said he. "It will be pleasanter for you than to be tossing about, with no permanent home," and he eagerly awaited her reply. 
               "But, Charles," said she, "I cannot consent to be dependent on you. I intend to renew my former occupation so soon as I return from Danville." 
               "Millinery!" said Charles, contemptuously. "No ladies work here, and you will not distress me thus, since I am both able and desirous to provide for your wants." 
               "But you have your aunt already," persisted Nina, "and Caroline may return to live with you. No, no, dear Charles, I must find my own maintenance so long as I have my health." 
               "You surely do not intend to take up millinery again?" and the face of the young man was flushed with pride and anger. 
               "That is my firm resolve," replied she, grieved to offend the child of her departed Charlotte, whom she cherished as a sacred legacy. 
               "Then, madam, I shall never speak to you, nor notice you any more," and the youth was turning abruptly and wrathfully away, when Nina spoke again, arresting him for a moment. 
               "Charles, you pain me beyond expression," said she, as the bitter tears forced their way down her cheeks. "Your dear mother was more than sister to me, and do I merit this from her child?" 
               "You will relinquish your project, and accept my offer?" and the young man looked pleadingly towards her. 
               "It cannot be," said she, resolutely. "The time may come when I can no longer use my own powers; but I have too long tasted the sweets of independence to give them up so readily." 
               "Then we must henceforth be strangers to each other;" and Charles B. went out from the presence of his mother's dearest friend with the swelling pride rising up as an impassable barrier between them. 
               Nina was not alone, though, in her subsequent struggles, nor did her former associates look haughtily down upon her, because her very nobleness forced her to labor. She still went often, during a frequent respite from toil, to renew her pleasant companionship with her friends at Colonel Dunham's castle; where, forgetful that she was other than Baroness Sponheim, she would while away the delightful hours in sweet converse with the gifted and eloquent, returning again to her toil and to her nothingness with a regretful feeling, only because it estranged from her the son of her lamented and esteemed Charlotte. 
               Several years elapsed, and Louisville found the weary one among fond and loving hearts, going on with her business during the winter, and in the warm season seeking refuge and joy with the lovely Mina, a married daughter of her old friend Mr. Neef, on the banks of the beautiful Ohio. 
               Was there no rest for the tossed and sinking Nina? The new soil had just become familiar and dear to her feet, when the fell destroyer, cholera, appeared, wrapping the panic-stricken inhabitants about with its frightful arms, and bearing them quickly away to the chambers of death. 
                
               Fleeing to the safe retreat upon the pleasant river, she escaped its fury, and the next summer, returned to Lexington, on a visit to Mrs. Dunham. 
               Scarcely had she been there three weeks, before the dreadful enemy followed, spending its rage with yet more direful potency. 
               Col. Dunham's castle was open to the afflicted, and the landlord of the principal hotel having fallen a victim to the terrible scourge, the inmates escaped to the proffered asylum. 
               There was no shrinking away from the relentless touch, and all about the abode, which had erst resounded with joyous melody, were the groans of the sick and dying. 
               Nina, feeling the fatal symptoms, threw herself despairingly upon her bed, believing that her final hour was at last approaching. 
               "One hundred dollars for a nurse for my son!" said a delicate lady, wringing her hands in anguish, as for the first time in her life she felt the utter impotency of money. 
               "Will nobody help me? will nobody help me?" and a writhing girl tossed about in her agony, while her terrified companions fled from the awful scene, powerless to aid. 
               "They are all dying below,-three children are already gone," said Mrs. Dunham, sinking down upon the bed beside the prostrate Nina, herself wrestling with the mortal pain. 
               With one energetic bound, Nina sprang from the bed, and running from couch to couch, forgot her own distress, in ministering to the wants of others. 
                
               "You have saved yourself, madam," said the physician to her afterwards; "had you kept your bed, you would undoubtedly have been a corpse." 
               It was a solemn time, with scarcely a house where there was not one dead. Who can paint the sad desolation of the destroyer's footstep, as it leaves its dread impress upon every threshold! Mothers were bewailing their children,-little ones were looking vainly for a parent's love and care,-the wife drooped alone, unsupported by the strong arm that had erst so proudly sustained her,-and the husband bowed beneath the relentless hand, that had snatched from him his precious idol. 
               Sounds of lamentation and mourning were heard in the streets, and a darksome pall hung over the place, where hitherto the sun of brightness and joy had rested. 
               Herself orphaned at an early age, and feeling the sad need of maternal sympathy, Nina's pity was awakened towards four motherless and fatherless ones, who wept beside their cheerless hearthstone, and accepting the guardianship of Judge Broughton's children, during their parent's necessary absence from them, she also drew within the circle of her care, the objects of her compassion, shielding and soothing them, until their relatives, learning their sorrow and bereavement, sent from afar to take them from her kind embrace. 
               There are times when the heart faints through weakness, and the wearied faculties of the physical man, sink down in utter exhaustion. 
               Effort had grown to be a burden to the hitherto energetic Nina, who, with joy laid aside her implements of labor and care, and repaired, for a season, to a much-loved friend in the northern part of the State. 
               Her sojourn in Kentucky had thus far been fraught with much of real delight; and with regretful steps, she turned away from her present abode, to seek elsewhere her temporary rest at "Theobald's Dry Ridge." 
               The pleasant mansion of her friends greeted her with a glad welcome, as she drove through the long avenue of stately trees, to its open and hospitable doors. All about the house were beautiful and fertile lands, and in the distance was the undulating, verdant country. 
               Here, in this delightful abode, with congenial minds, and surrounded by the unbroken charms of nature, Nina gathered renewed strength and vigor, to go forth again to the battle of life. Mounted upon a gentle horse, with little black "Jim" behind her, his naked feet dangling below the saddle, she rode about, exploring the beauteous places of earth. 
               Often she essayed to leave her idle, indulgent life, and return to her active employment, but as often the entreaties of her host and hostess prevailed over her plans, and for three happy years she remained a delighted and honored guest. 
               Thenceforth came more of gloom and darkness, than of hope and light, to the world-worn pilgrim. We will not trace her sad path downward, to the present weary age. Suffice it that the resistless messenger has called away her nearest friends, and left her standing before us poor and needy, not from fault nor idleness, but because of failing banks, that held her hard-earned gold, and failing nerve and sinew, that refuse to seek again the glittering dust. 
               A willing exile from her fatherland,-spurning the crushing power that grinds its subjects downward, even with the dust,-she clings with filial love to America, her adopted parent. 
               Eschewing the faith that taught her more of empty form and idol-worship, than of earnest love for Him who worketh in the heart, and moveth it to holy deeds, she clasps her aged arms about the cross, and bends her feeble knees alone to Him whose word hath said, "Thou shalt not make unto thyself a graven image, nor bow down thereto, nor worship it." 
               The silvery threads are gleaming where full many a gem once proudly nestled. The dimpled cheeks are furrowed over, and bereft of all their bloom, and the dark eyes have lost their brightness, through the tearfulness of many a sorrowing year. 
               No more amid the noble of the earth she stands, admired and caressed; but lone and weary, doling out the remnant of her days, musing on all the splendor and the change, and waiting for the end, that will reveal to her the purpose of her strange eventful being, and restore to her once more the gentle mother,-and the dear old man, whose blessing lingers still upon her brow,-and the sweet babe, that only spoke to her of heaven, and now awaiteth her in its bright home,-and the fond heart from which she has been severed here, by life's sad changes. 
                
               CONSPICUOUSLY situated upon Albany Avenue, Brooklyn, L. I., is the beautiful Gothic structure, which forms the frontispiece to this volume. 
               Within its sacred walls are gathered the helpless little ones, and the infirm aged: those to be nurtured and trained for the beginning of life's changeful pilgrimage; these to be sustained and soothed as their faltering steps near the journey's end. 
               From among this latter group, and from this her earthly habitation,-since I penned the foregoing pages,-has my heroine been removed, to "a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens." 
               
                  In Memoriam. NINA B. SAUNDER. OBIT APRIL 10, 1860. "SO HE GIVETH HIS BELOVED SLEEP." "REQUIESCAT IN PACE."
                
             
         
       
   
