
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Red Ralph, or, The Daughter of Nige .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6978
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Red Ralph, or, The daughter of Nige 
            A  ,
s
. .
,_ m
'
M
3
kt
'T iZ
y
f i L
¢
i Jf¢
'    f
tr
3
Y+
=
i{'
Q

J~; t

fL d~/

ILLUSTRATED.

I

i

On, THF
TUGHTENR                 OF ID
A TIHRIUNG ROMANCE OF? THEI ROAD.

,t  -  . ,fy  w  F, .,i
i                         ~' ti,+4S
"              ,.          ..
:   h t    ,,t K
r1                   .
;.. :
' .          k

w                     a           rR ji
.
X
_                                  T                ti i- ,
_   _', t  ,"

_     _                 _
'      _ .-.  _   *  _, u4: a--. s   .: _...

i t  '  ,

RALPH;

LSS
r       ,


t
R
a         _
ti
a'y
T 4
r  a
LT
Z"
1
"            A
-         c
e
L"
hR
hh
t
r
a -
i
L

t

RED RALPH.

CHAPTER I.              the close of the la e t  oy
TTE THIEF AND HIS PURSUE RS-A 8TRUG4 and horrible e e   8'
GLU FOR LIFE-THE LONELY HOUSE
UPQN THE RIVER'S BANK-THE STRANGE n     =.1              ,
DISCOVERY--ALONE WITH TE: DEAD. Thames, nea&amp;,; .  p      } ;
ONE stormy December night towards 1 ridge.               r

jr1           n.. ..s a . Via.......
' y      : .     . _ ,
p,        "


(I:-
I; __                        RED RIALPHJ;
Scarce had the Abbey clhck tolled and blind alleys, who hax joined eag*'
the hour of t welve whce in the hithettIo ly in the spoi. t tesport Of t t a 1
silent etreets arose a loud clamor oft man to death.
voices -nd tl- sound of hasty footsteps  But the rwaiway  as h n in- the
-of f   bie f  yiug with Jnstice at his shadow, aisd thld ouh the liht danced
beels     wild tumultuous rush of hot iioundt and about him, they had not yet
9!In 1xamd  U.me all out of lJIeath, with ihilen upouis Lijpal id iface and laisriui-
etuni ;,.i I shotitug, and Savage and ing f)rm as hie) 44oodl  CIEtm  (lcgte  ini
e    ,, dmid jostiing each oi (41er like  ldrcd expe-:a iOn, with h  be
rnvenous blnud ovei a cove:t-d bonme, heart au d thbim pubise, I eers e io-
they seambh-d down  a narrow, dirty Went esjpctig t rt some ehr p eyeu
l'h-; illghted  and bady panid, to nould odin him out.          '
the river side, vwheir u pon tetop if  a  Espeet ing, tooa, that kiw  l  O1he
!iiSht of tep uPttj)S, they ctijne4 to a dragged forth frou hih i1diugpace-aeD .
"udden btt, aid broke out inte an a iat from its hioe, atnd ctrried ix to
aug-y1 e illationi.               jil, there to lie rotting beneath a load
" That'A Ite Way\   wli ent," rt'ied i 10of ir, ut il it  uittd his mUjIsty's eo

" 'Fn un!" t othe lft"cre'd another.
" I'lswear 'twas to the ri: 1,'' a
"' tZU-e my ob it wasn't this turnm-
V3h'l: C (V U" 1 y v i r l E'I,  four th.
ih   e c verwy [h:'S gonIe," they all.

vemience to staIngle himi on lyba-
tree.
Not long, lkoWvr, could he hoe
tIus to remain concealed.
A  uovoiUnnt.1 ithe crowd indicated
the artivai of a new-comer, who w
clbowimg his way to thfetrout._

1Sdlie can't escape Us, aid '. 1!  lt was a man whit a torch, which
*itc h his   lcu's neck for him this cast a laind glare upon the usigit
tihe as sur1 a- his name's Red Itallph," group, and upon their' bludgeous. re-
l'ale anil panting, ragged, muddy, ani arms; and gleaming naked swords.
klood-stained, the hunted man was at  Upon the river, too, beyond, and on
thaip moment crouching beneath the the green aind nmoss-grownl wall close to
aldow of a wall at the bottom of the the spot where the fugitive was hiding,
steps, and scarcely half a dozen yards flattening nis slim form as much as pos-
distant from the foremost of his pur- sible, amd striving to creep more and
rwrs.                               more within the shade.
Driven from here, ht-crawled along,  But he - could not hope to escape  1
ti under the shadow of the wall, until I notice many moments more, for the man
he, reached another flight of steps, gnd with the torch was even now descend-
here flattened hinatf against the rot- ing the steps, one at a time, cautio Ily
tag woodwork, whilst the howling and mistrustfully
l O  above crowded   down -to the     He had descended to within ixfeet
water's edge. _    -                 of the skulking, trembling figure, when
The lanterns, which two old Charleys the fearful danger of his position, urged
.wung to aMd fro in their trembling the fugitive to  -' --ewe immediate
Lands, throw a dickering light upon the steps for self-preset v n.
cbliak water beneath, ah 'hey relied in Casting a wild scarce glance around
- uon the slimy stonework, green and lie took in rapidly the chances for and
rehppery, to the fugitive's feet.    against him, and decided upon a plunge
'The same light revealed in all their into the river._    .
,grim ferocity the savage faces of those  A wild and desperate chance wasthi,
"abind, thosweepingsof the back ums. however, for he cold scarce hope  -

L3

Er

I

i
l
3
2

OR, THE DAUGHTER OFIr N',

-  wim beyond- pursuit when b                                          _
wim  eyod prsut wen boats were pape seemed to be hpsi0    h   ui
Within hail, and indeed, as the sound oer tipe ceemed tobmpnssible, the fugit
pteoarsinformed.im, Were rapidly desperate  tenacity to  the al    r
He ashnoe                           woodwork upon which his cramped n
nicreeping away before hisu h   tp, achig fgcrs refused to fasten, h  fe
h, ehimseg   dwa bnor hi pursuers, that what he was holding fr support
ho iht Ieisf dowd into the h', wasyiedin beneath his touch.
th  )he hat.-    w  l       1i. him  Yes, there could be  o doubt of it! t
To                                woodwork was giving wa
To hij amazement and delight how- i. forgrd   towagd h
ev r, he  found  that  he  had u hin lb  og  f lhlo thri'ul()hle  wrhlrbsetow yards  him ,
chosen a shallow plac--hat he ad igl- from hm 1Iot hmolnbwlddbeswp
Dced steppe do  wn' o~pn     am     fo   fo~r   x~rxr.   th old and dashed into the
eled teped    on  upon a   arr thealater beneath, which the furious wind
lee wasg o.n the wl -cbed into froth arotid his fe.
IfThe could posil th i         -  .At that instant a vivid flash of light-
f the sippery she             a    mng revealed a boat rowing up to the
to the slippery s5urf &amp;cui tf.ie w-i-£dI tp;te*eni'hc.eaxin-j
creep away out-of sig&amp;4th h might et btme
saved.                -df hi,             Iaised a hoarse shout,
But his pursuets came crowdi  do    Cutthing frantically at the ivood-
upon him.                      jownwork the robber scrambled onward, for
The onds were upan his trail      t  atthathewas t ligh gash also revered to h
The homysrwmidon pof thse lawatit. fC hact that le was swinging to a door.
hisTblood.t                    -  o      it -svung over, however, it swung
Anotorc      hhima violently against the wall, and
- Another torch  .ad new ar-ed, and shook  E lu hold so that he isTe,
,oThe aces o  hspursuers  w  eree the water.
hand--ild and savage,r cl   close at  An awful momecat of wild C'usb
gherdupo1ndhe savag, Clustering to- followed in which he struggled and
Onet  a  n eiwtheastep.             f   h -or dear ife.
Onea steling towards him spread  The storm at .this juncture was at'its
fdthroidfog, thin, caw-ikb hands, wildest.  The gale raged furiously.
Shdroipking, shiming, the ks   Trhe thunder roiled and clashed in
Shikn, shuddering, the fugitive deafening reverberated   id h  ra
Clung to the woodwork, and clambered expanse revenans, and the broad
onwrdstaltil.        er    epase of heaven was one gtrei   o
onward stealthily. w  i    d    -.livid light.
Abonve t moo ws pithy dark; no Battling madly with the wateo-wkjhic--
sign  isle of m n orob bers  o seemed threatening to drag hinbalk
The noise of the rob      huer'srfootsteps he crawled up to the doodwor-k, clig
windwhich furiously lasethe iturang ing despairingly; was dashed hac
of the water. fusin   the s uriace1 s rarnbled up again, and dragging hi-
acof the  frdashting the spray into the self tough  the doorway  re
ce of the foremost of the  watchmen,  after him. -- - .    --
Bm   y       pursuers pressed upon    Then seizing it with both 1 r  o
him                             the ihside    5repredtodo jbatle iU
One stretched out his arm and waved his  sdeprepared; o d  ba yle
aoft a flaring torch,               his purzsuters,-;,
is liht penla aed torch ark w    But the sound of the6     w
its light penzetratteil the darkness, and daunted him, and he t  edlto. fl-
the thief crept away fut er i and   dat ed whim, and   fhhe * ore k
gcm the treherous glarer angassgrowndfrandheruHri    d
t at the moment when ftirther es- wall.sgwna            db


ji
*1
4

A-

e                            REID RALPt;H
s t    were .    .isible. means of ing look into the room in which he  d
Srefro  but it.was not-safe to thus found providential shelter.
u      atbeg nomnt-where he was,    A heavy curtain of soft and thck
pligig through a tangled mass of material came in contact with his out-5
srgbj nl stralggling weeds he made stretched band, and drawing his sider
his      towards an old house, the hefelt his way cautiouslyintotheintense
'ntix t birch angle of which the darkness beyonl.
Igghtni.ghad;rbYealed.to him..        Scarcely a y; rd further on his hand
Meanwhile loud shouta o f "A boat! fell upon the richly carved back of an
a boat!" rang in his ears, and respou- Oltl-i 1shi'ed chair, and upon it sod"
sire cries from the water.         ve°vot liuii'ig.
Ttee with a crash the door flew open  l1e wc  tvidently in some handsome-
and seine. of his pusur   scrambled ly funkih a~partmiene,
through, whilst others, at the samve  A few steps further on and the dra-
moineiit, w re scaling the garden wa3k pgr ben'th has touch proved it tobe a
Bythis tie he had reached the house. bedroom.              t
To find l. outlet in.the court beyond  Havi, paused for a moment to listen
was now his chief aim.              he began feeling cautiously along the
lr- this was impossible, for the great hed, satisfied that no one was asleep in
gatowere securely locked and barred. the room, and intending thus to make a
-Tb sound of footsteps in the garden tour of the apartment.
dryso him from his attempt to escape in  But sudde ly his hand came in eon-
thia ~tion. tact 'with an object which filled him
' .o iti ned towards the house, and in with unspeakable astonishment and
the despairing gance he cast around he horror.   d
fancied t h be saw that one of the lower  It was the cold and clammy fac of a
wipl ieWLtu44.oa, few inches open.  corpse !,
.   a o nl y Aur feet from the ground                                 -
and ho easily reached it.'                     CHAPTER II.
.a.anolher-moment ho had etrected an THE CfIwntB  OF DiATI--THE RGIISB
e io     nu14 ectoped the window behind  c? : =tsTZ  -- THE ROBBERT
IkORIBLE .8003ERY--rHE - MU lLA
.    'aner,:nQ ha     forced th .ir --TOit T.-Q
.  p 'he:, gde er*1ra backwards,  Trt .horror of.this.discovery held the
and forwards past the    botvse, : and robber for a moment transfl ed an  u-d
'aijn     A h;ugit ve'.  able tonov-e hqnd :or foot. "
hyt o O sadih bated  his blood erdled,,and=hiss hear 2pr
#       watched  -      anxnstantSeeemd ta stand still.
-     A   q       g  oetstpadiedi9y.    i e.haid otstroaigth enough to ith
adgps,                    +j 4 i  i -   hihUnd fioo Athe fearful .ojeot
sa aere niu around. -which it rested upon,
Sp1gig     4bi'Wisl, With a violent effort- he reooveed
reMRg Qupon the window sil, Jie stood himself, and. as:he regained hisa1.t
p    I" s    AOI1ionh4.d ipresonce of mind began: to comIti
edea         "!at course of action tB should pur.e
b_ it Peihof intenpe r. d n        t take lim very long_ a
'An~ the k turned to cast an inqur- IadventuroUS life, and he had learned by

pf

OR, THE DAU'GflThR OF     NIGIT.3
bItter experience that everything de- been -taken to dress the bodyoft~o
Pe~ded upon promptitude and bravery bea tiful womn n in this, her
at the proper moment.                let."-,
Without farther hesitation, then, he  Round her white polished throat an
bejsn to feel in his pocket fr a certain arms glittered a mass of splndid jewe ,.
article which he was in the habit of ry, in which the diamnods sparkled like
carrying with hiun-                  a thousand stars.
" I hope I haven't dropped it though,"  Twisted among her raven tresses were
e mattered to himself, fading that 'it the most costly pearls, and rubies, and
was not i   the pocket he expected. j emeralds.
Thank goodness. no; it is ere."      Upon every finger of both her han 1a
And as he spoke he drew f'rth a were    rlaed  thei   most  beautiful
small pocket lantern, and then feelitg rings, some of' diamonds and set in a
again produced a flint and steel.   I modern fashion ; -thers evidently relict
Practice had made him e±port in a of the wealth of those long dqad and
rather difiicuit operation, and in a few gone.
moments he had struck a light.        A perfectly bewildering accumulation
Then he eagerly cast his eyes around of riches the whole presented,: at the
thO) apartment.                      sight of which the robber stoo4'aghast.
A strange scene presented itself tohis  -Stood like one iit ai seem-hi-utterly
wea- scene which filed him with unable to believe the    evidence of pia
awe,                                 senses.
The rooms was spacious, and the light  Here, before him, was wealth  g.   .
of the lamp the robber carried did cient, could he but possess himself of it
not penetrate to the furthest corners, and escape--to enable him to live the
so, that for some time. he could not dis- remainder of his life in idles ess" and
cern the distant objects.    .       luxury.
Presently, though, ho made out that  Need we say that the temptation yoas
the wallsiwere hang round with black a great one to this highwayn n, who
v$tAnd that the bed curtains, and every day risked Laslife tg og    -
the eanpy and, coverlet were of 'the sessin of as mny slliipgs as an one-
Bime material, and all richly epmbroider- of the htndredi f costlgrstious $gitter
-       ~                ing before him was worth pounds!
aahnhtsthe furniture-of the room,   Qrecdily, tele app     ce
however, which interested himn  :    bed.
ltihabtively is eyes travee4ilthe  lis yes spy Jd with ci idlty.
dise       thebooenhip Qga the ;bed.-  ie geah ke
'here, lyingifatate *as tli bodyof clutching shape.
edemaneymng and beattif ll , ;      J)hm      Febt
i Whiash~aeib woas iheofaee/upon tion and    pitynhj.'
each  side  of  which' though hao ofied by               .as-rg. ::ar   th #s ,
! g a kriebuagitfMnqslpport je jal grpssp
k ig g l i         ig    otd had startle4ni
.sf d ad     r    o  un    A sound he fancied he heard-'fh
ka   iiir *Aoth  .used _  bae  xh sa+ng.      fpaer            i gfUh u
secasions, for .ltswaanverynarrow, aud: searched for the door.
h  a a o be Ms little  lie approachdtitautiorey ; uoj e
JR was evident that great pains had out.an                        eg  -

iS

6
"
-
4
l
t
-
r


"                    RED RALPH;

t1
i
t"

N

=Y
6

I

Piteby darknesegh-ouded the stair  A blight-a curse seemed to hang
case beyond the point to which the ray over all.                  and as.
of the lantern penetrated.             Deeply impressed, disturbed,acd af
The most profound and deathlike si- t:nished byite mysteriou    : character of
lnce reigned all over.              affairs, the robber returned again to the
"Ic's ve eextraordinary," the robber apartment containing thecorpse.
" mutter"1 beuth- i-breath, " itseems  Silently he stood gazing upon the face
as though everyonth  in 'the house ems of the beautiful dead.-
deathg"                                 Who was she-so wealthy-so lovely
Awfully opprrsiv was the silence. -so young-thus t be deserted?
Intensely  pe sk v he   i k e  s.ie ce  W as  it  possible  that  she  had  thus
A cI  1't beakth ofh aruo,seemed to adorned hersc f befr she died?
sw e ep  c a st   h e t   ch f   b lo o d.   o\ ,  th a t  c  n'ld  no t  b e  th e  c se ,  a s  u n --
e  asietlun  lie chi s u T i l b   dier' those  ciCe  .utainces she wonld  not-
He faciedtha he was surruhave pt the bndgs rond her face.
the inmates ft  ge       .       I    Sev wuldnot ihv  pmeced the gold
That hoheard                      'iait murmur ainut1c p r
and that the faces la the dead pres    s hon had dide
on him, their icy breath huna   s id     lutt ha     vei adcomed thin
fevered cheek.                       hadit it thus, haxo decorated the
With these hort'ale thoughts upon toii  w     y.
him  ie was power    s, and   s hees    lo     s it thn that she lay thus
trembled beneath him.                alone    h
But again ha recovered his meeting       trhe h      n       t
courage, W   nev ier lwigiuet'al hit, 1 ouit re.uaewic
cou'eraewhicned er uloutteser adoc a,  Hlowever much he racl~ed his brain, it
and diserm  d would not be very probable that he
ofie coud notbhievc it posible thmt would-be able to arrive at any solution
the dead woman in the room he had left of the mystery enshrouding this extra-
could be the only occupant of the ordinary affair.               .     -t
liouse.                                And if he was to have the jewels, it
But in which direction should he first was not safe any longer to delay. r
of all mako a search.                  Placing the lantern on a chair by the
lie decided in favo of the lower re- bedside, he approached the corpse.
glons, and, having taken off his boots,  Very gently and crefwlly hie undid
stole down stairs.                   the clasps of the necklaces which Bur-
All the doors he found standing open, rounded the white and polished throat,
and one by one he visited them.      and drew them off.
They were all furnished in an old-   Then he raised one of the cold snow.
fashioned style, but with furniture of a white hands, and busied himself'reov-
costly nature.,         f            ing the glittering baubles. _
They and the kitchens and offices    But while thus occupied a rustling
were aike silent and deserted      sound in the room brought hirm to a
Retracing his steps, he made a cau- sudden pause.   octycaused.b
tious ascent to the upper rooms, which  So deop was the obscurity aae i
one by one he explored with a like the sombre hangings of the apartment
result.                              and so completely had thns jewela occuril
The beds in the bedrooms were made, bped his attention, that hite the
buti no  n1e was to be found in any   obber had not any very dis  t notlo
ap astmet. aRigid and motionless there he ste

t,
3
'
n"
t
3.
y

1w

±
°
i
;_
,k
-
f
b
'A

OR, THE    DAUGHTER OF NIGhT.
leaning over the bedside, with the dead heart, the robber returned to iunho1y
woman's hand-in his, and listened, work of despoiling the body.
Tne curtains at the bottom of the bed  Carefiy but rapidly he removed the
rustled again~e emvedth
rustled again,                      jewels from her hair and the bracelets
hi widely dilated eyes pierced the frim  her arms,. thrusting them away
darkness.                           into his pocket as he took them,
He held his breath and listened.   'Then he drew off and pocketed the
His gaze concentrated in intensity.  rings, using as little force as possible,
Then with a half-uttered cry he although it was a very distasteful task
started forward, snatched up the lamp which now occupied him, for, robber as
and rushed to the bottom of the bed.  he was, he could not help looking upon
It was a grey lock of silvery hair himself as a pitiful micreant to be-thus
lying upon the blck velvet coverlet employed.
that had first attracted his eyes.    More than once -he hesitated, half in-
He found it now to. belong to the lined to fling down his ill-gotten spoil
head of an old man, who knelt upon the and beat a retreat.
floor, leaning his face against the bed..  Many a time had hcgmmitted a
Involuntarily the robber's hand went theft-many bld and lawless deeds
to hai heart in search of a pistol he car- had he done, but not  d  o ts
ied there.                          nature,
But the figure before him remained  Oaut on the king's highway, beneath
perfectly motionless.               heavens broad' canopy, bestriding his/
-Was he asleep ?"                 brave black mare, had he robbed high
The light of the lantern but dimly and low.
revealed the outline of his form. Some- Often enough had he single.handed
thing in it, howeverr, caused the rob- stopped the king's mail.
ber to stoop and raise the head.      Large amounts had been offered f
The old man was dead, and his silvery his agehonsnfor
yok wrhlabeii es                -peenin
locks were dabbled in gore.           A large price had been set upon his
ills throat was horribly gashed and head, and yet his head  was safe-upon
&amp;is clothes saturated wiih blood which his s ayhders.
tong ago had dried and congealed.     Thi4 very night heh
A razor was clutched in the dead the handsothBwstreet rer
man's blood-stained  lingers tightly and made his escape     e
closed upon it.                       lie had do ae so a dozen-a score of
His limbs were stiff and rigid,, and times before, lie had led a life of su
there was that in the dreadful appear- cessfal la alessness, and thoughscarcely
ance of the corpse which showed that twenty, the name of Red Ralpli was the
he had been dead for -several days  terror of tie London Road.
Stranger and more mysterious did this  Now, though, at the horirid work _e
horrible affair become pon each fresh was engaged upon, his heart failed him
discovery.                          and his hand trembled.
The corpse of the beautiful woman   But avarice! the dmo       vaic
lying in cold magnificence upon the bed, urged him on.
looked as though life had but departed  lie had reached the last ring.
a few hou at most. m   oc             This was by far the most costly of
Yet were there some flowers which all.
lay strewn upon the coverlet dry and  In it blazed one large diamond, eyis-
withered*                           dently of immense valie
With an oppressive weight upon his  But it was so fast on the deadw

t
ri


."

"#
It
41R.
4'

RED -Ai
man's finger that it defied all his efforts creeli1  on  hanging round hiin-
to loosen  it.  ..groping                     ihi  erhi4  in  th3  dicki!
' Otlfain it he must, for it- seemed to  Half lifeless, half idiotic with sickly
tim worth all the rest put together.  terror, the robber t1lst wrenched open
In vain ho struggled with it."'   the window and spr mg out.
- He could not move the costly jewel.  Missing las foQte, though, as he
It was evident that the dead woman sprang,' he f11  'ad weight to the
bud worn it for snome years. The jomit ground, and lay stunned and senees
of the finger seemed to have grown o the green sward beneath.
sice  the  ring  was  put  on. -             C  A  T i I     '
Only oueway was there-one horrible          CHAPTERI.
nTend.                              i    Fn ! un E-Tm A WFUL F\.TEr-THa
heith 1s  i'. d  atIho e'ooht.'_uCAPL   Till:i:O)('S Y Y  IN  sT. (ILES'S
D-hd     r  atttogthe.ddifl                           BOsm AZmAG OOZIa 1KBN-.
,utagsai u{tidOnl avari'ceurg   DICK VIiIu  , JACK SIIERPDA l), AND
himn oh.      ._.LUESKIW-Tf7E-OLD HAG S WMA                         IN(1
From his bre t pocket he drew forth : -tiE IANDED IIANID.
a dagger-knif .                       Bur when again Rplph opened his
The click  of the blade sounded eyes, a glare of light was on hi sfacee
a fully distinct in the intense silence.  and the air was stifling hot, and loud
The light from the lanteni fell direct- shouts rang in his ears.
iy qca the blanched hand of the       Staggering to his feet, he reeled as
corp se, but the face lay back in the though he was drunk, and clutched
midnight gloom,                     his aching head in his cold hands.
The robber's form was dusky and     lIe thought at first that the police
indistinct, but the light played around were again upon his track.
his long thie-vish fingers, and upon the  He fancied that he was again strug
bloodthirsty steel.                 gling frantically to distance his pur"
.But the silence seemed to grow more suers.
and.: more and more intense- ver-    Struggling  desperately and lope-
. whelming !-soul-crushingi. -      lessly.        -
gfalntest rdstlef'the lothes upon   But iniinnt' 'reffectioni coh inced
the bedtof death was horribly distinct.  hhuithat'suti h  11i dt the d i6e
There was a pause of perfect stillness  rougl lftilk't l hi rebolletioii all that
whilee the robberbropared for the her- had occurred. iyh            N
rible ot   ,i      '   .'    . '   ' nsincti4cy'this land('bough the
t Thenthe sharp blade grated aainit odk  A w  e had   epsited his
and o a  e tlie b no with siokeniig tre sil.
04ound .adt'ens a -  -- -        '                     IIKts  .
?tf   : ,aleld1 claimmy hand: eitchtd  i   piI1  ia;
#siJbbe 'a writ,'Iaid jal deathillike IWhat'th  M  of te glaei
embrace encircledihiim 3 wrdnch ing hii- light?
ali tfrabom iwhidhj   %d  ert)hrew3 the  Whunde  e'tho e3W     .
lantern, and all was itchy darkness.   t leii4 hh~ fft'i ;  w    i
taompo                                               be a
A   tonialieo An&amp;k,'without the h    es cip                   - L" r?
lntWtglitaer of forn L  .    .     The voices were t;de df N    irM 1s
A horrible uncertainty,through whieh' peojleitrctbd . the   ad ea
heogrdg6~h  M&amp;ambled iii eifuii t&amp;r deako" g' to ford amu buttidho  t ?
*r, madly striviuig  find sinoutlet'  outer gates.    -
4tWildIf; bt   ruflessly! 'witho t:e -Lbadlyr they h ti.heavy blws
awful something at his back, creeping--- batter the stout panels.

~ursta forth.                         Captain Rawh , .somehow
Long tongues of fire lick the house all relish this remniiscence,
side, and encircle-the chimneys.     ashamed of himself.
From top to bottom the lioue is one  "Curse it !" he muttered
great blaze.                         think of it any more."
But suddenly in the midst there comes  It was a very fine resol
an awful crash !                     was very difficult to banish 1
There comes a roaring burst, which recollection fromIila mind.
makes thu dk lurid. -    JWhat was that death-Gl
Then comes an upward-drivea 'ex- had fastened on his wrist,?
plosion'of sparksandred-hot fragments,  Was i the woman who sha
as from a crater.                    t11
The mob falls back, shuddering in    Had she  een lying aa t
lyn                                         iataff ightt    Iftsowhat'had been 'he
The roof has fallen in.            sie returned to life miserab1
But ere this the -robber has loft the in he fl.mes
Jerrena of ;terror.                            01_.r _ l resolved, ation'duth
4Under the shadow of{the honp side diens I io teubet        '
he haserept-aw'ay- has scaled the fgaft 1
den wall uponthe west sideofdihe -ihase,:rifau1dat  rzp' (;  q
himself down=into -  dark narow sej       aw d S ipt
lane and uiade off at the tto ef hir   s vpiy loca1h   a  ' u
mPed.                                tamn ouse of call for hig u
Nor did be pause tnutil he bhd pleed  o    u o d h  in  bh
atgood mile; between the burjnin huse quent
kadldihimself. ..t /     .    /x"'1 jY -  tho    t
}~Then;  [boweve±, he' ct We toa h Itr. as they are now--all powerfi
and learingagtist the walof it'gar.  Robbers cQ so   toti
4en, heset about collecting'lhnself.'  banss, gotinto er oev'on
"Ralph," lie said, -oating a . woeful and set the law at defiase.

,did not at
and he w
d, " I won't
v'e, only it
the horrible
utch ch
d returned
- I'

9

OR, THE DAUI 1 ftROF NIGHT.
Th  gte'okand Ir a and gie gacuhhi a
way with a loud crash, and the mob " don't at atii reec
pour into the garden.              I ing; yo hiea a hot
The sky above is hlobd red, and the are not worthy of
flames are pouring fromthe window of gracing yourself i
the room from which Ralph made his ashamed ofpyou."
escapo. He was not laugh
The old house seems to be on fire from  soliloquised. . He
cellar to attic.                  - se,
4igh rie thhe red-hot columns of    Io (did not b qg
s: arks, and th oiilck smoke is belched I  ef i little inc
!I' rtb, reddened by the f u nace.  j ocCred dUring ti(
The hiioarne rear of the angry flames iug. Moreiino
h echoed by the hoarse roar of the bing-he whi usu
. o7 .fear meant.
DoWv through them, clearing their   Then a ain thatt
Way like battio chariots, come. the en- that bruta! mutilati
ines with their strong; swift horses.  done for no good; fi
But too late-too late !           lost.
From all the  i ndows now red flame  lHe had ilropped i

gnisp you t  en.
l)C(i yourself; yon
yourself; you're die-
n fact. .alph I'm
hing when he thus
was ashamed of him-
'y means, approve of
idents hicly had
e course of the even-
ce he 1aiu&amp; been tion -
iuiy knew Dotwhat
aff ir of the finger--
on which had been
or the ring had bea
I
t in his flit
ght~

,.

IF'
4i
a i


p

It
A+
t
t
Y
Y
t
3   3
Y
n  4
Y4
t
R
i3
L
t ti
1
pi^
rg;
t
+  f

",Ain't I-hic-looking-fuie -what-

you

IS                       -  RED RALPH;
Once within the Rookery, a man was ever ails the hic--candle; it keeps
safe, whatever his . crime, unless his 1-hic-hieing into my face."-
fellows chose to give him up to justice.  "It'&amp;all right I say."
Here the gentlemen of the road re-  " I-hie-hopo it is."
veled in luxury.                     "Look sharp, you old fool !"
Their days were passed in feasting  "I ought to know that-hie-voic
and drinking.                        " You'll know my fist, my flue fell~
They had the choicest viands, the if you don't know it already, if
rarest wines, the most beautiful mis-  on't look sharp. Open the door."
tresses.                             The '.ast orcd was given in so
Their lives were one round of wild thcwiative a tone, thnt the inebsia
den ial enjoyment.  -1,4nan saved no longer to iarey,
No wonder, then, that they risked bgtu to undo the bots, burning
much--all to obtain a footing in this jnos awfally as he dii so. singing
paradise--to.get the means to live this 4ars, and setUng fire to a Ie . ir
lif of lxurious delight.: of his rgged head ofhi
Deeds of heroic dining were of every  ii certainly ho1Oked an eixtuaordnu
day occurrence, and all the town rang objctr, with his bimated face,
with the names of the great robbers and  e eyes, carroty cu;', and pick
prison-breakers of the day, the foremost cabbage-tiated ianld 0o1 ian.
among whom    were the well-known    h'lo robber coltut r'rain f
Jack Shepiard, l)ick  Trpin, f(ed sling at his appearance, acl obser
Ralph and'T'omne-'IsarcasticaIly, as he passe Uhlim by-
Ilu'rying along at a rapid pace in a  "You'r a nice fellow. certainly
noti ly direction, Captain Ralph was preteml to take care of a deor. Y
not long before Ie reached the goal to le in Jonathan Wild's mrne before
which he was bound.                night's out, if you don't mind 
A low beetle-iowedi tavern. It war  '

c,?
ow,
you
fau-
ted
ni i
hi
ary
dull
led-
ro 
ved
, to
ou'li
the
what,

"I shoulhu't-hic--let you in, myfifle
fellow, if I had my ow;-i ic--,way.
You're t.o highi and mighty, Mr. Red
Ralph.  I'm  bl-hie-blessed if youn
ain't."
It was very evident tha't the robber
was no stranger in the house into whie.
ho had just obtained an entrance. '
W\ithou~tt he-itattiug, he proceeded
down a long narrow passage, up a light
of stone steps leading to a cellar.
Thus far all was dark and silent,
lie knocked in a peculiar way at what
seemed to be a brick wall, but was in
reality a door.
Responsive to his sum'mous a small
trap flew open close to his head, and a
very vii ainous face with a very wicked
eye-the other had been knocked out
some time or other-presented itself.
" Halo !' said the head belonging to

on

.F

face, and Presently said-
"To be sure! Why, it's the Cap-
t+ in !"
Of cours' it.is: op n the doo{."
With an ominaus g a:ing, the door, or
as it seeml  six fot by fur in the
wall,ovoi    o 4 an its hinges  Raipit
passing thro ;h and himself in a snml
cen1'rtous a'arienti, cith a mIail lire-
phice inalloa oCemnor, lbefore which
erou'hed  b ir-oyid old hag nursing
her knces.
She racd ier hal  when Raph eni-
tired, ami :odat bimi for a mmient,
in strpioe, w   e the oue-eyed man,
{a  ho was f'rn ialv armed with two
pitola al a uoaei cutlass, also turned
aiuu'l to ILl it h i.
"   uYou've beena in the wars, captain,"
said the iman.y
" Deary, dery, my pretty   ail !"
echoed the old croie. "His beautiful
scarlet coat all tat erns, and his lovely
gold lace torn off his cuffh, anl those
boots and rules that I take such pride
is--and he's lost his sword."
" That'si di,' r t rted the Captain,
rather abruply, nippng the old hags'
endearments, as it were, in the bad.
" Who's there ?"
"They're all here, to-night, my pretty
Captain," said tte woman.   " They
ma ster most uncommon strong. There's
Daptain Dick, and Captain Jack, and
gallant Tou King, in flue array, the lot
of them, and that big blackguard Biine-,
skin, the good-for-nothing ugly var-
mint; and there's all the gals, of course,
Miss Edgeworth Boss and 1rs. Maggot,
and Polly Peachem's here, and Lucy
Lockit-all flounces and   laces and
patches and painted faces-r--you'd say
it was his majesty's court at St. James's
instead of Cutthroat court, St. Giles's."
"There-there, I can see for m. self,"
wmterrupted Ralph, moving away.

'3

very closely shut and strongly bolted
and barred.
Having knocked sharply on the panel
steps were heard approaching, and an
extremely drunken   pot-man, with
elaborate caution and an outrageous I
hiccup, questioned  the new  corner
through the key-hole.
" WVhat'sc-hic-wht's- ie-- what-
shure name, ole feller t" said the pot-
an, hanging on to his side of the door.
to steady himself,.anid -frowning fero-l
ciously at a candle which ho held in his
har, and out of the flame of which for
the life of him he could not keep his1
precious nose.'
'"It's afl right," replied the robber
from the outside, "open the door."
"I-hi-1-hi - bother the-hic-
hiccups."
"Look sharp, will you ?"

OR,   TII DAUGtfTER OF TNMAHT.

the eye. " Who's that?'             "Bt, my pretty captain, Idon't like
" Can't you see " asked the other, the notion of your going into this fne
rather impatieit\ly.              company all Over mud, the way y ou
The man stared very hard in Ralph's are."

J

" I shall do,"replied the othe, an-
grily, and ±usns:ed pastter.
ie kIne' -the way, and, touching a
spring in the wall, opened a heavy door
on io  other passagtae.
t,     a  - e
At the cnd a/ 1 s there was another
A t -,1i '      -~f   -
ll, tilb, apchi'in  which iewheard
loud sounds of erjA'iimt within .
Again he kaonked, asd in another
moment stood in the presence of the
strango company here asamnilPed.
A viery strange  ebmoanatiy i 1vas, too,
in a spacious emel'n'nl ispartmient,
brilliantly Iight 4l by wa  n s,
flarig away appaurently, in the most
reckless tarcgard of expense.
A largo table steed in the etntro of
the room, round vhich at a number of
handsomely attired mea of v:ins'o
ages, and a number of women, all roost
splendidly dressed, and the greater part
very pretty.
They were engaged in what seemed
to be a drinking bout of a formidable
character, for the table was crowded
with punch bowls, bottles, deeantera
and glasses, whilst the "'deai amn'
strewed the poor in every direction,
A great burly red-faced man was on
his legs, when Ralph entered, singing a
song, in :which the company joined
vociferously..
At sight of Ralph, however, he sud.
tdenly stopped, and in a dead since
every one in the room turned to look at
him.
" Why, mercy me !" cried one of the
ladies, a handsome brunette with great
eyes, and beautiful white shoulders she
was not at all niggardly in displaying.
"Why, mercy me, , it's the Pretty
Captain !"
"He's not a pretty captain -nOw,
though," cried Blueshin, who was, the
man on his legs. "Why, my pinpin,


t

r }t
l-
r
pia
t
r-
I
}
t
E
}
iiig t r
}}9t
SSfi
s{
it
9
$s
5 a
i
E
}
i4
s
4#
} 3
t
i

14
what in the name of the scarecrows have
rou been a doing to yourself?"
ie certainly was in a ragged eon-
dition, smeared' with mud and blood,
and his garments saturated with water.
But yet iit was impossible, even under
these disadvantageous circumstances,
to disguise the exquisite symmetry of
his form, and the remarkable beauty of
his face, round which, contrary to the
fahion of the day, lie wore his own
golden hair in clustering curls.
It was a- very youthful face, with
delicate features, clear blue eyes,-red
pouting lips and dazzling white teeth.
One could not help thinking that it
was pretty enough for a woman's.
His slender figure, tot, though well
knit and muscular, appeared far too
slight for the deeds of daring bravery
which it was certain Red Ralph was the
hero of.
No wonder that he was called th
Pretty Captain, and no wonder that al
the ladies were in love with him, an
that his reputation for gallantry, al
though so young, was the town's talk.
Not a fault, physically, did he seem t
possess, allowing that the beauty of hi
face was none the worse for being th
beauty of a girl instead of a man-no
a fault, save one-one dreadful blemis
in his hand.
His right hand, back and palm, fir
gera, nails, and wrist, were blood red.
A terrible hand it was, when unco
ered, which made you'shudder to loo
at it.
A strange mystery, too, overhanging
it, which no persuasion ever induced i
owner to reveal the particulars of.
This circumstance caused our hero f
be called REn RALPH.
"What on earth have you been d
,n my pretty captain 1" asked Blu
skin. "You who are always so hasty
" I've been making a fool of myself
ied Ralph, rather surlily.
ow  bsot     dl  ."
1 "  ,a be naloit."

"Well, that occurs to many people."
" Not to me, though. For I bet ffty
unds'~I'd' ob '   an; and I faild'
" How was it, captain 1" asked' *
of Voices:
"You all know Roaring Dick, the
bully."
"Yes-yes."
"It was he who twitted me the othe.
night at one of the kens I go to, anO
said that I had a great reputation for
robberies, and in reality I did nothing."
"Don't you; what does he do ."
"I told him I could dare do anything
that he proposed, and he laid me a wa'
ger that neither I nor any man in town
could rob a certain old Doctor of Divin-
l ity head been for some time pasttrying
to get the better of.:'
'  "A bungling idiot."
e   "I said as much, and I laid him fifty
pounds I'd steal the very bed the doctor
e lay on."
Li  " ha, ha! That's coming to close
d quarters."
-   "I lost no time of course, but got to
work. The doctor lived with his wife,
o his son, and one servant. I made love ,
s to the servant, and got her out of the
o way, and got the street-door key from
t her, all in half-a-dozen hours."
th "Bravo, captain !"
"Then I dressed myself as porter ;
- waited till dusk, yaw the old lady out,
and got into the house. I soon packed.
V- the bed up and shouldered it, but 'in
k coming down stals, as ill-luck would
have it, I sipped my foot and fell with
Lg an awful crash. Then out of the parlor
ts comes running the doctor and his son."
"That was awkward, captain."
to "Very, but I explained, a gentleman
of the name of Llewelwyn, says I, p1'
o- iug and blowing as though I were
e- of breath, had sent me with this feather
" bed, which Would the doctor kindly tkQ
care of with some more things I sho fl
bring, till the gentleman came to fetc
thern ' Llowelwyn? ' says the doctor'
* I don't'know kin  who is he 9''V

"The wrong bed ?"
"Yes, the son's bed. I had of course
lit the bet, but I wasn't going to be
beaten so easily ; I bet him double or
quits that I would take that bed back
and bring away the other."
"Ha! hai ha !"
" ravo, captain !"
"How did you manage ?"
"I managed worse than ever, for I
had had a good deal tO drink and wasn't
quite myself, and when I had wasnt
the house in the dark, and gropedin
wa   tothe bedroom, I never noticed my

uime,  while we are talki  hrw
have let something slip through our
fingers."
"What is it ?"
"The Lord Chief Justice is coming to
town this very night to open the Old
Bailey sessions."
"Well "
"He'll have a handsome sum with
him in his carriage, of which we might
relieve him."
"A good job if we could put a bullet
through his head."
"It would prevent his putting eu tt
black, cap on our behalf."

,Q t L D T pTI

OR, THE DAUGI TERt Of NIGRT
s idea," said I, but he knows you S IdP    tugging at the bed that the ol I
a     &amp;i sthe ~c1or,.   won'   it  f ord4   l~nq }i {tp
hake them back  Pion't know him, so cead, all the pack gave  taek 4d the
keh the i ite 1avp Iord knows how .Iescaped as L iiar
th   tyw    ak" taleady cauring done; .but , I rve bun half drowned
th ntihrer    iTakt t  tem away, or I and half roasted, and.almost .cared ;to
shall throrv them into the street.' 'I death."
shall gt into trouble if yOu send them "And you have lost a suit of clothe&amp;
back-!' says I. 'IB throw them into the and a hundred pounds."
street,'"says he. 'Well, if you wont   "I have,"
have the,,' says I; 'will you gentle-  "A pretty night's work that."
men kindly help me to lift the bed on  "I am perfectly ware of it."
my back again ' 'With all my heart     a"y  won't be  o ready to bet aa
says the doctor; and they put thearte  "     wo'Ib    ored t naan
on my back, and I toddled off 'with it as "I will not rest until I have retrieved
happy as you plea e."                my character, but in the meantime
"Well, captain," said Blueskin, when must change my  luthe,  antie H
the loud laughter which this story had beu  hng t   othes ad then Il
elicited had subsided a little ; "you won healths"
your bet."
*No, I didn't."                  He left the room, an, retiring to the
"   , Youdidn't.?"adjoining apartment, where the rojbers
"      'You didn't whI" atkept their disguises, son elected a
mNo! I'l tell you what a mistake I change, and returned again,
made   you see Master Dick would not   The company saluted him with a loud
take my simple word that I had done cheer.
then we waited about in the  together   When 1.had subsided Phdph took a.
theoowe witedi a   i the neighbor- seat at the table, and killing a tuiubler
hood until the servant girl came out of brandy tossed it of without wink
again; and we learnt from her what had. ing.
hap                                    Here's all our good healths" cried
" Well, well !"                    he, with a laugh, "and if our lives be
"I t was a dreadful error."       short, may they be merry ones."
"Whatl ths Ih      k                "By the powers !" said Tom  King,
"Simply this, I had taken the wrong who had been sitting silent for Some
bed"-" "

e          s4

_ _     ,,Y4


4a

'I tell you that, Cap tain Ralph, if
&amp; he were to be robbed you are the man
who should do it."
"Why p
"Because he his sworn to see yon
swin  and to attend your funeraL."

Was there a curse hanging over him?
Was a beautiful fiend waiting for him?
We shall see.
Certa in it is that a strange adventure.
was yet in store for him this eventful
night.

'
1,
i
II

I

18

0
1
r

" I know  e has, but I hope he will         CHAPTER XI. -X
be disappointed. llowever, if there is
yet time, I am ready for the adven- iu' Iro   TIIR  ROAD - SIXTMN
tore "                     ST~i0GJACK-THlE IIIr TltAY ROE-
bure."                             IEY -li PING IIIS LOlISHIP OFF
"lie is expected at Knigihtsbrid_  wir i  l1s nIOOT -TI1I ALAIat-LIFE
about  four; there is hardly time, for it  On-DEATII.
is three notw."                      DAniis3 still reigned around as
" My mare is close at hand. I'll go." C aptain Ralph of the Branded tand
" No, no, captain ; stop and baro took his way up Piccadilly towards
some punch. You've done enough for Knight sbridge-a very different sort of
to night."t"                       place in those days to what it i now.
EnoughI Nonsense, I have dis-    W hen ho eaten to a small pubic- house
graced myself by Iy failure ; I will go." which stood where Apsley H[ouse stands
lie rose from his 3cat as he Spoke, now, and \w:iere it was the custom foi
ut t    -e ladiis t-let to st p him, and the travelers to wait for one another and
old lag Mood in the dooray when he form into bands before procetiig on
reachedit.                        their dangerous way to Kensington or
Read Ralph," she cried, it lorl hrsli ioanniersimith, a horseman rode up and
tones, '" xvare l"                 dsalted him.   -
Won shat   i ' .  1mu   -r' he  sk ed  in  '  Captain  R alph."
A    W haze tm, mitan''                C aptain  R ao m ."
"am ware,  bea e  " she   ciA ; . j , "  Tie  ladies'  highway  man."
-ot  wb a ti b to- w ri, t f f. a a  Iue l " T he  hero  of  six teen  strings."
aw aits  you."   tIt                    ws  noun  other  t h an Si t een String
Pw is ,  t  -p ss."         Jack, the  notorious  robber,  who  thus
"Nay, listen to me - a curse hangs claimed acquaintance.
over you, as well you know. Thr hand  " What brings you this way to-night ?"
of God is raised, and this night shll asked nu. " I am afraid you will find
you meet the woman who will drag you nothing worth the fetching."
to the scairold. Oh, beware, beware---  " have you been long on the road ."
beware o the fiend with ithe beaut iful  " An hour or so. I have ridden down
face who waits lbr you at this moment ! from Chiswick."
,Beware, beware "                    "Did you happen to pass a chocolate
She waved her arms above her head colored travelling carriage, may I ask I"
and she viked aloud with unearthly  "No; nor anything else worth empty-
laughter.                          ing. But whoseis it dnot Lord Jetries,
Tat nasuddenly becoming silent, crept I suppose, because-"
away to her old set by the fire-side.  "Because what 1"
atohe   r company at the tables looked on  "iff it is, there's something in it worth
in intense surprise, and laughed and carrying away."
said the woman wa  drunk.            " What's' that 1"
The Captain said nothing, but as ho  "Five hundred pounds only.  His
passed through the door some said his share of blood-money at the assizos that
rae wa stra~gely agiitated.       he's brmigig home with him"
fac ws sragel aitaeC

RED RALPHI-

r
c
a
x
e

"f that's the case I'll relieve him
tsweight-"
"I should like a finger in the pie, cad
tajn, if you've no objection."
"None, my dear Jack. Let's liqu
First though.  What ho! hostess, ble
your pretty black eyes. Comn, give 1
*ne of your brightest smiles and bigger
tankards."
Either a very early riser or a ver
late goer to bed this black-eyed hoste
must have beeu, for she readily opened
the inner door  when Ralph knocke
against the panel with his riding-whit
and brought him out what he required
"1s that to your liking, my pretty
- captain ?" she asked.
"Almost as sweet as your two re
$.outing lip ". ,
"Give us a toast then," said she.
"Your own sweet self."
No, no."
"What then ?"
"I'll give it you, captain-..Hurral
for the roadl"a
Therrobbers drank it, and proceede
onward at a brisk pace, for they wishe
to meet his lordship's carriage at
certain lonely part of the :road highly
favorable to the adventure.
1oth the highwaymen bestrode mag.
nificent horses-black and glossy-with
long flowing'. manes and tails; with
flashing eyes, quivering nostrils,- and
high action, bespeaking blood: and
breed.
As they: rode' silently onward; the
pricking of the ears of Captain Ralph's
black mare betokened that some one
was approaclhing.'
Without waiting to be guided the
sagacious animal immediately quitted
the high roa(1 for the grass upon the
roadside, where the sounds of its hoofs
could not be heard.
The other-hose followed.
Ten, at a spot where some trees cast-
a deep shadow upon the ground, they
eame to a haltr,"ey.
U There's something on the road,"
3

OR. THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

17

of said Ralph after he had listened' a mo
ment or two attentively. "I hear the.
p- sound of wheels."
"'It must be his lordship's carriage,
or as this is the time you say he is expect.
ss ed. Let is prepare for'him."
us   "Have you the rope?"
st   "Yes."
As he spoke Rann alighted r6m hi
ry horse, and producing a thin but very
ss strong cord, fastened one end to a tree
d near which they halted, and carrying'
d it across the road attached the other
, end to a tree on the opposite side.
d.  Having done this one robber crossed
y the road,-and took up his position the
in the shade. leaving his comrade where
d he was, that is to say about eight feet
from the rope on the opposite side to
London.
Thusin perfect silence, they waited
for the traveler, their faces concealed
by black crape masks.'
h The sounds of wheels were now dia.'
tinetly audible.
d A dark chocolate-colored traveling
I ,coach came in view, drawn by four
a horses, the =postboys on the leaders
loudly-cracking their whips.
But the rope stretched across the
- roadbrought them to a sudden stop.
One of the leaders blundered over it,
the other stumbled and fell.
I  The two    postboys simultaneously
ploughedlthe mud with their noses.
The wheelers began to plunge and'
lick furiously.
The servant in =the rumble thumped
his head violently ,uponthe top of the
coach, and its inmates cried oft in
alarm and let down the windows.
A very red-and puffy face appeared
upon the left-hand side,: into which,
within an inch of his nose end, was in
traded the'barrel of a pistol and carr
mg his eye along the glisteing blue
steel, and;along the scarlet sleeves o
the person who held it, Judge Jesfries
detected a countenance with which h
was well acquainted.


tai'Wi

m-
Ek  '
/
V
11f
'Itr
IIp

"Oh   y       1 i le5  illia ' he  " It st b. In*themeanwhie
S"It's YOU ,i it.Red Ralph? though,. I must troable yea for thoes
Spinning another inch'ef rope to hang trifing trinkets I mentiesed."
ypurslf with, hT However, you've    " Wh-a--at!"
lit 9n the -wrong man this time.".   " If you please, my lord."
" flow so, my lord?" replied the high- The pistol was still pointed at his
wa yan. "Have you really nothing lordship's head ; and now was heard an
to reward me for - all my trouble ? I've ominous click, against which there was
been waiting a lng while!"        no appealing.
"I haven't a farthing about me," said The old man with a groan handed
the old lawyer ; "I'm not such a fool his valuables through the, window.
as to carry money on the highway."   "Is this all ?" asked the robber with
"Dear, dear !" eried the robber, in a one of his sweetest smiles.
tered tone ; "I must put up with a few  " All?! isn't it enough ?"
tridling trinkets, then-that diamond  ." Searcely. I must beg ef-ye to add
brooch and those rings (I'm really your parse."
ashaued to ask for such trifles), and  "There's nothing in it."
year wateh'       -                  "Oblige me with a vnew of It-thank
"Ten - yen   illain! yea wouldn't you," he said, jingling and picketing the,
dae!"                             proffered artiele, which contained about 1
"I must treuble yen for them--as ten pads.f
gaietly as possible, if yea please, or I  "And now the sententse of your lor-
shall be ebligid to blew year lordship's ship's ether peekets."
brains eat 1' -z   -                "I-I haven't another farthing."
Very smil and delicate did that kid-  indeedd; will yea kindly step out
gleved hand appear which pets   he then, and allow me to look in the ear
pistol at his head, yetvwaa there rely rinage?",
awondrees latent sorelgth i*  wen-  Opening the earvisge deer as heepok ,
turned wrist above it.      ,    . Ralph laid a gentle bat Arm hand apen
Loft and musical was that vat ; is- the old man's collar, and pulled him,
expresuibly sweet the smile ..i' h part- ire he was aware of his mention,  j
ad thenrse lips andglittorseen that ot into the read.
Lwirnocat.ef pearly teth.  -        alph, alighting, helped the young    s
Yet i hee leres orbs there glard lady eat, while tana kept guard with
a urid ght of vengeful hate, and the ready--eeked pistols, all watchful el
:.eried month was eempressed like surprise.n
a vise with fell determination.  -    Then Ralph searched the interior .1
A vry lamp and pretty yeung lady, the carriage without eceet, palling out  t
had been trembling apen the back the cashins and ripping open the pa -
seed, hiding as mui as possible behind ding, but Ending nothing there to re- l
hi. puffy-faced lordship, here shrieked ward him for his trouble.
aloud, and in agonized accentaimplored   Yanre sure he has iti he asked
the highw4aan not to Are.           recently of hisc ompanion.            f
"Be not alarmed, fair mistress," said  "Quite sure."_                   c
Captain RBIphgaantly rearing .his   "He must have it on him then. XM
plumed hat as he s p   'ig4 lo dPhip I trouble your oedship fou your ooat o
I am sure, will spare us anythiiso i s * : ;.coat'" groaned the old gentle
plsat."-man, yielding it up very reluctantly  p
" You murdering vagabond ! I shall  Ralph searched it, but found notum -R
ag you yet, that is one consolation."  "Now your waistcoat."            y

1
i
2
F
C
C
C
L
S
w
Y
b
L LC
'rt
II
I I

Y
e                                          .      -

1$

OR,'Ti    DAIJGHTEO         W O' NIGhT..
"I shall catch my death of 'eld, you to delay her upon herjo ehome.
villain 1"         - -Then-raiein
nThen-raiinghis plumed hat he bowed
Ralph4 searched the waistcoat, and low, and wished her a good night.
then cast a scruting glance upon the  But just at this moment an exclama.
remainder of his attire.           tion from his companion, Jack Rann,
"You-you surely don't want any- caused him to raise his head in alarm;
thing else, in the presence of ladies,  "Quick, quick !" cried the other, "I
to?" hear horses ; the runners are upon us&amp;"
"I shall trouble your lordship for  " Which way 7"
your boots."                         "From London."
"My boots!--impossible 1"           "Save yourself, Jack ; we will go 1a
Why so 1"                       opposite directions."
"I cannot get them off without a    "We meet then at the boozing ken In
eetjack." -an hour's time if all be well,"
"We must help you then."            "Yes, in an hour's time."
They compelled the unhappy old gen-  The othc~r robber put spars to his
tleman to take a seat upon-the road, and horse, and galloped up the road.
then Ralph wrenched off his boots with  The-sound of the horses' hoofs of the
dislocating violence, finding in one of approaching party was more and more
them, sure  enough, a  pocket-book audible.
erammed with Bank of England notes   inanotherinstant some twcutymouut.
and other papers.                  ed policeman' had swept round the
"I'll pay you for this, you miscreant!" corner, and at sight of them the old gen-
screamed his lordship, hoarse withpas- tle 4nan, gaining courage by their pres-
se-a. "I'll pay you, as sure as your ence, shouted lustily for help. -
same's Red Ralph."                   To his cries also were added 1-hose of
"Ye, yes," replied the other smil- the postboys and the servant, hitherto
ag, "you repeat yourself, my lord ; as still as mice.
yon said so before ; but hero I see there The young lady too screanica shrilly
are other thing  besides notes in your and began to think about fainting,
solleeo. You seem to do a little in the  No time was to be lost..-
aey-leading way. were are a lot of  An instant's delay might prove fatal ,
ills of exchange that are no good to and Ralph turned to ook for his faith.
me. What shall I do with them ?"  -i steed.
" Stuf  them  down  the  wretch's  She was cropping the grass by the
throat," saggested Rann-           roadgfde, and responsive to a-low:Whistle
"They eaa't hurt him," said IhRph, fropn her master, trotted to his side.
aughing.-                           Placing his hand upon her back, he
And in spite of the victim's struggles vaulted hg tJy into the saddle.
nd entreaties the document ts were   But the police were nowidim o upon
forced between his teeth, and he was him, hemming -him round..-
ompelled, with a-pistol pointed at his "Seize him, seize him?! it is Red
ead, to munch-up and swallow couple Ralph, the highwayman!" shouted the
f hundred-pounds worth of paper.  old law lord.
Raving completed his meal, he was  Ralph caught up the reins in his left
ut back into the carriage, into which.,hand, and threw  an eager swedn -
alph - afterwards assisted the pretty glance around to ake in the dillicultles
oung lady stealing a kiss of her as he aid-dangers of the situation.- -
id so. and expressiug his regret that)  The police spread theselve out
e should have been compelled so long block up his passage.

.


a'4
44   I
4   f
u       _
s
f
x
d
I
i
at  i
a
e  t   -
tf
T
}  i c
x:lt E
"S  t
R
E
S
3 i
y    d9
It
Ic
x
t 4
st
11
1
i
i
I
t
d
j

A      ~RED1 R
At the same time the sound of horses'
oi~fs approaching in the opposite diree-
iun cut off his retreat.
"A bold stroke for life," muttered the
robber betwixt his clenched teeth,
- twenty to one al e long odds, but
they'll take my dead body .f they take
'e at all."
CHAPTER V.
Y?5ESu FtPIUS--TIE ESCAPE--A GALLOP
VOf LIFE--TE YAWNING Ch ASM-T u
fATAL SHOT-THE B't LE WITH TIE
BLOOD - HOUND - THE  MYSTERIOUS
SCENE IN TUE WOOD.
RED RALPt lad in that brief moment
.,f harry and confusion calculated all

LS chances and resolved upon a course deld.
" action.                            Struggling still upon the uneven
Blending down his head to a level with ground, and in profound darkness, for
lie hse's ears, he pricked its flank the moon was again obscured, the rob-
-ith his spur and dashed like a rocket ber was within but a few yards of
trough 1ee straggling ranks of police, them.
One of the men endeavored to catch  Every moment he expected that one
.t the horse's bridle, but, instead of of the police would be at his- side.
4cceediug, he rolled ignominiously in  He dreaded to feel a hand laid upon
tvhe mud.                          his shoulder.
't'he remainder in some confusion,  He dared not pause, though, but
owing to the rapidity of the robber's stumbled onwards.
wuvements, wheeled round as fast as  He was almost inclined to get off his
they could, and discharged their pistols. mare's back and lead her along.
The bullets, however, whistled harm-  But if he did this, nud the moon came
tinsly round his head and about his forth from the screen of clouds, he
herse's ears.                        ould not perhaps be able to mount
Twisting back then in his saddle, he again immediately, and would thus lose
diecharged his pistol into their midst, most valuable time.
rased a loud jeering shout of defiance,  Would the light never return again,
ad galloped furiously on towards Lon  that he might make a dash forward ?
ssa.                                He heard the policemen shouting to
lie had not gone far, however, when one another-. .
b saw the toll.bar gleaming white   "He's close to us somewhere."
u ross the road.                     "Dead or alive, he shan't escape tai
There was no time to wait for it to be to-night."
oeened, and it was so high that the risk  Oh ! what agony was this delay i
i injuring his horse would have beef  What waking nightmr e.1 To feel
o great had he thought of jumping.  danger close at his neels, and yet to be
Wheeling round, therefore, he cleared powerless to help himse-.
4 law hedge dividing the road from a  But, ahi the muon burst suddenly
market garden, and galloped across the forth from beLind the dark clouds ob,"
c#sbages, making for the open country scuring her glorious face.

ALPHA;
with all the speed of which h hig
bred steed was capable.
Ever and anon the moon was obscured
by dense masses of floating clouds, and
oftentimes the robber urged on his wild
career in pitchy darkness.
Vaulting over a hedge and ditch
which bounded the market garden, he -
found himself now iu the fields beyond,
the gro d of which was horribly
uneven; and compelled him to slacken
his sped.
I is pursuers' voices were distinctly
audible.
They had followed him across the
garden. They had reached the hedge,
and some had sprung over into the

1

A broad expanse of country spread
forth before him.
A broad green field, smooth as a lawn,
lay just beyond the rugged ridged of
ground over which he had been flound-
ering.
Without waiting for a moment to look
after his foes, he set spurs to his horse's
sides and dashed onward.
With a yell they followed in pursuit
'-.with a clump, clump, which seemed
to shake the earth lik. the reverbera-
ions of an earthquake.
Loud echoed their voices in the clear
bight air, as they urged their horses on-
ward in the exciting chase.
Fleet as the wind then lied the high-
wayman.
His faithful black mare   strained.
every muscleand sinew to distance her
pursuers.
On! On !--'Twas a race for life.
Bat what was that which at some
:fifty yarde' distance spread a black
streak across the green sward he was
traversing?                        [I
Straining his eyes he endeavored tot
make out the nature of this object r
which puzzled him.                  t
"It must be water,"he said to him-
self. "If so, we can swim through it. h
But is it water l-ah !"             t
At this moment was the moon again
obscured bg clouds, and all before him  t
plunged into darkness.              C
In dread uncertainty of what might
be in store for him he galloped forward. s
He dared not have paused.         b
His pursuers was still-following in
full cry.f
They were rapidly gaining on him.  w
Their loud voices rang in his ears,.  s
Within half a dozen yards of the w
dark object, the moon again came forth
from behind the clouds.r
Ti en it shone brightly down upon a in
black chasm.                        c
Great heavens ! it was a yawning p
gravel-pit upon which he was headlong d
rushing-

21

OR, TIE DAUGHTER R OF NIGlT.

p5
L
a ° rl
in

.j
e,
i
1

But it was nowtoo late'to save himself
There was not time to 'dra in bs
steed.
A wild and desperate chance suggest
ed itself to him.
He   could  searely calenlate the    -
breadth of the chasm, yet he fancied it
was in the limits of possibility for him
horse to clear it.
It required not the aid of his.spurs to
urge on the faithful creature he bestrod e
She seemed to know that all depends&amp;
on her.
On she rushed like the wind.
Then gathered her strength for th+
fearful leap.-
Again was the moon obscured.
Again did the pitchy darkness cover
the caith.   "
She sprang o&amp;t into the dense eh
scurity.
The robber felt her body quivei
spasmodically.
An awlul moment followed.
In which his heart seemed to cease   s
beat.
Involuntarily  his knees tightened
upon the saddle - his fingers claspe
he reins like a vice.
His eyes dilated ; his teeth clenched
e held his breath as he rushed through
he air.
A moment afterwards with a shock
ho mare's feet rested on the edge of thi
hasm on the opposite side.
The earth crumbled, and the sand4
oil gave way and    scattered down
elow.
The horse fought frantically fir a ,
ooting-lost it-regained it, and dashed?
wildly on again ere the robber eoud
carcely comprehend that the danger
as past.
Some of his pursuers had not time to
ein in their horses, and chance direct.
ig their course to a wider part of the
hasmn than that which Ralph hadsafel
assdd over, they went thmundering
owirinto the pit-hole, -and lay a conS
dsed heap. of struggling men and


d I
i      a
i   v
itj

Ret she preeedsed only a few yar4s
farther before she staggered and reeled.
Ralph had net time to disengage his
Nbet from the stirrups ore she fell with
a deep groan heavily to the ground.
He shook himself free, sprang to his
feet, and the next moment Was kneeling
at her head.
"Poor Nelly," he said, in deep sym-
pathy and fast-gathering alarm. "What
is the matter? What have I done?
Besotted idiot that I am, I have ridden
her to death !"
He placed his hand upon the hers's
heart.
Ho held his breath as he listened, and
felt eagerly for the pulsation.
But the heart was still in death.

horses, the ling trampling' down the
dead.
But thoe who wre fortunate enough
to save themselves in time, reared
loudly to those behind to hold hard.
Then, seeing that the highwayman
was in a fair way of escaping scot-free,
they sent a shower of ballets ator him.
The murderous lead, however, rattled
harmlessly around au Ralph galloped
onwards, every stride of his brave
steed lengthening the distance between
them.
lie had crossed *e Aeld now, and
taking the stone wall beyond in a fly-
ing leap, found himself in a country
lune with hedges on either aide.
The shouts of the police still rang in
his cars, and as he knew not whither the
lane might lead him, instead of turning
either to the iightor left, he'leaped one
of the hedges, and galloped on again
in a northerly direction, taking the
routo s well as he could judge to
THiampstead'
The clouds continually obscuring the
moon's face, reudered it almost impos-
sible to lcp up the rapid pace at
than once iho mare had stumbled dur-
ing the la;t haig-mile, ho judged it
sdvisable to come to a halt.
" Poor Nlly," said he, stroking her
silky ncck, " we are safe now, and I am
Su 0 oou meet require rest."
" Straugo, though," ho added after a
p"usc, "that she should bo so soon
beaten ; she ha  had a longer bout of it
than this before now, and yet scarce
tnrued a hair. I hope she did not hurt
herself-with that nasty jump."
Even while he spoke the brave crea-
ture's gait appeared to grow more and
more unsteady.
Tney were at that moment upon the
entiues of a small but thick wood.
Obedient, therefore, to his guiding
hand thq mare forced her way in be-
tween the bashwood and overhanging
branches.

c
f
c
S
i

Stupified by what had happened, he
rose staggering to his feet, and steed
gazing in a bewildered way upon the
body lying before him.
"Dead !" he mattered ; "dead my
own true faithful friend."
One of the bullets from the pistols of.
the police had struck her si do.
A horrible wound gaped hideously,
from which her heart's blood had ebbed
away.
Thus, then, she miserably perished
in her endeavor to save her master from
his enemies.
rfT e sound of a gun-shot, however,
aroused Ralph from his paiufal reverie.
It was a shot fired somewhere close
at hand.
t looked round in wonder-not un-
mixed with alarm, fancying that his
pursuers had overtaken and were clos-
ing upon him.
A rushing sound at the same moment
I approached him-the sound of a large
body forcing its way through the brush-
wood.
Hastily springing behind a tree, he
waited for the coming danger.
Scarcely, however, had he concealed
himself, when a. magnificent stag
rushed past and bounded into the open.

s
i
h+3, p
+  a
t
i
f
4

J~

I

;,  ,{,4  fq

"Poachers," mattered Ralph to him- Sward trampled to nind in e  h
sel"I'm glad it's no worse."       eeongct.
The words had only jut passed his  At last his handsippedk      o
lips when two more shots, fired in rapid hold.
succession, smote upon his ear.   fHis fagir related.
Then there came the sound of hasty  his strength seemed deserting him.
footsteps, and the crackling of branches, With a fearful marl the blend-hound
and. two men, with wild ad disordered flew open jawed as his throat.
dress torn to rags by the vir-ent wrouck- At this moment, however, when death
ig of the briars through which they seemed certain, help came at last.
had forced their way, came panting past.  The delay of another instant, and
Inhfront of the tree behind which the fangs cf the destroyer would tear
dalph was concealed, one of the men out his windpipe, wpuld bury them.-
flung down his gun, exclaiming, "I selves in his mangled flesh, and tear
must either lose my life or that," and and worry out his life.
rushed on again at redoubled speed. ut at this fearful juncture heave
It an ill wind that blows nobody sent Lelp in the shape of two keepers,
a y good," though t Ralph as he picked who, rushing forward, beat off' the
i t                               savage hound witlthe butt-ends of their
But hardly had he done so when the guns.
bushes behind him gave way to admit Ralph, weak and breathless, now
wfhch page of a large fierce dog, struggled to his feet, fancying that the
whichrflew with a low but savage growl danger was past.
To i t  11-a-t                   He had, however, only escaped from
To franticall battle with and beat one to fall into another.
off the furious east was now sufficient Whilst upon his knees, one of the
r hi      n.men raised his gun in the air, and
He did not then hear the shouts of 'truck the highwayman down senseless
the gamekeepers rapidly approaching at his feet.
yh sce                             "We've caught one of there, at any
Vainly was he striving to defend rate," said the keep a who had thus
himself from the bloodhound. ,- acted, "and he may think himself lucky
its blood-shot eyes seemed bursting that she did not settle his business
from their sockets.                hifeoroecaeu.
- him before we came up."
Its white teethgleamed horribly in  "Tjat's a matter of taste, I reckon,"
Ith ghastly m    , -said. the other, with a grim              smile.
It had sprung so suddenly upon him  "Some might prefer choking that way
that he had not time to strike it down to the regular scragging niatch with
Th    -u           -             professional assistance."
To grasp it, then, with both hands by  "I say, Joe," said the first speaker,
Th tra ws hishony chance      who had been stooping over Ralph'g
To strangle the raging,* howling, prostrate form. "Look here 1"
blood-thirsty monster.               "What is it ?"
Fearful were the exertions which the "Here's a go 1"
smungghe called forth.               "What's happened ?".
The perspiration burst out in beads "We've made a pretty "eA of It."
upon Ralph's forehead.               "Have you killed him I"
The great veins swelled  up  to   "No, no, not that. Orly, look herei
This is. no poacher. He looks like a
Together they rolled upon the green gentleman."

03, Tif tAU~gTXX o' ?Gp

., ..,
;r
., ti
- '~v
,:
7' .


RED RaLPH ;

III
g1
1111
1'1
1:

" He's a stranger in these parts, it  So saying, he drew from his breaw
seems to me," said the other man, pocket a long bladed knife, aud' stoop-'
stooping down, and earnestly scanning ing by Ralph's senseless body hiE
the robber's features. "I don't know murderous hand crept stealthily to-
him."                              wards the victim's heart.
"I hope we hav'nt cooked his goose.  But the growling of tke blood-hound
No, I feel his heart beating."     apprised the two keepers that footsteps
" Undo.his waistcoat-let me. Hallo1" were approaching.
"What's that ?"                    The would-be murderer rose from the
"Why, his breast pocket here is body of the senseless man, and thrust-
crammed with - with jewels, by all ing the knife into his breast pocket
that's extraordinary. See, man-see. looked huri'icdly around.
Here's diamonds by the thousand, and  Cautiously, noiselessly, but rapidly,
emeralds and pearls, and look youhere, they crept away, dragging with them
a purse full of gold and notes. Why the savage blood-hound, one clutching
he's richer than a mine in Peru."  its jaws to preventit from barking.
"Look here'at the pistols in his belt.  Scarcely had they stowed themselves
What is he, do you think?   By the away in   a hiding-place, when the
lord, I have it."                  branches s parting with a loud rustling
"Whati"                          noise, two figures appeared, one -of a
"lie's a highwayman, and this is the '  n, short and muscular, humpbacked
swag he had just made at sonic great and illshapen, the other a woman, tall
robbery."                          and graceful, with an air full of majesty
".What's brought him to this wood, and calm repo e.
do you think ?"                      The new corners had followed a nar.
"Perhaps he came here to bury his row pathway, which led through' the
treasure."                         copse.
"Do you think so? No; that can't   The woman came tirst, and, as one of
be, for look here-here's a dead horse. the branches had somehow  become
lie's galloped away from  the Bow entangled with a short cloak which the
street runuers, most likely."      man wore, she turned to see what had
" What do you propose?" asked one occurredd to detain him.
of the men, after a silence, "what shall  "Need we go any further ?" she
we do with him 1"                  asked ; "it seems so me that we shall
"XWe might as well stick to what not find him however far we go."
we've found."                        "I'm almost afraid that he is not
"And tle  him here 1"          coming."
"He'd know us again."              "The wretch has played us false."
"Not if-"                         "I am afraid hehas."
The sentence was not completed, but  "In that case, what is to become of
a significant glance of ominous purport us ? The ceremony must take place be-
was exchanged by the two villains,  fore morning."
A hellish glare illumed their ,evil  "Yes, it must take place before
eyes, and they looked about them   morning."
stealthily and listened.             "Unless it does, all is lost."
"No one is here to see," one said, at  "Yes, all is lost."
last, in a hoarse whisper ; "buried over  " Don't jabber over my words, fool,"
there among the underwood, no one said the woman, fiercely turning upon
will ever tind the body, and we can hime.
place the sea between us and the lalw."  There was a silence of some moment,

14

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.
during which the lady seemed to ponder  "Why, he has been aski
er some course Qf action very difficult ship we said his passage wa  ik
upon.                   and found that it was not, and then he
Wheid tso engaged the humpback has thought the afair over, and come
watched fer from   beneath his red, to the Conclasion that we meant to play
shaggy, bristling eyebrows, a horrible him false."
leer disturbing his hideous features. " Thank.God, he knows so litte of
"There isno way left that I can com- our secret, except a vague outline with,
prehed     m--no way by which we can oLayames, that he can do us ne
secure the money unless this fellow jn   .schnief.'
comes, and I cannot hope for that now  NoI took care of that. While he
after hi longdela"              had the opportunity of blabbing I let
"I almost think ho must have got him know nothing."
wd oa o iteni m  dy."         "Afterwards death would seal his
"What do you mean I"'             lips, and our secrtwudg    ihhn
"if he suspected that the honor of to his a  ecret would go with hi
marrying your daughter would cost him Thre wa.s an awful silence after
his life-"o  hk       h   "         these words, during which the twe
"how ca't ekn'm sure'' keepers looked at each other blankly,
"I can't tell, I'm sure."           After a while the lady said:
"lie understood that he was to leave  "lHe will not come to-night; it is no
Enyland imedite fter te cere- good waiting any longer."
money, and be provided for in a foreign "No," said the. hunchback. "but
country, and be able to live at ease for what is to be done? W.1 is to supply
the rest of his life." hoidsh place"
"That was what I told him."-"ihark !" cried the lady, suddenly
:" Is it not a sufciently tempting seizing his arna, and pointing with a
'cas't   you to such a vagabond out- trembling finger to some ol  at a
"aIto   to "                     few feet from  the spot w  p   she
"it ought to be.                  stood ; "see, see ! what is that i"
"Did you properly explain the affair?"  "What I" asked  the hunchback
"Up to a certain point I told him the hoar.sely.:
truth.  I said that according to. my  " There on the grass. Gethaes
lord's will your daughter-ia-  hmusteItris-t i  tea g sGrat heavens
be married on or before to-daya. ms" Itis-- is my dead husband's face--it
"he ridn f D ber     ''y."    is he come back from the gave. Oh,
"The ath of December."           hide me from him ! hide me from him!
"Yes, and that if he would act the Mercy, mercy !"
part of bridegroom, and immediately With a half-stifled shriek the shiver-
after theceremony leave the country, ing woman fell upon her knees on the
keeping henceforth h  identity a dead green sward,'and clutched her face
secret, he would be supplied with 1a convulsivliuhri
handsome income until he died."            vely in her icy hanus.
"And he, you say, was utterly friend-       CHAPTER
less.                                         'HPTRv I.         ,
"lesh"                            TIlE wHITE FACE IN THE MOONLIGHT--
"He had not a friend in the world."  THIEI ROBBEuR's DOOM--THE OLD u
"And sick of England."              IN Tra    8TWOOn--Ta  'ETURN TO L
" Sick enough, lie could not kee    ~~SE   MsET    --TE    RD.
body and -soul togetheri   '..
body ado sou oer mit any longer."  THt hideous humpback, though him.
"How do you account for his lion- self almost scared out of nis wits for a
£ppeaanee the '1"moment or two, presently recovered

N
4a
1='lr
I
x,
Yb
i
rq
r
S
a
a
5NY5
r
r
d
C" w      ,

t
_
:    -.


I
at
rIj
*1i
"p

Se oeawi forwa&amp; wit  e     GlaAeing over *e words a4it
orab-like  Lieu whisk was hahitaal to taied, which, being in lawge typi, were
Ahas, . leoks apon the object that had easily dis aibe by moonlight, the
tarriled his mistres-s.            hunchbak ubred a londexclamation.
It was, of eureu, Red Ralph's face, "By heavens !" he eried, "it is none
who yet lay senseless, stunned, and othet than Rod Ralph, the farmeus high-
bled-besmeared on the grass, the wayman. It must be he, for see-here
zaonligkt falliag "full upon his pale is his description."
features.                            The lady read through the words, and
The humphack slowly approached handed back the paper to 'the hune-
hiWiback.
When he saw that it was a man and  " y uld he seuseat, think you?" she
not a spirit he had to deal with, his asked  n
alarm subsided.                     "He is insensible, and cannot help
lie knelt by the side of the prostrate himself."
form, and laid his hand upon Ralph's  "But should he refuse t"
breast.                              "In that case," said the hunchback
"lIe's not dead yet, though !" he with a horrible smile. "lie would only
muttered. "Who is he, I wonder? A die an hour or two earlier than he other-
.gentleman, I should think, or-sh, he's wise would do."
a highwayman for a hundred !"i The hunchback, who was ipo     hesse
Having got thus far in his reflection, of gigantic strength, raised the high-
the humpback turned and motinued to .waymnan in his arms and care i
the adyto aproch1throug~h I ho bushes out into a park.
theS did so, though still trembling  For some moments after they na
violently,                         gone, the two keepers remained siletl
"a 't is it!" she asked in a strange watching and listening.
whir.                 "Thn they slowly emerged from tera
"Only a wounded man," the hunch- iting-place, and  beeped after the re
back replied. "He seems to have been treating firms of the lady and her ill
knocked down and robbed, for his shAapenl companion.
pockets have been rifled."           The hunchback was carrying   th
pockets he dong rie  "      highwayman's insensible form in hi
"I don't know, but--Hullo ! Look, arms, and the moonlight revealed i
here is bi horse, and dead. My lady, I startling distinctness Ralph's white up
have an idea. Suppose we avail our- turned frae.
selves of what chance has thus thrown  Eey nwadtethldypse
in our way. This fellow is, no doubt, a and turned to scan the horizon,
reckless vagabond, and might be easily though fearing that some spy might .
induced to take the place of the other watchen heirbck m ove er wth.
fellow who has disappointed us."     The hunchback, however, with a
" What reason have you for suppoi- the speed which the weight of ti
lag that he is a vagabond 1"       burden he carried would allow of, hTui
"Th  geera cuT  f th 1 fol"  ried onwards, nor did he pause uni
While speaking, the hunchback had the shadow of an avenue of majesl
be+n feeling in Ralph's pockets.   chestnuts hid him from the watches
From one of them  he drew forth a view.
paper.                               Not until then did either of t
A poster which had been torn down speakers give utterance to their asto
from  wal.        ishueno

"
" t
I

DR Wl DAUXTU Ok' IG

"Well!" sad one at Inst.
"*Well !" repeated the other.
"What do you make of all that P
"An extraordinary affair, is It net ?"
" We haven't seen the most extraor-
dinary part, though. Some horrible
doings there must be up there at the
hall."
"I'd. give my life to knew what is
the meaning of the mystery. 2appse
we follow and watch."
In the track of the hua baek and
his beautiful guide, the two gamekeep-.
ers stealthily followed.
Silently and cautiously they ap-
proached the Old flail, within the walls
of which, e'er dawn of day, a iarful
tragedy was about to be enacted.
' A deed  of black and   darnashli
treachery.
A cruel wrong, an outrage perpetra-
ted upon one so young, beautiful, and
innocent--friendless and defenceless
In the hands of her cold-blooded mother-
in law and her monstrous accomplice.
Helpless to his doonrwas carried Red
Ral ph.
The prophecy of the old hag at the
boozing-ken had so far come true.
Already had he been brought face to
face with a beautiful fiefd - already
had he fallen into her snares.
It yet remained to be seen whether
or not in the fulness of time she would
drag him to the scaffold.
Certain was it, however, that from
the earliest time a dark and terrible
curse had hung over his race.
Through more than four generations
had his fore-fathers, once amongst the
greatest and most noble in the land,
rendered the name monstrous among
men by their foul deeds of blood and
horror.
.   ,  .  .
Upon him, Ralpi, the last of a
doomed house, the curse lay heavier
than upon any other.
Also the memory of a fathers violent
id disgracefuIdeath .-broken upon the
wheel in France, for sacrilege and mur-

der ; of a mother's shame wd nAmy
ad awfl end, stragled and b rt9a
the stake in ithield.
Tes,'sure en4gh, a sarse hung ori
him, and Fate was pointing new to the
road by which he must travel to the
end.
The hunchback bore him onwards by
the chestnut avenue and through a
small plantation, to where, irk a high
red-brick moss-grown wall, they eame
to a small-door, scarcely discernible for
the taogled mass of blackberries ansId
briars }rowing across it.
To a casual observer it \would have
appeared that the door-way had been
for ma by years in disse, for it was
green with damp, and the bushes in
front almost choked it -p.
But the' lady car flly drew the
creeping plants on one side, and apply-
ing to the lock a small key which she
carried, without any difficulty effected
an entrance.
The hunchback having carried the
highwayman through into the garden
beyond, she then carefully replaced the
bushes, so that it would have been very
difficult to have told that they had ever
been moved, and, following her com-
panion, locked the door again behind
her.
They then made their way through
another plantation, crossed another
large old - fasrodoned garden, in the
midst of which stood a great- sombre
mansion, and let themselves in -at a
side door.
Noiselessly, then they crept on tip-
toe up a narrow. stone staircase, and
entered a room above, in which a large
lamp with a shade of crimson glass cast
a subdued light around upon costly
decorations and luxurious furniture.
The thick velvet pile of the carpet
rendered  their footsteps inaudible;
and while the hunchback buried him
self in loosening the insensible man's
cravat, his beautiful companion glided
to and fro as noiseless as a phantom.a

r
e
x
s
n8
la
d,
Ill
he
r.-
til
hei
ra,
he
)n-.

.

_                 -
c$
f


4 .
t V  a
Y
1 ~
I,
j4

~1
I
I
I

F                           RED RALPH;
The effects of the blow that had soft as silk, hung. down upon her bare
guwned him   were already passing and snow-white shoulders.
iwa.                                She was attired in a magnificent robe
,&amp; few drops of cold water sprinkled of black velvet, and her naked arms
ipon his brow caused him with a deep and neck were ornamented with glitter-
igh to open his eyes and looklanguidly ing diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and
around.                            pearls in lavish profusion.
"Where am I ?" he murmured softly.  Never in his life had he looked upon
The lady, raising her head, motioned one so lovely, ho thought, as he gazed
her companion to withdraw, and, ap- rapturously upon the woman before him
preaching .the highwayman with   a with her angel's face, melting eyes, red
sweet smile, placed a crystal goblet to pouting lips, and splendid form, fault-
his hot parched lips.              lessly modelled and voluptuously de-
Greedily he drank the cool and de- veloped.i
liciously refreshing liquid which it Yet was there hidden beneath this
contained.                          superb beauty something dark and
Scarcely, however, had the last drops treacherous, false, snake-like--sataniic.
passed his lips when with a faint mur-  I was the beauty of the rattlesnake,
mar, as though of exquisite bliss, he which lures to dcstrtctiotn.
cloed his eyes again, and lay back    11er soft langiiinig c es seemed to
upon the soft couch on which the eat their way into his very soul
hunchback had placed him.             lie shuddered and cowered beneath
hist he lay there motionless, a their gae.
smie of surpassing sweetness fitted  Vainly he strove to cast off the
across his handsome features, and his meshes which encompassed him.
lips murmured gently, as though some  Vainly, for lie was her slave-her
ecstatic vision tiled his iimiagiiation.  slave ftr evermore.4
During the time that he was uncon-  lie almost fancied be could feel the
ecious, those who brought him thither corpse-chill of her lithe and slender
were not idle. The lady laid aside a, fingers, covered with glittering rings as
dark hood and cloak which she had they hovered round his throat.
worn, and the hunchback lighted a     They seemed to his excited inagina-
number of lamps about the room, and tion to tighten and tighten like the folds
'while yet Ralph's eyes were closed ' of a snake slowly creeping round the
crept away out of sight.            doomed one's body, rushing the bones
Ralph did not, however, remain very and flesh to pulp.
Yong insensible, and when again he   lie felt those glowing burning eye-
opened his eyes a vision of seraphic balls .eating their way to his heart.
beauty was before him.                He felt a tress of her soft hair sweep-
lie lay upon i softcouch in a mag- ing his face.
nificent apartment, rich in gilt mould- He felt her scented breath upon his
ngs, with countless lamps reflected cheeks.d
again and again in great mirrors reach-  Who are you ?" she asked in soft
ing from the floor to the ceiling.  winning tones.
Before him, in all queen-like and   "Tltey~ll me Rod Ralph," he an-
--perb beauty, was the mynious swerved, as it were involuntarily, for
woman,                              he appeared to be under a kind oft
She was not at most more than spell.
twenty-tive or six years old, and her j"You are a highwayman," she sayl,
splndid hair, black and shiny and " I have often heard of your bold anid

a
'E
n  -
.'_Sf  X.
'    4t
e 1  '}
t' 3  'rf E
Si ^ Y
y
r
U 3
tt5;
An
+    -2y
kqq
Y
;t yyVV
E ytk
t
a
cv, xa
1 q
5
UFO

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.                      g
reckless deeds-of your gallant exploits  But he was powerless !
-your hainbreadth escapes-your acts of  Tne blow he had received, and the
gallaintry-,which are the town's talk."  fatal draught which had bleen adminis-
Who was this mysterious beauty who tered to him, combined to bewilder ani
thus addressed him? he wondered,   confuse him.
had she fallen in love with him' anl  ie was like one walking in his sleep.
lured him thither to this strange house Like one under the influence of opium.
in the woods?                        lie had been drugged !
In the same soft winning voice she  His beautiful companion talked pas-
continued :-sionately, and, 'giving him her haud,
"Alas ! bold Ralph, you tre now in helped him to his ;et and led him, lie
the power of those who will ruthlessly walking with weak and tottering steps,
work your destruction, unless you con- towards one end of the room where
sent to what I shall propose to you."  hung a thick curtain of crimson velvet.
He looked up earnestly into her glow-  Then, drawing this aside, 'e gazed
ing eyes. The serpent's breath was wonderingly into a room beyoula,
still upon his cheek. The silken hair  It was much smaller than that in
seemed creeping round his neck.    which he stood, but -was exquisitely
"I will do what you choose," he mur- furnished, and was fragrant with the
mured.                             perfume of the most delicious flowers,
"A  shameful and dreadful death whilst the air was filled with soft and
awaits you," she-said, "unless you touching melody, coming lie knew not
agree to do what is proposed to you. I from what source.
can save you, if you consent, and the  In the roseate light he saw, reclining
means by which you earn this reward upon a couch, 'a creature so beautiful
are not very disagreeable."        that he could not believe the evidence
He listened eagerly, drinking  in of his eyes.
every word she uttered, but spoke not  She was about eighteen years of age,
himself.                           of a delicate pink and white complex-
"You can save yourself, by mar- ion, with golden hair which fell in rich
riage."                            silken tresses upon a neck and bosom
"Marriage, with whom ?"          white, polished, and beautifully mould-
He stretched his arms out, as though ed as the bust of the Medicean statue.
he would have encircled her beautiful  A .lowing robe of gauzy, almost
form, but she glided from his emnbrace. transparent, material enveloped her
"No-no,' she said, in, a low voice, beauteous form. Shi  wore no orna-
"lh is not to me you are to wed, but to meuts, but a wreath of orange blossoms
one younger and far more beautiful.". was entwined in her hair.
"More beautiful I" he murmured, in  "This is your wife," the lady whis.
amazeme.    nent      epered in his ear, as he stood gazing an-
".Yes, will you consent -        steadily upon the lovely vision before
What more she said, he could scarcely him.
comprehend. Hesomehowfelt that there  The beautiful girl appeared to be
Were danger and treachery in store for either asleep or dead, so still and stiatue.
like was her attitude. 'Obedient to the
He knew that there was satanic in- c.ail of the other lady, 'however, she
fluence at work                                          -    -      -
e      slowly opened two orbs of heavenly
He knew   that he ought to have blue, and faintly smiled as the lady,
rsted-to have struggled for free- leading Ralph, advanced towards hei.
dom.                        Then she rose to her feet, and laid.


4
'~
ii
T'
s
1w

.A) -KAJsrI4
her hand in that which he held ont noticed before had it not been for the
towards her, and gazed into his face difference in the color.of the hair,
with a dreamy expression, as though  Yes, there were the same regular
ehe saw him not.              -   features, the same classic beauty.
The hand she placed in his was very  Were they related? was it chance
sold, and her manner had in it some- What awful mystery connected the
thing indesa 'ably strange and un- twa ?
natural, like that of a somnambulist.  What mysterious destiny had brought
He stooped down towards her, intend- him into the presence of both in one
ing to say something, though hardly night?
knowing what, for he was confused and  Was he dreaming? was he mad  -
Addy himself, but glancing round, he-                  ~-
sew that the outer rooms were filled        CHAPTERI VIi.
with strange faces, and the lady led Tw  i  wuran  AGAIN --Te  SuTE.
him and the young girl towards them.  ANEAN pASAGs-TRE TREACHERT
Next moment, with his senses all   -Tunl illigI-THI OXuIBLI DOOR.
seling, he found himself and his future  WaILsT Ralph was confusedly en
bride standing together in a semi-circle dearoring  to collect his scattered
ranged before a gray-bearded priest, thoughts, the lady he had just seen re-
who ,book in hand, began in low tones to turned and spoke to his companion.
reed the solemn exhortation which   Presently, though how he knew not,
opens the marriage ritual.        they were both gene, and he was sit-
More and pgore, however, did the ting alone in the room, the lights of
eenfuion of Ralph's mind increase.  which seemed to have almost entirely
When the time came for him to died oat.
rpond, he hardly recognisedthe    To senftsed and bewildered, hoar-
parses ound of his own voice d   ever, t  ofeel any alarm upon this ase
Re heard not that of  his bride, nor cot, he sat there for a long while in a_
dd he notice how it was that, when thp dreamy state until he was aroused by a
'easremony was concluded, every one soft baud resting on his, and, looking
glided away again as mysteriously as up, found the lady in the velvet
they had come, and he found himself beading over him.
sitting by his wife's side, upon the  "Come with me," she said.
euash where she had reclined when   I~ lph tried to recollect whathadIbap-
Irat be saw her.                  pened during the last half-hour, and
As cold and silent as ever was she, looked around for his bride.
with the same icy hand and dreamy,  Bhe was nowhere to be seen.
sightless eyes.                     "Where is she ?" he asked.
An awful stillness in her manner, a  "I will take you to her."
kind of death in life, which chilled and He rose obedient to her summons and
terrified him.                    followed her, and she led him from the
Greater grew his terror, though, as room.
he gazed upon her face, and through  She led the way down a broad thick-
the strange confusion of his mind broke ly carpeted staircase, and along a seem-
the recollection of the dead woman, ingly interminable passage.
lying in her jewels upon the bed in the Then down a steep flight of stone
Old House at Westminster.         steps.
Now, for the first time, did he trace  "Where are we going ?" he asked,
the extraordinary likeness between the pausing to look wonderingly around.
two women--a likeness he must have She only answered with pne of her

f
I
Gy
Fes'Fr .
t S{
4
r
K*
,xa

fascinating smiles, and Axed her gUt-
toring eyes upon his.
She held out her soft hand to take
his, and he allowed himself to be led
away again without a murmur.
Along a narrow passage they now pro-
ceeded, the walls of Which were green
and wet.
At last they paused before a lo* door,
which grated on its hinges as the lady
opened it.   -
He-looked wonderingly forward into
the dense gloom - beyond, and would
have asked some questions, but -again
the glittering serpent's eyes did their
work of fascination.
Sba. held the light in such a way
that Ralph could not see what there
was beyond.
Hitherto she had preceded him, and
it was the fact of her, holding back for
him to pass in. front, which awoke, in
his breast, a momentary suspicien of
foul nav

But the horror of his situation had
not yet reached its elimax.
He felt the floor was giving way be-
neath his feet.
He clutched wildly at the walls.
Their shy surface slipped from his
fingers.
A hideous vapor arose from under-
neath, half stifling him.
Great heavens! what fearful death
awaited bin?
Rapidly the floor sank beneath his
feet, and the slimy walls glided from
his grasp.
Then there was a grating sound be-
neath him, and the feor on which b.
stood gage way suddenly.
In anpther moment he was dashed
violently down into a black abyss fai
of water and mud.
A load cry escaped his lips, and eves
in that moment of esafasian sad terror
ho fancied that he eould hear another
shriek which was net the  oe of hi..
own.
Another . shriek, long, shrill, heart
rending, fall of bitter agony..
Harled headlong downwards, he was
almost stunned 'by the violence of the
fall.
He somehow or ether, though; saved
his head by stretching eat his hands,
and thus worded of the sheik.
Bat the wThy mess into whicb he had
been plunged choked and stiged him.
A nexious odor arose from the blael
aud which half poisoned hit..
Ie felt sick and giddy.
He stretched out I hand to save
himself from  falling, and his hands
came in contact with the slimy wall.
Into. what horrible place had le
allen I
Had the giving way of the floor been.
accidental?
His mind, however, was very soon
settled apon' that point, for presently
le heard the trap close over his hea&amp;
rith a crash.

@R, TEJ DAUGHTER 07' rGHT.

.#
;
W
,
.
:  3.
3: w
"=J
t         +
'r
9  : i      ,.
i
e  -      s
gb a
4 - fo
ati aj
"   'i', y yd'  C
-  #Ne_

He passed the fatal threshold, and
J   the deor closed behind him.
f    It closed with a loud clang, whisk
vibrated through his heart.
He was alone in pitchy dark ess.
Fora moment, he was atealessto un-
S  derstand what had happened to him.
He thought that the doer must have
closed by accident.
Several moments elapsed, and yet
the darkness and silence remained un.
broken.
He turned and flung himself against
the door, and battered wtdly with his
clenched lists, and shouted with all the
strength of his lungs.
Then the horrible truth began to
dawn upon hiu-.-e had been betrayed.
He had fallen into a trap.
The fair-faced ieyid had lured him to
his destruction.
He listened intently, and he fancied
that ho heard a low mocking laugh, full
of bitter irony. A satanic mirth-thel
rejoicing of a demon at his misery.


RED RALPH;

Then he felt certain that this horror
had been premeditated.        .
And what was his fate Was he
doomed here to wallow in this revolt- I
ing place until his strength failed him,
a1-d h sank down choked and stupi- c
axod lif akdw      hkdedsui
No the thought was too fearful.    t
He felt that his mind was giving way
under the accumuhition of terrors.
- Then lie made the roof ring again with
his piercing lirieks.
And then, exhausted and panting for1
breath, he began to grope his way.
along by the wall.
Perhaps there might be a way out of
the place into which lie had fallen.
tIe might be able to escape.
Oh, how his heart bounded at the
thought.!
lie groped his way onwards very
slowly and carefully, for he was fearful
of falling into some hole, and sinking'
over his head in the filth.
As it was, where he was now walk-
Ing the water only reached up to his
waist, and with intense delight ie dis-
covered as he progressed that it grew
more shallow.
lie walked so very slowly that the
wall he was following seemed of enor-
mous length, andh e began to think
that he.was in some sewer. at the mouth
of which he should in good time arrive.
Finding no obstacles in his way he
grew bolder, and increased his pace.
But suddenly his progress was cut
short.
lie struck his head violenly against
a wall im front of him.
Very much crestfallen, he turned and
began to follow the second wall.
All before him was dark and dismal,
yet not quite hopeless, for surely there
must be an outlet, and it was only a
work of time and patience.,
But after he had crept along by the
wall side for about twenty feet, his pro-
gress was again cut short.
There wa another wall before him.

A deep sigh escaped his heaving.
breast when he made the dcrscovery. -
A horrible thought broke upon him.
He was in a large square hole or cess-
pool, or cellar from which there was no
outlet.
Wearily and despondently he turned
the corner, and beg:n slowly creeping
along by the third wall.
He was now'traveling in the direction
from which he had originally-come.
Only one of the four sides had yet to
be explored  In this lay his last hope.
With a fast-beating heart,-then, he
crept onwards.
He scarcely dared to hope; the re-
action would be too horrible : it would,
he felt, be ware than he could bear.
The cold perspiration broke out upon
his face.
His hair bristled upon his head.
his knees smote together.
Onward, onward, the journey seemed
to be interminable.
Would he never reach the end?
As he proceeded, however, he made
a terrible discovery. As he advanced,
the water rose.
It continued to grow deeper and
deeper, and had soon reached hiebreast
and was rising towards his chin.
If he was obliged to travel much
further, he must. either travel under
water or swim.
But when he was reflecting upon
these dismal alternatives, and when
the filthy water had ieachle  his chin,
he found himself, to his great delight,
at the fourth wall.       .
Ie groped his way along now with
a throbbing heart, for his only hope lay
tie ;e.
A few moments more and all would
be decided.
Eagerly his hands followed the wall,
but his heart grew heavier every step
l'e took..                    .
At last, when he was giving himself
up to despair, the longed for opening
was found.

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.
A narrow outlet through which he   A dying fire smoldered in a rough ly
had no small difficulty in squeezing his contrived fare - place, . before  vhich-
body. He hesitated not a moment, str-etched out upon the bare gr6iiud in
-how ever, but groped his way onward in a hggy coat that made him lok like
the new direction thus afforded him.  Fome hu  doa---
-FH                           -            uege  na man lay asleep.
He struggled onward, up to his neck  His face, upon which the dre-light
in tae mud and slush, nailf fledd by shone, was almost hidden by a tangled
the noxious vapors a.si ug f-rit. mass of -coarse black hair His figure
Eviy now and ti  iehheard a was sturdy and muscular.
squealing and scampering which he    In his belt he carried a cutlass and a
knew to be made by rats; although it pistol, eand another pistol lay upon the
was too dark to discern them.      floor c-e to hie hand in whkh he
Would these horrors never cease?   ioor clo an empty ooitle.
he asked himself, as he felt his strength  He had evidently drunk himself to
deserting him.                     seep.
But at length his heart beat wildly Ralph-with all the care he was
with joy. A faint glimmer was discerni- capable of-wrigled his way through
al tNe,   lY ,  though far ahead.    the opening and crawled into the room.
lie worked his way laboriously to- tle congratulated himself immensely
wards it, and he could just manage to upon the fact of this man's being
reach it by springing  upward and asleep, for he had no doubt that he
clutching at the edge-             would, unnoticed, be able to find a
It would have been an easier plan to means of egress from the cave if he
cry aloud for help, but how could he .wre o     -       h
. $                                 we e only cautions how he proceeded.
tell to whom his cries would be audible? .ut such was not to be the case.
"t;   Suen a pian might only lead to hi'  The same evil fortune which had
certain death at the hands of those from pursued him relentlessly throughout
whom, by a miracle, he seemed hitherto the night overtoo him here.
There was a bright light burning  he flung the trap-door upward, and it
the ha   e       bucaped.          On 1 righr -ody free-t
the chamber above, but although lie oll-ever with a deafening crash against
listened intently he could hear no sound. the wall.
\Perhaps the room was empty. In any1  Next moment, before Ralph could
case it would be madness any longer t  gamn an upright position, the sleeping
remain where lbe was without making man had awakened and sprung to his
an attempt, however desperate, to free feet.
hiHself.                             Ilis eyes alighting tipon the crouch-
Concentrating what strength yet re- ing form of the highwayman, with a
mamned to him, he sprang upward and savage curse he loosened his cutlass
clung to the edge of the trap.     from his girdle and made a furious
IHis head spun round as he did so, blow at him.
and every limb trembled violently from  But his aim was Unsteady, and the
weakness, hut he yet continued to gleaming blade hissed through the air
-                   within an inch of the robber's head.
Then he dragged himself laboriously  The violence of the blow made the
through the aperture, raising the trap- man stagger against the wall.
door vath his shoulders as he did so.  Ere he could recover -himself Ralph
He found himself in a strange sort of had seized the pistol -  lying upon  ,
cellar or cavern which appeared to ground and hastily cocked it.
bave been bellowed out of a rock.    -~5atgniti aohrisathd
Hi naoiti aohrtaath

Ii t
ii
{  y
#
i
kti,
r
cfs . I
r ;'3
f 4
}
8
Sm
sY
-  r
t
t  -   c
s  ;


StRE                             R
again raised en high his murderous
blade and made a furious rush upon
him-
But as be came ]taipa levelled the
pistol at him and fired.
The ball struck his foe between the
eyes and mistantly overd his face with
blood.
Eis body for a moment retained an
upright posture, qaivering convulsively.
Then tottered, swayed to and fro,
and fell backwards threagh the open
a trap.
A loud splash follawed-a gurgling
-and dead silence.
Motionless as a statue, Ralph remain-
ed in the attitude whiek he had taken
when he fied the fatal shot,-his arm
hsl stretched out  the pistol still
grasped betwixt his fingers.
lie waited tha half fancying that the
dead man's fas. might re-appear at the

trip-deor:

'ALPN;

tR, THE DAUG]

The deer of the hovel, though very
strong, was standing nnfaatened-as the
door was below.
There was no sign of human presence
about this curious place, and, seeing
that it was broad day without, Ralph
had little fear of any act Qf violence.
The idea therefore' occurred to him
that it would be as well to institute a
search for some dry clothes before he
made his exit.
lie had left the tap-door open lead-
ing to the staircase.        ; -
It firme the hearth of the cottage
room in whti h he stood, and was evi-
dently only t he opened from the out-
tide by touch    some spring which,
though he ,earched for it for some time,
he did not succeed in discovering.
Leaving the investigation, however,
to some future period, he descended to
the cellar, a ud began to search for some
wearing apparel.

But all was still.                   He found tno large chests-ute iu
Slowly he rose to his feet and gaged of one of which, standing open, had be-
down into the black abyss.           fore aborded himna passing glance of a
He took a blazing stick fron the fire confusion of clothes.
and holding it above his head peered   lie dragged its contents out upon the
into the blackness beneath.          ground and searched among them for
The surface of the noisome ditch lay  wi he wanted.
black and smeoth as heretofore.        T'ere was a great variety of dress,
lHeaving a sigh of reelef, he turned jboth male and female, and of every
away   and began to make a more quality.
lengthened survey of the strange place  Ralphl in astonikhment tumbled oat
in which he found himself.           hich silks and costly velvets, coats
By the aid of the blazing stick serving elaborately eilroidered  with  gold
himasatorch, lie soon discovered in a lan, peticoatis of every color of the
distant corner of the gloomiry cave-a nitnbotw, rafles, perukes, high - heel
roughly hewn door-way into cihiet shows, jack boots, cocked hats, chemi-
was titted an oaken door, seeinigly of set tes, silk stocing, and hoops of all
immense stiength, though unbarred.   sorts anid ia
Openit: this he pased through into  Ile maight-, had he so chosen, have at--
a ioo-'j w-paa teeyvoid; thar up a tired limt.lf  b it oicer in his
flight of rough stairs all hewn out of najesty's Gruards, or a Bow street run-
solid stone, and with some difficulty ner, or a beau or a belle of the first
raised a heavy trap-door. Ralph then water.
forced his way tlro'ugh a very narrow  "They cai't 'e disgmses and le all
opening into what seemed' to be a room  tubled upin this way," Ralph thought
in a miserable cottag4, with bare walls '4/ But what are they V'
-  d-  cIehatoof-  .             1   The mystery seemed difficult to solve,

r {
7 x + 'Q
'
T
h +.
f
: i4
F_
?
A ti
T%
s
L ^xi       '
'*'3q 4
9
L°j
6
?tom
f'
1 =^Y
Yeti
 A r
x,,
3+' ?s
fit~ .."s
.4,
k x
v
Y  s
3"
.Y..F+
4 { t
fg'a
b
.t'Y
Y
.ro

ITER OF NIGhT.

)t the solution was close at hand. hiding-place of that m y-hMeal baId II
li hd chosen from among the is true, then, that they exist. They rt
clothes a scarlet cloth~ coat, and was not really-as I have always Sippsefd
turning it round and round to examine -horrible phantoms conjured up by the
it.                -old nurses to frighten naughty children,
His eyes fell upon a cut in the back. No, this must be their stronghold oi
li lo.kedl at the hiumg.        .what was their stronghold, for who~
Upon it there was a black stain, knows I may have killed the last sur-
The-st&amp;in of blood.                vivor'? And these were the clothes
The mystery was cleared now. These stolen from  their victims. The blood
were dead men's clothes+ stolen from the upon them seems to bear witness to the
bodies of murdered victims.          truth of the horrible atrocities the Yel.
It would appear that the man Ralph low Masks are said to have committed.
had shot was one of a band of robirer;  Horrible indeed wer's-the atrocities
and that these were some of the spoils,' attributed to the lawless bhaI4 to whom
It could not be possible that there Ralph supposed the cave to belong.
was only one inhabitant of this nyste- It was rather a dangerous experi-
rious eave? .x.ment, though, to remain here lon, for
Yet, again, it was not very likely that should they unexpectedly return he
the band (if a band exited) would be could hardly hope for a better fate than
abroad during the daytime : that was to have him. throat cut and be flung baclg
the period which robbers usually select.. ag:in down the trap.
ed to take their rest.                 In his place the generality of persons
He knew a good deal, too, about the would harve lost as little time as possi-
gentlemn of the road and thecelefbrated bl- in ffeting their escape. Wi'h
sracksmen of the period, yet he had lled Ralilpht, however, it was ditierent;
ever hearu of such a retreat as this.  Ai the reader who follows his for-
Never-al.h ! he stuppe-dl wnLi-l ii,  t1Lies will flnd, he did not turn it hi  e
his regions, for something iT athe upon any orum   (nOilerary ,
darke s had canghtt his eye and ii et. ihew:as ntiserildy Eitelied, too, in
ed hum to the sot.-                  hissoing miodcloeged     L'oss and,
It'was a whi faL e .    boo.h      nlthuonhh ho fl   som  r egnace at
Hie spria.ng' '.~m I  'medI~      i iito(iit onilmrdered tttg ;t-'o'ndhand
read y4   fr t   e  ! ew d li ti t ' .7  fort,  jie  U-arh ti.ti  h  1 i' ,  nti ic e
vatd k  n'.w    'tKi          .      lhe  r i; I r'e-d 'at el''in  eci
ary v-  ,      - h !Mhde             --1-    . of c      , Oald hadot
lt,     ','  ' Vto t V~8  tt1 :  .  t t ) e  i  0 w e-  t  as       :i ,  hi ly_ j1la "   ,     e h     &amp; I  ~
Bu e h  dw e r            een- h~ tite ai t uini  a goodj
over 1 is lee  t r * r h le n-n-
percoindl  at=t ad      abeen  lo k-  Then  Vt' JF  rua 'ed fo  ' h i tclodhac
g  was only a y llo)  'at  mUa  and 1a to drei'.ss
haigon a ral                    j When he had finished be was about
B ud t  w h e n  ha  t c k  1 i d o w n  an d  o ked  to   ,ingt h  o d n o w h e r p
1  .1._ : ,i  di  Ii  ', old  CO   'd0 at(l 'Inthe  tp,  h
at it the  mile gt e place to a look of with a start ho stopped short.
astoshmnt a     a taught   lashed  " food heavens i" ho  exclaimed,
through his tomTn ..                j"at  what was I going to do 2"
" The Yellow Mtska " he pcerd And lie began to feel in the pockets.
" th e Ye ow   sk .  B! surely i  nio  i ery  deliberately-  first.  Then  with
posaide that I have foudi out toe fwitaster-beating heart-then in espes
astoishmnt  athouht  t  

i'
IIN;t
F~
rI
flu'
'1
Lj e -
c  .

G
P
I
3
I


i{         I

U

1-

_
tg
-

ate haste.  last in despair he      Biz in vain.
4   sted.          n        -      Lie stamped and kicked aod almrped,
"I must have dropped them down in but still t he door remained tighty- enut
the ditch," he muttered; "when that as before.e
beautiful demon flung me down they    What was to be done? ho asked hm-
must have fallen from my pocket."   self again and again, without being able
It was the diau unds andi jewels lie to find any satisfactory answer.
had stolen from the dead body in West-  Nothing could be done, inder d, but
minister about which he i as speaking. to wait and see what fate should bring
" By jove! and the five hundred about.
pounds, too, I tieok ferom old Bigwig." lie returned to the coe beiow and
Ralph groaned at the recollection of s:at down by the fire lismsnsng intently
what he had lost.                   for the slightest noise,
Why, I've got rid of half-a-dozen  Every moment lie expected that some
fortunes in one night. half-a-dozen one might steal in upon lam  ro- be-
times ns much as ever I had in my pos- hind and stal hini in the back.
session.  however, if they are down  And so impressed was he with this
n the ditch, I won't rest until 1 find horrible  - i that he was at last obliged
them again."                       to shift hfilace so that he ught sit
lie made uphis mind to bear with his with his back against the wall.
n as philosophically as possib=lt.   Not very long had he been thu wheR
It was time now to take his departure he felt that sleep was taking possession
while he was vet safe and sound.    of him.
lie lighted another stick at the fire,  lie yawned and stretched hiiself
%nd made his way along the passage and altered his position  again and
d up the flight of stps to the trap- again.
luor.                                But it was no good. Do wha^ he
But to his intense consternation he would his eyelids grew heavier and
eind that it was closed,          heavier.
Vainly lie endeavored to raise it.  What was he to do now?
There must have been a secret spring  To -eep was to mvite almost certain
semowhere, but to discover its where- death-
abouts defied all his efforts.       Whilst he was slumbering the band
What was to be done t             would probably return. eli would only
How had the accident occurred?    be aroused by the t!rrust of a poigunard
Bie felt quite positive that he had not I or the blow of a bludgeon.
elod the door when lie came through  Iis only chamice of escape lay in his
i.                                 watchfulnetss and vigilance.
Was itL psble that he had fallen   Yet he felt that it was impossible to
ihto another trap.                  ward off the drowsiness oppressing bun.
"Oh, what a fool I was not to go I The only way to do, then, was to nd
when I got the chance !" he thought.  I some plaoe where he could sleep a vhile
But what was to be done?          and where he would not be observed
Re did not like to   abandon the should any one return suddenv to the
search, although he felt that it was cave.
artw o4t useless.                     With the aid of a flaming stick he
Oyer every Inen of the wall within again made a to-ir of tie myterious
Mareach did he again and again pass chamber, and his eyes alighted on a
k- hands in the hope of finding    ' sort of cupboard which he thso.h
might serve his purpose.

i

A quantity of lumber was piled up i
front of it, which he pulled on one sid
z to allow for the passage of hiu body.
Then, dropping in a quantity of th
clothes from the box, he made himself
comfortable as possible.
Hardly had ho been there five mmi
utes before he was fast asleep.
Slumbering as placidly as a new-borm
babe-dreaming he had escaped front
all danger and was again following
cross country upon his bonnie black
mare.
Very far from free of danger, how
ever, was he, for see! the door of tin
cave opens with an ominous creak, and
two dusky forms steal into the fire-lit
chamber.
Two dusky forms with gleaming dag-
gers in their hands.
CHAPTER -VIII.
TIE DRUGGED BRIDE -RECALLED TO
LIFT-TrII VICTIM-THFE NIGHT JOUR-
NEB-TnE OLD UlAG-THE ATTEMPTED
ESCAPE-A WITCH ! A w ITCH  .
WnosE was that piercing    shriek
which had rung in Ralph's ears as he
fell through the trap I
What had become of the beautiful
girl to whom he had been so myste-
riously wedded, and from whom he had
been so suddenly separated.
These are questions to whi*h our
story obliges us to find an immediate
answer, although to do so we are re-
luctantly compelled to desert our hero
f    in a highly critical situation.
In a quaintly-fashioned chamber in
the  eastern wing of the old ball the
fair creature who had played the part
of the bride in the strange ceremony
lay in an unconscious state upon her
virgin couch.
Cold, powerless, passive, she lay
there, supremely beautiful, yet with
the pallor of death upon her soft peach-
like cheeks.
Helpless in the hands of those who-

i4
s -  t
B i

,OR, TUE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

n_ pitilessly worked her ruin, the beantifl
e girl could not, though the .internal
struggle was absolutely terrific inits
e smothered   violence, shake off the
s$ torpor weighing her down, numbing
her senses, crippling her vital energies.
But as the hours crept slowly on the
imprisoned soul struggled more furious-
n ly for freedom.
Violently ere now had i* 'attled with
a its manacles.
When the hideous hi mack was, at
her mnotIer-m-law's directions, carry-
- ing her away to , her bed-chamber, the
e young bride had given vent to the
piercing shriek which had reached the
t ears of Ralph when falling through the
trap.
Instantly, however, were the cries
stilled, and she was borne away.°
But not before some of the inmates of
the house had been alarmed, and in low
whispers the mysterious lady and the
huachback coisulted together upon the
future course of action.
"The effects of the potion seem to be
wearing off," the lady said.
If  is the long delay."
"There are only two courses open to
us; we must get away at once or-"
"Or renew the draught."
"No, no; that must not be done, I
fear it might cost her her life."
"It would certainly be a dangerous
expe inent."
"Too dangerous. I-I would not have
my hands stained with her blood, much
as I should gain by her death."
"The carriage we agreed should .be
here at six."
"That is very late."
"They will keep their time, though,
mny lady ; I api certain that. we can
depend upon them."
"Let us hope so. If she recoycrs her
senses before then, wo arc lost."
They carried the poor girl Ainto her
bedchamber and laid her upon the
couch where her motionless limbs were
extended, her face turned upward

RA\LPH:


I- L d
t
}b
;A
{
t :1
1s
$ -
4-
I'

.  .      RED R ALPHI;     a  .,
and as white as the pillow upon which lady ian forward, and, ging hersell
it lay.                             upon the other, striggled wih her vie-
The mother-f-law sat silently watch- lently and held her down upon the
ingin a small dark ante-chamber, where, bed..
upon a deep old-fashioned window-seat,  It was doubtful, however, whether
she could commnanu a view of the in- her strength would have been sutlicient
sensible form of th; young girl, and thus to keep her there had not the
eould see what was taking place in the hunchback come to her help.,
park without, in the plantation, and the  He, holding the young grl in his
gPoomy garden close under the house brawny arms, forced her head back upon
side.                               the pillow, and with brutal violence
Very still end death-like lay the wrenched open her mouth..
white figure, an'd not the faintest sound  Quick as lightning then the woman
of breathing reached .the listener's at- dashed betwixt the victim's teeth some
tentive ears.                       colorless liquid, from  a small bottle
Yet, nevertheless, the young bride's which she prodac'd from a medicine
sleeping soul began, in spite of the chest standing on the table.
potion's benumbing power, to shake off  Only for a brief moment afterwards
its shackles.                       did the young girl struggle for freedom.
Something stirred within the depths  A grey shade crept over her face.
of the entranced woman's existence,   Her limbs grew stiff anti rigid.
and she began to awaken slowly and    The pupils of her eyes grew large and
painfully.                      '   darkened, and fixed in a sightless stare
She felt, at first, something like in- horrible to. look upon.'-
wnrd sthi'ldmrings which wnt palpitat-  The two accomplices laid her back
ing from her beni t to her brain.  s  upon the bed, and stood for several
'l'h'nt thme power of the will gathered iinstants silently regarding her.
etre-rgth and at length, after a stiong  At last tiTady spoke ; and the low
intel nal convulsion, the mue'es of hec toniu  of her voice trembled with agita-
e--ld (iuin ri, andii her 'ye Openied. liou.
'then her whole ft ame quived witi  ' Do you thu'ink we-we have given
hulaeise cull' bil, l, a  then w i h a low her too much ."
husky cry sE;! sra1ng up lin bed, clutch-  The hideous hunhback bent over the
ing thi he ide kibes betyecu her thin unhappy victim of their cruelty.
white tingels.                      I bis bony crooked fingers undid the
With h er wildly-dilated eyes, her fastening at the neck of her dress, anti
strea:ing Lair, antd her v;Lite ginents he laid his hand upon her bosom, white
gleame ghm.u-!y to the mooulght, she and polished as the finest wrarb'le.
forniei a terrible picture, which for a  " Does her heart beat I" the 1dy
roment, as she turned and gazed upon asked.
it, chilled the watcher's hiood.      " Yes ; faintly."
Ero she could rush forward the young  "'Thank God for that. We -could
bride's frozen tongue seemed suddenly take her away now if the carriage were
to loidis tise'l, and her tortured soul only ready."
gave ntternice to a piercing shuiek of  "It is below."
agony, saceceed by a.othier, and still  "Will you carry her, then f  But
another, each louder and shriller than: stay; let 1nc listen first upon tie stairs."
thelast.                              With noiseless footsteps the lady stele
B'ut, shaking ott the momentary fear away into the darkness of the corridor,.
which had at tirat restrained her, the cautiously opened a small door, and

OR. TH1E DAUGHTERS OP NIGHT.
passing through we lost in  e  Ie -: The hedges  n either hide of the rte,
obscurity beyod.                  seem to fiy past thee.
lent as the tomb, howev r, was all  Yct the huachback was not satiafled
ithin this strange house-          by the pace, but-again and agais galle4
Presently ske returned 4 whispered out in anger to the pestillions,
to h er accomnpie.'                 " Faater, faster, faster f a thoesand
«Is all well" "                   curses e you, faster!"
Yes."                             Vigeroly the pestboys     their
"Shall I bringher ?"              whips.
Yes." .                           The panting horses strained er
In deep silence and pithy darknesss muscle and sinew.
the hunchback bore his fair brden   The sparks e w in showers from their
down a secret staircase loading from the clattering hoofs.
ante-room to'the garden without.     "Faster, faster, faster !"
It was the staircase by which Ralph  It was more like the shriek of a
had been brought into the house,   demon than the sound of a huMan voice
By the same road that Ralph'a in-  His laideous face, distorted by oaen
sensible fornm had been brought thither, sion, gli red at them through the car
the young and lovely creature to whom riage window-.
he had been under such extraordinary  lie shook hie fleshless fsts, and
circumstances welded  was carried howled, jabbered, and cursed.
away.                                They might have thought they had
In the woedt without there was a the dev,l for a passenger.
traveling carriage waiting with four  "Faster, faster ! you cursed dogs?
horses, fresh and strong, and pawing you slouching hounds! you banging
the air with impatience to commerce idiots ! I'd like to wrench your ears off
their journey before them. I'd like to job out your eyes, I'd like to
Muffled in a thick cloa, the motion- twist out your tongues! Why don't
lees, unbreathing, yet still living form you drive faster? why don't you whip?
of the beautiful bride was placed with- why don't you spur? why don't you
i, upon the back seat-            bring blood ?"
The hunchback also entered the car-  Tis did the horrible sunclhback
tiage, and, as he slammed the door, the scream discordantly through the ear-
fgure of the mysterious lady who had riages window as they-tore along the
taken so. prominent a part in this road.
strange drama disappeared from   the   He was in fever lest they should not
shadow of the trees where it had been be able to reach their destination before
lurking, and flitted through the old the world was up and stirring in the
garden toward the secret staircase.  work of the nebora day.
The carriage containing the abducted  As it. was, their clattering steaming
girl then drove on at a rapid pace, and progress through a village oi their way
was soon beyond the limits of the park. brought many white frightened fae3s to
Daylight was breaking with a dull the windows, and some very early
leaden hue, and the broad expance of risers to the doors.
bleak open country through which they  A unse at the' toll-tar gat through
were traveling leaked wretchedly cold which they passed asked with a wonder-
and miserable.                     ing face whether it was an elopement,
Theyowere tearing along at-a rapid and added to his good lady, when ho
pace, new that tlhy had reached the had got into his hou~  i, that if i
high re.                           were, and he were the bru - '" hit

sI -
-Iy
I-


1~
ii
4
ii
Cpi

g"3-                        IED RALPH;
part would as soon have run away jith  With gong claw-like fingers she hov
Old Nick.                          ered round the form of the sleeping
On they rushed again, the postilions girl, and  stealthily searched in the
f&amp;iusly lashing the panting horses, the pockets of her dress with a thievish
hunchback shrieking more hoarsely, intent.
like a bird of ill omen in their rear.  "Not a brass farden," she muttered
They reached at last their de'iation, disconteutedly, and with. a dismal ex
which was an old house standing by it- pressioi of couitenance, " not a stiver,
self at t lie bottom of a uie, which the not a rap, not a bodle, not nothiuk ; and,
branches from the high trees growing oh ! how thirsty I am; my poor throat'a
by the roadside (aut into deep shadow. like a lime-kiln."'
Leaving the young girl in the carriage,  The breat h coming from herpoorthroat
the hunchback made his way across a w ts odorous of alcohol, and there was
neglected garden to the house, and ham- tlat in her bloated face, her trembling
mered long and persistently at the door. fingers, and untsteady gait, which told
A blear-eyed old crone at last replied her story very plainly-she was a gin'
to him.                           (rilkl.
" Well ?" she said, in a weak weedy  Before the hunchback had left, how-
voice.             -,hehad.most particularly cautioned
" Well 1" he repeated, imitating her her against quitting the house during
tone, " will nothing short of an earth- his absce.
quake waken you 1"                   The louse stood by itself far away
"What do yon want now you have from ainy other habitation.
awakened i t"                      It was wretched, poverty-stricken,
" I've brought you the young lady I and in ruins.
spoke to you about."                 It had also the reputation of being
" Where is she I"                haunted, so that it was no wonder tha
"Outside. I'll bring her in. You old hag had no visitors.
mnst take care of her. I have got to go  Thu day passed without any one
back, but will be with you again to- coming.d
morrow; and now watch her closely,   The old woman watched at the win-
and remember your life depends on her dow, fondly hoping that so-ne one
safe-keeingl. 'would heave in sight to whom she
The still insensible gil was brought could beckan and send on a journey
into the house and carri d up stairs.  for gin to the nearest village.
Tlhey placed her on a bed in a close-  but no one appealed ; at least, no one
antelling room, with a low ceiling, black who would have undertaken the errand.
pauels, and a four-posted  bedstead,  rihuls did her devouring thirst remain
heavy and cumnbersome, and surrounded unappeased.
by feathers similar to those upon a  Excruciating her torments at length
beatrao.                           became, and she could endure then no
Here she lay till as death-as white longer.
a  a corpse-when the carriage Lad    White and motionless the beautiul
driven away, and the old hag sat watch- girl still lay upon the bed.
ing by her side.                     Could not she be safel )eft for halt
She was a frightful old hag, toothless an hourT the old hag asked herself,
and sloblering, with tufts of iron-grey  There was no lock to the door, but it
hair growing here and there upon her we not in the slightest degree probable
head, which, otherwise, was bald and twat the drugged girl would arouse her-
red, and hideous to look upon. 'elf from the lethargy,

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.
The old hag crept up to her and us-  A black gulfyawned beneath, and she
bened to her breathing, raised and let turned from it with a shudder.
fall her hand, and  shook her again   Then she crept to the door, opened i
i     and again.                          and listened.
But the girl lay still and motionless.  A dark corridor was without, ending
"She's all right,"the old hag mutter- in a steep flight of stairs
ed, "and I won't be gone a minute."  the moonlight shone through a small
With this she hurried oft as fast as passage window.-
her tottering limbs would carry her.  The fugitive, groping her way in,th
But she was absent much longer than darkness, crept onward.
the minute she talked about.          With suppressed breath and a heart
IHalf an hour after the old hag had that beat until she sickened with the
left the room, the young girl arose from  violence of her emotion, she crept.on-
the bed; weak, faint and giddy.    ward.
In vain she strove to stand ; the room  Partially supporting herself by th
swam round her, and she sank with a railing, she descended step by step.
deep sigh into a chair near the open  The staircase was old, and creaked
casement-                           fearfully beneathier light tread
It was night again, and the moon had Again and again she paused to listen
risen.                              and lingered and wasted valuable time
Without were tall. dark trees with little dreamin that danger was  i 
outstretched branches that assumed out, and not n ithin, ghe aos from
demon forms to her excited fancy.   which she was bent upon escaping.
The young bride remained for nearly  L-t   dr     gt
:v                             Li~t tie dte ming that the old had
a quarter of an hour motionless at the was hurryig homeward  s fast as sb
S   window, the cool air fanning her fevered could walk-hat she was ven now in
brow.                               sight of home.
Then she started to her feet and    Every moment lessened the space be
looked wildly around.               teen them.
Where was she?                      Yet did the fugitive slowly creep
Into whose power had she fallen?  onward.
What motive had prompted her ab-    She reached the outer door at last,
Seduction ?                          when the old hug was within a couple
how long had she- thus been helpless of yards of the garden gate.
  and senseless ?                    She opened the door  as e th
As she asked herself these questions and closed it as the old ha setrough,
the wildest terror took possession of gate.
her'                                  But catching sight Of her jailor's face
S    What horrors might not be in store -more horrible than ever in the moon-
for her at the hands of the unscrupu- light -she crept shivering. into th
Klous wretches whose victim she had shadow of the- wall, and allowed her to
fallen                            pass into the house.
ne course only was there open to    Then, summoning all her str    th
her-pafted like the windl
he must fly!                        No
Yes, flight-frant -flight-was her everotfravr.ra       itneh
only resource.                        She was too weak for that.
She paced the room eagerly, but with  She managed t reach the bott
nations footsteps  rw              the lane. -She contrived toaee
e~ gazed! anxiously frmtewno.some hundred yard further on, ud t


foil fainting pva the threshold of a
cottage door.
Presently the der was opened; aid a
womaS, coming out, started back with
a shrill cry at the sight of her.
"What is it ?" asked a main's voie
from within.
"Come hers.i it's a dead woman.
Quick ! quick !"
The man cane with a 1ight, and his
wife stooped over her prostrats firm.
But crc she could touch it the man
had pulled her back, with a low cry.
and a look of unatterable horror on his
fice.
"It is the witch i" he cried, "it is the
witch ! Take care, or the touch of her
will wither your fesh."
Then, with a piercing shriek, his wife
ran from the prostrate body, and the
eottager, spurning it with hib foot in a
perfect paroxysm of terror, howled with
all the strength of his lugs-
"Help! help ! help!"

CIIAPTEB IX.
TIIE WITCH IN THE HANDS 0? TE 1M0
-FIENDS IN HUMAN FORMi-TO TII
8TaE ! -TO TiE STAKE -t-THEx A(IN
FLAMEs-TIlE MARTYR-THEa MYSTE
RiOUS HOZSXAN - TIuI snTliAN
Tia  cries of the frightened rusti
reached the .ears of the dwellers in
cottage at sore fifty yardsl distance
down the road, ad they cam e hurryin
to the apot.
Soon, like wildure, the news spread
6r and wide, and the villagers crowded
round the scene of action.
The hoarse and angry voices of ti
men contended with the shrill vindi
tive tones of the women   as the
wi angled over the prostrate form of t]
asenible girl.
But all were agreed upon one poin
that was, that she was a witch who h:
visited the village a month before, a
?eft behind her a withering curse a:
blight upon their homes and children
their laad sad crops.

r:
t.
1\
M
ii

Un, ILL.g
Y

" Wbero has she eue fromP
"They tld is she was dead." ,
"Schrasshe never die. The graie
is ne prison to tted."-
"'The stamped down seil ean't keep
theM under."
"It is because she was not put to
death when ire hid her in our power." '
" We should have drowned her."°
"No, no ! we should haire burnt her."
"Yes, yea! let as bara her to ashes
new."=
" Phe wall not again escape us.
"To the stake! to the stake !"
A dozen h ads were eagerly stretched
forth.
The unhappy girl was roughly seized
and dragged along the ground.
11cr garments were torn into rags
and wrenched of her body.
l1cr lovely form was revealed through
the hugh rents in her apparel.
Cruelly bruised and scratched, and
stained d. with dust and dirt, the still
senseless aud half-naked girl was borne
I away to the place of execution.
a Svagely the wretches howled around
their victus.
The   ir was rent by their hoarse
Cries for vege nre..
They capered, and clapped then
c hands, and burst iste loud and iendish
a laughter.
e1    To the At k' ! to the stake !"
ig  Eoun the mob Iad reached a pro-
digius size; not a soul was left in the
d aqulid huts and hovels of which the
d village was conposed.
The old and iUnirm-the crippled,
he palsied, and biutl--ad ame to swell the
c- throw g.
y ..ome shrieking flends of women ha
he bro\ghi with thon their babies at the
brew...
t : This is so exagerated picture, read-
ad er. Years have brought about great
nd changes even in highly-cimized Eng-
n  land, where now-n-days there are ne
-- ignorant wretches who believe in witch
craft, or anything s absrd. "Oh, n'

" And I."
A score of voices joined in chorus.
! You re wrong, I toll ye," the old
woman .persited ; " the witch that
cursed our village was a dark-haired
witch, and see this woman has "hair of
the color of gold."'
For half a moment--not more-.publio
opinion was on Mistress Swift's side,
and a unrjmur ran though the crowd.
lad the'witch black hair or gold4)U
Could there be aiy mistake ?
lat there arose a loud clamor of
tongues; everybody talking together ;
each sereamniag her loudest to screanw
the other down.
"It wUl take ay oath it's she, fair
hair or dark."
L Look at her face ; can there be any
mistake ?"
"It's just her mouth, and nose, and
cheeks, and all her doll' face that my
John, the lazy ne'er-do- well, toov Such
a fancy to, od rot him !'
"In't she the'same height too ? and
see her hand ; she has got ' a wedding
ring ou her finger."
" Ah ! who is she wed to, I weadsr ?"
"She's Satan's bride; will l , sworn."
"Let her go0to ium then as quickly
au she pleases. Heap up the fagge t.
Bring a light there ; bring a light."
The poor girl could not doubt the
fate that was in store for her,

manor.
To this, with cords which were po-
dnced with lightning rapidity ahkost as
soon as asked for, they bound the poor
girl.
She had recovered her senses by this
time, thanks to the brutal treatment
she had received at the hands of her
persecutors.
In wild terror she gazed upon the
savage fees glaring at Ier.
In plaintive entreaty she stretched
out her naked arms toward them.
"What have I done ?" she asked.
"What are you going to do with  oe?"
But in reply they only howled at her.
"A witch! a witch !"
"Silence her !"
"Gag her !"
"Strangle her!"
Some of-the women. mad with fuxy
at the sight of one who they suppeed
had wrought so much misery upon .em
and theirs, would have flown upoa her.
They would have torn her ih from
limb had not thN strong ara of the
men restrained them forcibly.
A. fearful howl of vengeance, however,
expressed their hatred and deterwi a-
tion to be revenged.
Only one among the struggling crowd
put inan appeal to save the condemned,'
but to her no one would give hed.
This was an old woman mere long-

I
1-

4
hw
Y q  1 7
fLGy _ +! S
p 3'[Sf
r
hr
-w
v' 'l4
Y
c

42

OT     A  IGTER.OF N1IT.
as the artful dodger says. "Not a atll, .headed thai the rest, and vrith a better
by no means."                       eyighttin terest, tQo 1 iholi' age
These howling brutes of men and was well-igh thretsore.
creecliing hags of women dragged their  "You are coimittingmurder," she
victim onward to the centre of what, cried. "For sham; of you! for shame of
for want of a better name for their you!"
litter of pig-stjes, must be called the  "What do you mean, Mistress Swift?"
High street.                           " That it is not the witch."
In the centre of this was a stout oaken  "Not the witch ."
Dst driven dee;i into the hard ground,  "No."
and fast as a rock                     ".Itow  do you make that appear I
It served at other times as a whipping Why, here is one jvho cau swear to
poet, whereat wretched tramps. turnip- her, Can't you, Mistress Giles 7"
stealers, and such like miscreants were  "Ay, that I can, if I flere on the
tiagellated  vigorously by the vi1Iage rack."
constable by the order of tuo lord of the "And r."


oD, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

IY

Greedily her ears drank in the awful
words she heard areunL.t
What availed her innocence? for she
was as innocent as she was ignorant of
the evil imputed to her.
The villagers were bent on her de-
struction.  -
A horrible doom awaited her, from
which there appeared to be no earthly
hope of escape.-
A fatal resemblance she certainly
bore to a certain woman whom her
would-be murderers supposed her to be.
The same likeness, it will be remem-
bered, Red Ralph had noticed with
amazement and alarm.
To what awful end would it lead?
f'e shall see.                 '
The raging, howling mob crowded
round and jibed at and menaced her.
"Fire the pile! fire the pile !" some
shrieked, thinking there was an un-
necessary delay.
The poor girl, pale as death and half
fainting with fear, stretched forth her
arms iln pitiful entr eaty.
' Mercy! mercy !" she shrieked
"Hear her," yelled one of the hags;
"she asks mercy of us !"
And then a yell of devilish laughter
followed from the rest.
" Sto who has withered our limbs,
and blinded our eyes, and blasted the
land on which she looked, she asks for
pity !"
"Burn her i burn her ! the death is far
too easy for such as she."
" Mercy ! mercy !"
"She is pointing to us now. She will
curse us yet; I feel her curse upon me
now."
"And I; and I."
"Pile up the faggots ! Light the
Ire ! Burn her quickly :"
"Look at her eyes fixed on us. Blind
her with the flames that she may not
see us."
"Cut out her tongue that she may not
ask the devil's aid to injure us."
"Mercy!I Mercy ! I ana innocent."

But it was. in vain for her toa pea
to her executioners.
Their hearts were hard as steel
They were deaf to her~prayerse,
They thirsted for her blood with a
devouring thirst, which her blood alone
could appease.
"Mercy! mercy!"
Her voice was drowned by the yells
of the mob.
A flaming torch, passed from hand to
hand, now set light to the faggots and
straw which surround' g.her.
The straw blazed fiercely up, but the
wood was green, and as yc only hissed
and spluttered.
A shout was made for more straw
and for dry wood, and' soon plenty of
both was brought to the scene of torture.
A light was applied to the fresh ma-
terial and the flame caught it and
blazed fiercely.
A dense black smoke arose and hid
the victim from those who were eager
to gloat their eyes upon her excruciating
sufferings.
Long and painful they seemed des-
tined to be, for the wind was blowing
the smoke away from h '-amd the
flames were steadily creeping upward.
She would not be choked, she would
be roasted alive.
Like fiends from hell the rabble
danced and   screamed  around   her,
stirred up the tire, and fanned the
flames.
Their savage   cries drowned  her
agoizing shrieks of terror.   .t
They also drowned the sound of the
tramp of approaching horses.
Before any one heard the noise of the
horses' hoofs, the horses and their
riders were in their midst.
Bright naked swords gleamed fitfully
in the firelight.
The male brutes fled roaring, or rolled
stunned and bleeding in the dust.
The female fiends flew to all points
of the oomp a, shrieking a thousand
arders and other calamites.

t      at who were the horsemen who had ing at two dusky forms stealing toward
0ome0only intho nick of time- to save him, with daggers in their hands.
our lovely heroine ? .               H Ie thought at first that they were
They were all magnificently mounted, stealing in upon him to take his life.
r  and dressed in scarlet coats richly  ie drew himself up, clenched his
Jaced. There was one peculiarity about fists, and set his teeth.
them, though, which struck the beholde Hie was ready lfr the struggle.
atthe first glance.                 But it cane not, -and the tig res pass-
They all had orange-colored faces; ing by approached the ire.
they wore masks.                     There they appeared to be looking
They were the famous Yellow Band. about and listening.
At their head there was a young man  They spoke ia a low tone of voice-a
whose figure displayed the same match- smothered tone, as though they were
less symmetry as did the form of the fearful of arousing some one.
superb black charger which he bestrode.  " Where is he ?" one asked
This gallant stranger, springing from  "I left him sleeping."
his horse, dashed boldly through the  "Where ?"
flames, scattering the blazing faggots  "Here, before the fire."
right and left.                      "lie must have gone out, then."
With a slash of his sharp sword he  "No, that is impossible; he was dead
severed the cords which held the poor drunk, he hasn't gd time to sleep off
girl prisoner,                     the effects yet."
She had fainted from the intensity: of  "What on earth can have become of
her terror and the suffocating +heat,  him ?-- Ah!
- He caught her half-naked palpitating  0The exclamation came from one of
form in his arms, and sprang back the men, who had staggered upon the
through the roaring furnace,       edge of the open trap, and saved him.
Then, depositing her in a place of. self, by little short of a miracle, from
safety, he knelt by her side and removed falling head first down into the black
his mask to gaze into her Iace.    abyiss beneath.
K  But as he did so, he uttered a loud  Dropping down upon one of the
;ry of astonishment,-              chests, he trembled violently, whilst
_{". It was the face of hispife i    his face assumed an ashy paleness,
Yes, thus did Red Iiph again meet "Good God !" he muttered, "he
Les mysterious bride.             'must have gone down there. How did
But, before proceeding further with it come open ?"
J his adventures upon this occasion, it is  "I unbolted it myself, some hours
necessary to return to the point where ago, thinking we might want it if he
we left cur hero in a considerable fix. gave ue'any trouble."
Some startling adventures had ocJ  "To pitch him down ?"
eurred to him inthe interval, and some  "Ay. IIe has gone down of his own
more startling still are to follow, all in accord, it seems, though I don't know
good time.                         now he came to open the trap ; I only
CHP1 APT ER              left it a few inches open, and propped it
CHPT i    X'     -T    open  with  a  stick."
£ tBaTwo MrsTEM ons FIGs-TH
TRAITOR CAPTAIN -- BLOOD-MONET-----  "Hie mus have gone dawn,  sp.
- THE RSURPIsE---RA tLpH  $ BRIDE-TYE pose."
XTAORDINARY DISAPEARANCz. -     "Yes, there's no hiding-place h.$ ."
WE left Red Ralph in his hiding- "Let's fasten the door, then, and
plaeo in theacupboard in the eave, p e  trak this n, .er over."

,/

44

1

T
i

;t
.   ,   ,t;
_c.:

RED RALPH ;


4                            RED RALPH ;
They dragged two stools up to the so great was the risk he ran ; but, had
fire, and began to converse in a low the danger been a hundred times greater
tone of voice.                     than i1 was, he would have braved it.
Ralph listened intently.            Passing through the door he crept
"What I'm to have for this job is along the passage after the two men.
dive hundred pounds," said one; "that's  They opened a door which was
elearly understood.                 almost hidden in the rough face of the
"Yes, captain, that's the price, and a rock, and entered another cave larger
handsome one it is."               than the one they had left.
"Iandsome you call it: what! for   The two men walked forward, and
'betraying into the hands of justice the robber, carrying x torch he had
twenty as gallant young fellows as lighted, raised it above his'head and
ever straddled pig' skin ; and my cem- flashed it to and fro, to 'show ,his com-
rades too ?"                        pinion the nature of the place they
"Deuced lot you care about that, I were exploring.
should think."     -                  But while thus engaged a shrill
"No matter whether I care or not. whistle struck upon his ears.
the sum is a very small one. However,  " Ah l" exclaimed the robber, "that
I have agreed to it, and I will carry it is the signal."
through. You see thus far all has been  "Your comrades are here 7"
easy enough for you, as I said it would " Yes ; shall we admit them 7"
be. Indeed easier ; I drugged the man They turned suddenly, and Ralphb
left on guard, and I got rid of the rest had not time to retreat.
of the ban: on an excursion up the   Quick as lightning, though, he glided
country. They will return at noun, and behind a curtain covering a narrow
having done their work will carouse and recess.
go to sleep. They usually sleep all day  They passed him by without noticing
aftei one of our expeditions. Then you the trembhng of the drapery, and
and the rest, concealed down here, can leaving the cave closed the door behind
make a sudden ieitush up the steps into them.
the other cave, and capture all."     Once more he was a prisoner.
"You are to remove their arms, you  "I hardly know whether I am awake
know."                              or aslcelp,' he sAid to himself; " so much
" Yes, you may rely on me for1 has happened o tOie lately, I think I
that."                              must be either me d or dIreamning.
" Would  t be possible to have a peep  l1e pinchtd li nelf, and fund that he
at the other cave  i shouhi Ulike to take was not asleep, whether mad or sane.
the geography of the place."          " X\ as that a awful seetio of the river
" les, but youmust do it at once ; we real ?" ho asked himilf. "jAnd was
have very lit Lie tuemto blr.efc."  t o likenessi bet ween the d _ a  and the
" It is ten now, I see," said the living a truth, or only a lincy  An
Officer, consulting his watch.       am 1 married or am I not 1 And shall .i
"Yes, delays are dangerous."      ever live wit i y wife I Shall I' eves
With these words the twto left the rte her again t Shall I, for that iuattei,
cave by aunoper door, which Ralph had ever learn her name ."
not yet discovered.                   The darkness which enveloped him
No sooner had they gone than he was highly favorable for rufleetion, and
sprang out of his hiding-place and fol- he went on wondering.
lowed them.                           "Shall I ever get out of this place
The act was almost one of madness, alive? i Bhall I ever see my old fienda

Of, THE DAt(
gain, and.the beaties of the Rooker
Nancy, and Bess, and Moll; and Polly
and Lucy I Bless their bright eyes an
moist red lips! I'd like a kiss from on
of themn now t~o keep my courage up
And Maude- ah, Maude--I don't like
thinking of her now I'm a respectable
married man with a prospective chanc
(a very vague chance, though) o' being
the parent of a family."
While he was thus reflecting he
fancied he heard the sound of footsteps
overhead.
"It is the police officers," said he to
himself; " they  : coming in to be
stowed away. Won't there be an awful
scrimmage presently !"
The door opened at this moment.
Ralph screwed himself as close as he
could to the wall.
The persons ho expected, however,
did not enter the cave, but in their
place a number of men, booted and
spurred, and travel-stained.
These were the robbers, he could see
't a glance, and they had returned from
their expedition, whatever that might
have been.
Directly they entered the cave one of
them lit a fire, and almost immediately
cooking operations commenced.
The food they were preparing was
very coon ready, and they took their
aces round a large wooden table,
which already was ornamented by a
number of bottles and glasses.
Louty they - laughed, deeply they
swore and drank, and ravenously they
devoured their food.
They were a fierce rough lot, and
Ralphoennl! inot help thinumg that the
constables would find their capture
rather a tough job.
It the middle ofthe eal the man
entered wh se treacherous plot Ralph
had overheard.
"The captain! the captain!" re-
sounded an all sides, and the men rose'
to their feet.
"What cheer, comrades I" said he,

I Ei OF NIGHT.
y taking   a his lac.  at the bead of. the
, table,' close i where Ralph was con-
i cealed.
e   " Not much luck," replied one e the
, men in a surly tone; " they must have
e deceived you, captain."
e   "lowso?"
e "It was a wild goose chase, that's
alL"
" What ! was there no treasure in the
house 7"
' "Nothing worth carrying away."
"You've had very bad luck of late, it
seems to me."
"We've not had very good. It's not
my fault for one, anyhow."
"Whose fault do yen suppose it is ?"
askedthe captain angrily. "Is it mine?"
There was a pause.
Well, captain," said the man who
had before spoken, and  he appeared.
to be a sort of lieutenant, "you've not
led us lately as you used to do."
"Do you want a iresh leader?" the
captain asked, in an agitated voice. "Ia
there anything you ha'e to complain
of? Ain't I true to you 1"
There was a dead silence. It was
evident that there was something wrong
in the camp.
"Which is he uno dares say I am not
true to you t" asked the captain in a
loud voice, and he drew, as he spoki
pistol from his belt. - f
"I dare," cried an unknown voice,
and next monmnt Red Ralph stood in
their midst.
For an instant there was a deathlike
silence-a pamc, i which everybody
stood motionless as though turned to
stone ; the most astonished of all being
the captain himself.
Ere he could suffciently recover him-
self, however, Ralph had sprung upon
him, wrenched the pistol from his hand,
felled him to the earth, and placed la
foot upon'his neck:
Then the Yellow Band rose with
angry roar, and the ir bristled with
naked swords.'

9

I

4
'r

i
i
"
:_
4
.
E
.
i
i
i
t


48                          REDR
" Cut him down !" was the cry of all
But Ralph waved them back im-
periously.
"Listen to ine first," he said authori-
tatively; "kill me if I speak not the
truth. This man is a traitor,"
A traitor ?"
"Yes; at this moment and with his
consent there are some constables con-
cealed in the lower cave."
"Constables in the cave ?"
"You can easily overcome them if
you act with promptitude. But in the
meanwhile secure this man."
The captain was very u(1iCkly blountd
hand aid foot, and then the robbers,
concentrating their strength, made a
rush down into the other cellar.
Almost immediately afterwards there
followed the sound of firearms and the
 thing of steel.
he battle raged furiously for a few
moments.
Then there followed several .dull
splashes, and then dead silence !
The robbers came pouring back, and
-      in another moment the traitor was
pierced a score of times and lay a corpse
upon the ground, his late - followers
forming a circle round him.
"And who are you t" asked the one
who acted as lieutenant of the band, ad-
dressing our hero.
" My name is Ralph," he answered
boldly-" Red Ralph, whom they call
Ralph of the Bloody Hand."
"Three cheers for Red Ralph !"
roared the robbers, to whom his name
was as familiar as their own.
"And who is to be our chief now ?"
one inquired.
"Will you try me I" asked our hero.
There was a pause of uncertainty,
then a loud hurrah rent the air.
"Long live our new captain-Red
Ralph forever !"
Thus summarily was Ralph made
captain of the Yellow Band, and that
night led them on an expedition by
1rhich they secured a heavy plunder.

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

ALIH -
On their way to the cene of te ab.
;bery they passed through the village
where the scene already described wa
taking place.
It would indeed require a skiilfull en
to describe the astonishment of Red
Ralph when he recognized his myste.
rious bride, but to do so would be a
much easier task than to describe his
blank countenance at an event which now
occurred.
lie had wrapped the fainting girl in a
thick cloak with which one of his menu
had supplied him, and laid her in the
shade under some trees whilst he went
a few yards off to give some orders.
When ie returned she was gone.
Yes; she had disappeared, though
how nobody could tell.
In vain he questioned all around.
No one could tell him.
Was she indeed the witch that they
had called her i
The cloak lay there, but the fainting
girl had vanished.
They seared the village and couna.
try around in vain.
" I must give it up," said Ralph ; "I
believe I must have married a XWill-o'-
the-wisp."
From that tine forward he resolved
to think no more about her, anddevoted
himself entirely to the interests of the
Yellow Band.
Their-deeds became fa'nous through.
out England, and they mere the terror
of all classes.
It is with their wild and terrible
career that we have to do.
Yet the strange mystery of the Bride
of Death will be revealed in a future
chapter at no great 'listance.
CIIAPTEI XL
NIGHT -THE PROJECT -THE YELLOW
HAND-STAND AND DELIVER!- A TOUGS
CUSTOMER - TOM KING, THE HIGH-
v A YSiAN, ASTONISUES JONATHAN WILI),
TILE TUIEF-TAKER.,
TUE moon had risen.
~A bright e .ar night of silver cloud%

'

strong light said shadows, and not a
breath of air.
Not a leaf stirred.
Presently there was a slight noise in
the thick brushwood, a crackling of
twigs, and the bushes were parted by
two gloved hands, and a man envel-
opedin a longriding cloak stepped forth.
He glanced about him in all direc-
tions before quitting the shadow of the
trees, and then gave a low whistle.
This signal wa unanswered.
"Not here !" muttered  =ho. mian.
"Strange! It is already past the hour
-I feared that I was behind the time."
The man repeated the signal rather
louder than before, hut there was no
response.
"Something is wrong," he continued,
' or he would not have failed. Perhaps
some of the men have seen him."
He drew from beneath his cloak a
small hunting-horn, and raising it to his
Aouth gave a shiriji loud call, and lis-
tened attentively for an answer.
The echoes of the call had scarcely
diet   ay when the answering note oC
a bugle was heard, apparently at no
great distance front the spot.
lie then repeated his summons, and
in a few second  lie was joined by ten
or twelve men, who pushed through the
;brushwood in every direction.
"What is it I" demanded the first
comer.
"Are you all prepared?"
"Yes," returned the men, with one
voice.
" Are we all here 1"
" No," returned the man who had
st spoken. "Jarvis has gone with
the captamn."
"And he has not yet returned 1"
S"No."
"Have none of you seen Jarvis or
the captain since they quitted, this
morning?"
" No."

"Then I fear that there's somethig] if by magic.
lss- "The tramp of the horse drew nea$re
4I

3
S
_'     4
s   of
i
rr
t
v
t
a
i

"Why?"
"-The captain was to have been here
nearly half-an-hour ago."
"lie may have been detained."
"Of course he has'-but how? Ie's
punctuality  itself, ordinarily, you.
know."
"True, lieutenant.--but you know
that he didn't speak positively about
returning.  In fact, he must .have
thought it probable that he wouldn't
be back in time, as he said that you were
to lead us up if lie didn't arrive."
"lie did--but I scarcely like leaving
the spot, just yet."
"And yet you may do more wrong by
remaining, lieutenant."
"lie may be in danger."
"Do you think so  "
" Nothing more likely. You know
how ventin esome lie is."
" True, and, as le counted npon us,
he may not have observed his usual
caut ion."
"Then we had better lose no-Hah !"
There was a shrill shriek of some
night bird at a little distance from the
spot.
" Dart !" cried several of the men.
"Is he the scout ?" demanded the
lieutrenant.
"Yes."
"What does he mean by that cry,
then"
f Some one approaching, I take it-
but we shall soon discover that."
The result proved that the man's
surmise was correct, for the next min:-
ute the distant tramp of a horse was
heard, and undoubtedly coming in that
direction.
"You're right," said the lieutenant.
"Stand clear, all. We must see who
approaches."
Saying which, he withdrew'into the
brushwood whence he had emerged, and
the men disappeared on the instant, a


=a .
,  .

50                           RED RALPhI;
and a cavalier shortly appeared upon impatiently; "pray give it to me with
the scene, mounted upon a dark chest- out further parley."
nut mare.                             'Gently, gently," said the stranger ;
He was about to draw up by the "I am not so sure now that I shall give
thicket where the lieutenant was con- it up."
ealed, when the latter stepped forth  "And wherefore ?"
from  his hiding-place and seized the  'I must have some further informal.
bridle with his left hand, while with tion in return for my services."
his tight he presented a pistol at the  "On what point !"
horseman.                             "Who is that captain, as you cali
"Sand and deliver 1"             lim ?"
But, h.rd the traveler intended com-  "He would probably have told you
pliance with this command, it would that if he had desired you to know."
have been impossible.                 "Well, then, unless I do know-"
Simultaneously with the lieutenant's  "What 1"
words the horseman was seized from    "I shall not give up the letter he
behind in a powerful but invisible grasp gave me."
and borne to the ground.              "You will not?" said the lieutenant ;
"Gently, gently," remonstrated the "it would-be a sorry return for the ser-
kaveler as soon as he could speak.  vice you are to render us to offer you
"Resistance is useless."          further show of violence."
"1 don't mean to resist."           The ratssenger started back a faw
"Your purse."                     paces and threw himself into a 'posture
" Pshaw," returned the horseman, of defence.
impatiently;' "how could I give you  "Violence, say you I"
anything while my arms are pinioned!"  "Yes," returned  the lieutenant;
" Search him, then."              "tlierefore appreciate duly my forbear.
"'Wait: I bear a message to you, I ance and give me the letter."
believe."                             "ne this my answer !" retorted the
" Front whom ?"                   traveler.
" I niut tirst be assured that I make  lie whipped his sword from its sheath
no mistake. Ralph!"                 arnid made a rush at the lieutenant.
" A true mian," returned the lieuten-  Aioticr instant and it had been but
Ant at once. " Thie otiitilsign "  sht work tor him. Thanks, however,
"A good mane nd true.''          to his wondrul agility, he bounded
" Thas enough,' s sa ihe lintenaiit ; aie, and tle sworu of the traveler s lb
"you can't have manager to get that tiewlace rule which adorned his right
from any one but the captaiu. We cau 'Vi ist.
tst you.".                            " Say you so !" exclaimed the lien-n
"Of course you can."             tenant ;. " have at you then. I have
" Where is the captain i          Diven you a chance, I thiuk."
"Captaii 1" repeated the traveler.   lie drew his sword, and the next
" Ay  be that entrusted you with thej instant they wete engaged in a deadly
message for us."                    e-mliiet.
" I can't say that. I met a horseman  For some minutes the combat was
about twenty minutes since, two good carried on with great vigor upon either
miles from here, and he politely re- side.
quested ime to deliver the letter to an  They  were well matched.  Both
ndividual I should meet at this spot."  young, both lithe as eels and active as
" A letter 2" excaimed te lieutenant greyhound.

a

OR, THE DAUGH
meanwhile the band remaine d quiet
apes tators of the duel. These lawless
men   appeared to hav'  the proper
esteem for the bravery of the stranger
which prompted him single-handed to
attack a whole horde.
A At first, however, they had made a'
movement as if about to interfere, when
a sign from the lieutenant restrained
theirhalf-formed purpose.
Blow after blow was given and re-
turned upon either side with such good
earnest that the wood rang again with 1
the clashing of their swords.
And yet no blood was shed. At
length, however, a trifle decided the
fght in favor of the stranger,
The lieutenant, liavig chanced to
step upon the traveler's hat, which
had fallen during the con.ift; stutmbled
slightly, giving the  other a slight
opening of which he was not slow to
avail himself.
Beforethe lieutenant could recover
'is equilibrium the sword of his advex
sary entered his left arm just abo 'e
the wrist, causing him to utter an e x
olamation of pain.
"Curse your chance ?" he exclained
" You are hurt badly ?" demanded
She stranger.
" Not too btaU1 ," retorted the lieu-
tenant, "to cry piits wiih you before
we pa tI.On a rd, sir !"
" Ytun re a man aftci m' own he it,"i
excaittd the traeOlr, enitsilwicaly.
V"I've no time for f1urthcr p rLy,
sahr the iteutennut, smaiing with he
hurt ; "r rue on, sir.'
The men now began to murmur.
" No, no, lieutenant," said  one;
"that's quite enough; win or lose, we
must have the captain's letter."
" Ay, ay," said several.
"Clme and take it, then," cried the
.4ranger,
" That-will I," said the first speaker
,epping iorth.   .
Stand back, Wolff," said the lieu-.
*Dant; ;"tia is my job."

TER OF NIGHT.       -'
"Not more than mine."
"Come on, all of ye," exclaimed the
traveler excitedly.
Two or three repliedto this by draw=.
ing their swords and advancing in epite
of the lieutenant's command o faM
back.
"The first man tliat raises an arm
against this gentleman makes me his
foo-"
This was spoken by the ieittenai In
such serious earnest that once more
they paused, and once again the lieu-
'tenant and the stranger crossed swords.
how the conflict would have ended
it is impossible to say, had not a un-
expected termination been put to it by
one of the men crying-
"See, see : what is that paper on the
ground "
" The letter!"
"lie has dropped the captain's letter."
And at the ame instant the stranger
was seized from behind and held firmly
in spite of his most frantic -struggles,
while one of the men possessed himself
of the paper.
As they had surmise,- proved to
be the &amp; sputed missive, which had
escaped from the traveler's doublet dur-
ing #h struggle.
" Plague take your numbers !" cried
the traveler. "I thought that I could
scarce I1ope fo'r fair play here.
" RLeease him," said the lieuten 'nt.
'' No1, .''
" Sir," said the lieutenant, sitng with
the othcr' s words, " we shall resume
tis upon a future occasion."
"And in the meantime you secure
by numbers what you failed to accom-
plish single-handed," sneered the trav-
eler.
"This letter contains matters which
affect us all;"
" Doubtless."
" And, as I have scarcely the right t#
trust the issue of so important a matter
to my arms-"
"You discover this," growled the

a
i      Pg
4
k
333 i


RED RALPH;

f Anioned stranger, with a curl of the
tup, "when you get pricked-more valor
so you I"
"Sir," exclaimed 'he   lieutenant,
goaded to madness.
"Ay, threaten, bluster now," con-
tamed the other; "strike away now;
you can have no further fear."
" Beware !"
"Ay, bully."
"It appears tome, sir stranger," said
the lieutenant, with forced calmune-s,
that, although you have a due senseI
of the cowardice of striking an unarmed
and defeuceless foe, you quite overly ik
the fact that it is equally unjust to iu-
Ault a man of houor when ,your very
.   helped iness preclud"s all possibili- y of
-     admniuislinlugthet- chatstsemenIt \which
your i..s''lezce would prtovoe."
" A mua)u ( htonor10), ri0VOoth. A rogut,
a kntave, a cuttftuse!"
'i Aid et a mhanlit o1 honor1.''
t          ' Wy elte shLould I have "nideav y ei
to reset ve the quatel  to u l   'en 14'
Won dtlIti 140 )oeul hiave sitled   ii i
.us la: bie1 ijci'JrL a ieow coutl have
'eie StiUk."
21 he Itaveler madeno reply to iis.
"doat no w for thie c'ay m as hetaer,'',
resumed the lienutant. ' Woat saya
'' ti itwit d    aile     ii'

One of the mw' a handed him the
Better, which he olcd and reit a.a
tollowsa:-
- The Latly mate h ben r n t d n't 1, whth-
er I um not yet uvt ed, bu: I 1, e a truug
.aspicion tt Icouli gos the d ire i'nI. li
- xd of meeting tmy at the appimted sput, he
ithin an hour by the 'amer Cel  1 sha
'iaaL for you thee. and we sn ul go to vwk
pon other tatces.            R .Ru ,
' Humph !" murmured the lieutenant,
a he tinished the perusal of the mis-
ttYe; "1 could give a shrewd guess my -
f, I suspect, as to his iueaning."
"What says the captain I" demanded
r   man who had handed the note to
s0 lieutenan$.

"Read for yourself," said the other
glancing at their prisoner, and handing
him the note.
The letter was read and passed round
the men.
"An hour, you see," said the lieu-
tenant; "we are nearly upon the timo
now. It was twenty minutes before
our umsssenger delievered it that it wa
written."
" But how shall we dispose if him?"
asked he who had been called \Volff.
"  ind him, and leave him here until
we return."
" Accept my thanks," said the stran.
ger in bitter sai Casiu ; " a great de-
cisiot for t mn.t. of 1oo11r."
My object in doing this is to have
you ready for the canelu3ion of our
lnalt: when I return," said the lieu-
tentut.
")obtless."
"Lieutenant," said Wolff, " we arei
w1asti1g timellr"
" True'; bind him ; ue as little vio-
ie    pseilile to make him sure, and
('1)444'.''
i   eoam'luds x Crcre ladily obeyed,
and1 iley\ whnl tromp leit the spot, pur-
ucd by the ialcdictimn of theI luckless
tr. vet'ier.
lie  minutes 4l.1 peihaps elapsed
wheni the sonud 'f ihoitStmea caught the
prisontet's ear.
" They ate rettrning already," he
mur1tr1e44d ; " pehtiaps they have de.
cided that I should be safer removed
altogether. Dead men tell no tales."
Hut here he was mistaken.     The
sounds came froin a direction opposite to
that which then meti had taken.
" Ah !" he exclaimed, as soon as he
ascertained this fact, " it may be that
assist ance is at hand. Oh! oh ! hlhob
oh !"
" Oh ! oh ! hallo ! oh 1" responded a
distiuet voice.
"IHelp! help ! this way !" shouted
the prisoner.
Now he could hear by the inre asij

x4      j
_.
" E
z

heo s Ii
I '
441
yyou r
grene
lie
rqpe.
ing lh
thrOu
his re
mth 11i
"TL
the ci
boys."
" Tb
" Ay
"Ne
"Oh
their b
"Tb
captain
" Ye
Red l
" Ye
"Wh
h   'ur si
wnan, w
by sig
1Peiden
7 ten h

SOR, TIlE DAUGI
sound that the horsemen were galloping
in t tat direction.
a short space of time three or fonr
har emen galloped up the glade, and
one of them hastily pulled up and
spr hg from the saddle.
fhe cries cane from this direction,"

(d lah n g.                   my tiiv  p.s
ere ! here !" cried the prisoner.  "' Ani !what did this letter contains"
God a   I ske cone and release me  ''I liow not."
cursed thongs ct into iy lesh,'"  "c You id 3  e't con look at it?"
m, there you are i" said the new  " What:! WTld you think me capable
slipping toward hiu.           fsa h a teune'css1"
, come ,and cut these cords,"   -' ina xv !' Autered the other con-
cd the other.                   uiimtut ' lV.
tt, nut, don't be impatient ; there  AIs Itdna uuared Ihis exclamation his
.". tintiun wa niactrtl by one of his
drew his sword and severed the co    i  n4S, - mi ,d dismioimtcd for
the par ae oK ching l up a apItrwlhich
!" said tholate prisoner, shah- at aiit hidden trom sight under a
uuiself together, "thts  e   t f9
cords there have halt cut my arm  '' What have you got there, Nicholls?"
ht."                              I do't know-a letter appareutly--
)W cane you there ?" delmauded a bi t it;. writtoeu so vlcly that I can't
cuer.                          Imak head or tail of it."
me knaves fellupon ie andhound    "  ete it is, Mr. Wild"
'r-.- " Wild ?" exclaimed the                             newly..re
en you must have fallen into the leased lisoinr.
rches of some of Ralph's yellow  "Yes. What then ?" sais lte person
alluded to.
e Yellow Band ?"                 "Jonathan Wild"
.                                "s Yes, sir1" said Wild (for it was he),
ver !-aud yet-"                " Jonathan' Wild is my name, and I'm
! it's more than likely. Ttis is 'not a- hauid of it."
eat."                            " u    d a?" said the oter, drily.'
en you must be right, and the    Jonath:ln Wild took no fum-ther notice
thus alluded to-"            of thie man hoe had jut served by set-
- they snoko of him ?"         ting him at lieertv. but istily opened
s-'twas him 'doubtless I met- the letter.
alph !"                           " ('on toomd it i" he ejaculated, " it is
s; you say you met him "     written in cipher."
en I was riding aloug nearly an  " What is it 1" demanded the late
nec, I was accosted by a horse- prisoner.
lto asked meo to deliver a note to  " Ihe very note you brought hre."
ne Ishould meet upon the spot    "Then they must have let it fall in
callingg.  The romance of the the hurry. But can you iake noting
it took my fancy and I consented. of it '"
tere I was set upon by a- whole  "No."
tte wood seemed alive with men; "Then hand it to me. I may be able
began to suspect, from  certain to do something -with it."

-$
'U
1t31

Cl   t
f

HTER OF NIGH T.               .   O
words which they let fall, that I had un
mntentionily abet ted some lawless pnr
pose, and It trfUsed to give up the lettet
until I had benct intoformed w-hoand what
they we4re. Then they fell-upon mue.
eired  the  lett r,  und  b und  m e  to  yo im
der tree. Thiant the whole history o


$1                          RED RALPH;
Wild took the letter from the man's to be away from him, if yo'x did, cer
hand and passed it on to the speaker.  across him," sneered the thief taker.
"What do they say 1"                The stranger clutched his aford-hilt
"I scarce can say yet; thatlooks like threateningly, but choked his resent-
'*ell-' Palmer's Cell;' can that aid you meat for the moment, and bade Wi:
at all 1"                          lead the way to the Palmer's Cell.
Jonathan Wild started.j "One word before we start," said Jona'
" Aid us 1" he exclaimed. "lIndeed than Wild, glincig doubtfully at the
it can.  That's a rendezvous, doubt- stranger. "How comes it that you should
less, with the Yellow Boys to whom you be able to decipher the hieroglyphics
brought this letter."              in which lled Ralph and his Yellow-
" Ay," said the other, a sudden light Band correspond "
breaking in upon him; "now I under-   " That's my4a business," said the
stand what their liif-words meant. stranger.
They are so meet at a place clled thte,  "Nay, but I'll make it min'." -
Palmer's Cell, in an hour."           "Tut, tut," retorted the other, "if
"An hour f" said W ild.          you accept my services, let us move
" Ay-that is, it was an hour ; but we forwai d. We must be full late now. If
muste near upon the timeinow." .   you mean qluarrelliug, I shall be n1oth-
" Then, let's get on. Stay, did they ing loth after we have squared accounts
custer strong t"                    with Captain Ralph."'
I counted a goid dozen," was the   ."Stay," said Wild. "One last word.
amply.                              What may your napme be ."
"lumph !" muttered Wild," glancing  ".lintg."
sneasily round at his four associates,I"Tom King ?" repeated Wild, in the
were they armed?"                greatest amazement.
" To the teeth."                   "That's my name," answered Tom
"Mounted 1"                       King; "and now, hey for Captain Red
"No."                             Ralph and I h Yellov Band!"
Jonathan Wild was silent for a few
moments, and from his gestures the            CIIAPTERi XII.
ranger judged that he Vais mentally TIlE rAIMEn'S CELL--TRE AACEY---TH.
calculatingg the chances of an eicoutr i STEr.coi'uE--TiEL r CA'TUcuE-'Tn  wo
with sucli odis as the Yellhw lBand  AN. iN w LITE-JONATIIAN FOILED.
would present at the alipointed tryst lug-  Tuu lieutenant of the Yellow Band
place.                            mov'd onward wit i his little trmoop at a
"Four - five," he muttered; then, rapid pae until they were safely out of
ookiug up at the stranger, he demanded, heat ing of the luckless messenger who
abruptly. " Will you make one of us ?" had b-rought them the .etter from Red
" I t-what i do a little thief-takiug ?" I  kh.
" Yes; there's plenty of m.mey to ye  "Wolff," said the lieutenant, "call a.
gained."             --halt."-
"Hang your money."                 This command obeyed, the lieutenant
" And as much excitement as you can desired the men to form a circle around
-lsh for-but perhaps you rather fear a him for the purpose of holding.a council
cracked sconce V"                  of war.
"Not. I; I'd give a good round sum  "Now, my men," said the lieutenant,
w hav this Red Ralph for five minutes "we have, as near as I cau calculate,
* miysolf."                        about ten minutes to reach the Palmer's
*It strikes me you'd give something W~ell ; of course it would frustrate all out

chemes to be seen together secl"ecy
and despatch must be the order of the
day. Wolff and I will take the road;
Joyce; Williams, and Burdett will go
across the Lime-tree path ; and the
rest of you branch off as you please, but
let silence and speed be your watch-
word. Now, then, for the Palmer's
Cell !"-
With a low murmur of assent the
band set off in accordance with these
instructions.
Now, although the roadway was by
no means as near a route to the trysting-
place, the other paths were so obstruct-
ed with the great growth of briars
and thorns and all kinds of wild vege-
tation that the lieutenant was the first
upon the spot with his right-haud man
Wolff.
The Palmer's Cell was one of the
antiquarian relics of the locality, and
deserves a word  of description.
A rude rocky'cavern, which had evi-
dently been made habitable in some re-
mote age by the hermit who had given
the name to the spot, by some rough
masonry, brickwork, and certain equal-
ly rough efforts at ecclesiastical sculp-
ture.
Upon the right of this cavern was a
dark recess, which upon entering from
the lig   appeared only to contain a
range of natural shelves formed in the
rock. A nearer glance, however, when
the eye grew more accustomed. to the
saldows, proved it to be the entrance to
a second cave of a like nature.
From this branched a second and a
third aartnent of artificial formation,
and from one of these inner caverns was
a second   communication with   the'
wood.
Immediately facing the entrance of
the Palmer's Cell was a ,wooden gate,
upon which was written "Saint Geof-
frey's Retreat," which was one of the
few Roman Catholic religious establish-
mients iA existence at the period of our
history in England.

_  f.'vi
r';i
' ya  l
i...   ,A
j 3
. y  ..

The lieutenant and his man entered
the cavern.
"Not arrived yet, Wolff," said the
former.
"No; I thought we should be bthe
first here-hullo! what's this 7"
lie picked up from the ground a
piece of white muslin apparently tora
from a feminine garment.
"XWhy, there's blood upon it. There's
been some ugly piece of work carried on
here ; see, too, there are very evident
traces of a struggle.
ft was indeed as the lieutenant had
said. Upon examining the earth more
closely by the aid of a lantern which
Wolff carried they could discern several
moist patches, and experience taught
them that it was the moisture of human
gore.
"I hope that no harm has come to
the captain," muttered the lieutenant,
uneasily.
" The captain  " iterated Wolf; "yeu
surely don't think it possible."
"And wherefore 1"
"The victim in this job is doubtless a
woman."
"Pshaw ! because we find a scrap of
a woman's dress bedabbled with blood
you conclude that it is a woman who
has come to grief., But we shall see."
The noise of some one approaching
caught his ear.
"The men are coming up," said WolL
"They make noise enough for a regi-
ment of cavalry," muttered the lieu-
tenant, angrily; "one would think they
wished to be discovered."
" Stay," interrupted Wolff; "we are
in error ; it is not they who come."
"'Ah ! how know-you?"
" I hear the tramp f horses," replied
Wolff, uneasily.
"Some late travelers, I presume.
We must not let the present job blind
us for any thing else that may turn up
in the way of business."
' "Stand close, lieutenant," said Wol
"whilst I go and reconnoitre."

OE, TIE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

7

r J'  t


OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

57

The sounds of horses now drew near,
and the two men judged that they
could not be a minute's ride from the
spot.
Wolff walked warily to the mouth of
the caveru, and, clalhering into the
stioing tick creeping plits whw'h grew
about the entrance, there waited till
the cavalicis hilould draw suiliciently-
near for hin to t;a0e obser va ions.
Onit cat  the  hirIsemuen.  Six in
Oc f 1thm  rode a little in advance'
of the rest, and the lirt gince t that
WohL canqht o Ins Lee in the maoon-
Ii ght served to tilt1 hi w;n «iithie most
lively ap prehensons.
Quik. as tiiougiht he slid frot his
hioing-place and stepped ock into the
cavern.
" Well ?"
" Danger!" breathed Wolff, with his
fingrupon his lip.
" Ahi ! my you so?"
"1 I see that the re are six horsemen
heavily armed, making for this spot."
"t Siz?''
"And I recognize in their leader the
traveler with whom you fought."
"Never !"
"I'm certain of it. I never forge t a
face tlhat l've on ce seen."
" But no left bot  iiund land and
foot scarce a quarter of an hour. since,"
said the lieutetanat.
 T'rie-but hush-!"
They app'oached!
'ITh Isix hm01 umenen had reined in their
steed' iniumediat l in front of the en-
trance of the cavern.        .
'he next instant the two Yellow Boys'
could lhear them dismuoun t ing.
"It is high time for action," thought
the lieutenant.
lie grasped Wolff by the wrist and
stepped noiseleesly through the entrance
to the first inner chamber.
Here, however, the sound of the voice
)f one of the horsemen arrested their
attention.

"Marks," said a grfn voice " with"
draw a few paces to the left- leeP
s1rp look out."
" Yes, Iir."
" Shoot down any fugitive !"
They recognized the toues   That
v'iee once beard was never to be for-
gotten.
"'Wild!" breathed Wolfi into the
iieutenantt's e ar." .
 Then tlere las been treaehery at
woik ," returetidho neutenaut.
SAlt ! -the i iweler."
h Iitutenant gave the other's arm a
rlit equed 7to how that his suspi-
iul wY're ndeit rlstoo  I.
Toiy believe !hit t'L y had been
a den in an inhaslh. That the letter,
w  a mmiTo oling had brought them was
a Iirer-
Thai r attention was so thoroughly
absoribei in their present danger that
they did inot thik of tho improbabiit'y
of an-ther one-of the uninitiated being
able to write their cipher
Come on," whispered the lieutenant'
Wolff silently followed, and' in a
instant they gained the other exit.
Wild andhis men were already search'
Ong in the adjoining cavern.°
" They have been here," the fugitives
heard Jonathan Wi Id say, " and lately
too: I eau detect a recent presence in
the al inosjihere.'
"Then it's trite u hat they say of
him,'' mu,'!t1tered the lieutenant ; "heha.
all the instinct of a bloodhound-in his
devilis-h trade."
They passetd ion through the aperture,
pushing aside the bryirs which covered
it, and-
" Yield!" exclaimed a voice close to
tlteni.
They glanced upwards and found that
they were covered by a pair of horse
pis-tois held by one of Jonathan Wild's
Jaizaries.
It wats Marks. When Wild had or-
dered him off to the left the two fugi
fives had been so aatoded anl afarae

ed at recognizing the voice of an old and
implacable enemy that they had not
noticed the instruction which his speech
con eyed.
"Yield-!"
"Never !"
"Then I'll shoot you down."
"Try it."
As if by a previous understanding
they both feinted to fly in opposite
directions, and then suddenly threw
themselves forward upon their faces.
Tihre were two reports, followed by
a cry of pain.
" Ah !" cried the lieutenant, " I am
struck."
"Say you so, lieutenant ?" ejaculated
Wolff with-un oath; "then, by heaven,
it's short work with our friend here.''
Marks utter a shout of alarm, and the
next instant Wolff was upon him.
The former was a big powerfid man,;
and for thlre reason always chosen by
hi chief, Jonathan Wild, for any post
of danger-anenviable mark of distinc-
ion for the fellow !  .
Wolff was considerably his inferior
in she and strength, no doubt, .mt the
suddenness of the attack comijletely
took the other by surprise.
In far less time titan the-incident has
taken to record Marks lay stretched
upon the turf, pigned to the ground by
the robber's knee.
"Lieutenant! " cried Wolff.
But there was no reply. Tlicavern
only returned the-call with a dismal
echo which filled him with thoughts of
blood and revenge. l
"bDead !"  he  exclaimed, horror-
stricken. "Lieutenant, answer me."
No reply.
"You've shed the best blood of us,'
cried Wolff, "and now prepare for the
worst."-
He drew a short knife shaped some-
thing like the modern American bowie
from his belt, and flourished it before
i  eyes of the hapless Marks..
"Mercy! mercy " cied the oicer.

But Wolff's only reply to tliis was to
make a third call to his lieutenant,
which but met with the former results.
"Now, heaven have mercy upon your
soni."
"Onee minute," supplicated the ter-
ror-stricken wretclh.
"Quick, then; it's a short shrift
you'll get at my hands.  Lieutenant !"
" help ! helni ! murder ! mercy ! ha !"
Wolff raised his hand to strike the
fatal blow.
Marks closed his eyes and ceased to
struggle. There was a sharp bustling
noise close at hand, and the upraised
arm of the robber was caught in grasp
of iron crc it could descend.
Then Wolff was toppled over and fell
beside his hito prostrate antagonist to
find himself in a like predicament.
It was Jonathan Wild himself who,
at this critical juncture for his function-
ary tihus reversed the chances.
"Silas Vollf," exclaimed Wild, joy.
frlly ; "so, so, my old friend, we meet
again !"
Trie robber struggled frantically to
free  himself from  the thief-takers
clutches, but in vain. A man of Wild's
well-known prodigious strength was not
to be shahen off.
"Struggle away, Silas," said the thief.
taker ; " I could cry quits with you now
if l chose, but I've sworn to have the
pleasure of hanging you, and you know
me for a man of my word."
"Liar!" gasped Wolff.
" Fool," retorted Wild, ferociously,
to-night you accoinpany your friend
the !ieutenant and Red Ralph to.New-
,gate."
"Never !"
lie renewed his efforts tG escape, but
Wild pressed upon him so cruelly, that
he waus nearly suffo-ated-
"What; Iho !" shouted Wild ; " bring _
some cords. Here, you Marks, jump
up-idiot! the danger's over now."
But Marks did not stir    He 1ted
swooned from fear.

- , c       .   pi.; s
.        _       '
s.

RED RALPH:;


56                          RED RALPH;
A second cry from the thief-taker had procted a bucket of water from
brought assistance, and the robber was the well in the cave and had succeeded
aeeurely bound.                    in restoring the swooning Marks to con-
"Bear him   into the cave," said sciousness.-
Wild.                                As he opened his eyes he glance&amp;
This command was readily obeyed, about him, affrightedly, but was reas-
and Wolff had the satisfaction of seeing sured after Wild had abused him round-
that the lieutenant still breathed, al- ly for his cowardice.
though in a similar sad plight.      "I had a narrow squeak, M-. Wild,"
Thus his silence was explained:  mumbled the crestfallen Marks.
Wild and his men had fallen so sud-  "You'll be nearer the end one of these
denly upon the lieutenant and his men days," said Wild.
that he was bound and gagged before  "I say-stop---I think I can
he could warn his companions.      something."
"So far," said Wild to Tom King,   his hearing was sharpenedby having
"all has proceeded satisfactorily."  his head close to the ground.
"No   casualties ?"  demanded  the  "What do you hear ?"
other.                               "I fancy I can hear foetteps in the
'None. That idiot Marks, who has distance."
about the stamina of a girl, has fainted "Go and look out, then."
-that's all." Anxious to recover bis chief's goed
"We had better see about restoring opinion, the man sprang to his feet and
him," said Tom King.               obeyed with alacrity.
"I suppose so," growled the thief-  "Yes," said Marks, from ths out '
Aker; "though the proper reward for of the cave, "I was right; I can hear
him, would be to let him shift for him- some one, I'm sure."
self; but we shall shortly need his as-  "Let us go," said Wild to Tom King,
distance, I think."                "and see if the idiot has spoken the
"You think so."                  triul for tonce."
" Yes."                            " I suppose that they are all right ?"
"But if the rest of this precious gang said King, glancing at the two capdrves,
are within shot they will have been put who lay bide by side bound hand and
on their guard by the report of the pis- foot."
tols."                               " Theyv're safe enough," returned
" What of that 1"                Wild, come on."
" They'll never venture to attack us  They went to the entrance and 1aoked
here."                             about them.
" Pshaw ! you little know the men  " 1 can hear nothing," said King.
yon speak of"                        " Nor I," said Wild,  " but I believe
"But they would never venture to the fellow; h has wonderfully long
attack us without knowing our num-, ears--a hereditary feature ,"
her."                                " Then, all that remains to be done,"
"Wrong again.    You don't know said King, "is to post the men advan-
what these fellows would venture. Be- tageously, and we can take them ia
sides, they know our number as well ambush; we can hold our owp against
as we do."                         a host."
"How is that possible."            While the thieftaker and his tempo..
"They hate scouts in every iree- Mry colle a  Tom King were occu-
tio."lpied in the' mieditated surprise for the
In the meantime one of the ofcers Yellow Cand, a little scene of some i0-.

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGRT.

porte ne was being enacted within the  "Here you are," cried Toi King,
cave.                              " como here ! we're friendsou'rA sit

f
i
1
1'
l[Y
I
r
s

As soon as their captors had with-
drawn, Wolff shifted his head towards
the hieutenart.-
"Are youI n rt l" he demanded in the
lowest of whispers.
The lieutenant could only reply with
a glance.
"Put your head nearer mire," said
Wolff.
The other obeyed as well as he was1
able, and the faces of the two robbers
touched.
However, instead of embracing as the
*idinary spectator might have supposed
they were about to do, Wolff merely
seized between his teeth the gag which
choked the lieutenant's utterance and
tugged at it violently.
It was a hard pull, and tested severe-
ly the strength of Wolff's masticatory
organs.
But perseverence gained the day, and
the gag was shifted.
A few minutes elapsed.
" Now I can hear something," said
King.
^"'!"''"      "   y.     now
that we were right to make preparation,
eh ?"
" I do."
One of the men came running up -to
the spot where Wild and Tom King
were .conversiig.
"What is it now, booby I" demanded
the thieftaker.
" There's a woman running along the
road pursued by a whole mob of the
Yellow Band."        '
"What do you mean by a whole mob?"
"Three or four ?"-
"Ass!" exclaimed the irritable Wild;
- let the woman come; are you afraid of
a woman?"
. Before the main could reply a female
voice was heard calling for assistance,j
and the next minute a woman dressed'
In white, with her hair streaming down
her back, rushed to the Palmer's Cell.

safe here."
J Thanks, thankss" said the woman,
panting for breath, "this is a miracu-
lons preservation."
" What's the matter?"
"I have been pursued."
By whom ?"
" Two robbers."
Only two."
"Yes that's all, but I am half dead
with fright."
" Come in here and rest; this is Mr.
Wild, he's here to capture these ruf-
fians."
"Fool!" cried Wild, "-what's the use
of blabbing about my affairs to every
woman you meet."
"A little more civility, Wild," said
'Tom King, as he conducted the fright-
ened lady into the cavern.
"1huboI what's this ?" exclaimed
Tom King.
"What's the matter ?" demanded the
thief - aker.
"Cone here."
"I can't; these knaves are coming
nl."-
" But-''
"Peace !-.-Hla! they have smelt dan-
ger, I suppose, and are retreating.
Never mind, we shall bide our time."
" But, Mr. Wild, the prisoners."
" What of them ?"
"Where are they ?"
"Where are they?     Why, where
they be ?"
lie entered the 1almer's Cell as be
apoke.
" Ten thousand furies r' he roared,
"they have escaped."
CHAPTER XIII.
.TONATIIAN'S RAGE-A LADY WHO COULD
-WHISTLE-TiHE HAND-TO-HAND COM-
BAT - A SURPRISE FOR WILD --BED
RALPU FOR EVER!,
JONATHAN WILD was furious. H.
stamped and swore, and cursed- eve ,

- .r  'a
/                                      ,

ti

_                                                      ~al..

;'e
,y'
r'
',i


RED R ALPH ;

Individual about him-but there was no
mending the matter.
The prisoner had escaped !
How they had coutrived to effect this
was a matter of the profoundest nmys-
tery to all.
Every nook, ev'ry passage and cavern
was searched, and the buihcs lbCaten ill
every direction, but still they could
find no traces of the fugitives.
Jonathan \Vild could barely compare.
bend the possibility of their loocuing'
the thongs which, but a few  mitutes!
before, held then so securely.
But, not to 1imest titr m em'se w ith*i 1
too much w'(Onudter, l got over this peim t
by mentally admitting its plossihiiity.
But then how couli they contr'i ye to
get clear off 'when his inoen' guatdd
every point about the Palmer's Cell I
There was only one solution of the
mystery, and tis the tlhiettaker did t
hesitate to ai ouue to his colleagues.I
" W e have a traitor amongst us,'' he
said, ghncing about him suspiciu y;
"who ~is he B'
The men looked iuiquiringly at eacl
other, but one expmresiou alone tihed
every countenance-won der.
"A traior !" iterated l'on King.
" Ay," said Wild; "a trait r : and Ud
give a year's perquisites to be able to
drop my hait upon him."
"Impossible."
1 say we have, and lie shall swing
for his treachery, I swear."
One of the scouts raun in to aniousco
that the Yellow Baud were approach-
mg in force.
" How many do they muster ?"
"1 counted a dozen, Mr. Wild," re-
lihed the mau.
"And we are sic," said Wild ; " two
to one, humph,"
"But then the attack will always
have an immense advantage," suggested
Toi King.
" Possibly.  We must endeavor to
get a volley at them  before they are
upon their guard-"

"Oh!" cried the lady, "I am bot-.
undone."
"Have mn fears, madam," said Tom
King, " we will .rotect you."
"But you will be outnumbered," she
said.
" We have justice on our side."
" True, sir, but-"
c Cease your prate, woman;" said
Wild, brutally, " we have no time to
listen to a Vo!)'n's fears."
" Sir,'' said the lady, "you wouldd
not dare insult mo in my lthe  pres-
These words were barely  /.t ed be.
fore Tam King, disgusted v .n the thief.
taker's birutaliit to a ladiy, struck him a
,man blow in the face.
e Tou King," cried tWild, livid with
passion, " I swear ye'. shall repent that
blow.''
" And I swear 1 r'ever shall," said
King, " s.nee it v, l but a just reward
for youri n- lelre to a lady."
" Nay, do nor quarrel on my account,
I pray you. If you . ould but give me
an escort to-"
" We can give no escort now," snarled
Wi'd.
" Whet to ?" demanded Tom King1
without ieding Wild.
" T o the Manor house."
"TI'he Manor louse '" said Kmg.
"The Manoi house !" repeated Wild.
" Might I ask your name, madam '"
"Certainly ; my christian name is
Blanche- my surname the same as my
" Loubtl-ss : and that is-"
" Mordaunt."
" Sir Johu Molrdaunt ?"
"'The same, sir."
The thie'faker was thunderstruck
Sir John Mordaunt was the richest corn
moner of Engiaud, and one of the most
infuential men of the day.
"Plague upon my tongue," he mut-
tered ; "I've spoilt my self there, that'*
very certain,
" Madam,' aid Tul King, raisin(

OR, THE DAUG]
his hat respectfully, "it were worsethan
madness to attempt to leave this place
at present. We should be pursued and
taken by these ruffians, and you would
be subjected to great indignities. Rely
upon us to cheek them-have no fears.
They are superior in strength, but we
are all armed and have the advantage
in every way. Be reassured, I pray
you."
"I will, I will," said the lady; " I am
a soldier's daughter, and not altogether
deicient in courage."
" You don't fear the firing."
"Not I, sir ; I shoot myself a little."
"Then you can reader us a very
material service." '
" Indeed; then you have but to con-
mind me. I can~load for you while
you fire."
"Precisely what I was about to say.
I am now more than ever assured of
success."
" Hand the pistols, then, while there
is time. I can hear footsteps," said!
Lady Blanche.
" Good,'' sid .Jonathan Wild ; "this
is indeed a service, inada ."
1his tone wos wonder3'ully subdedu'd
since he had been informed of the lady's
rank, and he stood respectfully uncuv-
ered before her.
One of thie scout ran in to say that
:n the space of a le w seconds the Yellow
Band would be upon them.
They had halted to reconnoitre a few
paces distant.
"Load and give them a volley," sug-
gested Lady Blanche.
" Excuse me," said Ton King; "I
think that the great point is patiently
to await their attack here. What do
you think ?"
Ihis was addressed to Jonathan Wild.
The thief-taker, albeit an adept in the
art of dissimulation, oould not so far1
disguise his resei'itent to Tni ing
for the blow he had received as to reply
with anything like civility, and there-
he, leiag seasCious of his weak.ess mi

vHTE1 VF NIGHT.
this particular, he would not trust him-
self to answer.
"As you l)lease," said Lady Blanche
Mordaunt.    Q.f course you are the
best judge."
"But whatever we do. it must be done
at once. They coi!"
"Give me the pistols and powder-
flasks, then," said the lady.
Jonathan Wild hastened to obey, and
the weapons of his men were collected
in an instatit, and the lady accomplished
the unlatlylilto operation of loading
them with a dexterity which confirmed
her assertion of her knowledge of their
use.
caMr. il ,said Marks, entpripg tho
caverni.
" What now?"
We have no shelter whore we are
placed } shailI we reuecat to the Cave
and await their attack ?"
No."
'' Hut-__"
" giieintfe, you jackanapes! You i1..
troon' ! You white-livcrcd rascal  .o
as \  are bid iud say nothing."    -
The men ndte'd gam uhi tag.
the arms were redistributed, and
Laity Bliaice Mordannt retired ih the
cave.
As soon as her ladyship was within
the cavern, her bearing  t derwent a
sudden and most ieiarkable chlla ge.
1er ladyship waistled!
A very low note, bUat still a whistle.
"hallo !" whispered a voice from
above.
"Hush! keep dark until 1 give the
word. It's wot king beautifully."
" Are they coming 1"
"Who-the men 1"
" Ay.°
"Yes. They are pausing there for
something. I suppose that they are
waiting there for the signal to advance."
*You cannot manage to give it i
' No," replied her ladyship "Stay.
[ might manage it from the other exis,
1 maatbe done, at Al hazard i2


1.

w3

RED RALPH ;

she gathered up her skirts in a most Wild alive ; he shall die to-night,
graceful manner, and tripped lightly I'm no true                ch
through the cavern to the door at which " Rascal !" roared the thief-cat.ker,
the lieutenant and Wolff had been con- "if I were near you now!
fronted by Marks, and then, raising a  "Don't fear, now," continued
small silver whistle to her lips, she blew Ralph; "they have no fire-arms !"
a loud and shrill note.              "Confound him ." cried Wild, "he
" Hallo !" exclaimed Wild, "there's even knows that. le must be in league
suiething very wrong here."        with the foul fiend himself."
An answering signal was heard from  This was an imprudent speech, for
i" Yellow Band, and then they once his men had already began to wavr,
are advancedand were but too glad to accept this
"Now, thou, or never '" ejacnlated assertion as truth.-
Tom Kinag.Red Ralph was reported by the
"Now, my men," said Jonathan Wild, vulgar to have a charmed life, and the
take a steady aim ! Pick out Red present state of things seemed to corre-
Ralph, and the game's oar own."    borate thisix men had fired twice inte.the
"     !Fire !"
There was a loud report, but, as far advancing body, and without any per -
as the officers could see, no damage had ceptible result.!
b dAs Red Ralph spoke, the men gave a
been cdone.dlatceradcagdtecnabe,
The pistols were again passed in, and lusty cheer and charged the constable,
were loaded by the Lady Mordaunt with sword in hand, at full gallop.
sarprisig rapidity.                 Tose  King and Wild placed thee
"Give the knaves another volley !" selves at the front and received the
eried Tom King.                    attack of the twelve men vith coia-
"Pick out Red Ralph !" roared Jona- tuenmable coolness.
than Wild.                           T.eir example served to steady th4i
A second report followed, but the men, who iuui diately took part in the
Yellow Band still came on ! Not oue stiugje, and stood their ground, in
of their uutuber was wounded !     spite of the uneiual odds.
-third time were the pistols 1as5cti  " Cut them inup! " called a voice which
into the cave. but this time they wvere i-oeunded remarkably like the lieuten-
act charged with the saute r iapihy.  ai ',.
''Where are thev ?" exe laimed \Vild.1, " 1al! You are there, are you:v
" The pistois, madam. Give them at simutedo Tem King.
at once, or ie are as  gotd as gone,  "cs h Img" returned the lieuten-
very  man  o   ais!" r  ait, "        he e  I am, sword  in  hand, await-
But there was apt any reply this ing moy opportunity of finishing our
time.  ler Iadyship had iiS. pptearsd !   hit  aia m Ic"rK."
Nothing could be heard stow bitt a  "And here am I," cried King, with-
voice which Jonathan Wild recognized drawing a pace, and flourishing his
as belonging to Red Ralph, the captain weapon.
of the Yellow Band, inciting his men to "Now for one fire," said the lieuten-
action.                     -      ant. "You have blazed away at us,
And strangely enough it sounded and I should say that's now our turn."
quite close at hand ! "Wild's men began to grow uneasy,
"Come on! Charge theyn, my menI and to give ground'at this terriblethreat..
Smito the vil..ns, hip and thigh, and  "Now's our time ." cried a voice ;u
da_     ryo'w    Takedonathan     ditelymtherear    r

R, THE DAUGHTER OF NTGB'T. -. 63
Jonathan - Wild turned round, and " Bind them securely-hand and foot)
there stood the Lady Blanche Mor- Not after the style that they tied up
daunt, sword in hand, preparing to Wolff and the lieutenant."
attack them in the rear.             "Ay, ay, captain !" responded the
"Hallo there d" ejaculated'Jonathan band.
Wild.                                "Captain 1 iterated Tom King.
"Come on, Wolff," said her ladyship.  "Captain ?" re edJoaat  Wild,
"All right, captain," said. the same in amazement.r t     a    W
voice which had before responded to  "Then you," said TomnKigstaring
her ladyship's from above. "I'm with      e aghast at her masculine go.staiingnyu.r
you."-"ten you are-"
A scrambling noise was heard, and in "Red Ralph," answered the pseudo
a trice Lady Mordaunt was joined by Lad
y Lady Mordauznt, with a laugh. " Red
Wolff, who had all the time been con- Ralph. At your Service, Tom King."
sealed in a hollow in the rock at the
top of the cave.                             CHAPTER XIV.
"Treachery !" shouted Wild.       WILD vows VENGEANEi-TTnz HIGHWA
"A man !" cried Marks.              nOBBERY--TUE BEAUTIFUL GIRL-THE
"A trap -- an ambuscade !" said a   PASSIONATE E NTREATY-EIDNAPPING
second and a third.                  --TO THE NUNNERY ! TO THE' NU,N-o
"Down with your arms, then," cried  ER I-T TILOOMlIN  DAMSEL AXD
Lady Blanche Mordaunt; "yield, or    BONDESIDT.
I'll make mincemeat of every man of  WHO shall give a description of Jona-
you."              .                than Wild's rage a-d mortification
All save Wild and Tom King, drop- upon discovering that the beauteous
pod their weapons afirightedly and cried LLady Blanche Mordaunt was no other
for quarter.                        tian Red Ralph, the Captain of the Yel-
" Yield then, Jonathan Wild !" said lw Band ?
the Lady Blanche Mordaunt, in theJ Theie-there in his grasp, and yet to
rearas, ad yi                                                 t
lose him!
The thief-taker's only reply to this Nay, not simply to lose him, but be-
was to dash savagely at the speaker'; come his prisoner! The gibe, the scoif
but Tom King, who appeared to have of the whole world; gr he well knew
entirely lost himself in the confusion that he was as much detested as he was
of the front and rear attack, turned feared by his Janizaries, andthat the
from his foes, and beat up Jonathan knaves would not fail to
"  I;3ert               o  publish  his.
Wild's sv ord.                     defeat and ridicule him to the scandal
At the same instant the enemy closed loving public.
with them, and Jonathan Wild and his  Not so, Toni King, however.
men w're worsted,                    ell was so thoroughly struck with the
Tom . King at the same time, was audacity of the hightvayman's exploit-
beaten to the ground and menaced by so possessed with admiration ir the
the upraised swords of the , Yellow dash with which it had been executed
Band,                      that his position lost all its ignominy
"Victory!"'shouted the Lady Blanche in his view.
MordaunA, waving -her bonnet tii-    He had fallen a     -itmtoabto
uphantly.                        daring, which  undoub~tedly  merited
"Hurrah! HurrahI" shouted the Yel- success-
-ow Band.                            " What shall we dowt-  hec
"Tie them uy," said her ladyship. taiin?"-demanded Wmoithhm     a

i-I


RED RALPH;
"Bear them to the glad.. There they  "I think that nothing could justify
will be free from chance observation. such a proceeding, Captain Ralph," re-
Stay, fasten them upon their horses, turned Torn King, gravely. .
backwards."                          "Perhaps not ; but off with them
Jonathan Wild cursed both loud and my men; we will decide after. And
deep, but he mighthavesaved hisbreath. hark you, Wolff."
Tom   King merely laughed at the   "Captain 1"
maledictions of the thief-taker.     "if he uurmurs-shows the faintest
"Plague take you, you jibbering signs of wishing to escape, toss him into
fool !" cried Wild, savagely,      the pond."
"Ha! ha! ha !" laughed Tom King.   "Yes, captain."
"You look scarcely so majestic, sitting  The thief-taker took this for a tacit
backwards upon  a horse, Mr. Wild."  understanding that he was to be slain,
"Curse y ou," roared the thief-take4, and his cheek blanched with fear.
"I believe that you are pleased with  The four men, strapped as the Cap
the failure-failure for the nonce, I may tainof the Yellow Band had ordered,
say."                              upon their horses backwards, were car-
Pleased-delighted."            ried from the spot,'follo wed by their

" Indeed 1"
"Verily."
"And I believe, Tom King, that you
are in league with the Yellow Band."
" Right again."
"H H'" eye'iaimed the thief-taker.
"You are, are you ?hark yo    [this
was addressed to his men) -lark you
that ' He says that lie is in league w ith
the Yellow Band, and I swear that the
day will conic  wen those words will
be brought forward as evidence against
you.
Tom King endeavoved to scoff _t this
threat, but he weel knew - that the
speaker was a man whose resentment
way to be avoided.
"Tom King," said the pseudo Lady
Blanche Mordaunt.
"Captain?"
"You see now that if we let this
rascal free he will sacrifice you as mer-
eilessay' as he would me or any of my
band, if we were-in his power."
"I never questioned that for a mo-
ment," replied King.
"Then do you not think that we are
justified in sacriticing him ?"
"Villain !" cried  Jonathan Wild,
"would you murder met"'
"No; only putyou out of the way
ia s~fdefence."

hunnliated leader.
The last to -depart was Tom King,
who, although in this undignified posi-
tion, made the best of it, and nodded
his adieu to Red Ralph.
"There goes a game fellow !" said
Ralph, as he retained his vanquished
foe's salad e.
As soon as they had departed Ralph
turned to the lieutenant.
" Walters," said he, " what is that
about the blood in the cave which you
mentioned to me ?"
"Wolff and I -fou 1 t hris here, and
beside it was a pool ot lood-and ap.
patently fresh," replied theflieutenant.
Ideed."                      -
Ralph took the piece of white muslin
and examined it with interest.  ,
"Strange-," he muttered, half-'loud ;
"she was dressed so too. My life upon
it, the Lady Maude is4n some way on-
nected with this.-Walters i"
"Captain."
"You got a note, of course t"
"Else we had not been here."
"Certainly. Then you are aware
that the Lady Maude has been carried
off to the nunnery ?" -
"You' mentioned it in the uCte,.cap
" I did. Anmdaroyou wilingto Joiff

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

1'63

-me in a venture to-night-a venture   As'it drew near the spot where the
from which we can hope to obtain no lieutenant was concealed, a hear wfas
personal advantage ?"               put through the carriage windo a nd
" I know what you mean, captain," a voice SIIoute(l out-
rephe( the lieutenant.  " You Would  " Drive on,aJames ! faster, you rascal!
rescue the Lady Manitdefironi what is.; I'm sure I saw a horse nan On ahead,
doubtless, her pris'n-_.s it not so'?"  and I know that this road is dangerous.
"Right," sail Red Rlph ; ''and what Drive on faster !
is your answer "                     Assonu as they reached him he
Is  -my answer necessary 7" Eimnand- -ldarted from his hiding - place, and
ed the lieutenant.  Y-u know that I a n rushed to tilO Horses' heads.
yours for anything and very tlhin "  "Stand '
" I do, Valters; then here ae iny  '" Ha '
tactics-as we have been so suec ;ial  " [ilt -" cried the lieutenant " or I'll
n~th our arch enemy, Jfn~atha u Wild, I blow you to atoms."
mean to adopt sobiethin  f the sae   ut the coacmnan, maddened with
style of preceding in the present in- fear, did the be t ting to be done under
stance."                           theCarpeui stances, which was to en.
" Prcoe, cptan."dear-otr to drive on.
 naou must know, Walters," contin-  It is jtst possible, '0o, that he would
ned Cupti ilTip, " that I ha ve gained have accouplishted his purpose, had not
the ioi'iaationl, troni the sa me quar- the lieutenant seized the bridle of the
ter as I [eaarnt that the Ldy Man Ic nearest of the leaders and forced hini
had been carried to the nuunnery, that almost back upon his hauAehes.
the Lady Abbess is iwaitiug the arrival  " rive on !" cried the voice from
of a noyie--possibly another victini, of within the carriage
the name of Arnold. Now, this Miss   "Do   t your p-ii" said the lieu-
Arnold is to arrive to-night. What's tenant.
that 's"o-The coachman in terror let fall the
The sound of carriahe-wiegh wa   reins.
h a-rd approaching.                 Seeing this, the highwayman drewup
A carriage                     to the arigeinow.
" We must look after it."          " Now, if you please, sir."
aStay here awhile, captain," said  " Ruffian !"
Walters; "I'll go and see about it."  "Conic, come," said 'the lieutenant,
Quick, then."                   "hand over."
The lieutenant sprang upon the near-  "What 14
est horse and galloped of            "Your loose cash.'
As hc tai-ned the angle of the road he  "Never !"
found himself out in the bright moon-  " You're wasting time."
light open to observation, and lie al- The old gent ean raised his hand
-ost feared that -e was perceived.  quickly, and the lieutenant perceived
However, be reined his horse quickly that it held a pistol.
up to the side of the hedge, where he  There was a report, but when the
'sae completely hidden by the shadows smoke cleared off the highwayman was
of some giant elms.                still in the same position.
On came the carriage, a lumbering   He had seen his danger just in time
old vehicle drawn by toi horses and to duck and avoid it, and then resume A
richly decorM1d, showing it to be the his place as coolly as if nothing had c-
proety of amily of importance.     , curred.

'_
E        -    .
i ..,wry     - ,'R",

r
r

r
,.
.,
f
f,
E


.8  .             . RED RALPH-
2p ow it's my turn,'" said the lieu-  " Let my words pro . Eit te yo'," t
tenant, with admirable sangfroid.    turned Red Ralph.
lufilan ! would you slay me ?" cried  "Tlien, whoever you may be,' eu
5I'e old man.                        treated the girl. "I pray you have
""Well, I don't know, unless you   mercy upon my father's gray hairs."
and over yo ?r watch andi purse."      " But he has had no mercy upon yoi
"Give it up, father," entreated a Miss Arnold."'
. female voice.                           "What mean you ?"
" Never !"                           " Simply, if I am not mistaken," ar.."
" You are running a useless risk-- swered the Captain of the Yellow
lasting our time and unnecessarily   Band, "that you do not go to the nun-
alarming the lady."                  nary volntarily.
The higlhwaynan presented his pistol  " ha ! you know that too 1"
*s he spoke, and thte old gentleman   ." Then 1 am correct ''
turned aside in terror.                " YOu ar, you are," returned the
"It is on full cock'~sir," said the lieu- young la(y, ;i tattrs.
tenant, " so don't keep it presented at  " And your unnatural parent here was
you too long. It miight go off by acci- carrying you there by force 1"
dent, even."                           " Alas yea."
The old man stnped down as if ahont  " Theu lt him look upon your de-
to comply with tihe robber's demand, liverancec fronm his erul persecution as
but the light of the carriage lamp provitenutia uinijt the present busi-
flashed upon the polished barrel of a ness as a just punishment for his
pistol.j crnes."
" Ha! treachery ?" exelaimined the  " Villian !" ejaculated the old gentle-
lieutenant. " Move from that position, mant.
aiid I swear by heaven that I will Slow  " Silence, old man !" said Ralph'
your brains out."                    sternly, " 'provoke me not to a course of
At the same time, growingiinpatilit action which I would fain avoid."
at the long delay, he raised a small   " Who are youn "
siver whistk to his lips aad blew a   " It matters little ; suffice it for you
long shrill note.                    that I know you and your nefarious
": fithat ho ! capt ain !"'scheme, and, that your daughter may
The next minute he was joined by suier it further violence at your hands,
Red Ralph.                           yu millay consider yourself my pris-
"\Wiha t's  this 1'"               oiuer!"'
" Just  im yi ,tthis obtt inate old  " l'iisoei '' repeated Miss Arnold,
maut's polkets, whilt I cleau tut the iin time greatest alarm.
carriage."                             " Fear nothing, Miss Arnold," said
" I think, Walters, we haid better ldphi, " your father is safe for your"
clear tie caiiage omut aitogetier."  sake ; hut lie iust go with me-"
" Altogetiherj i'                    Then lie turned and said in a low
Ay-we can make use of it. Will voice to tho lieuteuaut-
bu step ut1"/Walters, sunmion assistance. Give
Thin was at'ess~eetttheyonwglady  the signal for some of the men.
who b'aw l~v&amp;l-nigh fainted from terror.  The lieutenant blew a- call upon
Oh ! spare me, spare me," sie cried. hugle ie carried, and in the spy-
"Fear nothing, Miss Arnolt."      three minutes sone seven or eig
"You know me ?" exclaimed the came running to time spot.
ykunmg lady, in amazement.             " This way," said Red Ralph

OR, THE DAUGH
eure this old man ; clear out one car-
riage, and place him and this lady in a
secure part of the h, ;let them be
treated with every respect and atten -
tion."
" Yes, captain."j
Ralph's attention was at this monsent
attracte(l by seeing the old man attempt-
ing to conceal a letter. ~ .-
"What is that ?"
"What!"
"That paper he is hiding there --give
It to me."
The old gentleman struggled to re-
tain possession of it, but his efforts
amailed him but little.
"What is this I" said .Ralph, as he
hurriedly perused the note.  "'The
Bishop of Bondstreet ! so,, so, Mr. Ar-
nold, he is in league with you in this
pretty piece of business. A bishop of
the established church engaged in a
conspiracy to imprison a young lady-
and that young lady your daughter-in
a nunnery !  Then( will I defeat your
whole scheme. fhis will sufficiently
prove to the world that no' fanatical
seal for what you would conveniently
choose for your faith has. led you to
adopt this step, and Miss Arnold will,
donlbtless, be  removed  from your
paternal tendernes."
I Ir. Arnold groaned.
"And yen have succeeded in creating
a i eputat ion in soc !e ty for piety," re-
sumed the leader of the Yelow Thoid.
"Fie upon you, old man. You had bet-
ter far better have adopted my calling.
At any rate, I only ' prey upon the
wealthy and the powerful."
"Slave !". cried Mr. Arnold, "you
shall hang for this."
"Silence ! Away with them ! Fear
nothing, Miss Arnold - you shall be free
to depart almost immediately."
The captain's commands were obeyed,
and once more he was alone with the
coachman, who sit upon his box half
rozen with terror.

ITEIR OF NIGHT.                     _
"Now, coacinan," saiw ! ii
you and mec to be fr iends."
"0 [or ! Mr. Iiglhwayian,"  aspe4
the man,
"Peace! Will you do' as Ibid you 1:
"Any mortal thing."
" Obey me, thlen~," sa id  a p1,, titagd
not only shall I allow you to go sco
free, 'but I will reward you hand-
somely."
"Reward  ""
'" Av."7
"What do you wish, sir - that is
honored sir ?"
"1 wish you to remain here for ten
minutes ; take no notice of anything
you may see or hear."
' Yes, sir."
"Then drive me to the nunnery; do
you hear me ?"
" Yes, sir."      -
"And will obey?".
"Faithfully."
"And you shall have five guineas."
Five guineas I"
"Ay, and if you perform my bidding
faithfully-"
" promise."
"Enough; I say that if you perfon
my   biding   faithfully, it shall be
doubled".
' Oh ! honored sir," exclaimed' the
man, " I'm yours for life."
"T hat's more thau enough. Half- dn--
hoai will suffice."
The mun reiterated his assurance ofL
fidelity, and Red Raphr reta-ned to th
i the course of three or four minutes
the coachuwan saw a white figure mov-
ig along the road, in the gireetion i =
which the highwayman had departed,
and he began to entertain sonicsue
stiio  quailmns.
As the igare drew nearer, however,
he perceived that it was a woman
dressed in white, and who was makinm
for the spot in very unfemimine stridbs
The woman did not pause -as he
passed the carriage, but merely uttere~i


_.
;_
r
.~'

Is

,

. .

a word which caused the coachman to   "There goes St. Paul's," murmured
start, and almost to tumble from his the captain; "the wind's in this quar-
seat-     '                         ter, and we shall have a story night of
"'Remember !"            ~        it. It must be nearly .upon the hour,
"0 bor! yes," answered tha coach- Ha! here comes my lord bishop. I may
man, "I will indeed, sir."         ( as well ride up to him.  Ills grace
He recognized the voice of the Cap- bears a reputation for gallantry, and
tain of the Yellow Band.            will never fear a pettier tt."
Red Ralph had for tie present scheme  A light 'ouch of the rein once more
returned to the Palmer's Cell, which set Nancy in motion, and they mounted"
served hint upon this occasion as a a rather steep hill, at.the foot of which
dressing-rowus, al h.isily re-arrayel he had drawn up.
himself in the feminine apparel.      Not a hundred yards in front of him
Contenting himself with tlis passing came a single horseman at a gallop.
admonition to the coachman, Captain lIe wore a long-riding cloak which half
Ralph iurrie-l down the road in the covered horse as well as rider, but a
directi in of Lo4mnon.             broad-brimmed hat ecclesiastically fash-
" I left her here," lie said, pansing be- ioned with black cords and tassels, an-
fore the strimip of a tree which had been inounced that it was the traveler whom
de tr,,cd by lightuiing ; "site mast have the aptain of the Yellow Band had cx-
got loose and strayed away; perhaps pected.
she is nib'aling at tihe sweet herbs in the " Good night, sir," said Ralph, as the
seit icl--st-t-lley ! Nancy, lass !".traveler approached.,,
His sumnnons was responded to by   "Good night to you, madam," re-
the neigh of a horse, evidently close at turned the traveler, with a very gallant
hand.                               bow.
"Hey, Nancy, lass !" repeated the   "A fine uight."
eapain. "This way, lass."            "It is: you are abroad rather late,
Thoe next mi'aute a horse was heard methuks, madam" said the traveler
galloping across an adjacent field, and haIli awvhile.msr"rtre  ap,
then, taking the hdea aIynIla-        "nde~ed, I am, sir," returned Ralph,
then, taung thehedge at aL flying leap-   ,       i
ne small matter-the "Nancy" that in a low voice. "And I am very fear-
Captain Ralph had summoned stood by ful."-
-s ide.                              "Fearful-of what!"
"JBrave lass," said Red Ralph. pat-  "Robbers."
ting her neck. "Brave Nancy."         "There is no fear here, ma dam," sx,1
. The horse, or rather mare, returned the traveler.
his caress with a neigh of pleasure.  "Indeed? But there is," said Ralph;.
"Now then, Nancy," said Red Ralph, "it is reported that this road is infested
wringin~g upon the saddle sideways, by the fellow Band."
"Hey for the road! O  and away !"    "Nay; it was, perhaps. But Mr.
And Nancy flew off with her strangely Jonathan Wild has swept them all ot
Mired master, like me wind,         to-day."
When they hail proceeded about a    "Indeed?"
mile along the London Road the captain  "Ay, madam, and  their rascally
drew rein and began to look about leader, Captin Red Ralph, as he do
Wam.                                signates hunself, is by this 'ime safety
At the same instant the distant sound lodged in Newgate."
_.a church clock striking, came taint.ly  "This is iorious news  But are yeo
~ai hi ear.                        care?"

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.
Certain, madam. He gained such       " Put dow- that pistl."
information to-day as must have en-     ".Sit  uiet, orIar  o
sured the success of his untertaking." plode," said RaI alrh. n
"Whsei                                " Whith1    ph. oula 1Thed?
" Jonathan Wild's: who bait he could  demanded etr w o  , y
do it  lie is ie greates-"          horse.e sho          r"n
"Rigne livi ag ""T                          yridic'
"Eh ?1eidnc.
"                                   " I'llNgo.
"Oh! I thought you sail something,"   "Atlo         ha       lt
M id the traveler.eatnowihaPtoam
"No, si, I wta   listeaingto yoa."   "hen y   U wouwel . not object if l
   sI was about to sap that Jfnatlhan offered more gewuld intcbect5 L"'said
age i"   tectr of the Ralph, lowering tie pistol for an instant
age."                         The" ol bishop endear red to lol
"Doulbtless, if he has effected the  aunt tr d   shop beavoied omi    -
capture of the robber.  have a mi    pression of hilns couutenance, as he tO -
sion of imu portance to fill which calls me tured his fat cheeks into a  hsmiletr
out so late at night, but was just ret urn- tickled Ralph that he burst into a, r
lng with my object u.uacconpli.ched".  of laughter.
-so ?""lullo! young woman."
SI feared to pisi a portion of the    his grace was astonished at th
road up higher, it is so dark. And I was  uline lauge mas
r~eturn2in~g.""our a y                        ,                           -T
roue  a sad rogue, your grace r*
"Will you accept my escort?   Will eXClaimed Red Ralph.
you come with me ?"                     " Gad, if itwrnofrteclt,
-Ralph  turned his horse round and laughed the bisho not for the cloth,
stood side by side with the traveler.   "Fie upon you, my Lrdonaho
"With all my heart, my lord bishop." Bondstreet.",p
": ia l i  yu     a    "        r    "How came you to know me."
But stay, your grace ;" and her     "Let us proceed a .ittle further, .ad
Ralph produced a pistol and presented  you shall learii that."
it at the bishop. " Suppose, instead    "
you go with me ?"                         nBt I say yes."
Ralph rais- the pistol to the bishop'
CHAPTER XV.               (head andl e  ide o
TIT    IIs()oIFALLS INTO TIE IIANDS OF     suppose          - must,"'said his grace,
FORCE- L'  L -   UD     hed  contenance wore    an  oddly
FTHCE -Pi&amp;LrI EsCrE--.rE y M DBmixed e liression of curiosity and f&amp;ar
-T~  PANOrE~APC-I'IE  URUI   "utI ever lwas wooed in ttisfaLshion
-RED IIALPIJ AGAIN VICTORIous                 e       obefode."
r TECuER}Y !" cried1 the  lir
" What hrC! Murder !  Robter "i    Rapican well believe that," said Red
What ince. M  rRlp, laughimngly.
" Help! Mur"                         They had Eow reached the spot where
"Ih~p!Mur"                Itime lieuteniant had stopped the, travel-
"You'll get into trouble, my Lord ing carriteanhd tre    the menrave
Bi8sho~p of Bostree~t'Ct.,            n   a riage, and three of the mert were
" Jezebel  cried the astonished ccl sti engaged    their work finder.
Jeastice                                 very vestige of property had disap-
."Softly."                          feared, and nothing remained but 'e
carriage and horses.

y ,

i
.
:t u
h  y
t
+'"
y;
_
ti "'yl

RED RALPH ;

{,


Ithad been a rich booty,-for the pro-  "Ha ! my lord bilaep," exelIi edo
prietor of the carriage had come with a Ralph; "my words touch you; nearly."
ltnd trse, prepared to satisfy any~ "Raffian !" faltered the bishop.
iraples of conscience which the lady  "None of your abusive epithets touch
Fojperiorofke coavent might choose to  Red Ralph, the Captain of the Yellow
satcrtaia wit'regard to the business in  Band; outlaw-robber-thongh he be,
mod.                                with a price upon his head !"
"Hawks,"said Captain Ralph.         "What do you mean by these idle
"Is that you, captain !" said one of words ?" demanded the bishop, but
the men, joking up.                 with reduced importance.
4Yes; [want your assistance here."  "Mean, my lord 1"  aid leel Ralph.
"Ay- ay, captain."                "Why, that I know you-that I am ac-
"Captain 1" iterated the bewildered quninted with all your rascally proceed-
Bishop of Bondetreet.              ings--with the object of your presence
WAy, captain," said Red Ralph, with here ,to-ight."
a light lagh.                        "It is an idle boast," said the bishop,
t     rare--"                  eyeing him curiously.
Bed Ralph, the Captain of the Yol-  "Nay, it is none ; one word will ef-
bw Bad-; at'yiour service."       lice to prove the fact."
fMoI t goodness i" "Indeed ."
"The knave that Mr. Jonathan Wild,  "Ay !.
the greatest 'public benefactor of the  "And'that word ls- -"
grkasi secured and safely lodged in   "Arnold."
Newgate this night."                  "Ha!"
Phehbahop could not utter a word for  "You see, my lord, it is no idleboast.'
sevtal inues."Mifan, demon, fiend-whoever you
'  was  terly dumbfounded.       may be-"
"Audacious scoundrel !" at length he  "I am Red Ralph, Captain of the Yel-
ried.                              low Band
"My gallant churchman !"            " Ahd leagued with the foul bend, I'll
"Unblushing ruffian !"            be sworn."
A Most virtuous prelate t"         "Believe it not your grace," returned
"You laughing thief! You jilibering ' Red Ralph, sarcastical y. "And there-
rogue ! Jail-bird !"               fare the presone of so -mucli piety can
Proceed, your grace," said Red lani me little."
lph, laughing boisterously.          " Aus w(r me one question."
"Gallows Jack !"                   ".Willingly, if in my power, my Lord
s    ion't exert yourself too much, my Bishop of Bondstreet."
lord bishop," said Red Ralph.  ' It's  " Hush."
dangerous; you are just the style of  Uis grace glanced about him affrighlt-
mah who pops off with apoplexy !"  edly.
Iis grace was silent in an instant.  "Wherefore 1"
"Now comes my turn," said Ralph,    ' Fool !" said the bishop. "Would
"as your grace is quiet for a moment. you betray me to your men ?"
Peijured gurdian !"                   "I h;'ve no secrets from my associ-
Liar !"                         ates," said Red Ralph.
"Traitor! Betrayer .f the innocent !  "And your men-"
False priest and-"                    "Know- all. I deem it prudent. I
'!Sir!' reiterated the churchman' might be caught in ambush. It is knows.
hagfng e9lor..                      to me that the Bishop of Bondstreet.a5

r   y  '               . S-  y
-      "t., ,.3
}    , v1
_      ",l"'
y;                  '    i
_              .c  !
14          ' __
--

ennning is greater even than his piety, read men's pockets as well as theft
and so I provided against it thus. Should hearts."
any harm occur to me, every man of  "I could read yours."
the Yellow Band is prepared to publish  "Indeed ?"
to the world your grace's peccadilloes-  " Ay ! I can  ay that the pocket of
so disgrace you before all-to ruin your your cloak contains a weapon."
reputation, and, possibly, to lose you  T he bishop started.
your liberty."                      "I strike home again," said Ralph.
With a half- supressed curse, the " But the game begins, as I anticipated.
bishop withdrew his hand from a pocket Hey, Hawks, accompany this gentleman
'in the lining of his riding-cloak, in to the haunt; keep him snug and away
which it had been fumbling for the last from other guests. Good night, your
few piinutes, and' dashed it vexatiously grace. Five thousand is the price. I
upon his knee.                     shall leave you a month to think it
Red Ralph observed the action and over."
did not fail to take advantage of the in-  The Bishop of Bondstreet was dis-
fereris which he drew from it.  . mounted, and marched off between two

And what may be the object of all
tJii" demadg4tho bishop.
"  , e 1uiemaeate object is to secure
yqur perse, and only to release it upon
the receipt of a heavy ransomn."
" And do you 'think that such a pro-
seeding is practicable in free England
in the eighteenth century ?'
"Where a bishop of the established
church would imprison a helpless girl
ins nunnery !"
"It is monstrous ! and I'll never
consent."t
" You will."      6
" Never !"
"You will-you are half consenting
already to accede to any demand I may
make, -my lord bishop."
"Do you profess to read the hearts of
men as well as cut purses, Sir Captain
of footpad)?"        ''
"That do I, your grace," returned
Captain Ralph; "and I can read in
yours vice; treachery, and cowardice."
" Indeed? iand what price may y-ou
set upon me V"
"Five thousand pounds."
"'Pshaw !"
4'And I shall not budge one half-a-
groat, your grace."
"'Tis plain". said the bishop ironi-
,ally, "that your thiefehip does not

of the men.
"Send Walters to me, Uwks,"
shouted Red Ralph.
"Ay, ay, captain," answered the man,
as he disappeared in the wood.
It was perhaps a quarter of an hour
after the incident just'related that a car-
riage was drawn by four horses up to the
principal entrance of the nunnery, a
garden door of which faced the Palmer's
Cell as we have already described.
There was a harsh clanking of chainsa
and shooting of ponderous bolts as one
of the servants gave a loud summons
at the gate, aid ti e heavy lumbering
gates creaked t pon their rusty hinges
as they were thrown open.
' Who is it that claims admission at
this hour ?" demanded a harsh and un-
pleasant female voice.
"One who would speak with the lady
superior," returned an occupant of the
carriage.
"It is after hours, and the lady sa-
perior is at her devotions."
" But my arrival is expected by th .
lady superior."
" Then, if you will wait awhile I will
take your name to her, and see if you
can be seen to-night."
"Arnold."
The womandeparted, and in the course
of a few minutes returned, saying that

d',a;._ _ y

1
i=
i
i
i

_      tr        "'
is      .   .''r
!          _
tt  y
'         r      (
Y               1 1

RED RALPH ;

74

OR, T.J1 DAUGHTER OF NZGIIT.

I{(ir{tom
I, ,y f j
1
}e;    A
w k ' _ ~
i          '
r
F
r
iq -
S .tip
r     s
'      ,    5 .
=,
t
t
_
_""


72                           RED R
the lady superior w as ready to see the
!sitor.
A gentleman stepped from the car-
riage niid handed out a young lady,
thickly veiled, and they both passed
Lnto the nun-ney.
They were shown iuto the I'resente
of the bayh superior, a tall boniy woman
of a stein torbiild' omg uslct, at t elt sight
of whom thu veiled lady alipeared to
treiblie ant shrink a-ray in fear.
" b-Reverendu-d motlet,  salute you,'
saiil the gentleman.
" lienedicite, imy Soi," replied the
tady s.ulerior.
"' Tuis is ly da ghitr iAl iie, of vhon
Ispoketo you , rteveitnd l  mi tiwt.'"
"She wi hes to take the vows 1"
"Yes."
"Willingly resigns the vanities of the
flesh 1"
Yes, reverend mother," again said
the gentlemian.
"Nay, Mr. Arnold," said the lady
uperior, " let your daughter speak for
herself; answer me, daughter of man-
child ot sin."
The girl shook visibly.
"Ate you prepared to devote the re-
mainder of your life to holiness I Speak,
girl."
"iNay, n-"
"lH&amp; !" explained Mr. Arnold, seizing
the tre-mbling girl by the armi. "Auswer
the hly superi'or-auswer her truly, I
coammuatid you.''
SYets, yes," faltered the girl.
'Tis w~ell, daughterr" said the lady
suitperior. " But tihes night glows late;
havo you nothing further to say I''
But t:w word,' said Mr. Arnold
t wilt not longer detain you, reverent
mother. Lu gratitude for the ltherl
protection you- extend to my way
ward worldly child, I shall endow-"
Here his voice sank, and the remain
der of the sentence was heard alone b
tie lady superior.
The eyes of the abbess glistened witi
capidity. -

ALPHA;
" Good, my son," she said. " And
now good night. I am already over-
-tepping the rules of the convent in ad-
intting you at this hour."
" i nonild speak one word with my
chill crc I depart.''
"' 1et it he lrief, then."
It shall.''
rle abless stepped to the door to
gi Ve i ilst ructions to one of the nuns
ahont the disposal of their new sister
for the night.
" 1urewell, my daughter," said Mr.
Arnold, tenlerly rIlloacing1 her.
The daughter's reply was curious to
lwar, apd would have considerably
startled the lady superior had it not
been given in a0very low whisper.
"Hain d Inc your barkers, Walters."
" Ilte."
And " Mr. Arnold" hastily passed a
pair of pistols into his (laughter's hands,
who immediately concealed them in the
folds of her dress.
Shall I remain, captain ?" asked Mr.
Arnold, in a whisper.
"If possible," replied his daughter.
"Are you prepared to depart, my
son 1" demanded the abbess.
"My daughter fears to leave me just
yet."
"What! would you take her away 1"-
"No; but she would like me to re-
Smain for to-night,"t
" Imposs3ible."
" You hear. my child," said Mr. -Ar--
nold, mournfully ; " but never mind;
- I shall be close at hand."
lie squeezed her hand, and the pres'
sure was silently returned, implying a
, mutual understanding.
d   " If it must be so," said Alice Arnold,
y in a voiee broken by emotion. " Fare-
- well, my father-farewell."
And then in a breath she said, ere the
- echoes of her words had died away-
y    " Be at the gate by- the Palmer's Cell.
have Wolff ad hawks with you."
" Yes."

" ister Ursula,"
supe ior.
" es, holy mother,
apple ring upon the t
",onduct Sister  A
for t e night ; we w
proc edings in the me
TI e nun bowed, ar
Ar d " to follow he
Tl1 nunprecededM:
sevc al long passage
was uly dimly lighted
merin oil lamp in the
et me held you1
ple e," said Miss Ar
"Viere fore 1"
" don't like the 1
past ges."
" ou are fearful-
Urs 11a.
"i 3r'"adfullyv:"
"Then walk with
goo4 -naturally placin
the ew sister's waist
4ter they had pros
uikt this the nun pa
clan ation of affright.
"  lie saints protea
" Ae you not well, S
Yes, thank you.
me hat "
"Your heart beats
" t always does wh
rou d my waist."
' sister Alice !" e
reproachfully.
Mean a woman'
Ar4 ld hastily.
" f course."
l\ is Arnold recipe
Ur la's tenderness
wa t (a remarkably
by4 and wcll-shaped
-ari and they contint
p a F age until they ar
oil unp.
~re Miss Arnold h
bf entIe force for a
Yuare remarks
r  "

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF'NIGHT.                       73
called the lady    "Fie, sister," said the nun, blushing
with pleasure;  "your fiords   and
" answered a nun, thoughts are far too worldly."
threshold.         But she was gratified nevertheless.
lice to a chamber  Not a lifetime of monastic severity
vil arrange future could entirely eradicate all traces of the
owning."         woman.
id beckoned" Miss  "how camne you to be a nun ?" de
r from the room.  handed Miss Arnold.
iss Arnold through  .' I entered this retreat at my father's
s, each of which request.
'd by a small flick-  "e
middle.qutest I"
mideldl'           Yes; notcomnman d. I had a liking
by the haid, if you -scarcely a liking-but-"
nold.              "You have shut yourself up for life
here in mistaken religious fervor."
ook of these long  "Nay, I believe that- 1 have a voca-
t   tion fora monastic life."
"Never believe it, pretty Sister Ur-
sula," said Miss Arnold ;."woman was
me," said the nun, born for the wife of man and the mother-
g her arm around of children-not toshut herself up in a
g h   a. g-loomy prison-house."
ceeded'a few paces  Sister Ursula sighed, and her -eyea
filled with tears.
used with an ex-
"I beg you will not speak thus to me,
ect us !" she said. Sister Alice," said the nun ; "I have
ister Alice "    chosen my life and-"
Why do you ask' "Would willingly change it if it were
possible."
so strongly."      "It is not possible."
ten I have an arm "What is your name ?"
"My worldly name is Mary Powell,
claimed the nun I am the only daughter of Stanley
Powell_"
s arm," added Miss "Stanley Powell !" iterated Miss Ar-
riold.
" Yes; do yen know him I"
-ocated the Sister  "By name ouly."
by encircling her  " He is well known for his' earnest
small one, by-the- pious, life; it was that lie feared he
) with her right could not take due care of me that he
ued traversing the wished me to take the vows and enter
rived beneath the the retreat."
eld her companion  "Obeyed my father."
few minutes.       "Would you not change your life ifit
bly pretty, Sister were possible ?"
"-oh ! I-Sister Alie,~ you break

-       -t  ,
;
R              ,

,
., {$'
-    r
r
:;
,
,F
,'a=
.        i a
f       Y  _   -"~r
=*"   z=f

;  . ;  S
v          4                 }            Yet  ks
i
erg;
"  .
l                           i

_     _                                 _          _    _
-                _.        a


r-Y"heart !" cried the poor nun, bursting  "Thue Palmer's Cel1?"\
to a torrent of tears.              "Yes,"
The now sister did all in her power to  " By heavens !" migttered Miss Arr
.nsolc the nun. She kissed away her no!d, "there's a special providence ii
tears with astonishing fervor, and pro- all this."
Bsted a dozen times that she would not  " I do mot understand you, Sistei
for worlds hurt her feelings,. accused Alice."             .
herself of being brutal and unkind, and  " No, no. Good night, dear Siste'
administered a thousand self-reproaches Ursula-pretty Mary Powell."
- which Sister Ursula gently repudiated  " hush.".
through her tears.                    "Anid hope."
"Pray, Sister Ursula," said Miss Ar-  The door was closed and Sister Ursula
sold, " before you leave me four the nglh t was gone.
will you tell inc if the Lady Maude who  The new sister listened intently at
*as brought here yesterday is still an I the door until the echoes of the nan's
inmate of the retreat ?"  -       l footsteps died away in those gloomy lor.g
"Yes, Sister Alice," was the reply ; passages.
"and not simply an inmate, but she   Then she gently opened the door.
sleeps in the adjoining cell."        "There is no time to be lost now,"
Mis Arnold started as if she had re- she murniuued; "let ne see the next
seived a strong galvanic shock.     cel-this must be it."
"#Did you know her, then?" continued  She tapped gently three times, but
Sister Ursula.                      there was no response.
"Slight'y."                         Again sie knocked, and this time tl're
" Poor girI ; 1 sadly fear that she-  was a rustle of a feminine garment.
here the nun sank her voice into a    " Maude ! Made ! Lady Maude '"
whisper and glanced about her appre-  " Who's there 1"
hensively-" that shue is not a voluntary  "'Tis I."
" Who?"
" I know it."                   "'Tis I-hre to aid you, Maude '"
I tear it. 'Tis thus that the well  " Ahi! Ralph .'
Ieaniug of these establishments is so  " Yes ; Ralph," answered the high-
perverted."                         waymazn, lour  it was lie; "open the door
"Iam glad, though, that I aum so near and it with mec."
to her.j I should have felt dull the irt  "Alas, Icannuo t; it is haired without."
night."                               " So it is," exclmlued R dah "" fool
" The lady superior has bud sonic eon- that I was not to have seen it
sideration upon your behalf," said Sif-  But lie made up for the few seconds
ter Ursula.                   -_    lost time by the haste with which he
'"Indeed ! In what way t"        took down the fastenings.
" Your cell-"                       A moment more and the Lady Maude
"S.ay bedroom, please," said Miss Ar- I was enfolded in the arms of the Yellow
nold, with a shudder.               Band's adventurous captain.
Bedroom, then, overlooks the gar-  " halph."
den."                                 " Maude."
"Ah t!"                             These two monosyllables were all that
"Why that start ?"                they could utter for several moments.
"Nothing; but what portion of the   But these were more full of expres-
garden ? It surrounds the retreat."  sion, more replete with ardent affection
" The glade entrance."           than volumes could have spoken.

74

"           (           '%
.                  il   , .Y   .
«.   y
+w~
;
," r

RED RALPH ;

OR TILE DAUGETERt Of NIGHT.
Red Ralph wss first to recover his placmg his arm gwmnd her; "yohv4
eeenee of mind.                   no cause for fear how; this way.
4.' Maude," said he, " we must see  " if we sh qubl he ve'taken ?"
bout escaping."                      "   m ' ne l."
K .4T                             v  _ -
"I fear there ia no hope. Ralph."  "Oh!   A lph."
" Pshar my love, was there hops of  " Y e  can the door he ?" he mnt-
h -rbeing here at all ?"            tered impatiently.
"True there was not."               They had walked some little distance
".Then believe me, Matude( darling, the along the ground by the hnudary wall,
rest shall be accomplished; let me see and still he had not obsevei fit.
this window."                         An idea docurred to him, and he
" It opens."                      aignalled the lieutenant
"Good."                            The' signal was returned a few paces
" But those bars--"               behindhinim, which showed himn that in
"Are nothing; the fastenings are spite of his vigilance he had overlooked
rotten with age; see, I can almost the exit.
shake this one out. Ha! that's it, you  But now a frtbh diiculty=presente4
see, Mude."                        itself; the gstc was 'secured by astrong
Lad uMande stood gazing in Ad-' lock, and hebad qno rneanspfofcinglt
jiration at her lover's efforts upon -'her  It wMas far'too inisife a port:d to ber
behalf.                             kicked in.
One'hy one his strong arm demolished  At shis critical juncture the loud toll
the iron fastenings which stood between ingof the convent heft was' heard, and
them and ibe rt v.                  a rushing to nd tro in the building, ae-
" There " said Ralph, " niw what do cnipii'd fby the taslhig of lights and
yet say, Mantle ? Now place your foot the eries of the nuns, ene.l
in ray hand -so --.jnipdown ; it's qite  " Oh ! Ralh, Ralph," cried the high-
safo- I come  Ha !wat's th i  ?"  wayman's fair companion, " what shall
Footsteps were heard approaclhinge we do,?we shall be taken aid treed
Lady Mande's cell,                  hck.
"Lost, lost!"                      " Never !" said Red Ralph. " Hey
No, o, arc there no fastening I Ha' there Walters !"
thiosebars.'     .'Yes. c iptain," replied the lieuten-
Red Rlp'h hia'tily caught up two of ant from thet other side of the nunnery
the bars which he had( just renmved wall.
from the window, and shortly sueeeded  " You can't manage to force the
in fastening the door of Lady Maude's door ?"
cel on the inside. -                -'Iw heiutenanit replied to Ralpi' ap-
Another second and it had been too peal by delivering the portal a uiighty
late..                              blow which shock the wall.
There was a knocking on the outside,  lict still resisted stoutly.
as soon as the fastenings had been re- I " Cobfound its captain," said Walters,
moved and it had; been discovered that "it must be built' in with the masonry."
.ih.                   "No, it is but locked."
"(Come, Ralph ! come," said Lpdy    " Ralph, Ralph ! they are upon us,"
Mantle airuigh tediy.               cried Lady M1ande.
The Capjtiii of the Yellow Band     Lights were now thasging in difl'eient
sprang thr.'ngli the window, anti stood part of the gromuids, andl Ralph unider-
beside tho trembiiu girl.          stood that the searen -and pursuit had
" Coufe, Mande, darling," said Ralph, begun in real earnest.

r

;ter ,s,'+


76

RED RALPH,

"We nLtst sca'e the wall," cried
Ralp1 ; "there is nt a moment to
lose."
Quick as lightning Rilph, eneni-
bered th'uigh m was by his fenide
attire, cleared the difficulty before him,
then helped up hips fair charge, andi in a
moment the two fugitives were safe or
*        the oilier side.
The shrieking of the sisters was
something terrible to hear.
The' could ,bhe heard scampeing
wildly across the grounds, and then the
banging of doors told the Yellow Band
and their leader that they had given up
the pursuit for that night.
Now, Maudle, darling," said Red
Ralph, " whither shall I lead you ?-to
my home ?"
" Oh, no ?" said Lady Maude ; " to
London, Ralph."
To-night ?"
"Yes, I would not compromise myself
byreiuaining in the woods to-night."
" And I would not compromise you,
Maude," said the highwayman tender-
ly-"not for worlds."
"But I can go alone," said Lady
Made.
"Never."
"But you would be no protection for
me dressed as you are."
"A greater protection that in my
natural garb."
"how so "
" Dear Maude," said Ralph, "I am to,
well known in connection with the
gallant Yellow Band."        -
" Alas !"  -
"Where do you propose staying in
London, M nmde ?"
"At old Mr. Mountjoy's, in Maddox
1'ields; he was an old lover of na'nrna's,
and has a great affection for me,
although I believe he detests such of my
father's qualities and manners as he
detects in me."
"Good," said Ralph ; "I think ho is
the main to be relied upon.""
" He is indeed."

"Horses, Wolff."
Horses were brought, and thi '.ytayn
lifted the Ldv M ude into tht (atidle,
and then mounted himself.
"Now for London !" said tht Captain
of the Yellow Band.
The nunnery was yet in s.;4it when
they hoard the sound of hcases' hoofs
behind them.
SliL !' er i  LEdy Maade ; " we are
" N'ver fear, Mtude."
The. s'in  Ire.iv nearer, and Red
Ralpjh turned in his saiite to ascertain
who were the two riders.
Sir Lanueelot! by all that's awful,"
lie exclaimed.
The Lady Manie gave a faint shriek.
'' ;fey ! uip than, lass," cried  Red
Ralph. " I give 'em leave to pult u
hack into that dn we hive escaped
from provided they can overtake us,
Made"
REd Ralph was mounted oa his mare
Nancy, and s might hIve defied a
locomotive, had stick a thing been
knOwn at the period of our history ; but
the companion of his flight was indif-
ferently horsed, and it was more than
likely that they would be ultimately
overtaken if Ralph could not devise
some scheme.
He saw the danger, but unhappily
could think of nothing, when the pur-
suers gave him an idea which placed
the winning cards in the hands of the
figit i ves.
" Halt there !" cried one of the horse-
men as soon as they were within hail.
Bat the fugitives only urged on their
steeds with redoubled vigor.
Halt! I say," repeated the horse-
man, " I shall fire upon you."
This threat was repeated several
times, but no notice taken of it, when
suddenly there was a report, and a bulgy
let whistled past Ralph's ear.,
"Ho, ho !" he cried; "that's it, ehi
Titfor tat is my motto"
Saying which he reined in his mare,

OR, THE DA        -ER OP NIGHT.
and turning 8Iort upon his pursuer  jnd, glancing aroilnd to see that h
i.eiulieratel. and fired 'at was unobserved seieci the girl in hip

a

eW  1  V1  .  t'lJ L L.4 ,  ca  ia u av
the foremost.                       a
Horse and rider came down. The v
horse was killed upon the spot, and the
ridericonsilerably shaken and bruised, qt
The other cavalier reined in upon h
seeing his companion's mishap, and d
hastened to render assistance while the t
fugitives passed on unmolested.     s
That night the Daptain of the Yellow t
Band and his fair charge reached the c
metropolis in safety.1
CHAPTER XVI.            c
rHE IUNCIBACK AGAIN-TIE .TERROR l
OF THE OLD IAG-BRUTAL CRUELTY
-THE SWOON-TIHE BEAUTIFUL CAP-
TIVE-TIE CUPBOARDI)-TUE JAGGK-IN-a
THE-BOX-TIE EiLETON's EMBRACE.
ALTIIOTGHo a deep mystery enveloped i
khe disappearance of Ralph's bride, and
ie efforts to find her whihh his trusty I
band of Yellow Boys had made in his
behalf were entirely fruitless, yet a few 1
words will suffice to let-the reader know
what had become of her.f
Scarcely had Ralph left her si'le when l
dark figure crawled towards her
rough the brushwood.
It wriggled itself onward with a
make-like motion.
It writhed and twisted like a crushed
worm.
The beautiful girl had not yet recov-
ered her senses, or the sight of the
monstrous object would have scared her
outof her wits.
It was scarcely possible to believe the
livid face, blood-shot eyes, and black
id crooked fangs to belong to a human
being.
It was, however, the head of the
hanchback which appeared   between
the bushes as Ralph retreated, and the
unehback's misshapen carcase was it
1so which wriggled and writhed its
ortuous course towards the insensible.
irl.
Noiselessly but rapidly he approached-

rms and sprang lack among t he brush-
wo(od.
Then, with abnos   inconceivable
uicknes36for one enmidlrt''ed with a
human burden, he  geunded oinwards
OWIn the hill-ide, hU'st his  way
hroigh' a high lghe, and traversin
several mad ows a\Vs; ont of hit iearig if
he robbers ln  -before they had dis-
oveied thbe gil l' ahb neb .
ie paused wleni ihe i rihd a willow
opse by the edge of a small stream,
11(1 strained his cairs to the utmost to
isten.
Afhr off' he (coulhear a confused
murmur of vOit(us iuj14d W ith houts
iad shill (pieS.
' They've Leaun  it oat" ni l  the
huieklaek, wit h1 a fiembii h iuekil;
" they'd ltlveto lOk shalp, though,
before they catch mice.''
As he spoke a red glare burst out in
the sky over the v.llage.
The hunchback shook his clenched
fist in the air and laughed loud and,
long.
The glare grew more intense. .
The sky was blood.-red.
Shrieks of terror mingled with savag
threats reached his ear,
"They're sacking the village," the
hunckback yelled in fiendish delight ;
" they're laying waste all before them.
I wish I were tiere to see. How I love
sights like that-blazing homes', and
screaming women, and slaugtitered
brats ! but I must away or they will
catch me and take away my prize-my
loved Leonore--ny beautiful and scorn-
ful lady whom I love so much and who
scorns me so intensely. Hla! ha ! I can
bide my time. It will be her tarn nexb
to pray and weep, and mine to laugh.
Ha! ha -! ha ! ha!"
ilorribly ugly did this misshapen
wretch appear as he stood rubbing to-
;ether his long bony hand   u ;goblin
merriment, gloating his eyes * he did

-  4                                                                                4,-

^   r
-            -                     .r t    yKw .


78                          RED RALPH;
so upon the lovely face and form of the The old woman, who had been hold.
helpless captive.                  ing the light for him whilst he was'so
Butasound resembling the galloping engaged, scampered down before him as
of a horse suddenly struck upon his ear, fast as her old legs would carry her.
and aroused him from a reverie into  She was in a mortal fright, and was in
which he seemed to have fallen.    as great terror of being within reach of
The noise warned him that he was his feet as of his fists.
yet within easy reach of the Yellow  When the hunchback turne4 away
Band, anti that he had no time to lose, from the door she turned her back to
He, therefore, again took up the beau- allow him to go first, but he roared out
tiful girl in his arms and hurried on- at her--
wards.                               "Go on, or I'll help you."  .
In about ten minutes more he had   "Don't'ee hit me then," she whined,
reached the old house where Leonore  "Get down stairs."
(for such appeared to be the name of " Don't'ee, don't'ee."
Ralph's mysterious bride) had been   "i break your wretched old neck if
taken by the hunchback upon the pre- you don't look pretty sharp."
vious day.                           "Oh, oh, don't'ee.
The blear-cyed hag was in readiness His fist and foot were raised as she
to open the door for him, and as soon as darted past him with the look of a
he had entered, the bolts and bars were hunted hare.
shot into their sockets.             He made as though he would have
The old hag was evidently in a great kicked her furiously as she bounded
state of terror, and her hand trembled. down stairs, slipping and stumbling,
so violently that it was only with the and bumping her poor old bones, and
greatest difficulty that she could prevent flinging her limbs about in awkward
a candlestick that she held from falling terror, with very much the same sort of
out of her hands.                  action as you might expect in a crippled
With watchful eyes, full of shrinking daddy-long-legs.
dread, she followed every movement of  Upon the last flight he made a dart at
the hunchback, keeping always at a her, and she sprang forward and fell
respectliul distance from his list.  down half-a-dozen steps, and rolled on
She certainly expected that she was the floor of the passage, extinguishing
going to catch it.                 the candle, which, in falling, afforded
Theme was also another certainty-- only a fleeting glimpse of two thin,
her expectation would be fultilled,  bony, black-stocking-encasedlegs, kick-
Thc hunchback carried his beautiful ing frantically as their owner strove
burden up stairs, and gently laid her vainly to adjust her drapery and regain
upou the ttd in tic room where she had her feet.
before been placed.                  Cursing her fiercely, the hnnchback
She was stili insensible.        made several ferocious lunges in the
The hunchback looked at her with dark with his heavy boots and roared
an evil smile lighting up his cat-like to her to get up.
eyes.                                Groaning pitifully, the old woman
"She'll be safer this time, I'll war- collected her scattered limbs as well as
rant, for I shall be her jailor myself."  she could and followed him.  - -
?e+gave a glance at the fastenings of  " Oh, dearyl -deary!1 Oh my pool
the window, and then, very carefully bones !" sobbed tile old woman.
locking the door, put the key into his " I'll poor bones you directly !" cried
pocket and walked down-stairs,     the hunchback savagely. "I'll blacle

s+ , ;
,+,,  ,, t  ,
t           '     S        j n
-.      _    I« V  ti  b
b   Y
i }
y      ,iq.
4   t '  p
a         ... 1, ,'  ,
s-.
O/   :/
"+
-^
r   ; .#
..      y  '
. , a"

OR,,THE DAUGIITEIR OF NIGHT.
you and blue you, my charmer. I'll    " You drunken, stupid, blind, dea
wrench off your wretched old ears and object of misery, look out !"
pok*out your wretched old eyes. I'll  Leaping such abuse as this upon the
jerk out all your rheumatic old joints, unhappy old creature, he braindihed in
and bang you in your lumbagoey old the air the stick he had taken up for
back with a big stone '             the purpose, and brought it down with
The unhappy old Woman shivered tingling thwacks upon her back and
with terror at these dreadful threats, legs and arms, though she vainly en-
which the hunchback accompanied by deavored to defend herself.
the most awful curses and bl::sphemi6s.  Wildly she fled before him. She tried
She was a verylong while indeed. in to dodge him round the table and chairs.
following him, but she did come at last,  But her efforts were fruitless. Wher-
and having picked up the fallen candle ever she got to, the stick he held was
relighted it.                       quite long enough to reach her
The room into which she had followed  The more she struggled the faster she
the hunchback was upon' the ground ran, and the louder she screamed for
story, with a stone floor, dark panelled mercy the more delighted was the mis-
wall, and one small diamond-ieaned shapeni monster ill-tsing her.
window securely guarded by heavy iron  Laughing and screaming himself, he
bars.'                              danced like a goblin before her.  I1e
Iu it there were but two chairs, one feuced with her with the 'stick, and
of which was an old arm-chair with hi h chose his time for hitting her, when lie
back;. there were also a ricketty table, saw a good opportunity of doing so,
a few shelves eontaining some cracked upon her bony elbows, or on her shins,
crockery, and a fire-place holding a or across her back, and more than once
handful of mouldering ashes.       upon her head.
By the side of the hearth -stood a  But upon one of the occasions, hit-
thi' k stick, reared up in the chimney ting her harder than he intended, he
torner-                             struck her senseless to the ground,
The hunchback took up this stick, cx- where shelay with the blood 'pouring
united it with a smile, and proceeded front her nose and mitouth, a dreadful
Lo lock the loom door.              object to look at, with her e es lixed
"Oh, deary I deary ! deary !" cried a-d glazed and her scanty white locks
the old womtnan in great terror.    bedabbled with gore,
11cr eyes seemed to be starting out of  " I wonder whether she's dead," said
her head.                           the hunchback - to himself, as he con-
She shivered miserably with abject temtplated the form of his fallen victim.
fright, id her teeth chattered like  To discover whether or not he had'
castuets in her loose jaws.         really killed her, the ruffian gave thi
"Now, beldame," cried the hunch- poor old womi.an a kick.
back, turning up his coat-sieeves as he  She replied 'withi a hollow groan.
spoke. ".Have a care."               " Ah, I thought she was too tough to
" Oh,.deary I deary I dieary !" sobbed g off quite so quickly," said the hunch-
the old woman, wringing her hands in back. "[Ishall give her a reviver, and
dire consternation at the fate in store then leave her to come to."
for her..                            With this he fetched a bucket'ofcold
"You   miserable, drivelling, old, water and dashed it into the fade of tho
addle-headed hag !" cried the hunch- wretched old woman, after which he
back.                              locked the door and left her to come to
S" Oh, deary ! deary ! deary !" .as best she might.


60                   RED RALPH;

"I'll lock all the doors and take the
keys with me," he said; "they must
be safe then. The girl will be too weak
to help herself until I return, if she re-
gains her consciousness ; and-as for the
old woman, it will be all she can do to
save herself front croaking."
He stole on tiptoe up-stairs, unlocked
the bedroom door, and peeped in at the
unconscious girl.
She lay there motionless, pale, and
death-like.
A horrible smile crossed the mis-
shapen wretch's face.
He chuckled softly to himself, and
stole away again like a thief, having
once more carefully locked the door.
She's in my power, now," he munt-
tered: "she is mine, and nought can
save her."
*      *     *      *     S
The beautiful girl lay for a long
while in an insensible state; at last,
towards the evd . of the night, she
slowly and painfully returned to con-
sciousness.
She opened her eyes and gazed around
her in terror.
She started up in bed, stretched forth
her arms, and cried out wildly-
"Mercy1 mercy !"
she thought that she was yet at the
stake in the hands of the bloodthirsty
fanatics from whom Ralph had delivered
her.
She clutched the bedclothes in her
small white hands, and uttered a half-
euppressed shriek of terror.
But soon the truth began to dawn
upon tier.
The Pale moonlight pouring into the
room revealed to her certain articles of
furniture which she recollected.
" It is the same place that I was at
before," she murmured; "why have
they brought me back here ?"
The more she reflected upon the sub-
jsct, the miore the horror of her helpless
situation erushed and stupiile. her.
But she would not lie there to await

her doom without making an effort to
escape from her-unknown jailers.
She very slowly and painfully got off
the bed,
The floor scorned to spin round with
her, for she was faint and giddy.
A death-like silence reigned around,
and so intense was it that she could
hardly believe the house had any other
occupant.
It was a strange close-smelling room,
and the gloomy iose had the appear-
arice of a building over which hangs
some awful curse.
Perhaps it was cursed.
It was a house where you heard dim
rumbling noises in the dead of the night,
and echoing taps against the mouldy
wainscotting.
Spectral footsteps, too, creaked in
darki nailed-up rooms, and the nibbling
and seanpering of rats in cellars and
choked up drains, and the beating o
death - watches in damp  crumbling&amp;
walls.
As she listened, some such noises as
these filled the beauteous Leonore's
heart with dread and apprehension.
She was, however, almost entirely
without -apparel, and it would be
necessary to find some garments.
With this idea she began to search
the room, and approaching the door of
what seemed a cupboard, with some
difliculty contrived to open it.
The door suddenly swung open with
an ominous creak, and at the same mo.
ment' Leonore started away with a faint
scream, putting up her hands as' she
did so to ward off some approaching
horror.
A white and grizzly death's head
was suddenly protruded from the door-
way.
Two long fleshless aris were stretched
out and encircled her waist.
She sin ieked and struggled, but
struggled in vai n.
No efforts of hers could free her from
the horrible embrace.

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

r
t
n

RED RALPH AND THE DRUNKEN FOP--
STANLEY POWELL GROWS TOO LOVING
--A YOUNG LADY WRO COULD FENCE-j
'T11FIGH1T TIrE INTERRUPTION.
HAVING seen the Lady Maude safely
housed with her old friend Mr. Mount-
joy in M1addox Fields, Ried Ralph was
retracing his steps in the direction of
Piccadilly, in which quarter he was in
the habit of putting up with a friend
whenin town, when hemet with a tittle
adventure, which as it is in some way
way connected with a previous chapter
of this narrative, we shall here relate.
He was passing a house which was
brilliantly iluminated, and from'which
the sound of boisterous revelry was
issuing, when an unsteady gallant, de-
scending the stone steps, got his sword
between his legs, and came down head
first, almost capsizing Red Ralph.
"Halo !" cried Ralph, who was still
in disguise.
"A thou-thousand' pardons, a mere
slip of the tongue ; no, d- it, don't
mean that; but you understand, madam,
no offence."
"Not in the least," said Ralph.
" Thats right, then, let's be friends-
gish a kish."
Red Ralph pushed the maudlin wine-
bibber from him in disgust.
" Don't be coy, my gipsy."
"Can you tell me whose house is that,
pray, sir 1" asked Ralph.
"That [ can."
"Thank you, sir."
"And aba IJ"

Si

a

-                    aAqJyw"*

She battled frantically, but the mons-
ter held 'her still in its iron grasp.
She was in ,the arms of a' hideous
skeleton ; its fleshless jaws pressed
against her pale cheek, while its eyeless
sockets and something that appeared
to be a head of straggling white hair,
looking indescribably horrible in the
ghastly moonlight.
CHAPTER     XVII.

"If you please."
"And what if I don't please ?"
And here the drunkard smiled super-
ciliousy with the look of tipsy import.
ance which men at a certain stage of
alchbholic aberration frequently wear.
"I don't mind telling you, though,"
he resumed, " that, hicd! that house be-
longs to the hardest drinker in the
country ; I'll match him against any
man at his own liquors."
" Who ?"
"Stanley Powell."
" IIa'h !'
" Goograslhus, you frighten me."
"Is Mr. Stanley Powell in the house
at present ?"
"Coursh," answered the reveller with
a disdainful curl of the lip at Ralph's
ignorance. "Hallo there ! by Bacchus i
she's going into the house.  'ii! you
madam, Powell won't see airy woman
to-night, there's a bachelor party on."
But Ralph, heedless of the drunkard's
words, had knocked at. the door and.
gained admittance.
"Excuse me, madam," said the ser.
vant, "but Mr. Powell is-"
"Enough," said Ralph, "I must see
Mr. Powell to-niglh"
A guinea dropped into the man's
willing palm, and ttiis little difficulty
was smoothed over.
"Now go to Mr. Powell and say that
a lady would speak with him for a
instant."
"I dare not; I-"
''Go."
And a second guinea sent the servant
bounding up the stairs to the apartment
whence'the sounds of revelry proceeded,
The next instant proved, however,
that the fears of the domestic had not
been without some foundation, for a
door above was thrown open with great
violence, and a man's voice was hear4
showering abusiveejithets upon the
servant's head.
At the same time a scuffling sound
was heard, and a dull thud anwunc 4


RED tALPI!;

that the hapless servant's head was
-not alone sufering for - its owner's
temerity."
"Knave ! varlet!" cried the irate Mr.
Stanley Powell, pursuing the footman
down stairs and administering pedal ap-
plications to his nether extremities at
each word.
"You lying filching jackanapes ! how
dare you interrupt me against my ex-
press order? D'ye think I keep you in
idleness and vagabondism for the pleas-
ure of gartg'upon that hideous face ?
Answer me, you scoundrel; not a word,
you villain ! Eh? go hang yourself, and
rob Jack Ketch of his fee."
Mr. Stanley Powell had reached the
mot of the stairs by this time, and
perceived -Ralph, who stood with his
head turned aside as if in great alarm.
Now Ralph, as the reader must have
surmised, by his frequent adoption of
the disguise, looked remarkably well as
a woman..
His figure was slight but graceful, and
possessed all the muscular power of a
strong man with the fiminine lropor-
tions.
Ralph, too, from his long experience,
was remarkably well versed in all the
Little coquetries which are the attrac-
tionsin the gentler sex.
IHI always wore awick veil, through
which shone a pair ot lustrous bliak
eyes with killing effect, and the umde
and quality of his apparel, impressed
one with the idea of a lady of superior
rank
Your pardon, madam," said Mr.
Powell, bowing to the ground.
Ralph returned his salute with frigid
ourtesy..
"A thousand pardons, very dearJ
madam, I beg," said Mr Powell obse-
quivusly.' I 'sas not aware who it was
that desired t see me."
"The man is not to . blame, Mr.
Powell," said Ral.ply... a low tone, as if
not, yet recovered trout the effects of
Mr. Powell's harshness to his serva-t.

"I told him that I had buness of am
important nature. I should have said
that Lady-"'
Iere Ralph paused abruptly, ant-
glanced at the servant as if about to
commit an indiscretion.
" Fore gad !" muttered Mr. Powell to
himself, "here's an intrigue."
Then he added aloud to the discom-
fited servant-
"Is the walnut room prepared as I
desired ?"
"Yes, sir."
"Very well; now remember, Thomas,
that I shall be particularly engatd,
and under no pretext under the sun
me be disturbed. D'ye' hear me ?"
"Yes."
"Mark you; obey."
But, sir-"
"What now?"
" If Mistress Flagon should callf"
"I am out."
" Yes, sir."
"Unexpected business has called me
suddenly out of town-to-oh ! say to
'Thie Retreat.' Mistress Flagon will
mnderstaid."
A.nd so did Captain Ralph. '    s
" This way, imadam," said the old .
gallant, haiding Ralph into a superbly
appointed chanler to- the left of the
passage.
The Captain of the Yellow   Band
chmuekled inwardly as he perceived the
ooI rou(e dobei Ith-locked the door behind
t-hemi, but Xhl not make any remark
upoen the ti-tioli.
" Now, madam," said Stanley Powell;
" o110r W are alone."
His thir visitor appeared to be in ,
great alarni.'
arVs  'e .Hone, Isay, madam," con-
tilnlued theii otl eb'hauchee. " I pray you
to remove y 1)our veil.".
"Na, ,sir - said Ralph in low tremu-
lous tone,  I ra. you-"
Fie on it nmadarn. said the old
gallant, with a light laugh  " there is
n1o occasion to use further caution here."

*1
A
1
w
IL

OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGH"'.                     N
,  Not caution; bud-'             touched his visitor's face, tham a rigot-
" But what l"                     ons push seat him staggering back.
"Oh, sir-"                         But the ohltbeau was not tius lightly
" Tut! tat! we can dispense with put off.
anything in the way of coquetry,     ,He advanced onde more, and Ralph,
madam; we are alone, remember."    unwilling to use violence, sprang to hi.
But Ralph's only reply was to seat feet and planced the dining table be-
himself at the table, which was spread tween them.
with every delieacy that could tease the  "Come, come, my hungry eoy one--
me t fastidious appetite, and to begin a come here," sa-'d Mr. Powell,
furious onslaught upon the viands.   But the hungry coy one declined, and
The Captain of the Yellow Band was Mr..Stanley Powell at once began an
almost famished.                   animated but undignified chase round
While with the-beloved Lady Maude the table.
the craviigs of nature had been sileiced, In his second run round, the old man
but as soon as she was disposed of, Ralph tripped over a fallen chair, and stagger-
became aware that.he had taken noth- ing against the dining-table sent it,
ing to eat since noon.             with its weighty and savoury burden,
Mr. Stanley 1$well was so taken by smashing to the ground.
surprise at. the freedom of his visitor's This blocked up one side of the room,
movements that he could not speak a and further flight was an impossibility
word for several minutes, but stood for Red Ralph.
gazibg stupidly upon Ralph, who was  However, when matters were growing
degou "ing: everything  that came to critical, he chanced to perceive a small
hand                               sword and belt lying upon a couch,
At 1 gth the old libertine found hi5 which hid been hitherto-unnoticed.
voice.                               To possess himself of this, and place
" S'd ath, madam V" ho excheb d, himself on guard, was the work of an
"but your appetite is greater than your instant.
conversational powers."              Mr. Stanley Powell drew and en-
Red Ralph, with his mouth full, devored to disarm his fair antagonist,
merely looked up and   nodded 'his abut;without avail.
assent.._I Ralph was a master of the'fence.
"Now, madam," said Mr. Stanley     The. host soon discovered this, for
Powell; after a few minutes' pans, I Ralph pressed him so hard that he, he-
swear I'll have that veil down and gn to cry lustily for assistance.
satisfy myself that-"                The next minute the door was burst
"What 1" asked Ralph, looking up. i, and Mr. Powel's valet de eltambre
"That Iam not being hoaxed."     came running to the rescue.
"flow hoaxedi"
"Tat! tut ! down with the veil, I      -CIAPTER       VIII
say," cried the old beau pettishly.
'-  THE FOP AND ilis FRENCH VALE'i
But Ralph quietly resumed his repast.TN
This was too much for M4. Stanley  IALPII PLEADS MARY'S CAUSE-TUE
Powell's patience, and with a  nfial ap-  HARD - HEARTED FATHER  wITcn-
peal to the lady, which was disregarded  CRAFT-;-RED RALPH IN ''E TOILa
as before, he advanced towards her  THE R CQUNITON--110,JOR     NSW
wi b the intention of using violence to.GT
accomplish his purpose.              RALPH was nowsunquestionably i  a
IIowever, Mr. Powell'shand no sooner tiupleasantpredicament.

v 1P ,   t


nrb1AT DI?.

As yetr his true sex ha not been  dis-
eevered, but he doubted no# that a few t
niinatos more would di close it.
Mr. Stanley Powell had been in his S
youth an expert swordsman and a
ioted duellist.
Iut gge and a life of hard living and
debauchery had weakened the wrist of ii
steel of former days, and ho had been t
at the mercy of thme Captain of the Ye- r.
low Band any time during the past five t
minutes if Ralph had chosen to exevt
himself.
But the only object of Red Ralph was T
to free himself from the obnoxious flirta- h
Lion of the old rose, and not to do him
any personal violence.
The French valet came running to
his master's assistance as we have
stated.
Now, it would not have answered
Red Ralph's purpose to be seized b  i
Mr. Stauly Powell's menials, for at
such  close quarters his  masculine
development would most surely have
betrayed itself and he would get into
-ot water.
There was therefore but one chance;
left, and of this Red Ralph was not slow
t. avail hiineclf.
With him to think was  o act.
As the French v* was struggling to
remove the dining-table, which impeded
his progress, Ralph made a sudden and
violent feit.r which drove his aged
antagonist 3;e. several paces,
It was a fortunate though t. A chair
was in the way, and Mr. Stanley Powell
stumbled and tell over it, and his sword
was sent spinning to the further ex-
tremity of the aparment.
In an instant Ralph was upon him.
"Send that man away," said Ralph
k an undertone.
" Jezebel ! I-"
Ralph Shortened his sword and offered
strikek. There must have been some-
thing which spoke of danger in his
glance, for the old man was cowed in an
Mtat.

LX;
"Tell him to go," said the Captains
he yellow Band; "or--"
" lo away, Francois," laid  Mr
tanley Powell faintly.
M'sieur ?"
"Go away."
But the man not understanding that
e should be ordered off when his mas-
er was in such a startling fix, only
renewed his struggles with the diuing-
,able.
blie  doesn't hear," said Ralph.
'Your master says you are to go away.
don'tt you hear' He doesn't care for
is frolics to be interrupted in this
Cray."
"But he call, madame," said Fran.
cois.
" Tell him to go."
"Leave the room, Francois."
" Anl Mr. Powell doesn't wish to ba
interrupted again," said Red Ralph.
MonsieuraFrancois shrugged his
shoulders and left the room.  S
"Now, madam," said Mr. Stanley
Powell, "allow me to rise."
"   rtainly, Mr. Powell," said Ue
Ralp, delighted.
H~e extended his \auds, and Mr.
Powell was once more upon    terra
firma.
"Now, pray tell what may be your
object in payingme this untimely visit?"
said Mr. Stanley Powell.
"I am glad to come to the point,"
said Ralph. "You have a daughter,
Mr. Powell?"
" Sir?~"
"I say you have a daughter."
The old-man colored to the temples,
and stared into the face of the Yellow
Band's-Captain, through the thick veil
vhich he still wore, as if he would read
the inmost thoughts of his soul.
"Do you know were that daughter
is?"
"Undoubtedly."
"in a nunnery."
"S'death, madam !" cried Mr. Staulq
,"I say I know it.

m7

74
4
.S
}l
a
i
.4
I
B
Y4
4
PJ
2
y4k
k
E

OR, THE DAUGOH
' In a nunnery,' pursued Ralph--" a
prison-house--wasting her youth, with-
ering her young heart in obedience to
the mandate of her cruel, heartless
parent."
"Madam !" said Mr. Stanley Powell,
' to commence, I may say that your
reflection on my actions is unjust-tilat_
your interference in my personal mat-
ters is d--d impertinent; and I may
farther add, madam, that my daughter's
mode of life is her owr zvee and un-
biassed selection."
" You lie !"
Mr. Stanley Powell grew scarlet. He
hastily clapped..Lhis hand to his side, but
his sword was not there.
"Pooh!" said Ralph, coolly, "you see
how little your anger affects me. You
see that even with your own manly
weapon I am more than your match; so
smother your anger, I implore you. I
repeat, sir, you he. Your daughter,-the1
unhappy Mary Fowell, has been , lured
intothat den under false pretences." I
Mr. Powell had passed into anoler
stage of indignation, and was now1
quietly boiling with suppressed rage.
"Listen, madam," said Mr. Stanley,
Powell, "I know not who you may be,c
nor by what right you force your pres-l
ence upon me here for this purpose.
But for the nonce I will waive the ques-a
tlon of your right to take up the cud-
gels in my daughter's behalf, and simply 1
contept myself with assuring you that
all hope of removing her from her self- 1
elected mode of life is useless; she has
taken voluntary and irrevocable vows, F
which no earthly power can set aside."
" I shall not go," said the Captain of
the Yellow Band deliberately, " until 1,
have effected my purpose."
As he said this he set himself down
upon the couch.l
Fatal chance !                    I
As he reached the soft, springy cush-c
ions, he heard a sharp grating sound t
like the smothered noise of a watch-
P'mxes rattle-.,

I.

ITER OF NIGHT.              .
Before he could ask a question:-er
he could even give the occurrence
second thought--he felt himself seized
and held as if in a vice.
lied Ralph was utterly bewildered--
lost.
lio could see no one about him-no
one was present but Mr. Stan) y Powell
and himself-of that he was ssured
and yet he had been grasped by an in-
visible power and held down,
He was soon convincedothatno human
grasp held him, for, if not able to re-
lease himself from a powerful clutch,
he vell knew that he was never literally
immoveable in such a predicament--a
circumstancewhich had too frequently
occurred to him to give him any undue
alarm.
Then he could always shift himself to
the right or left a little, and that when
making a violent exertion the grat
upon his . person tightened, and grew
firmer in proportion to the strength of
his effort.
Now it was different. lie was held
by witchcraft, he imagined, or by some
supernatural agency, for the bondage
was not bodily painful, and yet he
could not move an i$E1 to the right or
left-backwards and forwards.
"Ha! ha ! madam," cried Mr. Stanley
Powell, in wild joyful triumph, "I have
you now; you have placed yourself in
the lion's den, and you shall suffer for
your temerity. You have -had your
turn, and omow comes mine."
The aged libertine's face flushed with
excitement. -
He advanced to the couch upon
which lay the Captain of the Yellow
Band, bound by an invisible power, and
helpless.
"The first thing," grinned the tooth-
ess old libertine, is to look at those
willing black eyes, which have been
doing such execution during the last
twenty minutes upon the humblest of
your adorers."
Ralphgnashedhi, teeth in silent rag.


d                          RED    RALPH ;
Mr. Stanley Powell, eager to glanceI summons. "Let some one fetch the

at the f.air incognita's face, tore away
the veil.
Here he met with a slight rebuff,
" Halto !" he ejachlated in the great-
est astonishment ; " gad's life, I've seen
those features before."
Ralph's position was becoming criti-
cal, and  he would willingly  have
sorifloed the whole of that week's
large but unlawful.gains to be free and
outside Mr. Stanley Powell's mansion.
Mr. Powell was evidently much puz-
tled, and yet his former interview with
the Captain of the Yellow Band had
been of so striking a nature that it had
left a lasti.g impression upon his mind,
and ho could not, in spito of himself,
have done the problem and given this
attention to the realization of his tri-
amphs with his helpless prisoner.
" Where can it be 7" he muttered.
Then he added, addressing Red Ralph,
"We have met before, madam."
No," said Ralph.
"lBut I say we have; your features
and some tones of your voice are in-
delibly impressed Upof my mind"
"  I I possible ."
"Not so," said   r. Powell; "and
now I understand why I am not quite
clear upon that point."
" Upon what point ." demanded Red
Ralph, eudeavoring to appear at hip
easo.
" You are disgisi*t youi' voice," and
hero ho began to Ralph's disgust, to
fondle his cheeks and chin-" by gad !
madam, you have forgotten to shave
this morning. Ha ! ha! ha! ha !-this
then explains the freedom in the use
of my dress sword-a bully in petti
coats.".
Ralph bit is lips and was silent.
"A cutpurse, a rogue, I'll be sworn,'
continued Mr. Stanley Powell. "li!
ho! John,iJames, Thomas, Francois !"
"Go for aasiscance," said Mr. Powell,
as a whole tribe of domestics came run-
ning to the room in obedience to his

OR, TIE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.         8?

officers.  Here, Thomas, mount and
ride of to' Newgate; say that I have
entrapped-"
Red Ralph's heart beat like the tick-
ing of a clock.
"Never mind," resumed Mr. Stanley
Powell; "I won't mention names."
The servant quitted t he room, and
the Captain of the Yeltbw Band was left
a prey to the mingled sensation of rage,
disgust at his iuprudence, and fear fog
the result of the mishap when t'e
officers should arrive from Newgate.
CHA.P iER XIX.
MORE ABOUT    THE  SKELETON -TH
GLOOMY HOUSE AND ITs MYSTERIES-
THE ROOM OF DEATH-THE UNDER-
GROUND ROOMS-A FEARFUL SIGHT-~
THE STRUGGLE WITI TIE MANIAG
WIFE.
IN vain did the beautiful Leonore
stru le in the aries of the horrible
skeleton.
The greater her efforts to release heF-
self from  its hateful embrace, the
tighter did its clutch seem to become.
For a few moments she was wellnigh
out of her wits with fright.
The attack had been so sudden and
'unexpected. 11cr assailant of such an
extraordinary nature.
1 Many women, under like circum-
stances, would have fainted from terror,
or continued to scream and struggle
unavadlingly.
T'is brave girl, however, was not se
silly ; she summoned all her courage
and reason to hmer aid, and looked the
difficulty i'i the face.
The skeleton was not alre, although
it jumped so niimly out of its hiding-
plaice, and clutched her so tightly. It
was, after all, but a sort of horrible jack-
in-the-box-a mechanical contrivance
of fiendish ingenuity.
Iow to free herself from its clutches

m   * ei .attei . rhich required her
Sonsiaeration. When she stood still it
was still also  When she pulled away
it tightened its hold on her.
Thea she recollected that it had
spring at at her with open arms. She
palled the door towards her, and worked
herself round towards the cupboard.
Aa she dtc so the skeleton released
hold.
Suddenly to let go altogether, and,
in a way at oee grotequely ludicrous,
and horrible, se tipered back into the
cupboard.
Then she slappd the door to in a
moment, and le xed against it, and
drew a long breath of relief.
Decidedly thgat way a cupboard to be
avoided. There was another cupboard
also of which she :haa no very favor-
able opinion, although ano had not tried
it.
After a little reflection upon the dif-
-cuilties of the situation, she concluded
very naturally that only two ways of
escape was open to her-the door or the
window.
As regarded her clothes, there was no
time to think about them now. She de-'
termined to wrap herself up as well as
sae could in a blanket, and throw'
herself upon the mercy of some passer by.
She munt not go near the village, or
who could say what horrible tortures
would be inflicted upon her?
She first of all turned her attention to
the window, but here her hopes were
soon blighted when she came to examine
the fastenings.
It was not only, as the moonlight
enabled her to see, very high- from the
ground, but it was securely guarded by
iron bars of enormous strength.
The door, then, was her only hope,
but this was locked upon the outside.
The wood, however,. was . old and
rotten, and the doorpost had, to a small
extent, given way, so that there was a
possibility of forcing back the bolt from
the Inside,

iar __    _         '
.t     i              ,.

- What implement was she to uxse,
through which to efect this purpose?
She looked about the room and, to
her great delight, discovered a knife
lying behind some litter on the mantel-
piece.
With this in her hand she approached
the door, and was about to operate
upon the locki when a creaking noise on
the stairs arrested her hand, asid sent
her scared and trembling back to the
bedside.
She retained for some time silent as
death and listening intently.
But then she came to the conclusion
that she must have been mistaken, and,
with the knife in her hand, once more
approached the door.
All was still now.
She forced the blade of the knife
under the lock, and, without any great
exertion of strength, forced it back.
'Then she opened the door very
cautiously, and peeped out.
, All was very quiet and dark. If the
house contained any other inmate but
herself, ho ar she, as the case might be.
must be asleep.
As yet, as the reader will remember,
Leonore had not set eyes upon either
of her jailers.
She had recovered from her fainting
fit, opened the door, gone down stairs,
escaped from the house, and wandered
towards the village, only to faint upon:
another doorstep, and, on recovering
her consciousness, find herself in the
hands of the bloodthirsty fanatics from
whom Ralph had set her free.
Having fainted again, she returned to
her senses once more to find herself in
the same gloomy unknown house front
which she had ruu away.
It almost seemed like maie that she
should thus travel to and fro, knowing
not whither she went or wherefore she
was a captive.
But it would not do to sit down and
wait patiently for the issue. Slis must
at once take a decisive step.

4'

t
f


OR, THE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

She descended the stairs very slowly,
and cautiously pausing more than once
to listen.
But she heard nothing, and she soon
nme to the conclusion that she was
alone in the house.
Reaching the bottom of the stairs, she
groped along in the -darkoess until her
haud encountered the handle of a door.
She turned it, but found that the door
was locked.                   -
Groping her way along she came
preently to another door, which she
tried with the same result.
At last, having tried two iore, she
found she could force the knife-blade
under the lock of the last, and thus
manage to open it.
The first faint streak of. dawn was
struggling through the iron. bars of the
window, but the room was yet almost
entirely plunged in obscurity.
As Leonore advanced, however, she
was able to make out indistinctly the
objects which the room contained.
One thing at once attracted her at-
tention-a long dark something upon
the floor.
Straining her eyes to the utmost, she
approached, and was within a yard of it
before she perceived what it was
Then she started back, and her blood
curdled with horror.
it appeared to be the corpse of an old
woman, the skull smashed in and the
dace covered with blood.
The gidl shrank back in terror from
the fearful sight.
Into what den of horror had she been
brought? What would be her own fate
tf she remained any longer?
She crept out of the room again,
shuddering as she went, and closed the
door after her.
Then she stood, uncertain what to do
next-whither to bend her steps.
She found her way to the outer-door
by wllitoi she had before escaped, but
this time it was. double-locked, ant
fastened in auch a way that to open ii

was. impossible. To open any of th
other doors of :this ending was also
beyond her power. and she now turned
her attention to the floor beneath.
She found a staircase which led down
below, and, feeling certain that she
was alone in the house, fearlessly de-
scended.
At tae boton of a flight of steep
stone steps she caine to a heavy door,
very strongly bolted and-barred. W ith
some trouble she undid these fastenigs
and entered a sort of vaulted chamber,
beyond which was pi ch dark.
She knew not what to do now. She
was afraid to return to the room where
the old woman lay, though she fancied
that she hal noticed a small piece of
candle and some lucifer matches lying
on the table.
After a momentary hesitation she
groped her way onwards in the dark.
Opposite to the door which she had
entered she found anolier door also
securely bolted. This she opened, and
entered a place which appeared to be
wither.a cell or cellar, lighted by a small
grating high up against the ceiling.
There was a dreadful stench in this
place, and it was very cold and damp
Leonore glanced round despairingly,
and saw that it contained nothing but
an old broken earthenware pitcher, and
what at the first sight appeared to be a
heap of rags and straw in one corner.
As she was turning round again
towards the door the clanking of a
chain startled her.
She startled violently, for at first she
thought that the cellar might contain
dome savage dog, which would rush
out upon her.
But there was no further movement,
and she was fast coming to the cnclu-
sion that the noise must have been
made by rats, when a deep and Lillow
gioan struck upon her ear.
t She stood motionless, her eyes fixed
upon the spot from which the sou Ahad
t proceeded.

.-I

After a menates' interval the groan
was repeated.
Well-nigh frightened out of her life,
me young girl's first ilea was to fly.
but then a thought flashed through her
train, and is rapicLly altered her deter-
mination.
Suppose there was another captive in
the house! -
Singe both were weaklmt together
they right successfully struggle against
their  ilors.
C'vquering her fear, then, she dr'w
near the dark corner.
h3 she did so a sight met her eyes
wuich -filled her with amazement and
1rbrror.
Aj1 at once a horrible object became
! iscernible in the obscurity, and she
tood transfixed before it.
The object which terrified her was
the figure of a woman, misera-bly dirty
and neglected, sitting crouched up like
an ape nursing her toes, and half-hidden
by straw.
It would be impossible to give the
reader any just idea of the fearful con-
dicion to which cruelty and (neglect had
reduced this unhappy creature.
Her lean eniaciated body had for its
only covering a few filthy rags.
She was, to look at, nothing but a
bag of bones. IL- arms and legs were
fleshless,
Her face was shrunken, and her deep-
set eyes and hollow jaws ga-ye her the
aPpearance of death.
A ragged mass of hair hung over her
eyes and down her back.

upon the miserable captive, and the
first involuntary feeling of loathing and
disgust gave place in the young girl's
gentle heart to one of deep commisera-
tion.
The object of misery looked up at
her from among the straw, half covering
its face with its hands in doing so, as
though afraid.
"My poor woman," said Leonora            -
in a gentle tene, "what are you doing
here ?"
The captive made no answer, but
stared at her in stupid terror.
Leonore repeated the question  a;
pause.
".1 am dying," replied the other in a
low faiut voice, scarcely audible.
"What is the matters with you?'"
'' I am dying of cold and hunger."
"how long have you Iteen here ?"
"Years.''
" Years?"
"Ever since I can remember ; I can
recollect nothing before the awfulnigt
he brought me here."
"Who brought you 1"
"Hush, Hush! He will hear you if
you speak so loud. He will come back
ahd beat me again with his cruel whip
which cuts so deep into my flesh,"
"There is no one to hear you, my
poor creature, Of whom are you speak-
ing l" =-
"Of himiupstairs."
"Of whim ?"
"Of my nusband."
'4 Your husband? But who is he 7"-
" Jabez. Don't you know hii?  abes

She had long nails like the talons'of a the hunchback."
bird. 11cr joints seemed to be bursting  "Yes, yes," continued the others.
through her tightly-drawn skin.     "Do you know him. If you do you
She was also covered with dreadful know a de vil."
Bnres and bruises, the effects of brutal  "I know  him  well enough," said
Polence.       .                    Leonore, in. 4rembling tones. "Is it
Poor unhappy creature, what misery possible that this house' belongs to
she must have suffered ere she arrived him !"
at this state                         "Yes, this is his house, and the old
Such was the thought which passed hag up stairs is his housekeeper. They
tfr'ough Leonore's mind as she gazed two together are killing me by' inches.

- _'I
,.  .-'i   i  .1

A
'        ,

11.ED RALPH ;


RED RALPH;

They starve me and beat me, and leave
me half mad with thirst for days to-
gether. Sometimes I pray of them to
kill me at once with one blow, and put
me out of my bitter misery."
"But why does your husband keep
you thus a prisoner ?"
"I know not, except that he was dis-
appointed in the fortune hoe thought I
should bring him; and because he
is as vindictive and unforgiving as a
fiend."
"I wonder, though, that he does Lot
kill you at once, instead of keeping you
thus buried alive."
"He keeps me alive to watch my
sufferings. He often comes down here
and gloats his eyes upon my misery.
lie dances and laughs and claps his
bands with joy when I can appeal. He
is a stone. He is dead to all human
feeling."
"You must not remain here to be
killed, and I must lose no time either,
if I am to make good my escape."
"Escape? Have you come here, then,
t' help me? God bless you ! God bless
you!"
"I will try all I can to do so, but I do
not know the house, and amunaequain-
,ted with its economy."
"Are you, too, a prisoner, beautiful
lady ?" asked the other captive. .
"Yes, I have been brought here in
some mysterious way, and for some un-
known reason."
"For no good purpose, I am certain;
lady. For no purpose but your ruin,
dishonor, and death. But let us lose no
time. Let us fly."
" Yes ; let us fly," murmured Leonore
thoughtfully. "But how ?"
She was moving towards the door,
when the other woman suddenly sprang
from the corner and caught her by the
wrist.
"Stay," she cried in an excited tone ;
gave me."
d to do so; I will

" No-no, you must not quit my
sight."
" I must dose for a short time"
"No-no-no."
"Rest assured I will very shortly re-
turn. I want to find some means of
egress from our prison-house.".
"Stay ! stay ! I dare not trust you
away from me. You will not come
baek. I feel certain you will not come
back."
"My poor creature, I promise you
faithfully that I will not be gone many
minutes."
But it was in vain to reason. The
half-witted wretch clung wildly to her,
screaming and sobbing.
Then, as Leonore struggled to free
herself, the other's tears gave place to
an ungovernable fury.
"I will murder you," she shrieked. "1
will have your life if you try to get
away."
"Loose your hold !" cried Leonore
in terror.
But the idiot's hold  seemed to
tighten.
At that moment, too, a sound in the
house above reached their ears.
There was a heavy footfall in the
passage over head.
"Release me, release me !" cried
Leonore, struggling madly with her
assailant.           -
CHAPTER XX.
JONATHAN GAGGED-FRIEND ThFED,
THE THIEF-TAKER AND HIS MYR3l'
DONS-DANGER-ESCAPE-T1bs BLAS
TED TREE - THE UNDERGRODD MYS-
TERIES - BLIND MAN'S BUFF---- TOk
KING IN TROUBLE.
RETURN   e for a while to the glade In-
the forest, where Jonathan Wtd, Tom.
King, and the myrmidons of the former
worthy lay bound at the mercy of Cap-
tain Red Ralph and his redOubtable
Yellow Band.
So securely hail they been bound by

"'

OR, THE DAUGHTBlS 0? NIGHT.

ae men, that escape was deemed an
atiter impossibility.
The last of the Yellow Band had
scecely quitted the gla c, when the
branch of a tree, immediate ly above
the spot upon which lay the thief-taker
hound an i helpless, was shaken vio-
lently, and a man appeared scrambliug
through the thick foliage.
Then he endeavored to clutek the
branch wihi the ostensible purpose of
ta,ing an easy drop to the ground, but
nltortunately missing his hold, he came
to the ground with fearful veiecity and
a loud thud.
We have said "to the grad ;" but
heir we are in erro . I e chanced to
alight exactly in the softer portioiFof
Jonathan Wild's stomach.
The latter was, of course, almost an-,
elhilated, but the new comer was there-
by saved an unpleasant mishap.
"Pheugh !" he cried; as he regained
his emilibrium and shook himself to-
gether. "That was likely to do me
sowm hnrm if it hadn't ha' bec for-
Why, hallo !" and here he began to
look uncemfort Flo, for he recoguised
the' thief-taker in the victim  of his
misadventure. ' Why it's Mr. Wild !"
Jonathan Wild giared upon him in a
terrifying manner.
"I'm very sorry, Mr. Wild; I am,
indeed."
Mr. Wild intimated, as well us he
could by a glance that he wished to be
set free.
"Yes, Mr. Wild," said the ' other
obsequiously, interpreting the thief-
taker's meaning; "-in a minute-where
is my knife ?-I really-"
"Take mine," said the thief-takeras
plainly as eyes could speak.
"Oh! I see, Mr. Wild; here it is.
There you are, Mr. Wild."
Jonathan Wild's first speech upon
the recovery of his freedom was won-
derfully characteristic of the man.
"You thick-headed booby !" he cried.
*You numskull ! Idgt ! Assf"

"Mr. Wild; -°-said the man; all
humility, "'pon my life, I-
" You lying_ jaekanapes, you did!"
cried the thief taker, anticipating the
man's speech. "You did, yen rascal-
you knew that I was there, and jumped
upon me intentionally-knocked all the
breath out of my body."
"I assure you-"
" Silence!"
"But-"
"Cut these infernal cords, unless you
like to see me a prisoner."
"Certainly, Mr. Wild."
" Hal! 0-oh !" cried Jonathan Wild.
"You ruffian !'
" I'mv ery sorry.'
"You lie, you jackanapes!" cried the
thief-taker. "You tried to cut me, and
you have fully succeeded in your pur-
pose-you have cut me to the bone.
But hang me if I don't have law of you
for it.; 'll cry quits,'or my name isn't
Jonathan Wild !"
In the space of fye minutes from the
appearance of their emarncpator in the
tree, the whole party, including the
doughty Tom King, were set at liberty.
"Now," said Jonathan Wild 'to the
new corer, " now, Turnbull, give an
account of yourself, where have you
been r"
"Scouting, as you ordered, Mr. Wild,"
r eturned the man.
"And why were you not at hand
when we needed ,our services 1"
"Because I saw that I could be of no
service to you in a fight against such
odds, and-"
"And you actually saw us engaged?"
said Mr. Wild in amazement.
"Yes, sir."
" You hear that, all ?" said the-thief-
taker, appealing to his myrmidons and
Tom King. "ie.owns having seen us,
and yet didn't come forward when he
was wanted."Y-*-
"Yes, Mr. Wild," said the man, " but
I reserved myself for this."
"Liar !" cried Wild, "I wish you had


92                          REDR
reserved yourself as you call it alt'-
gether, before you had jumped your
filthy carcase upon me."
The speaker still looked pale from the
results of his mishap.
" However," continued   Jonathan
Wild, "you hear what he says ; just
rote it down Jedfries ; I shall want you
as a witness when we get back to town;
just note down the particulars."
The man knew from experience this
was like to prove no idle threat, and he
already quaked in anticipation of the
promised punishment.
"-Hadn't we better leave all our little
rows for the present, Mr. Wild I" sug-
gested Tom King.
"As you please," said Wild, assum-
ing a bland complaisance, which his
men well knew boded no good for the
Jsat speaker.
* Then, if so," said Tom King, "I do
please. Just give up this dispute till a
more fitting occasion, and think how
we can repay this Captain Ralph for
his kind attention. We shall have some
of his men looking us up if we are not
sharp."
Tlhe thief-taker merely nodded his
head in token of assent, and was im-
mediately lost in a brown study of the
matter in hand-vengeance on his late
conquerors-a sensation which occupied
a large share of his sympathies.
"Hark you, Mr. Wild," said Tom
King, "I have a proposition to make."
"Then let's have it," returned the
thief-taker."
" What do you think of hunting ou
the Yellow Band in their haunts, Mr
Wild"                           ..
"It cannot be carried out.'
"There you are mistaken, Mr. Wild,'
said Tom King in a detetwined tone
"it can and shall be."
"And by whom preyt"
"By me."
"Single hande ?"
The 4)4.f taer looked upon To

IALPfl;
King with a contemptuous curl of the
lip for a few seconds, and then burst
out in a derisive mocking laugh.
"Laugh on," said Tom King, "but
let those laugh who win."'
"Mr. Wild," said one of the officers,
"I think I hear some one approaching."
"Ilah! then we must be brief. Hark
you, Mr. Tom King; you are deter-
mined to follow up this wild goose
chaye . ,"
" I am."
"And I am half inclined to set my
face against it."
"Gad ! but that would be a sad pity,"
said Tom King, laughing. "And for
what reason would .you object?  No
nice conisideraion on my behalf, I'll
warrant."
"'Tis, though," said Wild; "J
wouldu't have you come to harm at the
hands of Red Ralph or his Yellow Boys,
because- .
"Finish it, Mr. Wild," said Tom
King. "Because of what, pray ."
"Because I've sworn to hang you,
Toni King," said Wild viciously.
"have a care, Jonathan," said King
seriously-" have a care."
"Pooh! pooh !"
"I waru you that I might be tempted
to cat your throat."   '
Tlhe thief-taker drew back a few
paces, and stood between two of his
myrmidons.
"You hear that, men-you hear that
-he threatens to cut my throat. I cell
you all to witness that."
t The sounds of footsteps, of which one
.of the mn had advised the thiief taker
a minute or so before, were now audible
to all.
No time was now to be lost.
With a few hurri d words of threat
to Tom King, and defiance on the part
of the latter, Jonathan Wild disap'
peared in the winding of the road fo)
lowed by hps five associates.
Tom King clambered into the tree
m from which the man Turnbull had f'allep

A

ren1.
"flush !"
The only shaded spot in the glade

the arrival of the new comer. =
When the individual who had thus
alarmed Jonathan Wild and his party
appeared in the glade, Torn King per-
ceived at a glance that he had met him
before,
lie was, in effect, Tom King's old
enemy Walters, the gallant Lieutenant
of the Yellow Band.
He bore no traces, of his late tough
struggle with Ton King. The' wound
wh h he had received was so slight that
it had merely sufficed to extract asmuch
blood from a vein in his wrist as any
ba-rber surgeon of the period -would
have let for any mortal ailment with
which the lieutenant iight have been
afflicted.
"I wonder what he'll think to find
us all cleared oft," thought Tom King.
Whatever the lieutenant might have
thought, he did not allow a word to
escape him.
lie glanced about him at first as if
rather surprised, but settled the diffi-
culty with a toss of the head, imply-
i g, as plainly as a toss of the head
could, "Oh, it's all right." -
With this he pushed aside the bushes
and disappeared in the thicket.
After this there -was a low whistled
signal, which was presently answered.
"That's the way in," murmured Tom
£ing in his hiding-place.
But he had a very ticklish task to
perform in this self-allotted business,
and he was determined not to fail from
incautiousness.
He resolved, therefore, to lie snug
for a while.   -
The result proved that his caution
was not ill timed.
In less than five minutes the lieuten-
ant reappeared, followed by two of the
Yellow Band.
"Lieutenant-" began one of the

a,   ' dry i
r ,
r y         e            _ 'Y
y      vy  xi
._                                ..  . {

OR, lHE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.-                    93
tpon Jonathan Wild, and there awaited leanced to be the identical tree in which

Tom King was bidden, and beneath its
overhanging boughs the cautions lieu-
tenant beckoned his two men to con-
verse.
'The consequence was that the only
mant that they had to fear overheard the
whole of what ensued.
" Lieutenant," whispered one of the
men ; " they iiiust have taken the road
to the Miller's Point."
"Ay, I'see their tracks plainly, lieu
tenant," said the other.
" Of course," said the lieutenant;
" but the qjuestioii is, how did they
contrive to g t free? I saw them
bound up my'.self."
And I hielicd to do iV."
" And I too: and: 1 know very well
that the devil himself couldn't have
untied the knots."
And yet; But stop," said the lieu-
tenant; "there's been something down
by this tree. Do you see how the leaves
are knocked of?"
"Yes," said one of the men ; "and
here is a branch torn off."
Tom King began to experience an
uncomfortable sensation.
"What does it mean, lieutenant ?"
demanded the latter speaker.
"It means," replied Walters thought-
fully, "that whoever rendered them
this assistance was co cealed in this
tree."
"That's strange."
" It is"
"Not so very strange, either," re-
marked the lieutenant.
"Not so?"
"No ; didn't you tell me that a fifth
man had been seen lurking about the
forest ?"
"Yes."
"And that he was recognized for one
of Jonathan Wild's men ?"
"'Yes."
"Then there's the whose exL lanatiol
of it," said he lieutenant "This tel-
low has be   turking a    . nd' the

.


-.

RED RALPH;

you left the spot he did all the
mischief."                         tb
"Curse him."
"Hang him ."    .
"If I had but known it i" said the
former. "I stood under here all the
time, too, and he was probably only a sr
few feet above my head."           th
"I dare say," mentally muttered Tom P
King.
"If I had only fired into the tree, or t1
if my pistol had only gone off by acci- in
dent, or-"
"Or if thea hadn't escaped," said the b
henten;   * But they have ; so all the
'ifs' i*-O ' id are useless."      n
"But it might have gone off, lieu- in
tenant, you know."
"Let's hope it won't now," thought
Tom King, slightly alarmed.         q
"Regrets   are alike useless  and
absurd now," said the lieutenant. "The
fact is, we have let them slip through g
our angers nicely this time, and there
only remains one slight chance of U
remedy."
"And that is-"
"Pursuit."                        t
" I'm with youlieutenant."
"  I  too."-"
"Good," said the lieutenant. "Then t
rk with you to the haunt. Put ont
your cutlasses, and look to the priming
of your laikers."_
" All right, hieutenant."
"Be suit' anl speedy ; and I can
promise you some tough work if you
mean fighting."                   -
'lee two men responded with a faint
cheer, and darted beack into tie bushes,
followed by W alters.    .
"That's decidedly their haunt, as
they call it," nmused Tom King -,;" mnl.
I will he' there in a few minutes more.
Wait until the coast is clear."
He had not long to wait.
The lieutenant and his two men,
booted and spurred, and armed to the
teeth, speedily reappeared through the
bushes.

"mWhere are the horses." demanded
1S lieutenant.
"Waiting for us at the Palmer's Cell.
an Parker has them."
" Call him hither."
One of the men signalled, and an an-
rering call came faintly along upon
e night wind from the direction of the
palmer's Cell'
A galloping of horses was heard, and.
tree fine-looking hacks were trotted
to the glade by one of the Yellow Band.
"here, Parker," said the lieutenant,
ekoning the man.
He placed his hands lightly upon the
eck of one of the horses, and vaulted
nto the saddle with all the grace and
ase of an accomplished equestrian.
"Now then, my men," said he, "be
uik. To horse and away "
"Ay, ay, lieutenant."
"They cannot have made much pro-
ress a-foot. Forward !"
And the three horseman centered out
if the glade.
"So much for them," said trom King,
once more at his ease. "And now for
he haunt of the Y flow Band."
He scrambled out of the tree, and,
made his way at once to the part of the
thicket from which the. lieutenant and
two men had emerged.
Iere, how':ver, he began with a great
difieiulty. The shrubs had been twined
in such a way that the entrance was
almost inaccessible to one of the un-
mi Rated.
ButTom King was not the man to be
baffled by a tritline obstacle when he
had set his mid upon accomplishing a
dilheu ty.
U.n tore such of the bushes away,
trro, as impeded his progress, and
in doing so, sadly hcer *ted his hands,
and helt a bleeding track behind him.
But his purpose was accouplished,
and he had pased the first barrier.r.
"That's over," ieamuttered, as he
paiuset awhile to breathe, for his exer-
tios had been     no mev    of the

O1, TIE DAUGHTER OF NIGHT.

s
r
a
7

Aghtest. "I'm sorry that I knocked it
aiout so--it would leave a track to a
Mnarp-slghted fellow.'If that lieutenant,
uathey call him, or Red Ralph himself
were to return, I niight consider myself
ts good as departed this existence."
For half an hour did Tom King do
battle bravely with briar, thorn, and
ticket, and at the expiration of ttat
wne paused to rest at the foot of a tree-
tartp, not three minutes' walk from
ale starting-point.
Although shut in on every side by
.rs, bushes, and shrubs, this tree had
apparently been struck down by light-
aurg, whilst all the vegetation about had
escaped unscathed.
"Singular,". muttered  Tom  King,
"that the electric fluid should have
stngled out this old fellow; and I'll
warrant he has no sapling."
In the examination of the tree he was
dandling it rather roughly, and he
ncied he felt it move:
Impossible! and yet--hah !"
He pushed heavily against it, and this
6 there was nodoubt as to its hay-
ng shifted several inches.
.eewn his .exertions, he had the
iatiafaction of pushing the tree-stump
eack, discovering an aperture sufficient-
ly large to admit the passage of an or-
4.inay-seized wan with ease.
-'b blasted tree formed a kind of cap,
severing to the bole, one side of it being
faster.d to the ground by hinges.
"chance has no doubt discovered for
me what I might have sought fort
sterhiisy and failed to find," nused To i
iing. "This is--must be the entrance
io the haunt of the Yellow Band. But
.t looks phinguey dark."
And it did iu'l'ed look dark. It was
xo small proof of Ton King's courage
mat he pursued his scheme beyond this
yomt.
Smothering his qualms as they arose,
he sat flown, passed his legs through
the dark aperture, and let himself
gradually down.

He commenced restin     upon  his
elbows,. but, -sti etelr as 'he would, hii
feet could find no landingplace.
"And yet there must be," he mutter-
ed. "I must risk it."
He let him-elf down to the full extent-
of his reach, and his foot kicked some
post or pillar !
"What can this be ". he thought, as
he rested his foot upon the moveable
support; "surely not a stepping-stone?
No ian would t uest himself to such a
place in this pitch darkness."
As he kicked about he felt that the
place was hollow from two or three feet
below the surface of the soil.
Presently, growing bolder, he re-
leased the hool of the left hand and
lowered it into the aperture, feeling for
some further hold, whist with his right
hand, and the slight rest from this in-
visible projection at the bottom of the
pit, he contrived to support himself.
As he had coujectured; he was not
ong in placing his foot upon a 'huge
wooden staple.
" I'm getting at it by. degrees,"' he
murmured, hop#elly; "it is, certain
that I' am upon the .right track now.
This secret entrance-has-no been formed
without soe reason, and good ,reason
too.''
Grasig4hiie wooden staple, with hip
left baud ho released his hold of the
pit's mouth. and truswed himself to the
black void beeatb hii,
A second shiift downwards and'he was
up~oo terra firma.
.oCaefuhly groping. his way along, he'
proceeded in a stooping position down
a low vaulted passage cut. out of the.
solid earth.
Atter a while le came to an iron gate,
and thou he experienced another bar to
his progre.
But his undaa~ntable perserverance
overcame this, andagate which oppoge4,
him was forced open.              _
True, it had created more noise than
liewould h.vb chosen to make; but the


RED RALPh;

gate was passed, and he pushed his way
on through the darkness.
"A few steps further brought him to a
door, through a chink of which he
fancied he perceived a faint glimmer of
light.
It was now growing exciting, and it
was no wonder that the heart of the
adventurous Tom King went some-
what faster as he paused to consider his

But herd , started was in "   ffr
our advenirons spirit.
Two man lay sleeping    apon the
ground.
Smothering and ejaculation ofsurprisa
as it arose to his lips, he tur3d to r
treat.
One of the men moved.
Tom   King at once perceive the
danger and hastened his movsnetmj. but

next step.                         alasi- he met with a sad misrs p which
lie stooped and applied his car to the well-nigh proved fatal to hin,.
small aperture through which the faint  his foot kicked a cutlass winch lay in
thin streak of light proceeded.    his way, and sent it clattering c'ong the
All was silent,                   ground two or three paces.
Then he tried the door.            The two men open their eyes.
It yielded to his touch, and hepushed  "Who's there?"
It open and stepped on.              But, fortunately, Tom King was al
He found himself in -a boarded vault ready out of sight.
of an unhealthy low pitch, and smelling  lie scampered along the wage as
damp and mouldy.                   fast as his legs would carry him, and
"A night here," thought Tom King, made for the starting point.
" would be rheumatics for life."     A few strides brought him Q ice more.
Bu' was there no out let? This was to the first cavern.
the next consideration.              But here was a terrible dilemma ! he
He soon perceived that there was.. could not nake out which of the pas,
A. dull oil-lamp, flickering miserably as I sages he had come from.
if about to give up the ghost, was   Then, turning about him   despair
suspended by a chain from the centre at this hapless mischance, he lost him-
of the cavern, and seemed only to throw self altogether.
the gloomiest of shadows over this sub- And now, to heighten his pet piexity,
terranean cell ; so that the visitor had he fancied he heard a click 'ike toh
not at first discovered that three pillars catcking of a pistol,
of earth, fashioned evidently to imitate This was almost immediately followed
the dungeon of some old castle, each by a loud ringing report, and he feit a
concealed a passage.               sharp pain in his shoulder.
There was that by which he had     As t'h eventful scefies of this entran-
entered, and one upon either side of it. cing work have advanced, and the in-
He, therefore, proceeded at once to terest continues to increase, we ere com-
examine both the outlets.          polled to pause awhile for breath, and
Both were equally dark, gloomy, and wait for still more exciting 'stenes: ii
silent, and he chose one of them at hap- the future, which will be detailed i i
hazard.                            new  volume, entitled "LEONOi, Op
Some eight or ten yards of this were THEI HGuwAYMA's BRIDE" wielt
traversed, and then he found himself in will relate the further advexrures .e
a sdoud vault of larger dimensions than Red Ralph and the other ,aminwma
that which he had just quitted. characters in this story.

EaN *XD.

er

)

t


                                                  
             
         
       
   
