
    ----CITATION----
        Cozzens, Frederick Swartwout, (1818-1869). The Sparrowgrass Papers, or, Living in the Country .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6183 wright2-0652
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            
               THE SPARROWGRASS PAPERS.
            
         
         
         

            
               
                  MR. SPARROWGRASS DESCENDS TO THE INFERNAL REGIONS ON A DUMB WAITER. "He came
                     to the rescue with a bull-terrier, a Newfoundland pup, a lantern, and a
                     revolver. The moment he saw me at the window he shot at me, but fortunately
                     just missed me. I threw myself under the table, and ventured to
                     expostulate."—PAGE 72.
               
            
            
               
                  "I managed to get the ring-leader of the swinish multitude into my parlor.
                     He was a large, powerful-looking fellow with a great deal of comb, long legs,
                     mottled complexion, and cars pretty well dogged. He stood for a moment at bay
                     against the sofa, and then charged upon the dogs."—PAGE 90.
               
            
         
         
         

            
               THE SPARROWGRASS PAPERS:
               OR, LIVING IN THE COUNTRY.
            
            BY FREDERIC S. COZZENS.
            
            
               
                  
                     "To him who in the love of Nature holds
                     Communion with her visible forms, she speaks.
                     
                        A various language."
                  
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               DERBY & JACKSON, 119 NASSAU ST.
               CINCINNATI:—
               H. W. DERBY.
            
            1856.
         
         
         
            
               ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by FREDERIC S.
                  COZZENS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the U. S. for the Southern
                  District of New York
               W. H. TINSON, Stereotyper.
               GEORGE RUSSELL & CO., Printers.
            
         


         
            TO ONE OF THE GENTLEST OF HUMORISTS, TO THE REV. FREDERICK W.
               SHELTON, AUTHOR OF "LETTERS FROM UP THE RIVER," This Volume IS
               AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.
         
         
         

            GENTLE READER!
            Doubtless you have read, in the work of a quaint old commentator whose name has been
               quietly obscuring itself in the rust of nearly three centuries, these words—"It hath
               beene the custome of many men to make their introductions to their bookes, like to
               some Grecian Cities gates; so ample, that (as the Prouerbe ranne), their Citie was
               ready to steale thorow the same." You and I who appreciate wisdom—especially if it be
               a little mouldy, at once recognized the value of the hint conveyed by that piece of
               antiquated orthography. Therefore, to you, the brevity of this preface will, I trust,
               commend the book quite as much as though I had taken the matter in hand through the
               length and breadth of a score of pages. As there is nothing in it worth a
               smooth-faced prologue, nothing that would be the better for an apology, and nothing
               worth reviewing seriously, may I beg leave to present it without any introduction,
               except the very excellent designs of Mr. Darley?
            
               CHESTNUT COTTAGE, March 1st, 1856.
            
         
         
         

            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. Living in the Country—Rural Anticipations—Early Rising—Baked
                  Hippoppotami—Our New Chickens—A Discovery—The Advantages of having a Watch-Dog in
                  the Country—A Finale to the First Garden, and Unpleasant Prospects for the
                  Future.—PAGE 13.
               
               CHAPTER II. We conclude to give the Country another Year's Trial—Spring
                  Birds—Mr. Sparrowgrass becomes the Owner of a Boat—A Visit from a Friend—First
                  Experience with a Fish-net—An Irishman in a Fyke—Exchange of Civilities and
                  Cucumbers—Bate's Cow, and a Hint to Horticulturists—Local Designations.—PAGE 19.
               
               CHAPTER III. The Clouds in the Country—A Thunder-Shower—Mr. Sparrowgrass buys a
                  Bugle—Ineffectual Music—A Serenade and an Interruption—First Fruits—A Surprise,
                  and the Entire Loss of our Cherry Crop.—PAGE 30.
               
               CHAPTER IV. Mrs. Sparrowgrass discourses of Social Life in the Rural
                  Districts—Town and Country—A Rural Party—The Advantages of dressing in a Plain
                  Way—Our New Dog—Autumnal Scenery—A Family Acqueduct.—PAGE 41.
               
               CHAPTER V. Children in Town and Country—Mistake about a Lady—The
                  Menagerie—Amusement for Children—Winter Scenery—Another Amusement for
                  Children—Sucker Fishing—General Washington.—PAGE 52.
               
               
               CHAPTER VI. An Event—Wolfert's Roost—The Nepperhan and its Legends—Mr.
                  Sparrowgrass descends to the Infernal Regions on a Dumb Waiter—Carrier Pigeons and
                  Roosters—The great Polish Exile—Poetry—Altogether a Chapter of Birds.—PAGE 64.
               
               CHAPTER VII. A Country Fire-place—Lares and Penates—Sentiment—Spring Vegetables
                  in the Germ—A Garden on Paper—Warm Weather—A Festa—An Irruption of
                  Noseologists—Constitutional Law, and so forth.—PAGE 79.
               
               CHAPTER VIII. Mr. Sparrowgrass concludes to buy a Horse—Reminiscences of
                  Bloomingdale—The difference between now and then—A Horse as can go—An Artist
                  Story—Godiva—Homeward and Outward bound—The Curtained Dais of the Life School—A
                  new "Lady of Coventry."—PAGE 94.
               
               CHAPTER IX. A Horse of another color—Ancient and Modern Points of a Horse—A
                  suspected Organ and Retrograde Movement—Mr. Sparrowgrass buys the Horse that
                  belongs to the Man's Brother—A valuable Hint as to Stable-building—A Morning Ride,
                  and a Discovery—Old Dockweed—An Evening Ride, and a Catastrophe.—PAGE 118.
               
               CHAPTER X. Children—An Interrupted Discourse—Mrs. Sparrowgrass makes a
                  Brilliant Remark—Philadelphia Phrases—Another Interruption—Quakers—A few
                  Quakeristics—A Quaker Baby—The Early Quakers—John Woolman—Thomas
                  Lurting—Broadbrims in a Cathedral—And a Friendly Suggestion.—PAGE 132.
               
               CHAPTER XI. Our new Horse improves—He is loaned to to a Neighbor, and disgraces
                  himself—Autumnal Vegetation—The Palisades and Rock Cataract—An
                  agreeable Surprise—Mr. Sparrowgrass takes a short trip to the County of
                  Broome——Meets with a Disappointment on his Return, but indulges in a flowing vein
                  of "Adversity's sweet milk."—PAGE 146.
               
               CHAPTER XII. Our New Barber—Reminiscences of our Old Barber—A Dog of another
                  Color—October Woods—A Party on the Water—Home, Sweet Home, with Variations (flute
                  obligato)—A row to the Palisades—Iroquois Legend—Return to the Cottage.—PAGE 160.
               
               CHAPTER XIII. The Children are sent to School—Old Soldiers—An Invitation, and
                  Cruel Disappointment—Our Eldest begins to show Symptoms of the Tender
                  Passion—Poetry—The Melodies of Mother Goose—Little Posterity by the Wayside—A
                     Casualty—The Drowning of Poor Little Tommy.—PAGE 193.
               
               CHAPTER XIV. Winter once more—Mr. Sparrowgrass feels as if he would like to
                  Chirp a little—Thomas Fuller, D. D.—The Good Wife—Old Dockweed again—A Barrel of
                  Cider—News of the Saddle and Bridle—Superior Tactics of the Village
                  Teamster—Christmas—Great Preparations—Christmas Carols and Masques—A Suggestion of
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass.—PAGE 195.
               
               CHAPTER XV. An offer for the Horse—Difficulty of Shipping him according to the
                  Terms of Bill of Lading—Anticipations—Marine Sketch—Mrs. Sparrowgrass buys a
                  Patent Bedstead—An essay on Mechanical Forces, and Suggestions in regard to a
                  Bronze Legislature—The New Bedstead is tried and found—"not available."—PAGE 208.
               
               CHAPTER XVI. Casualties will occur—Ice and Ice-houses—A hint from the Flowery
                  Nation—Baldwin's Pond—Skaters—Our horse gets into business and is launched upon an
                  ice island—A Derrick—The result thereof.—PAGE 225.
               
               CHAPTER XVII. The great Snow-storm—A quotation from Samuel—Recollections of
                  Town—What we then thought—A Song—Scraps in a Commonplace-book—An old epistle—And
                  anticipations.—PAGE 233.
               
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. A Conference in the Library—Mr. Sparrowgrass writes an
                  Essay—Life in Town and Life in the Rural Districts—Mrs. Sparrowgrass continues the
                  theme—Two Pictures from Nature—and the Last Word.—PAGE 244.
               
               CAPTAIN DAVIS,—a Californian Ballad, 267
               
               CAPTAIN BELGRAVE, 283
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The Sparrowgrass papers, or, Living in the country
            THE SPARROWGRASS PAPERS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  Living in the Country—Rural Anticipations—Early Rising—Baked Hippopotami—Our
                     New Chickens—A Discovery—The Advantages of having a Watch-Dog in the Country—A
                     Finale to the First Garden, and Unpleasant Prospects for the Future.
               
               IT is a good thing to live in the country. To escape from the prison-walls of the
                  metropolis—the great brickery we call "the city"—and to live amid blossoms and
                  leaves, in shadow and sunshine, in moonlight and starlight, in rain, mist, dew,
                  hoar-frost, and drouth, out in the open campaign, and under the blue dome that is
                  bounded by the horizon only. It is a good thing to have a well with dripping
                  buckets, a porch with honey-buds, and sweet-bells, a hive embroidered with
                     nimble bees, a sun-dial mossed over,
                  ivy up to the eaves, curtains of dimity, a tumbler of fresh flowers in your
                  bedroom, a rooster on the roof, and a dog under the piazza.
               When Mrs. Sparrowgrass and I moved into the country, with our heads full of fresh
                  butter, and cool, crisp radishes for tea; with ideas entirely lucid respecting
                  milk, and a looseness of calculation as to the number in family it would take a
                  good laying hen to supply with fresh eggs every morning; when Mrs. Sparrowgrass
                  and I moved into the country, we found some preconceived notions had to be
                  abandoned, and some departures made from the plans we had laid down in the little
                  back-parlor in Avenue G.
               One of the first achievements in the country is early rising! with the lark—with
                  the sun—while the dew is on the grass, "under the opening eyelids of the morn,"
                  and so forth. Early rising! What can be done with five or six o'clock in town?
                  What may not be done at those hours in the country? With the hoe, the rake, the
                  dibble, the spade, the watering-pot? To plant, prune, drill, transplant, graft,
                  train, and sprinkle! Mrs. S. and I agreed to rise early in the country.
                     
                        "Richard and Robin were two pretty men,
                        They laid in the bed till the clock struck ten:
                        Up jumped Richard and looked at the sky:
                        O Brother Robin! the sun's very high!"
                     
                   Early rising in the country is not an instinct; it is a sentiment, and must
                  be cultivated.
               A friend recommended me to send to the south side of Long Island for some very
                  prolific potatoes—the real hippopotamus breed. Down went my man, and what, with
                  expenses of horse-hire, tavern bills, toll-gates, and breaking a wagon, the
                  hippopotami cost as much apiece as pine-apples. They were fine potatoes, though,
                  with comely features, and large, languishing eyes, that promised increase of
                  family without delay. As I worked my own garden (for which I hired a landscape
                  gardener, at two dollars per day, to give me instructions), I concluded that the
                  object of my first experiment in early rising should be the planting of the
                  hippopotamusses. I accordingly rose next morning at five, and it rained! I rose
                  next day at five, and it rained! The next, and it rained! It rained for two weeks!
                  We had splendid potatoes every day for dinner. "My dear," said I to Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, "where did you get these fine potatoes?' "Why," said she, innocently, "out of that basket
                  from Long Island!" The last of the hippopotamusses were before me, peeled, and
                  boiled, and mashed and baked, with a nice thin brown crust on the top.
               I was more successful afterwards. I did get some fine seed-potatoes in the ground.
                  But something was the matter: at the end of the season, I did not get as many out
                  as I had put in.
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass, who is a notable house wife, said to me one day, "Now, my dear,
                  we shall soon have plenty of eggs, for I have been buying a lot of young
                  chickens." There they were, each one with as many feathers as a grasshopper, and a
                  chirp not louder. Of course, we looked forward with pleasant hopes to the period
                  when the first cackle should announce the milk-white egg, warmly deposited in the
                  hay which we had provided bountifully. They grew finely, and one day I ventured to
                  remark that our hens had remarkably large combs, to which Mrs. S. replied, "Yes
                  indeed, she had observed that; but if I wanted to have a real treat, I ought to
                  get up early in the morning and hear them crow." "Crow!" said I, faintly, "our
                  hens crowing! Then, by 'the cock that crowed in the morn, to wake the priest all
                  shaven and shorn,' we might as well give up all hopes of having any eggs," said I;
                  "for, as sure as you live, Mrs. S., our hens are all roosters!" And so they were
                  roosters! that grew up and fought with the neighbors' chickens, until there was
                  not a whole pair of eyes on either side of the fence.
               A dog is a good thing to have in the country. I have one which I
                  raised from a pup. He is a good, stout fellow, and a hearty barker and feeder. The
                  man of whom I bought him said he was thorough-bred, but he begins to have a
                  mongrel look about him. He is a good watch-dog, though; for the moment he sees any
                  suspicious-looking person about the premises, he comes right into the kitchen and
                  gets behind the stove. First we kept him in the house, and he scratched all night
                  to get out. Then we turned him out, and he scratched all night to get in. Then we
                  tied him up at the back of the garden, and he howled so that our neighbor shot at
                  him twice before day-break. Finally, we gave him away, and he came back; and now
                  he is just recovering from a fit, in which he has torn up the patch that has been
                  sown for our spring radishes.
               
               A good, strong gate is a necessary article for your garden. A good, strong, heavy
                  gate, with a dislocated hinge, so that it will neither open nor shut. Such an one
                  have I. The grounds before my fence are in common, and all the neighbors' cows
                  pasture there. I remarked to Mrs. S., as we stood at the window in a June sunset,
                  how placid and picturesque the cattle looked, as they strolled about, cropping the
                  green herbage. Next morning, I found the innocent creatures in my garden. They had
                  not left a green thing in it. The corn in the milk, the beans on the poles, the
                  young cabbages, the tender lettuce, even the thriving shoots on my young
                  fruit-trees had vanished. And there they were, looking quietly on the ruin they
                  had made. Our watch-dog, too, was foregathering with them. It was too much, so I
                  got a large stick and drove them all out, except a young heifer, whom I chased all
                  over the flower-beds, breaking down my trellises, my woodbines and sweet-briers,
                  my roses and petunias, until I cornered her in the hot-bed. I had to call for
                  assistance to extricate her from the sashes, and her owner has sued me for
                  damages. I believe I shall move in town.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  We conclude to give the Country another Year's Trial—Spring Birds—Mr.
                     Sparrowgrass becomes the Owner of a Boat—A Visit from a Friend—First Experience
                     with a Fish-net—An Irishman in a Fyke—Exchange of Civilities and
                     Cucumbers—Bate's Cow, and a Hint to Horticulturists—Local Designations.
               
               MRS. SPARROWGRASS and I have concluded to try it once more: we are going to give
                  the country another chance. After all, birds in the spring are lovely. First, come
                  little snow birds, avant-courriers of the
                  feathered army; then, blue-birds, in national uniforms, just graduated, perhaps,
                  from the ornithological corps of cadets, with high honors in the topographical
                  class; then follows a detachment of flying artillery—swallows; sand-martens,
                  sappers, and miners, begin their mines and countermines under the sandy parapets;
                  then cedar birds, in trim jackets faced with yellow—aha, dragoons! And then the
                  great rank and file of infantry, robins, wrens, sparrows, chipping-birds; and
                  lastly—the band!
                  
                     
                        "From nature's old cathedral sweetly ring
                        The wild bird choirs—burst of the woodland band,
                        —who mid the blossoms sing;
                        Their leafy temple, gloomy, tall, and grand,
                        Pillared with oaks, and roofed with Heaven's own hand."
                     
                   There, there, that is Mario. Hear that magnificent chest note from the
                  chesnuts! then a crescendo, falling in silence—à-plomb!
               
               Hush! he begins again with a low, liquid monotone, mounting by degrees and
                  swelling into an infinitude of melody—the whole grove dilating, as it were, with
                  the exquisite epithalamium.
               Silence now—and how still!
               Hush! the musical monologue begins anew; up, up, into the tree-tops it mounts,
                  fairly lifting the leaves with its passionate effluence, it trills through the
                  upper branches—and then dripping down the listening foliage, in a cadenza of
                  matchless beauty, subsides into silence again.
               "That's a he cat-bird," says my carpenter.
               A cat-bird? Then Shakespeare and Shelly have wasted powder upon the sky-lark; for
                  never such "profuse strains of unpremeditated art" issued from living bird before.
                  Sky-lark! pooh! who would rise at dawn to hear the sky-lark, if a catbird were
                  about, after breakfast?
               I have bought me a boat. A boat is a good thing to have in the country, especially
                  if there be any water near. There is a fine beach in front of my house. When
                  visitors come, I usually propose to give them a row. I go down—and find the boat
                  full of water; then I send to the house for a dipper; and prepare to bail; and,
                  what with bailing and swabbing her with a mop, and plugging up the cracks in her
                  sides, and struggling to get the rudder in its place, and unlocking the rusty
                  padlock, my strength is so much exhausted that it is almost impossible for me to
                  handle the oars. Meanwhile, the poor guests sit on stones around the beach, with
                  woe-begone faces. "My dear," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "why don't you sell that
                  boat?"
               "Sell it? ha! ha!"
               One day, a Quaker lady from Philadelphia paid us a visit. She was uncommonly
                  dignified, and walked down to the water in the most stately manner, as is
                  customary with Friends. It was just twilight, deepening into darkness, when I set
                  about preparing the boat. Meanwhile our Friend seated herself upon
                     something on the beach. While I was engaged in bailing, the wind shifted, and I
                  became sensible of an unpleasant odor; afraid that our Friend would perceive it
                  too, I whispered Mrs. Sparrowgrass to coax her off, and get her further up the
                  beach.
               "Thank thee, no, Susan, I feel a smell hereabout, and I am better where I am."
               Mrs. S. came back, and whispered mysteriously, that our Friend was sitting on a
                  dead dog, at which I redoubled the bailing, and got her out in deep water as soon
                  as possible.
               Dogs have a remarkable scent. A dead setter one morning found his way to our
                  beach, and I towed him out in the middle of the river; but the faithful creature
                  came back in less than an hour—that dog's smell was remarkable, indeed.
               I have bought me a fyke! A fyke is a good thing to have in the country. A fyke is
                  a fish-net, with long wings on each side; in shape like a night-cap with
                  ear-lappets; in mechanism like a rat-trap. You put a stake at the tip end of the
                  night-cap, a stake at each end of the outspread lappets; there are large hoops to
                  keep the nightcap distended, sinkers to keep the lower sides of the lappets under
                  water, and floats, as large as musk-melons, to keep the upper sides above the
                  water. The stupid fish come down stream, and rubbing their noses against the
                  wings, follow the curve towards the fyke, and swim into the trap. When they get in
                  they cannot get out. That is the philosophy of a fyke. I bought one of Conroy.
                  "Now," said I to Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "we shall have fresh fish, to-morrow, for
                  breakfast;" and went out to set it. I drove the stakes in the mud, spread the fyke
                  in the boat, tied the end of one wing to the stake, and cast the whole into the
                  water. The tide carried it out in a straight line. I got the loose end fastened to
                  the boat, and found it impossible to row back against the tide with the fyke. I
                  then untied it, and it went down stream, stake and all. I got it into the boat,
                  rowed up, and set the stake again. Then I tied one end, to the stake, and got out
                  of the boat myself, in shoal water. Then the boat got away in deep water; then I
                  had to swim for the boat. Then I rowed back and untied the fyke. Then the fyke got
                  away. Then I jumped out of the boat to save the fyke, and the boat got away. Then
                  I had to swim again after the boat, and row after the fyke, and finally was glad
                  to get my net on dry land, where I left it for a week in the sun. Then I hired a man to set it,
                  and he did; but he said it was "rotted." Nevertheless, in it I caught two small
                  flounders and aneel. At last, a brace of Irishmen came down to my beach for a
                  swim, at high tide. One of them, a stout, athletic fellow, after performing sundry
                  aquatic gymnastics, dived under and disappeared for a fearful length of time. The
                  truth is, he had dived into my net. After much turmoil in the water, he rose to
                  the surface with the filaments hanging over his head, and cried out, as if he had
                  found a bird's nest: "I say, Jimmy! be gorra here's a foike?" That unfeeling
                  exclamation to Jimmy, who was not the owner of the net, made me almost wish that
                  it had not been "rotted."
               We are worried about our cucumbers. Mrs. S. is fond of cucumbers, so I planted
                  enough for ten families. The more they are picked, the faster they grow; and if
                  you do not pick them, they turn yellow, and look ugly. Our neighbor has plenty,
                  too. He sent us some one morning, by way of a present. What to do with them we did
                  not know, with so many of our own. To give them away was not polite; to throw them
                  away was sinful; to eat them was impossible. Mrs. S. said, "Save them them for
                  seed." So we did. Next day, our neighbor sent us a dozen more. We thanked the
                  messenger grimly, and took them in. Next morning, another dozen came. It was
                  getting to be a serious matter; so I rose betimes the following morning, and when
                  my neighbor's cucumbers came, I filled his man's basket with some of my own, by
                  way of exchange. This bit of pleasantry was resented by my neighbor, who told his
                  man to throw them to the hogs. His man told our girl, and our girl told Mrs. S.,
                  and, in consequence, all intimacy between the two families has ceased; the ladies
                  do not speak even, at church.
               We have another neighbor, whose name is Bates; he keeps cows. This year our gate
                  has been fixed; but my young peach-trees, near the fences, are accessible from the
                  road; and Bates's cows walk along that road, morning and evening. The sound of a
                  cow bell is pleasant in the twilight. Sometimes, after dark, we hear the
                  mysterious curfew tolling along the road, and then, with a louder peal, it stops
                  before our fence, and again tolls itself off in the distance. The result is, my
                  peach-trees are as bare as bean-poles. One day, I saw Mr. Bates walking along, and
                  I hailed him: "Bates, those are your cows
                  there, I believe." "Yes, sir—nice ones, ain't they?" "Yes," I replied, "they are
                     nice ones. Do you see that tree there?"—and I pointed to a thrifty
                  peach, with about as many leaves as an exploded sky-rocket. "Yes, sir." "Well,
                  Bates, that red-and-white cow of yours, yonder, ate the top off that tree: I saw
                  her do it." Then I thought I had made Bates ashamed of himself, and had wounded
                  his feelings, perhaps too much. I was afraid he would offer me money for the tree,
                  which I made up my mind to decline, at once. "Sparrowgrass," said he, "it don't
                  hurt a tree a single mossel to chaw it, of it's a young tree. For my part, I'd
                  rather have my young trees chawed than not. I think it makes 'em grow a leetle
                  better. I can't do it with mine, but you can, because you can wait to have good
                  trees, and the only way to have good trees is to have 'em chawed."
               I think Mrs. Sparrowgrass is much improved by living in the country. The air has
                  done her good. The roses again bloom in her cheeks, as well as freckles, big as
                  butter-cups. When I come home in the evening from town, and see her with a dress
                  of white dimity, set off by a dark silk apron, with tasteful pockets, and a little
                  fly-away cap, on the back of her head, she does look bewitching. "My dear," said
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass, one evening, at tea, "what am I?"
               The question took me at an unguarded moment, and I almost answered, "A beauty;"
                  but we had company, so I said, with a blush, "A female, I believe."
               "Nonsense," she replied, with a toss of the "know-nothing" cap; "nonsense; I mean
                  this:—when I was in Philadelphia, I was a Philadelphian; when in New York, a
                  New-Yorker; now we live in Yonkers, and what am I?"
               "That," said I, "is a question more easily asked than answered. Now, 'Yonker,' in its primary significance, means the eldest son, the heir of the
                  estate, and 'Yonker's' is used in the possessive sense, meaning 'the Yonker's,' or
                  the heir's estate. If, for instance, you were the owner of the town,
                  you might, with propriety, be called the Yonkeress."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she would as soon be called a tigress!
               "Take," said I, "the names of the places on the Hudson, and your sex makes no
                  difference in regard to the designation
                  you would derive from a locality. If, for instance, you lived at Spuyten Devil,
                  you would be called a Spuyten-Deviller!"
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said nothing would tempt her to live at Spuyten Devil.
               "Then," I continued, "there is Tillietudlem—you'd be a Tillietudlemer."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said, that, in her present frame of mind, she didn't think she
                  would submit to it.
               "At Sing Sing, you would be a Sing-Singer; at Sleepy Hollow, a Sleepy
                  Hollower."——
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said this was worse than any of the others.
               "At Nyack, a Nyackian; at Dobb's Ferry, a Dobb's Ferryer."——
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said that any person who would call her a "Dobb's Ferryer," was
                  destitute of a proper sense of respect.
               "You might be a Weehawkite, a Carmansvillan, a Tubby Hooker."——
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass, quite warm and indignant, denied it.
               "A Tarrytownian—a Riverdalean."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she thought a village on the tip-top of a hill could not be
                  called River-dale with any show of reason.
               "A Simpson's Pointer—a Fordhammer."
               "A what?"
               "A Fordhammer."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she thought, at first, I was getting profane. "But," she
                  added, "you do not answer my question. I live at Yonkers, and what am I?"
               "That," said I, "Mrs. Sparrowgrass, is a question I cannot answer,
                  but I will make it a public matter through these pages."
               "What is the proper, local, or geographical appellation by which an inhabitant of
                  Yonkers should be known?"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  The Clouds in the Country—A Thunder-Shower—Mr. Sparrowgrass buys a
                     Bugle—Ineffectual Music—A Serenade and an Interruption—First Fruits—A Surprise,
                     and the Entire Loss of our Cherry Crop.
               
               MRS. SPARROWGRASS says that summer sketches should not come out in the winter. She
                  thinks what was written in June is not fit to be read in December, and a paper
                  made in July is out of season in January. "The one you are putting in your
                  overcoat pocket, now," she says, "was written last August, and I know it." At
                  first, I was as much confused as if I had been caught in some flagrant act of
                  impropriety, but I rallied a little, for a lucky thought struck me. "Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass," said I, "I will put the August paper in print, now; but, at the
                  same time, request them not to read it until warm weather." This admirable and
                  original piece of finesse pleased my wife highly. "That will do," she said, "but
                  do not forget to tell them not to read it until then." So now, good reader, when
                  you have reached this point, fold up the leaf, and do not open it until Sirius is
                  in the noon-day sky.
               We begin to enjoy the clouds since we have moved out of town. The city sky is all
                  strips and patches; but the sky of the country forms a very comfortable whole.
                  Then, you have the horizon, of which you get but an imperfect idea if you live in
                  a crooked street; and besides, you can see distant rain storms passing over
                  far-off landscapes, and as the light-winged breeze comes sweeping up and you feel
                  the approaching dampness, there is a freshness and fragrance in it which is not at
                  all like the miasmatic exhalations of a great city. Then, when the rain does come
                  it is not simply an inconvenience, as it always is in town, but a real blessing,
                  which even the stupid old cabbages know enough to enjoy. I think our musk-melons
                  feel better now, as they lie there in sandy beds sucking the delicious fluid
                  through their long vinous tubes. I think our Shaker corn, as he gives himself a
                  rousing shake, and flings the big drops around him, does so with a species of
                  boisterous joy, as if he could not have too much of it; and Monsieur Tomate, who
                  is capering like Humpty Dumpty on the
                  wall, is evidently in high feather, which is not the case with our forlorn
                  rooster, who is but poorly protected under the old basket, yonder. The rain came
                  from the southwest. We saw the clouds rolling up over the Palisades in round
                  masses, with a movement like puffs of smoke rolling up from the guns of a frigate.
                  It was a dead calm; not a pensile leaf twinkled; the flat expanse of the river was
                  without a ripple. We saw the conglomerated volumes of snow-white vapor ascending
                  to the zenith, and below lay the Hudson, roughening in the now audibly approaching
                  breeze. Meanwhile the sky grew ashy pale in the southwest, and the big clouds
                  overhead were sometimes veined with lightning, which was reflected momently by the
                  darkening water. Just below us we heard the quick rattle of the rings, as the wood
                  sloops dropped and reefed their broad sails in anticipation of the squall.
                  Everything around us reposed in a sort of supernatural twilight, the grass turned
                  grey and old, the tree trunks changed to iron, the air seemed denser, sullener,
                  sultrier. Then a little breeze prattled through the chestnuts, and whitened the
                  poplars. Then it subsided. Then the white cloud above appeared a tangle of
                  dazzling light, and a sharp fusilade followed on the instant. Then Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass got frightened, and said she must go in, and as she said so, the wind
                  pounced upon her and carried up her sunbonnet at least three hundred feet above
                  tide water. Then it slammed to every door in the house, prostrated my Lima beans,
                  howled down the chimney, roared and whistled through the trees, tore the dust from
                  the roads, and poured it through our open windows, hurried off the big gate, laid
                  it on my pie-plants, blew down my beehive, liberated all my bees, who instantly
                  settled upon our watch dog and stung him so that he ran away and did not return
                  until the following Sunday.
               Nevertheless, the scenery around was marvellously beautiful. South of us a grey
                  rain-curtain was drawn across the river, shutting out everything beyond, except
                  the spectral masts and spars of a schooner riding at anchor. The Palisades started
                  up in the gloom, as their precipitous masses were revealed by the flashes of
                  unearthly light that played through the rolling clouds. The river before us,
                  flecked with snow, stretched away to the north, where it lay partly in sunshine,
                  under a blue sky, dappled with fleecy vapors. Inland, the trees were twisted in attitudes strikingly picturesque and
                  novel; the scud flew before the blast like spray, and below it the swells and
                  slopes of livid green had an aspect so unusual that it seemed as if I had been
                  transported into a strange place—a far countrie. Our cottage, too, which I had
                  planned and built, changed its tinted walls to stark, staring white, with
                  window-panes black as ink. From room to room Mrs. Sparrowgrass flitted like a
                  phantom, closing the sashes, and making all secure. Then the electric prattled
                  overhead for a moment, and wound up with a roar like the explosion of a stone
                  quarry. Then a big drop fell and rolled itself up in a globule of dust in the
                  path; then another—another—another. Then I bethought me of my new straw hat, and
                  retreated into the house, and then—it rained!
               Reader, did you ever see rain in the country? I hope you have; my pen is impotent;
                  I cannot describe it. The storm hushed by degrees, and went off amid saffron
                  flushes, and a glitter of hail. The western sky parted its ashy curtains, and the
                  rugged Palisades lay warm and beautiful under the evening sun. Now the sun sinks
                  amid melted topaz and rubies; and above it, on one side, stretching aloft from the
                  rocky precipices high up in the azure, is a crescent of crimson and golden
                  fragments of clouds! Once more in the sunlight, and so we will throw open all the
                  windows and let in the cool air. 
                     
                        The splendor falls on castle walls,
                        And snowy summits old in story;
                        The long light shakes across the lakes,
                        And the wild cataract breaks in glory.
                        Blow, bugle, blow! set the wild echoes flying!
                        Blow, bugle! answer echoes, dying, dying, dying!
                     
                  
               
               I have bought me a bugle. A bugle is a good thing to have in the country. The man
                  of whom I bought it said it had an easy draught, so that a child could fill it. He
                  asked me if I would try it. I told him I would prefer not, as my wind was not in
                  order; but that when I got out in my boat, the instrument should be critically
                  tested. When I reached home, I could scarcely finish my tea on account of my
                  bugle. The bugle was a secret. I meant to surprise Mrs. Sparrowgrass. Play, I
                  could not, but I would row off in the river, and blow a prolonged note softly;
                  increasing it until it thrilled across the night like the dolorous trumpet of
                  Roland, at the rout of Roncevalles. I slipped away, took the hidden instrument from the bushes,
                  handled the sculls, and soon put five hundred feet of brine between me and the
                  cottage. Then I unwrapped the brown paper, and lifted the copper clarion to my
                  lips. I blew until I thought my head would burst, and could not raise a toot. I
                  drew a long breath, expanded my lungs to the utmost, and blew my eyes almost out
                  of their sockets, but nothing came of it, saving a harsh, brassy note, within the
                  metallic labyrinth. Then I attempted the persuasive, and finally cajoled a faint
                  rhythmic sound from it that would have been inaudible at pistol-shot distance. But
                  this was encouraging—I had gotten the hang of it. Little by little I
                  succeeded, and at last articulated a melancholy B flat, whereupon I looked over at
                  the cottage. It was not there—the boat had drifted down stream, two miles at
                  least; so I had to tug up against the tide until I nearly reached home, when I
                  took the precaution of dropping an anchor to windward, and once more exalted my
                  horn. Obstinacy is a Sparrowgrassic virtue. My upper-lip, under the tuition of the
                  mouth-piece, had puffed out into the worst kind of a blister, yet still I
                  persevered. I mastered three notes of the gamut, and then pulled for the front of
                  the cottage. Now, said I, Mrs. Sparrowgrass, look out for an unexpected
                  serenade.
               "Gnar-ty, Gnar-rra-raa-poo-poo-poop-en-arr-ty! Poo-poo-ta! Poo-poo-ta!
                  Poo-poo-ta-rra-noop-en taa-ty! Poopen te noopan ta ta! 'np! 'np!
                  Graa-too-pen-tar-poopen-en-arrty!"
               "Who is making that infernal noise?" said a voice on the shore.
               "Rrra-ty! 'traa-tar-poopen-tarty!"
               "Get out with you!" and a big stone fell splash in the water. This was too much to
                  bear on my own premises, so I rowed up to the beach to punish the offender, whom I
                  found to be my neighbor.
               "Oh, ho," said he, "was that you, Sparrowgrass?"
               I said it was me, and added, "You don't seem to be fond of music?"
               He said, not as a general thing, but he thought a tune on the fiddle, now and
                  then, wasn't bad to take.
               I answered, that the relative merit of stringed and wind instruments had never
                  been exactly settled, but if he preferred the former, he might stay at home and
                  enjoy it, which would be better than intruding on my beach, and interrupting me
                     when I was practising. With this I
                  locked up my boat, tucked the bugle under my arm, and marched off. Our neighbor
                  merely laughed, and said nothing. 
                     
                        The man who hath no music in himself,
                        Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
                        Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils:
                        The motions of his spirit are dull as night,
                        And his affections dark as Erebus:
                        Let no such man be trusted."
                     
                  
               
               When I reached my domicile, Mrs. Sparrowgrass asked me who that was, "blowing a
                  fish-horn?" I have in consequence given up music as a source of enjoyment since
                  that evening.
               Our fruit did not turn out well this season on account of the drought. Our apple
                  trees blossomed fairly, but the apples were stung by the curculio, and finished
                  their growth by the time they got to look like dried prunes. I had the
                  satisfaction, however, of producing a curious hybrid in my melon patch, by
                  planting squashes in the next bed. I do not know which to admire most—the
                  influence of the melon on the squash, or the influence of the squash on the melon.
                  Planted side by side, you can scarcely tell one from the other, except from
                  appearance; but if you ever do eat a musk melon boiled, or a squash raw, you will
                  have some idea of this singular and beautiful phenomenon.
               On the Fourth of July we had company from town. "Dear," said Mrs. S., "have you
                  seen our cherry?" I answered, that I had set out many trees of that kind, and did
                  not know which one she alluded to (at the same time a hopeful vision of "cherry
                  pie on the Fourth of July" flitted across my pericranics). As we all walked out to
                  see the glorious spectacle, I told our guests aside, the young trees were so
                  luxuriant in foliage that I had not observed what masses of fruit might be
                  concealed underneath the leaves, but that Mrs. S. had a penetrating eye, and no
                  doubt would surprise me as well as them. When we came to the tree, my wife turned
                  around, after a slight examination, and coolly observed, she thought it was there,
                  but some boy must have picked it off.
               "Picked it off," said I, as the truth flashed in my mind. "Yes," she
                  replied, with a mournful accent, "picked off the only cherry we ever had."
               This was a surprise, indeed, but not what I had expected. Mrs. Sparrowgrass, how
                  could you expose me in such a way? How could you, after all my bragging to these city people about our fine
                  garden, make a revelation that carried away the foundations of my pride in one
                  fell swoop? How could you, Mrs. Sparrowgrass?
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass discourses of Social Life in the Rural Districts—Town and
                     Country—A Rural Party—The Advantages of dressing in a Plain Way—Our New
                     Dog—Autumnal Scenery—A Family Acqueduct.
               
               "WE have an invitation to a party," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "on Friday next, and I
                  think a party is a very pleasant thing in the country. There is more sociability,
                  more hospitality, warmer welcomes, less dress, and less style than there is in the
                  city." Here Mrs. Sparrowgrass handed me an engraved card of rather formidable
                  dimensions, which I must confess looked anything but rural. I took
                  the missive with some misgivings, for I have a natural horror of parties. "I
                  wonder," said I, in the most playful kind of bitter irony, "whether we will meet
                  out here that young lady that never sings herself, but is always so passionately
                  fond of music?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she thought not; she said she heard she was
                  married.
               "And that gentleman," I continued, "who was a stranger to me, that always wanted to be presented to some young lady that I
                  didn't know?"
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she believed he had gone to California.
               "And that lady who prized confectionery above good-breeding, and went home with
                  her pockets well stuffed with mottoes, in defiance of the eighth commandment, and
                  the laws of propriety?"
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she knew the lady to whom I alluded, but she assured me she
                  was yet in New York, and had not been seen about our village.
               "Then," said I, "Mrs. Sparrowgrass, we will go to the party. Put my best shirt,
                  and the white waistcoat in Monday's wash. Never mind expense. Get me a crumb of
                  bread, and bring me my old white gloves. I am going to be gay."
               "I think," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "that a party in town is nothing but an
                  embarrassment." "True," said I. "Don't you remember," said she, "what a fuss I
                  used to make about getting my hair fixed, and how put out I was that night when
                  you forgot the japonica?" "Certainly." "And then, when we were all dressed and
                  ready, how we used to wait for fear of getting there too early, and after we did
                  reach the house, how we always got in a corner, and made happy wall-flowers of
                  ourselves, and some old friends." "Of course I do." "Where nobody took any notice
                  of us." "Exactly." "Then what difference did it make how I was dressed—whether I
                  wore Honiton lace or cotton edging?" "I am afraid," said I, "Mrs. Sparrowgrass, if
                  you had made a point of wearing cotton lace, you would not have been invited." At
                  this palpable double entendre I felt that secret
                  satisfaction which every man must feel when he has said a good thing. It was lost
                  upon Mrs. Sparrowgrass. "Here," she continued, "we expect a simple, old-fashioned
                  entertainment." Then I chimed in—"No gaslights to make your eyes ache—no
                  patent-leather to make your feet ache—no fashionable follies to make your heart
                  ache—and no overheated, ill-ventilated rooms, boned-turkies, game, ice-cream,
                  Charlotte Russe, pâtés, champagne, and chicken-salad, to make your head ache next
                  morning." "There will be oysters and ice-cream," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass,
                  dubiously. "I wish," said I, "there was a prospect of apples and cider instead.
                  The moment I get inside the doors, and breathe the mingled odors of oysters and
                  geraniums, it will carry me back to town,
                  and for one evening, at least, I shall forget that we are living in the country. 
                     
                        ——'I could be content
                        To see no other verdure than its own;
                        To feel no other breezes than are blown
                        Through its tall woods;'
                     
                   but we must succumb; we will go like plain, sensible people, won't we?"
               "If you were me, what would you wear?" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
               "Something very plain, my dear."
               "Then," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "I have nothing very plain, suitable for a party,
                  and to-morrow I must go to town and do a little shopping."
               "I am afraid," said I (after the second day's hard shopping in town) "your dress
                  is going to be too plain, my dear. Every hour brings a fresh boy, with a fresh
                  bundle, and a fresh bill, to my office." Mrs. Sparrowgrass said, "that if I
                  thought so, perhaps she had better get something expensive when she went to buy
                  the trimmings." I told her I thought her dress would do without trimming. She
                  said, "it would be ridiculous without gimp or galloon; but perhaps I would prefer
                  velvet ribbon, on account of the flounces?" I told her she had better get the
                  velvet ribbon, and omit the gimp and galloon. Mrs. Sparrowgrass said, "very well,"
                  and the next day another boy brought another bundle, and another bill, which
                  convinced me that extras form an important item in rural architecture. Then we had
                  a dressmaker for several days, and the stitching went on by sun-light and
                  lamp-light, and on the last day Mrs. S. discovered that she had nothing for her
                  head, and the new bonnet was taken to pieces to get at the feathers for a
                  coiffure. Then when the night fell, there fell, too, a soaking rain; and I had
                  forgotten the carriage, so I was obliged to go a mile in the mud to order one from
                  the village livery stable. Then I had to walk back, as the man said "it was out;"
                  but he promised to send it for us right straight off. Then I had to get dressed
                  over again. Then Mrs. Sparrowgrass could not find her best handkerchief, and I
                  dropped five spermacetti blotches on the new silk dress looking for it. Then she
                  found the handkerchief. Then our girl said that the new dog had run off with one
                  of my boots. Then I had to go out in the mud in my slippers after the dog. Then I
                  got the boot and put it on so as to make that sure. Then we waited for the carriage. We were all dressed and ready,
                  but no carriage. We exercised all the patience we could muster, on account of the
                  carriage, and listened at the windows to see if we could hear it. Two months have
                  elapsed, and it hasn't come yet. Next day we heard that the party had been an
                  elegant affair. That everybody was there, so we concluded the carriage had not
                  been able to come for us on account of business.
               I have bought me another dog. I bought him on account of his fine, long ears, and
                  beautiful silky tail. He is a pup, and much caressed by the young ones. One day he
                  went off to the butcher's, and came back with no more tail than a toad. The whole
                  bunch of young Sparrowgrasses began to bawl when he reached the cottage, on
                  account of his tail. I did not know him when I came home, and he could not
                  recognize me—he had lost his organ of recognition. He reminded me of a dog I once
                  heard of, that looked as if he had been where they wanted a tail merely, and had
                  taken his, and thrown the dog away. Of course I took my stick, and went to see the
                  butcher. Butcher said "he supposed I was something of a dog fancier, and would
                  like to see my dog look stylish." I said on the contrary, that I had bought him on
                  account of his handsome silky tail, and that I would give ten dollars to have it
                  replaced. Then the idea of having it replaced seemed so ludicrous that I could not
                  restrain a smile, and then the butcher caught the joke, and said there was no way
                  to do it except with fresh putty. I do love a man who can enjoy a joke, so I took
                  a fancy to that butcher. When I got home and saw the dog, I thought less of the
                  butcher, but put a piece of black court-plaster on the dog, and it improved his
                  appearance at once. So I forgave the butcher, and went to bed at peace with all
                  mankind.
               I love to lie a-bed in these autumnal mornings, and see the early sunlight on
                  those grim old Palisades. A vast stretch of rock, gaunt and grey, is not a
                  cheerful view from the south window. Shut your eyes for a minute, and now look.
                  That faint red cornice, reaching rough-cast along the rugged tops, ten miles or
                  more, from Closter to Tillietudlum, is not unpicturesque. And although we have not
                  the odor of spring lilacs and summer roses, breathing through the windows, yet
                  there is something not less delightful to the senses in this clear frosty
                  atmosphere. Below, the many-colored woods
                  that burgeon on the sides seem to retain the verdure of early spring in those cool
                  depths of shadow. As the sunlight broadens on the crags, the illusion disappears,
                  and we behold once more the brilliant vagaries of vegetation, the hectic hints of
                  yesterday. I wish Kensett could see that pure blue sky and yonder melancholy sloop
                  on the river, working her passage down, with bricks from Haverstraw, and a sail
                  like an expanded rose leaf. It is a pleasant thing to watch the river craft in
                  these autumnal mornings. Sometimes we see a white breasted covey coming up in the
                  distance—from shore to shore a spread of dimity. Here and there are troops of
                  shining ones with warm illuminated wings, and others creeping along in shadow with
                  spectral pinions, like evil spirits. Yonder schooner is not an unfair image of
                  humanity; beating up against adverse winds with one black and one white sail. That
                  dogged old craft, just emerging from obscurity into sunlight, is but a type of
                  some curmudgeon passing from poverty to affluence, and there is another, evidently
                  on the wrong track, stretching away from the light of prosperity into the gloom of
                  misfortune. I do not love the country less because of her teachings by these
                  simple symbols. There are many things to be learned from watching the old
                  wood-sloops on the river.
               Our neighbor has been making an improvement in his house. He has had a drain made
                  in the kitchen, with a long earthen pipe ending in a cess-pool at the end of his
                  garden. The object of it is to carry off the superfluous water from the house. It
                  was a great convenience, he said, "on wash days." One objection might be urged,
                  and that was, after every heavy rain he found a gully in his garden path, and
                  several cart loads of gravel in his cess-pool. Besides, the pipe was of an equal
                  width, and one obstruction led to another; sometimes it was a silver spoon and a
                  child's frock; sometimes it was a scrubbing-brush, a piece of soap, and a
                  handkerchief. I said that if he had made a square wooden trough, gradually
                  widening from end to end, it would have cleared itself, and then I thought it
                  would be a good thing for me to have such a one myself. Then I had a cess-pool
                  built at the bottom of the wall, under the bank, which is about one hundred and
                  fifty feet from the kitchen, and told my carpenter to make a trough of that
                  length. Carpenter asked me "how big I wanted it?" I told him about eight inches in
                  diameter at the end nearest to the house,
                  and then gradually widening all the way for the whole length. As I said this, my
                  carpenter smiled, and said he never heard of such a thing. I told him no, that the
                  idea was an original one of my own. He asked me how much I would like to have it
                  widened. I thought for a moment, and said, "about half an inch to the foot." He
                  said very well, and the next week he came with two horses, and an edifice in his
                  cart that looked like a truncated shot-tower. I asked him what that was? He said
                  it was the big end of my pipe. When he laid it on the ground on its side I walked
                  through it, and could not touch the upper side with my hand. Then I asked the
                  carpenter what he meant by it, and he said it was made according to directions. I
                  said not at all, that I told him to increase the diameter at the rate of half an
                  inch to the foot, and he had made it about a foot to the foot, as near as I could
                  judge. "Sparrowgrass," said he, a little nettled, "jest take your pencil and put
                  down eight inches." "Well, that's the diameter of the small end, I believe?" I
                  told the carpenter he was right so far. "Now, for every foot there is an increase
                  of half an inch in the width; that's according to directions, too, ain't it?" Yes.
                  "Well, then, put down one hundred and fifty half inches, how much does that make,
                  altogether, in feet?" Six feet eleven inches. "Now," said he, "jest you take my
                  rule, and measure the big end of that 're pipe." "Carpenter," said I, "I see it
                  all; but the next time I build an aqueduct I will be a little more careful in the
                  figures." "Sparrowgrass," said he, pointing to the pipe, "didn't you tell me that
                  that was an original idea of your own?" I answered that I believed I did make a
                  remark of that kind. "Well," said he, with a sort of muffled laugh, "that is the
                  first time that I see an original idea come out at the big end."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  Children in Town and Country—A Mistake about a Lady—The Menagerie—Amusement for
                     Children—Winter Scenery—Another Amusement for Children—Sucker Fishing—General
                     Washington.
               
               IT is a good thing to have children in the country. Children in the country are
                  regular old-fashioned boys and girls, not pocket editions of men and women as they
                  are in town. In the metropolis there is no representation of our species in the
                  tadpole state. The word "lad" has become obsolete. Fast young men and fast young
                  women repudiate the existence of that respectable, antique institution, childhood.
                  It is different in the country. My eldest does not call me "Governor," but simply
                  "Father;" and although in his ninth year, still treats his mother with some show
                  of respect.
               Our next boy (turned seven) has prematurely given up smoking ratan; and our
                  four-year-old girl is destitute both of affectation and dyspepsia. As for the
                  present baby, his character is not yet fully developed, but having observed no
                  symptoms of incipient depravity in him up to this time, we begin to believe the
                  country is a good place for children. One thing about it is certain, children in
                  the country get an immense deal of open-air-training that is utterly impracticable
                  in town. A boy or girl, brought up "under glass" (to use a horticultural phrase)
                  is apt to "blow" prematurely; but, although it is rather rough culture, still I
                  think the influence of rocks, rivers, leaves, trees, buds, blossoms, birds, fresh
                  air, and blue sky, better, for the undeveloped mind of a child, than that of a
                  French nurse, no matter how experienced she may be. I think so, and
                  so does Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
               There is one thing, however, that is mortifying about it. When our friends come up
                  from town with their young ones, our boys and girl look so fat and gross beside
                  them, that we have to blush at the visible contrast. Mrs. Peppergrass, our
                  respected relative, brought up her little girl the other day, a perfect French
                  rainbow so far as dress went, and there they sat—the petite, pale Parisienne of four years, and the broad chested,
                  chubby, red-cheeked rustic of the same age, with a frock only diversified by the holes scratched in it, and a clean
                  dimity apron just put on, with a gorget of fruit marks on the breast that spoke
                  plainly of last summer—there they sat, side by side, cousins both, and who would
                  have known it. "My dear," said I, to Mrs. Sparrowgrass, after our respected
                  relative had departed, "did you observe the difference between those children? one
                  was a perfect little lady, and the other"—"Yes," interrupted Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "I
                  did; and if I had had a child behave in that way, I would be ashamed to go
                  anywhere. That child did nothing but fret, and tease her mother for cake, from the
                  time she came into the house till she went out of it. Yes, indeed, our Louise was,
                  as you say, a real little lady beside her."
               Finding I had been misunderstood, I kept silent. I do not know anything so sure to
                  prevent controversy as silence—especially in the country. 
                     "Speech is silver, silence is golden."
                  
               
               There is one institution, which, in a child's-eye point of view, possesses a
                  majesty and beauty in the country altogether unappreciable in a large city. I
                  allude to the Menagerie! For weeks, juvenile
                  curiosity has been stimulated by pictorial representations at the Dépôt and
                  Post-office. There is the likeness of the man who goes into the cage with the wild
                  beasts, holding out two immense lions at arms' length. There is the giraffe with
                  his neck reaching above a lofty palm tree, and the boa constrictor with a yawning
                  tiger in his convoluted embrace. If you observe the countenances of the small fry
                  collected in front of a bill of this description in the rural districts, you will
                  see in each and all, a remarkable enlargement of the eye, expressive of wonder. 
                     "Conjecture, expectation, and surmise,"
                   are children's bedfellows, and the infantile pulse reaches fever heat long
                  before the arrival of the elephant. At last he comes, the "Aleph"* of the procession! swinging his
                  long cartilaginous shillalah in solemn concord with the music. Then follow wagons
                  bearing the savage animals in boxes with red panels; then a pair of cloven-footed
                     
                     *
                        Aleph, the first letter of the Hebrew
                        alphabet. Probably the elephant was the first thing Adam saw,
                        and hence, the name Aleph-ant.
                     
                   camels; then other wagons all
                  mystery and red panels; then pie-bald horses and ponies, and then the rear-guard
                  of the caravan drags its slow length along. "My dear," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "we
                  must take the children and go to the menagerie." This seemed a reasonable request,
                  and of course we went. When we approached the big tent we heard the music of wind
                  instruments, the sound of a gong, and the roaring of lions. This divided our
                  juvenile party at once, one half wanted to go in, and the other half wanted to
                  keep out; Mrs. Sparrowgrass joined the seceders, and in consequence, we separated
                  at the entrance of the canvas edifice. When we got in we heard that the lion-tamer
                  had finished his performance, and that the elephant had been around, but there was
                  a great deal of sport going on in the ring—the monkey was riding on his pony. At
                  this announcement the young ones were immensely excited, and tried to get a peep
                  at it, but, although I held them up at arms' length, they could see neither monkey
                  nor pony. Then I tried to work a passage for them to the front, but the ring being
                  invested with a border of country people thirteen deep, this was out of the
                  question. So I concluded to wait until the crowd dispersed, and to keep the young
                  Sparrowgrasses in good humor, I held them up and let them read the signs on the
                  tops of the cages. "ROYAL BENGAL TIGER"—"BLACK LION FROM NUBIA"—"YELLOW ASIATIC
                  LION"—"THE GNU"—"WHITE POLAR BEAR," &c., &c. By and by the clapping of
                  hands announced the close of the performance in the ring, and the dense mass of
                  people became detached, so we made our way through the crowd towards the elephant.
                  All of a sudden we saw a general rush of the crowd in our direction, and we heard
                  somebody say that "something had broke loose!" Not being of an inquisitive turn of
                  mind, I did not ask what it was, but at once retired under a wagon load of
                  pelicans, and put the young Sparrowgrasses though a door which I made in the side
                  of the tent with my pruning-knife. The people poured out of the big door and from
                  under the edges of the tent, but they had not run far before they stopped, and
                  proceeded to make inquiries. Some said it was the polar bear, whereupon several
                  respectable looking men suddenly climbed over a fence; others said it was a
                  monkey, at which all the boys set up a shout. The intrepid conduct of the
                  cash-taker had much to do with restoring confidence. He stood there, at the
                  entrance of the tent, smoking a cigar
                  with imperturbable firmness. So we all concluded to go back again and see the rest
                  of the show. When we got to the door we found the entrance fee was twenty-five
                  cents. We represented that we had been in before. "That may be," replied the
                  cash-taker, "but we don't sell season tickets at this establishment."
               Finding the discussion was likely to be violent upon this point, I retired, with
                  some suspicions of having been slightly swindled. When I got home, Mrs. S. asked
                  me "if we had seen the elephant?" I told her the whole story. "Well," said she,
                  "that's just the way I thought it would be. I'm glad I did not go in."
               It seems to me the country is marvellously beautiful in winter time. The number of
                  bright days and moonlight nights is surprising. The sky is not less blue in
                  January than in June, nor is a winter landscape without its charms. The lost
                  verdure of the woods is compensated by the fine frost-work woven in the delicate
                  tracery of the trees. To see a noble forest wreathed in icy gems, is one of the
                  transcendental glories of creation. You look through long arcades of iridescent
                  light, and the vision has an awful majesty, compared with which the most brilliant
                  cathedral windows pale their ineffectual fires. It is the crystal palace of
                  Jehovah! Within its sounding aisles a thought even of the city seems irreverent.
                  We begin to love the country more and more. 
                     
                        "Its dewy morn, and odorous noon, and even,
                        With sunset, and its gorgeous ministers,
                        And solemn midnight's tingling silentness;
                        And autumn's hollow sighs in the sere wood,
                        And winter, robing with pure snow and crowns
                        Of starry ice the grey grass and bare boughs;
                        And spring's voluptuous pantings when she breathes
                        Her first sweet kisses."
                     
                  
               
               
                  Here you begin to apprehend the wonderful order of creation, the
                  lengthening days after the winter solstice; all the phenomena of meteoric
                  machinery, every change in the wind, every change in the temperature; in the
                  leafless trees you see a surprising variety of forms. The maple, the oak, the
                  chestnut, the hickory, the beech, have each an architecture as distinct as those
                  of the five orders. Then the spring is tardy in town, but if you have a hot-bed in
                  the country, you see its young green firstlings bursting from the rich mould long
                  before the city has shaken off the thraldom of winter.
               
               One day in the month of March, I heard there was to be some sport on the Nepperhan
                  in the way of fishing, so I took my young ones to see it. The Nepperhan is an
                  historical river—the Tiber of Yonkers. It runs in a straight line for about forty
                  yards from the Hudson, then proudly turns to the right, then curves to the left,
                  and in fact exhibits all the peculiarities of the Mississippi without its
                  turbulence and monotony. It was a cold day in spring, the air was chill, the sky
                  grey, the Palisades still ribbed with snow. As we approached the stream we saw
                  that a crowd had collected on the deck of a wrecked coal-barge moored close to the
                  bank, and on the side of the bank opposite to the barge, a man was standing, with
                  one foot in the water, holding up the end of a net stretched across the tide. The
                  other end of the net was fastened to the barge, and the bight, as the sailors say,
                  was in the water. In the middle of the crowd there stood upright a fair,
                  portly-looking man of good presence. His face looked like a weather-beaten,
                  sign-board portrait of General Washington with white whiskers. He was looking up
                  the stream, which from this point made a rush for the south for about one hundred
                  feet, then gave it up, and turned off due east, around a clump of bushes. What
                  particular animosity General Washington had to this part of the stream I could not
                  imagine, but he was damning that clump of bushes with a zeal worthy of a better
                  cause. I never heard such imprecations. The oaths flew from his lips, up stream,
                  as the sparks fly from an express locomotive at midnight. Dr. Slop's remarks
                  concerning the knots in the string of the green bag of surgical instruments,
                  beside them, was like tender pity. Such ill-natured, uncharitable, unamiable,
                  mordacious, malignant, pitiless, ruthless, fell, cruel, ferocious, proscriptive,
                  sanguinary, unkind execrations were never fulminated against a clump of bushes
                  before. By-and-by a flat-boat, filled with men, turned the corner and came
                  broadside down stream. The men were splashing the water on every side of the
                  flat-boat to drive the fish towards the net! They had oars, sticks, boards,
                  boughs, and branches. Then I understood General Washington. He had been offended
                  because the flat-boat was behind time.
               Now it was all right: I saw a placid expression spreading over his weather-beaten
                  countenance, as a drop of oil will spread over rough water, and mollify its
                  turbulent features. The flat-boat, or
                  scow, was long enough to stretch almost from shore to shore. The shouts and
                  splashes were frightening the fish, and below us, in the water, we could
                  occasionally see a spectral sucker darting hither and thither. I looked again at
                  General Washington. He had untied the end of the net, and was holding it in his
                  hand. His face expressed intense inward satisfaction—deep—not vain-glorious. Near
                  and nearer swept the broadside of the boat, down stream was the net, between both
                  were the accumulating fish. General Washington's hand trembled—he was getting
                  excited. Here it comes, close upon us, and then—by the whiskers of the Great
                  Mogul! one end of the scow grounded on the opposite bank, the bow rounded to, and
                  cat-fish, perch, bull-head, and sucker, darted through the gap, and made tracks
                  for the most secluded parts of the Nepperhan! But he who held the net was equal to
                  the emergency—he cursed the boat out at right angles in an instant—a small
                  minority of the fish still remained, and these were driven into the net. General
                  Washington, with an impulse like that of a Titan rooting up an oak, pulled up his
                  end of the net—the fish were fairly above the water—a smile gleamed out of his
                  weather-beaten face like a flash from a cannon—and then—then it was—just then—the
                  treacherous mesh split! and like a thread of silver fire, the finny
                  prey disappeared through the rent, and made a bee-line for the Hudson.
               "Nary fish!" said an innocent bystander. General Washington turned an eye upon him
                  that was like a Drummond light, dropped the net, took off his hat, and then
                  proceeded to give that individual such an account of his birth, parentage and
                  family connections, from the earliest settlement of Westchester county to the
                  present time, that a parental regard for the ears of the young Sparrowgrassii,
                  induced me to hurry them off the coal-barge in the quickest kind of time. But long
                  after the scene was out of sight, I could hear, rolling along the face of the
                  rocky Palisades, the reverberations of the big oaths, the resonant shadows of the
                  huge anathemas, that had been the running accompaniments to the sucker fishing on
                  the Nepperhan!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  An Event—Wolfert's Roost—The Nepperhan and its Legends—Mr. Sparrowgrass
                     descends to the Internal Regions on a Dumb Waiter—Carrier Pigeons and
                     Roosters—The great Polish Exile—Poetry—Altogether a Chapter of Birds.
               
               WE have had an event in our family. The children are half crazy about it; Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass says she cannot lay it down for a moment; when she does, Miss
                  Lobelia, our niece, takes it up, and there she will sit over it, in her lap, for
                  hours together. It is called "WOLFERT'S ROOST," a new book, by Washington Irving.
                  When I brought it home in my carpet-bag, and opened it at our winter tea-table,
                  and read all about the Nepperhan (our river) to the boys, their eyes dilated so,
                  that I seemed to be surrounded with the various mill-ponds of that celebrated
                  stream. Here we are within the enchanted ground, and the shadow of the great
                  "Katrina Van Courtland, with one foot resting on Spiting Devil Creek, and the
                  other on the Croton River," is over us. It is pleasant to know that, in case of
                  invasion, we are in the same county with the lusty goose-gun of the lion-hearted
                  Jacob Van Tassel; and, even in this biting winter-weather, there is a sort of
                  local pride in the reflection that the north wind cannot approach us, without
                  making all the weathercocks on the "Roost" point towards Yonkers.
               As for our eldest, the reading to him of "The Adalantado of the Seven Cities," and
                  "The Three Kings of Bermuda" has filled his head with ships, sails, anchors,
                  salt-water, and ambergris, 
                     
                        "Nothing of him——
                        But doth suffer a sea-change
                        Into something rich and strange."
                     
                   And while perusing "Mountjoy," I observed our niece, Miss Lobelia, glancing
                  contemplatively more than once at her slipper. "Uncle Sparrowgrass," said she,
                  "you have been to Wolfert's Roost, I believe?" I answered, with all the humility I
                  could muster, that I had, and proceeded to give a full and minute account of the
                  particulars; how L. G. C. and I walked from "Dobb his ferry," upon the rigid
                  back-bone of the aqueduct, to Dearman's one memorable summer day; how the Roost
                     looked, and everything about it—the
                  rough-cast walls, overclung with Abbotsford ivy, and trumpet creeper—the crow-step
                  gables—the Sunny-side pond, with its navy of white, topsail ducks—the Spanish
                  chestnut that stood on the bank—the splendid tulip-trees in the ravine back of the
                  Roost—Gentleman Dick in the stable—the well-worn tiles in the hall, the
                  Stadt-House weathercock on the peak of the roof. Miss Lobelia interrupted me—"Is
                  Mr. a—a—I mean, what became of the heroine of the footsteps?" "Oh, ho!" thought I,
                  "I see where the shoe pinches," and then gravely answered, "Mountjoy is still a
                  bachelor;" at which our niece glanced furtively again at her little slipper, and a
                  fleeting dimple faded from her cheek, as I have seen a farewell ship gleam for a
                  moment in the sun, then vanish in shadow.
               There's magic in the book, it has bewitched everybody!
               What I most admire in it is, the juvenile air it has; there is a freshness about
                  Wolfert's Roost, a sort of spring-like freshness, which makes it more attractive
                  than anything else Irving ever wrote. It is a younger brother of the Sketch Book,
                  not so scholarly, perhaps, but sprightlier; fuller of fine
                  impulses—genius—fire—spirit! And then it has mentioned our village once or twice;
                  and the beloved Nepperhan river rolls along, no longer a dumb feeder of
                  mill-ponds, but a legended stream, that "winds, for many miles, through a lovely
                  valley, shrouded by groves, and dotted by Dutch farmhouses, and empties itself
                  into the Hudson, at the ancient Dorp of Yonkers!" 
                     
                        "The intelligible forms of ancient poets,
                        The fair humanities of old religion,
                        The power, the beauty, and the majesty,
                        That had her haunts in dale, and piny mountains,
                        Or forest by slow stream, or pebbly spring,
                        Or chasms and watery depths,"
                     
                   may now visit the sacred shores of the Saw-Mill river—the Nepperhan. A touch
                  of Irving's quill, and lo, it is immortal! As Arno to the Tuscan, or Guadalquivir
                  to the Andalusian; as the Ganges to the Hindoo, or the Nile to the Egyptian,
                  henceforth and for ever the Nepperhan to the Yonk—to the future citizens of the
                  ancient Dorp of Yonkers. 
                     "Bottom, thou art translated."
                  
               
               We, too, have our traditions, and some remain untold. One is that of the horse-ghost, who may be
                  seen every Evacuation night, after twelve, on a spectral trot towards the City of
                  New York; and the other is the legend of the Lop-horned Buck, who sometimes, in a
                  still summer evening, comes through the glen, to drink from Baldwin's
                  phantom-haunted pond. When these are recorded, in a future Wolfert's Roost, then
                  will the passenger, by loitering steamboat, or flying train, draw a long breath as
                  he passes our village, and say, "there! look! behold! the ancient Dorp of
                  Yonkers!"
               We have put a dumb waiter in our house. A dumb waiter is a good thing to have in
                  the country, on account of its convenience. If you have company, everything can be
                  sent up from the kitchen without any trouble, and, if the baby gets to be
                  unbearable, on account of his teeth, you can dismiss the complainant by stuffing
                  him in one of the shelves, and letting him down upon the help. To provide for
                  contingencies, we had all our floors deafened. In consequence, you cannot hear
                  anything that is going on in the story below; and, when you are in an upper room
                  of the house, there might be a democratic ratification meeting in the cellar, and
                  you would not know it. Therefore, if any one should break into the basement, it
                  would not disturb us; but to please Mrs. Sparrowgrass, I put stout iron bars in
                  all the lower windows. Besides, Mrs. Sparrowgrass had bought a rattle when she was
                  in Philadelphia; such a rattle as watchmen carry there. This is to alarm our
                  neighbor, who, upon the signal, is to come to the rescue with his revolver. He is
                  a rash man, prone to pull trigger first, and make inquiries afterwards.
               One evening, Mrs. S. had retired, and I was busy writing, when it struck me a
                  glass of ice-water would be palatable. So I took the candle and a pitcher, and
                  went down to the pump. Our pump is in the kitchen. A country pump, in the kitchen,
                  is more convenient; but a well with buckets is certainly most picturesque.
                  Unfortunately, our well water has not been sweet since it was cleaned out. First I
                  had to open a bolted door that lets you into the basement-hall, and then I went to
                  the kitchen-door, which proved to be locked. Then I remembered that our girl
                  always carried the key to bed with her, and slept with it under her pillow. Then I
                  retraced my steps; bolted the basement-door, and went up in the dining-room. As is
                  always the case, I found, when I could not get any water, I was thirstier than I supposed I was. Then
                  I thought I would wake our girl up. Then I concluded not to do it. Then I thought
                  of the well, but I gave that up on account of its flavor. Then I opened the closet
                  doors, there was no water there; and then I thought of the dumb waiter! The
                  novelty of the idea made me smile; I took out two of the movable shelves, stood
                  the pitcher on the bottom of the dumb waiter, got in myself with the lamp; let
                  myself down, until I supposed I was within a foot of the floor below, and then let
                  go!
               We came down so suddenly, that I was shot out of the apparatus as if it had been a
                  catapult; it broke the pitcher, extinguished the lamp, and landed me in the middle
                  of the kitchen at midnight, with no fire, and the air not much above the zero
                  point. The truth is, I had miscalculated the distance of the descent—instead of
                  falling one foot, I had fallen five. My first impulse was, to ascend by the way I
                  came down, but I found that impracticable. Then I tried the kitchen door, it was
                  locked; I tried to force it open; it was made of two-inch stuff, and held its own.
                  Then I hoisted a window, and there were the rigid iron bars. If I ever I felt
                  angry at anybody it was at myself, for putting up those bars to please Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass. I put them up, not to keep people in, but to keep people out.
               I laid my cheek against the ice-cold barriers and looked out at the sky; not a
                  star was visible; it was as black as ink overhead. Then I thought of Baron Trenck,
                  and the prisoner of Chillon. Then I made a noise! I shouted until I was hoarse,
                  and ruined our preserving-kettle with the poker. That brought our dogs out in full
                  bark, and between us we made night hideous. Then I thought I heard a voice, and
                  listened—it was Mrs. Sparrowgrass calling to me from the top of the stair-case. I
                  tried to make her hear me, but the infernal dogs united with howl, and growl, and
                  bark, so as to drown my voice, which is naturally plaintive and tender. Besides,
                  there were two bolted doors and double deafened floors between us; how could she
                  recognize my voice, even if she did hear it? Mrs. Sparrowgrass called once or
                  twice, and then got frightened; the next thing I heard was a sound as if the roof
                  had fallen in, by which I understood that Mrs. Sparrowgrass was springing the
                  rattle! That called out our neighbor, already wide awake; he came to the rescue
                  with a bull-terrier, a Newfoundland land
                  pup, a lantern, and a revolver. The moment he saw me at the window, he shot at me,
                  but fortunately just missed me. I threw myself under the kitchen table and
                  ventured to expostulate with him, but he would not listen to reason. In the
                  excitement I had forgotten his name, and that made matters worse. It was not until
                  he had roused up everybody around, broken in the basement door with an axe, gotten
                  into the kitchen with his cursed savage dogs and shooting-iron, and seized me by
                  the collar, that he recognized me—and then, he wanted me to explain it! But what
                  kind of an explanation could I make to him? I told him he would have to wait until
                  my mind was composed, and then I would let him understand the whole matter fully.
                  But he never would have had the particulars from me, for I do not approve of
                  neighbors that shoot at you, break in your door, and treat you, in your own house,
                  as if you were a jail-bird. He knows all about it, however—somebody has told
                     him—somebody tells everybody everything in our village.
               That somebody reminds me of a queer fowl that roosts in the village,
                  and in all villages, to hatch disturbances among weak-minded people. I allude to
                  the Carrier Pigeon. The Carrier Pigeon tells you all your friends say of you, and
                  tells your friends all you say of them. The mode of tactics is somewhat in this
                  wise. She goes to Mrs. Kornkobbe's, takes tea with that lady, pets the children,
                  takes out her needle and thread, opens her little basket, pulls out a bit of
                  linen, with a collar pattern pencilled upon it, puts on her thimble, then stitches
                  away, and innocently asks Mrs. K. if she has heard that ridiculous story about her
                  husband.
               Mrs. Kornkobbe has not heard of it, but bridles up, and would like to know
                     who has had the impudence to say anything about her husband! The
                  Carrier Pigeon does not like to mention names, but vaguely hints that something is
                  in the wind. Mrs. K., of course, is anxious to know the particulars. Carrier
                  Pigeon would not for the world hurt Mrs. K.'s feelings, but, just for her own
                  satisfaction, she would like to ask "where Mr. Kornkobbe's father was born?" Mrs.
                  K. is completely nonplused by this question, for, to use a mercantile phrase, she
                  had never been posted up in regard to the incubation of her father-in-law,
                  deceased some twenty years before she was married and two years before she was
                  born. Carrier Pigeon, seeing Mrs. K.'s
                  trepidation, adds, carelessly, as it were, "Your husband is an American, I
                  believe?" Mrs. K. catches at that, and answers "Yes." "German name?" Mrs. K.
                  replies in the affirmative. "That is all I want to know," sighs the Carrier
                  Pigeon. Whereupon Mrs. K., who is wrought up to fever point, answers, "But that is
                  not all I want to know;" and, by dint of a deal of persuasion,
                  finally draws out the important secret; the Carrier Pigeon has heard it reported
                  all over the village, that Mr. Kornkobbe's father was nothing but a low German
                  shoemaker. Now, if there is any information that Mrs. K. desires next in the
                  world, it is to have the name of the person who said so; and Carrier Pigeon, after
                  a temporary struggle between duty and propriety, finally, but reluctantly, gives
                  up Mrs. Marshmallow as the author, at which Mrs. Kornkobbe lets loose all the
                  pent-up fury in her soul upon the whole Marshmallow tribe, from the old
                  grandfather, who hands around the plate in church, down to the youngest member of
                  the family, just recovering from the united attacks of sprue, measles, hooping
                  cough, and chicken pox.
               The next day Mrs. Marshmallow, who really loves Mrs. K. like a sister, and who
                  possibly might have repeated by way of a mere joke, and not as a reflection, that
                  Kornkobbe, senior, had been a Teutonic cordwainer—the next day, Mrs. Marshmallow
                  is visited by the Carrier Pigeon. Now, Mrs. M. is a lady of much stronger mind
                  than Mrs. K.; not so easily excited by any means; but Carrier Pigeon, by dint of
                  hints, innuendoes, and all the artillery of shrugs and smiles, finally manages to
                  excite her curiosity; and then, when pressed to divulge, after
                  binding up Mrs. Marshmallow not to tell a living soul, and taking other
                  precautions of like nature, reluctantly, after struggling again through duty and
                  propriety, allows Mrs. Marshmallow to draw from her all and everything Mrs.
                  Kornkobbe had said about her the previous evening; but, of course,
                  does not say a word of the use she had made of Mrs. Marshmallow's name, by which
                  the fire had been kindled so as to bring Mrs. K. up to the scalding point. And, as
                  the tone of the Carrier Pigeon would lead Mrs. M. to believe that all her friend,
                  Mrs. Kornkobbe, had said, was gratuitous, she at once makes up her mind that Mrs.
                  Kornkobbe is a base, cold-blooded, double-faced, malicious slanderer. How pleased
                  she is that she has found her out. Explanation is out of the question; neither Mrs. K. nor Mrs. M. will
                  condescend to notice each other, and Mr. Marshmallow and Mr. Kornkobbe go down to
                  town in separate cars from that time and for ever.
               I love to see the Carrier Pigeon; to admire its pretty glossy neck, its mild eyes,
                  its chaste and elegant plumage; but Mrs. Sparrowgrass and I have determined never
                  to listen to its dulcet voice, whether it bring accounts of how our neighbors
                  look, or how we look ourselves when others see us
               We have gotten another rooster. Our Bantam disappeared one day; but we do not
                  think it a serious loss, as he was of very little use. While he remained with us
                  he kept up a sort of rakish air, and swaggered among the young pullets, just as
                  you sometimes see an old bachelor with a bevy of buxom damsels; but the dame
                  Partlets did not have much respect for him, and I am afraid he was terribly
                  hen-pecked by Leah and Rachel. He left us one day. Probably he made away with
                  himself—there is a great deal of vanity in a rooster, and wounded vanity is often
                  the cause of suicide. One evening, on my return from the city, Mrs. Sparrowgrass
                  said she had a surprise for me—a present from a friend. It was a Rooster; a
                  magnificent black Poland cock, with a tuft of white feathers on his crown, and the
                  most brilliant plumage in West-chester county. There he stood, one foot advanced,
                  head erect, eye like a diamond, tail as high as his top-knot. There, too, was his
                  mate, a matron-like, respectable looking female, who would probably conduct
                  herself according to circumstances, and preserve her dignity amid the trying
                  difficulties of her new position. "A present from Judge Waldbin," said Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass. "So I thought," said I; "generous friend! Do you know what I intend
                  to do with his rooster?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass was frightened, and said she did not
                  know. "Put him in verse," said I. Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she never heard of such a
                  thing. But I will, Mrs. S., though I cannot write verse except upon great
                  occasions. So, after a hearty supper and two cigars, I composed the
                  following:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO MY POLAND ROOSTER.
                           
                              "O thou, whatever title please thine ear,"
                              He-chicken, Rooster, Cock, or Chanticleer;
                              Whether on France's flag you flap and flare,
                              Or roost and drowse in Shelton's elbow-chair;
                              Or wake the drones, or please the female kind,
                              And cluck and strut with all your hens behind;
                              
                              As symbol, teacher, time-piece, spouse, to you
                              Our praise is doubtless, Cock-a-doodle, due.
                           
                           
                              Oviparous Sultan, Pharaoh, Cæsar, Czar,
                              Sleep-shattering songster, feathered morning-star;
                              Many-wived Mormon, cock-pit Spartacus,
                              Winner alike of coin and hearty curse;
                              Sir Harem Scarum, knight by crest and spur,
                              Great, glorious, gallinaceous Aaron Burr,
                              How proud am I—how proud you corn-fed flock
                              Of cackling houris are—of thee, Old Cock!
                           
                           
                              Illustrious Exile! far thy kindred crow
                              Where Warsaw's towers with morning glories glow;
                              Shanghai and Chittagong may have their day,
                              And even BRAHMA-POOTRA fade away;
                              But thou shalt live, immortal Polack, thou,
                              Though Russia's eagle clips thy pinions now,
                              To flap they wings and crow with all thy soul,
                              When Freedom spreads her light from Pole to Pole.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "I think," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "I have heard something like that before."
               "No doubt you have," said I; "part is from Pope, part from Halleck, especially the
                  pun in the first stanza; but how can you make decent poetry in the country without
                  borrowing a little here and there, unless you have the genius of a Homer, or of an
                  Alexander Smith, Mrs. Sparrowgrass?"
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  A Country Fire-place—Lares and Penates—Sentiment—Spring Vegetables in the
                     Germ—A Garden on Paper—Warm Weather—A Festa—An Irruption of
                     Noseologists—Constitutional Law, and so forth.
               
               IT is a good thing to have an old-fashioned fire-place, in the country; a
                  broad-breasted, deep-chested chimney-piece, with its old-fashioned fender, its
                  old-fashioned andirons, its old-fashioned shovel and tongs, and a goodly show of
                  cherry-red hickory, in a glow, with its volume of blue smoke curling up the
                  thoracic duct. "Ah! Mrs. Sparrowgrass, what would the country be without a chimney
                  corner and a hearth? Do you know," said I, "the little fairies dance upon the
                  hearth-stone when an heir is born in a house?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she did not
                  know it, but, she said, she wanted me to stop talking about such things. "And the
                  cricket," said I, "how cheerful its carol on the approach of winter." Mrs. S. said
                  the sound of a cricket made her feel melancholy. "And the altar and the hearth-stone: symbols of religion and of
                  home! Before one the bride—beside the other the wife! No wonder, Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, they are sacred things; that mankind have ever held them inviolable,
                  and preserved them from sacrilege, in all times, and in all countries. Do you
                  know," said I, "how dear this hearth is to me?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said, with
                  hickory wood at eight dollars a cord, it did not surprise her to hear me grumble.
                  "If wood were twenty dollars a cord I would not complain. Here we have everything— 
                     
                        ——content,
                        Retirement, rural quiet, friendship, books,
                        Ease and alternate labor, useful life;'
                     
                   and as I sit before our household altar," said I, placing my hand upon the
                  mantel, "with you beside me, Mrs. S., I feel that all the beautiful fables of
                  poets are only truths in parables when they relate to the hearth-stone—the
                  heart-stone, I may say, of home!"
               This fine sentiment did not move Mrs. Sparrowgrass a whit. She said she was
                  sleepy. After all, I begin to believe sentiment is a poor thing in the country. It
                  does very well in books, and on the stage, but it will not answer for the rural
                  districts. The country is too genuine and honest for it. It is a pretty
                  affectation, only fit for artificial life. Mrs. Peppergrass may wear it, with her
                  rouge and diamonds, in a drawing-room, but it will not pass current here; any more
                  than the simulated flush of her cheeks can compare with that painted in the skin
                  of a rustic beauty by the sun and air.
               "Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I, "let us have some nuts and apples, and a pitcher of
                  Binghamton cider; we have a good cheerful fire to-night, and why should we not
                  enjoy it?"
               When Mrs. Sparrowgrass returned from giving directions about the fruit and cider,
                  she brought with her a square, paper box full of garden seeds. To get good garden
                  seeds is an important thing in the country. If you depend upon an agricultural
                  warehouse you may be disappointed. The way to do is, to select the best specimens
                  from your own raising: then you are sure they are fresh, at least. Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass opened the box. First she took out a package of seeds, wrapped up in
                  a newspaper—then she took out another package tied up in brown paper—then she drew
                  forth a bundle that was pinned up—then
                  then another twisted up—then out came a bursted package of watermelon seeds—then a
                  withered ear of corn—then another package of watermelon seeds from another
                  melon—then a handful of split okra pods—then handsful of beans, peas, squash
                  seeds, melon seeds, cucumber seeds, sweet corn, evergreen corn, and other germs.
                  Then another bursted paper of watermelon seeds. There were watermelon seeds enough
                  to keep half the county supplied with this refreshing article of luxury. As the
                  treasures were spread out on the table, there came over me a feeling that reminded
                  me of Christmas times, when the young ones used to pant down stairs, before dawn,
                  lamp in hand, to see the kindly toy-gifts of Santa Claus. Then the Mental
                  Gardener, taking Anticipation by the hand, went forth into the future garden; peas
                  sprouted out in round leaves, tomato put forth his aromatic spread; sweet corn
                  thrust his green blades out of many a hillock; lettuce threw up his slender
                  spoons; beans shouldered their way into the world, like Æneases, with the old
                  beans on their backs; and watermelon and cucumber, in voluptuous play, sported
                  over the beds like truant school-boys.
                     
                        "Here are sweet peas, on tiptoe for a flight:
                        With wings of gentle flush o'er delicate white,
                        And taper fingers catching at all things,
                        To bind them all about with tiny rings."
                     
                  
               
               "Now," said I, "Mrs. Sparrowgrass, let us arrange these in proper order; I will
                  make a chart of the garden on a piece of paper, and put everything down with a
                  date, to be planted in its proper time." Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she thought that
                  an excellent plan. "Yes," I replied, tasting the cider, "we will make a garden
                  to-night on paper, a ground plan, as it were, and plant from that; now, Mrs. S.,
                  read off the different packages." Mrs. Sparrowgrass took up a paper and laid it
                  aside, then another, and laid it aside. "I think," said she, as the third paper
                  was placed upon the table, "I did not write any names on the seeds, but I believe
                  I can tell them apart; these," said she, "are watermelon." "Very well, what next?"
                  "The next," said Mrs. S., "is either muskmelon or cucumber seed." "My dear," said
                  I, "we want plenty of melons, for the summer, but I do not wish to plant half an
                  acre of pickles by mistake; can't you be sure about the matter?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass
                  said she could not. "Well, then, lay the paper down and call off the next." "The next are not radishes,
                  I know," said Mrs. S., "they must be summer cabbages." "Are you sure now, Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass?" said I, getting a little out of temper. Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she
                  was sure of it, because cabbage seed looked exactly like turnip seed. "Did you
                  save turnip seed also?" said I. Mrs. Sparrowgrass replied, that she had provided
                  some, but they must be in another paper. "Then call off the next; we will plant
                  them for cabbages, whether or no." "Here is a name," said Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, brightening up. "Read it," said I, pen in hand. "Watermelons—not so
                  good," said Mrs. S. "Lay that paper with the rest and proceed." "Corn," said Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, with a smile. "Variety?" "Pop, I am sure." "Good, now we begin to
                  see daylight." "Squash," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass. "Winter or Summer?" "Both." "Lay
                  that paper aside, my dear." "Tomato." "Red or yellow?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she
                  had pinned up the one and tied up the other, to distinguish them, but it was so
                  long ago, she had forgot which was which. "Never mind," said I, "there is one
                  comfort, they cannot bear without showing their colors. Now for the next." Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass said, upon tasting the tomato seed, she was sure they were bell
                  peppers. "Very well, so much is gained, we are sure of the capsicum. The next."
                  "Beans," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
               There is one kind of bean, in regard to which I have a prejudice. I allude to the
                  asparagus bean, a sort of long-winded esculent, inclined to be prolific in
                  strings. It does not climb very high on the pole, but crops out in an abundance of
                  pods, usually not shorter than a bill of extras, after a contract; and although
                  interesting as a curious vegetable, still not exactly the bean likely to be highly
                  commended by your city guests, when served up to them at table. When Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, in answer to my question, as to the particular species of bean
                  referred to, answered, "Limas," I felt relief at once. "Put the Limas to the right
                  with the sheep, Mrs. S., and as for the rest of the seeds sweep them into the
                  refuse basket. I will add another stick to the fire, pare an apple for you, and an
                  apple for me, light a cigar, and be comfortable. What is the use of fretting about
                  a few seeds more or less? But, next year, we will mark all the packages with
                     names, to prevent mistakes, won't we, Mrs. Sparrowgrass?"
               
               There has been a great change in the atmosphere within a few days. The maple twigs
                  are all scarlet and yellow fringes, the sod is verdurous and moist; in the morning
                  a shower of melody falls from the trees around us, where blue birds and "pewees"
                  are keeping an academy of music. Off on the river there is a long perspective of
                  shad-poles, apparently stretching from shore to shore, and, here and there, a
                  boat, with picturesque fishermen, at work over the gill-nets. Now and then a shad
                  is held up; in the distance it has a star-like glitter, against the early morning
                  sun. The fruit trees are bronzed with buds. Occasionally a feeble fly creeps
                  along, like a valetudinarian too early in the season at a watering-place. The
                  marshes are all a-whistle with dissipated bull-frogs, who keep up their revelry at
                  unseemly hours. Our great Polander is in high cluck, and we find eggs in the hens'
                  nests. IT IS SPRING! It is a good thing to have spring in the country. People grow
                  young again in the spring in the country. The world, the old globe itself, grows
                  young in the spring, and why not Mr. and Mrs. Sparrowgrass? The city, in the
                  spring, is like the apples of Sodom, "fair and pleasant to behold, but dust and
                  ashes within." But who shall sing or say what spring is in the country? 
                     
                        "——To what shall I compare it?
                        It has a glory, and naught else can share it:
                        The thought thereof is awful, sweet, and holy,
                        Chasing away all worldliness and folly."
                     
                  
               
               "Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I, "the weather is beginning to be very warm and
                  spring-like; how would you like to have a little festa?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said that, in her present frame of mind, a
                  fester was not necessary for her happiness. I replied, "I meant a festa, not a fester; a little fête, a few friends, a
                  few flowers, a mild sort of spring dinner, if you please; some music, claret,
                  fresh lettuce, lamb and spinach, and a breakfast of eggs fresh laid in the
                  morning, with rice cakes and coffee." Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she was willing.
                  "Then," said I, "Mrs. S., I will invite a few old friends, and we will have an
                  elegant time." So, from that day we watched the sky very cleverly for a week, to
                  ascertain the probable course of the clouds, and consulted the thermometer to know
                  what chance there was of having open windows for the occasion. The only drawback
                  that stood in the way of perfect enjoyment was, our lawn had been half rooted out of existence by an irruption
                  of predatory pigs. It was vexatious enough to see our lawn bottom-side up on a
                  festive occasion. But I determined to have redress for it. Upon consulting with
                  the best legal authority in the village, I was told that I could obtain damages by
                  identifying the animals, and commencing suit against the owner. As I had not seen
                  the animals, I asked Mrs. Sparrowgrass if she could identify them. She said she
                  could not. "Then," said I to my legal friend, "what can I do?" He replied that he
                  did not know. "Then," said I, "if they come again, and I catch them in the act,
                  can I fire a gun among them?" He said I could; but that I would be liable for
                  whatever damage was done them. "That," said I, "would not answer; my object is to
                  make the owner suffer, not the poor quadrupeds." He replied that the only
                  sufferers would probably be the pigs and myself. Then I asked him, if the owner
                  recovered against me, whether I could bring a replevin suit against him. He said
                  that, under the Constitution of the United States, such a suit could be brought. I
                  asked him if I could recover. He said I could not. Then I asked him what remedy I
                  could have. He answered that if I found the pigs on my grounds, I could drive them
                  to the pound, then call upon the fence-viewers, get them to assess the damages
                  done, and by this means mulct the owner for the trespass. This advice pleased me
                  highly; it was practical and humane. I determined to act upon it, and slept
                  soundly upon the resolution. The next day our guests came up from town. I
                  explained the lawn to them, and having been fortified on legal points, instructed
                  them as to the remedy for trespass. The day was warm and beautiful; our doors and
                  windows were thrown wide open. By way of offset to the appearance of the lawn, I
                  had contrived, by purchasing an expensive little bijou of a vase, and filling it
                  with sweet breathing flowers, to spread a rural air of fragrance thoughout the
                  parlor. The doors of the bay-window open on the piazza; in one doorway stood a
                  tray of delicate confections, upon two slender quartette tables. These were put in
                  the shade to keep cool. I had suborned an Italian to bring them up by hand, in
                  pristine sharpness and beauty of outline. I was taking a glass of sherry with our
                  old friend, Capt. Bacon, of the U. S. Navy, when suddenly our dogs commenced
                  barking. We keep our dogs chained up by daylight. Looking over my glass of sherry, I observed a detachment of
                  the most villainous looking pigs rooting up my early pea-patch. "Now," said I,
                  "Captain," putting down my glass deliberately, "I will show you some fun; excuse
                  me for a few minutes;" and with that I bowed significantly to our festal guests.
                  They understood at once that etiquette must give way when pea-patch was about
                  being annihilated. I then went out, unchained the dogs, and commenced driving the
                  pigs out of the garden. After considerable trampling of all my early vegetables,
                  under the eyes of my guests, I managed to get the ringleader of the swinish
                  multitude into my parlor. He was a large, powerful looking fellow, with a great
                  deal of comb, long legs, mottled complexion, and ears pretty well dogged. He stood
                  for a moment at bay against the sofa, then charged upon the dogs, ran against the
                  centre table, which he accidentally upset, got headed off by Captain Bacon, who
                  came to the rescue, darted under our quartette tables—making a general
                  distribution of confectionery, and finally got cornered in the piazza.
               By this time I was so much exasperated that I was capable of taking the life of
                  the intruder, and probably should have done so had my gun not been at the
                  gunsmith's. In striking at him with a stick, I accidentally hit one of the dogs
                  such a blow as to disable him. But I was determined to capture the destroyer and
                  put him in the pound. After some difficulty in getting him out of the piazza, I
                  drove him into the library and finally out in the ground. The rest of his
                  confederates were there, quietly feeding on the remains of the garden. Finally I
                  found myself on the hot, high road, with all my captives and one dog, in search of
                  the pound. Not knowing where the pound was, after driving them for a quarter of a
                  mile, I made inquiry of a respectable looking man, whom I met, in corduroy
                  breeches, on the road. He informed me that he did not know. I then fell in with a
                  colored boy who told me the only pound was at Dobb's Ferry. Dobb's Ferry is a
                  thriving village about seven miles north of the Nepperhan. I made a bargain with
                  the colored boy for three dollars, and by his assistance the animals were safely
                  lodged in the pound. By this means I was enabled to return to my guests. Next day
                  I found out the owner. I got the fence-viewers to estimate the damages.
               The fence-viewers looked at the broken mahogany gany and estimated. I spoke of the vase, the
                  flowers, [green-house flowers] and the confectionery. These did not appear to
                  strike them as damageable. I think the fence-viewers are not liberal enough in
                  their views. The damages done to a man's temper and constitution shall be
                  included, if ever I get to be fence-viewer; to say nothing of exotics trampled
                  under foot, and a beautiful dessert ruthlessly destroyed by unclean animals.
                  Besides that, we shall not have a pea until everybody else in the village has done
                  with peas. We shall be late in the season with our early peas. At last an
                  advertisement appeared in the county paper, which contained the decision of the
                  fence-viewers, to wit:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              WESTCHESTER COUNTY, Town of Yonkers. ss.
                           
                           WE, THE SUBSCRIBERS, FENCE-VIEWERS of said town, having been applied
                              to by Samson Sparrowgrass of said town to appraise the damages done by
                              nine hogs, five wintered, [four spotted and one white,] and four
                              spring pigs, [two white] distrained by him doing damage on his lands,
                              and having been to the place, and viewed and ascertained the damages,
                              do hereby certify the amount thereof to be three dollars, and that the
                              fees for our services are two dollars. Given under our hands, this ——
                              day of ——, 185-.
                           
                              DANIEL MALMSEY, PETER ASSMANSHAUSER, Fence-viewers.
                           
                        
                        
                           The above hogs are in the Pound at Dobb's Ferry.
                           
                              CORNELIUS CORKWOOD, Pound Master.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Under the circumstances," said I, "Mrs. Sparrowgrass, what do you think of the
                  pound as a legal remedy?" Mrs. S. said it was shameful. "So I think, too; but why
                  should we repine? The birds sing, the sky is blue, the grass is green side up, the
                  trees are full of leaves, the air is balmy, and the children, God bless them! are
                  happy. Why should we repine about trifles? If we want early peas we can buy them,
                  and as for the vase, flowers, and confectionery, they would have been all over
                  with, by this time, if the pigs had not been here. There is no use to cry, like
                  Alexander, for another world; let us enjoy the one we have, Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  Mr. Sparrowgrass concludes to buy a Horse—Reminiscences of Bloomingdale—The
                     difference between now and then—A Horse as can go—An Artist
                     Story—Godiva—Homeward and Outward bound—The Curtained Dais of the Life School—A
                     new "Lady of Coventry."
               
               I HAVE bought me a horse! A horse is a good thing to have in the country. In the
                  city, the persevering streets have pushed the Bloomingdale road out of reach.
                  Riding-habits and rosy cheeks, bright eyes, round hats and feathers, are banished
                  from the metropolis. There are no more shady by-paths a little way out of town to
                  tempt equestrians. There are no visions of Die Vernon and Frank Osbaldiston at
                  "Burnam's" now. Romance no longer holds the bridle-rein while the delicate slipper
                  is withdrawn from the old red morocco stirrup. A whirl of dust, a glitter of
                  wheels, a stretch of tag-rag and bobtail horses, and the young Potiphars are
                  contesting time with Dusty Bob and the exquisite Mr. Farobank. That is the picture
                  of the Bloomingdale road now. It is the everyday picture too. Go when you will,
                  you see the tag-rag and bobtail horses, the cloud of dust, the whirl of wheels,
                  the young Potiphars, Dusty Bob, and the elegant Mr. Farobank.
               There was a time when I could steal away from the dusky counting-room to inhale
                  the fragrant hartshorn of the stable, while the hostler was putting the saddle on
                  "Fanny." Fanny was a blooded filly, a descendant of the great Sir Henry. Her
                  education had been neglected. She had been broken by a couple of wild Irishmen,
                  who used to "hurrup" her, barebacked, morning and evening, through
                  the lonely little street in the lower part of the city, where the stable was
                  situated. As a consequence, the contest between her high blood and low breeding
                  made her slightly vicious. The first time I backed her, she stood still for half
                  an hour, no more moved by the whip than a brass filly would have been; then
                  deliberately walked up the street, turned the corner with a jump that almost threw
                  me on the curb-stone, then ran away, got on the sidewalk, and stopped suddenly,
                  with her fore feet planted firmly in front of a steep flight of area steps, which
                  happened to be filled with children. I
                  dismounted, and, in no time, was the centre of an angry swarm of fathers and
                  mothers, who were going to immolate me on the spot for trying to ride down their
                  ragged offspring. There is much difficulty in making an explanation
                  under such circumstances. As the most abusive person in the crowd happened to be a
                  disinterested stranger who was passing by, it soon became a personal matter
                  between two of us. Accordingly, I asked him to step aside, which he did, when I at
                  once hired him to lead the filly to the ferry. Once on a country road, I was at
                  home in the saddle, and a few days' training made Fanny tractable. She would even
                  follow me with great gentleness, like a trained dog, and really behaved in a very
                  exemplary way, after throwing me twice or so. Then Fanny and I were frequently on
                  the Bloomingdale road, in summer evenings and mornings, and so were ladies and
                  gentlemen. I do not think the fine buildings that usurp those haunted paths an
                  improvement. Those leafy fringes on the way-side had a charm that free-stone
                  cannot give. That stretch of vision over meadows, boulders, wild shrubbery and
                  uplifted trees, down to the blue river, is not compensated by ornate façades,
                  cornices, and vestibules. Where are the birds? In my eyes, the glimmer of sultry
                  fire-flies is pleasanter in a summer night than the perspective gas-lights in
                  streets. 
                     
                        "There's not a charm improvement gives like those it takes away,
                        When the shadowing trees are stricken down because they do not pay;
                        'Tis not from youth's smooth cheek the blush of health alone is past,
                        But the tender bloom of heart departs, by driving horses fast."
                     
                  
               
               Poor Fanny! my Bloomingdale bride! I believe I was her only patron; and when the
                  stable burnt down, she happened to be insured, and her mercenary owner pocketed
                  her value with a grin.
               I have bought me a horse. As I had obtained some skill in the manége during my younger days, it was a matter of
                  consideration to have a saddle-horse. It surprised me to find good saddle-horses
                  very abundant soon after my consultation with the stage-proprietor upon this
                  topic. There were strange saddle-horses to sell almost every day. One man was very
                  candid about his horse: he told me, if his horse had a blemish, he wouldn't wait
                  to be asked about it; he would tell it right out; and, if a man didn't want him
                  then, he needn't take him. He also
                  proposed to put him on trial for sixty days, giving his note for the amount paid
                  him for the horse, to be taken up in case the animal were returned. I asked him
                  what were the principal defects of the horse. He said he'd been fired once,
                  because they thought he was spavined; but there was no more spavin to him than
                  there was to a fresh-laid egg—he was as sound as a dollar. I asked him if he would
                  just state what were the defects of the horse. He answered, that he once had the
                  pink-eye, and added, "now that's honest." I thought so, but proceeded to question
                  him closely. I asked him if he had the bots. He said, not a bot. I asked him if he
                  would go. He said he would go till he dropped down dead; just touch him with a
                  whip, and he'll jump out of his hide. I inquired how old he was. He answered, just
                  eight years, exactly—some men, he said, wanted to make their horses younger than
                  they be; he was willing to speak right out, and own up he was eight years. I asked
                  him if there were any other objections. He said no, except that he was inclined to
                  be a little gay; "but," he added, "he is so kind, a child can drive him with a
                  thread." I asked him if he was a good family horse. He replied that no lady that
                  ever drew rein over him would be willing to part with him. Then I asked him his
                  price. He answered that no man could have bought him for one hundred dollars a
                  month ago, but now he was willing to sell him for seventy-five, on account of
                  having a note to pay. This seemed such a very low price, I was about saying I
                  would take him, when Mrs. Sparrowgrass whispered, that I had better see the
                     horse first. I confess I was a little afraid of losing my bargain by it,
                  but, out of deference to Mrs. S., I did ask to see the horse before I bought him.
                  He said he would fetch him down. "No man," he added, "ought to buy a horse unless
                  he's saw him." When the horse came down, it struck me that, whatever his qualities
                  might be, his personal appearance was against him. One of his fore legs was shaped
                  like the handle of our punch-ladle, and the remaining three legs, about the
                  fetlock, were slightly bunchy. Besides, he had no tail to brag of; and his back
                  had a very hollow sweep, from his high haunches to his low shoulder-blades. I was
                  much pleased, however, with the fondness and pride manifested by his owner, as he
                  held up, by both sides of the bridle, the rather longish head of his horse,
                  surmounting a neck shaped like a peapod
                  pod, and said, in a sort of triumphant voice, "three-quarters blood!" Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass flushed up a little, when she asked me if I intended to purchase
                     that horse, and added, that, if I did, she would never want to
                  ride. So I told the man he would not suit me. He answered by suddenly throwing
                  himself upon his stomach across the back-bone of his horse, and then, by turning
                  round as on a pivot, got up a-straddle of him; then he gave his horse a kick in
                  the ribs that caused him to jump out with all his legs, like a frog, and then off
                  went the spoon-legged animal with a gait that was not a trot, nor yet precisely
                  pacing. He rode around our grass plot twice, and then pulled his horse's head up
                  like the cock of a musket. "That," said he, "is time." I replied that
                  he did seem to go pretty fast. "Pretty fast!" said his owner. "Well, do you know
                  Mr. ——?" mentioning one of the richest men in our village. I replied that I was
                  acquainted with him. "Well," said he, "you know his horse?" I replied that I had
                  no personal acquaintance with him. "Well," said he, "he's the fastest horse in the
                  county—jist so—I'm willin' to admit it. But do you know I offered to put my horse
                  agin' his to trot? I had no money to put up, or, rayther, to spare; but I offered
                  to trot him, horse agin' horse, and the winner to take both horses, and I tell
                     you—he wouldn't do it!"
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass got a little nervous, and twitched me by the skirt of the coat.
                  "Dear," said she, "let him go." I assured her I would not buy the horse, and told
                  the man firmly I would not buy him. He said very well—if he didn't suit 'twas no
                  use to keep a-talkin': but he added, he'd be down agin' with another horse, next
                  morning, that belonged to his brother; and if he didn't suit me, then I didn't
                  want a horse. With this remark he rode off.
               When I reached our rural dwelling in the evening, I brought with me the pleasant
                  memory of a story I had heard amid the crash and roar of the great city. To
                  preserve it, I wrote it down on paper. Then I brought it in to Mrs. Sparrowgrass,
                  and, with a sort of premonitory smile, asked her if she remembered "Godiva." Mrs.
                  S. seemed puzzled at the question. I believe she was enumerating the names of our
                  former servant girls in her mind—girls that had been discharged or gone off of
                  themselves, from a disinclination to cleanliness, coupled with a certain amount of
                  work. "Godiva," said I, "or Godina, was
                  the wife of Lord Leofrick, of Coventry, in Warwickshire, England. He oppressed the
                  citizens with heavy taxes, and destroyed their privileges. His wife interceded
                  with him, begged him to remit the weighty burden for her sake. In jest, he
                  promised to do so upon one consideration." "I remember it," said Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass. "The condition was, that she should ride through the streets of
                  Coventry stark naked." Mrs. Sparrowgrass blushed up to her eyes. "But, like a
                  noble woman, she undertook the task, and redeemed their liberties, by fulfilling
                  his jest in earnest." "Poor thing," said Mrs. S. "You remember," I continued, "how
                  splendidly Tennyson has painted the legend: 
                     
                        'Then fled she to her inmost bower, and there
                        Unclasp'd the wedded eagles of her belt,
                        The grim Earl's gift; but ever at a breath
                        She lingered, looking like a summer moon,
                        Half dipt in cloud: anon she shook her head,
                        And shower'd the rippled ringlets to her knee;
                        Unclad herself in haste; adown the stair
                        Stole on; and, like a creeping sumbeam, slid
                        From pillar unto pillar, until she reached
                        The gateway; there she found her palfry trapt
                        In purple blazoned with armorial gold.
                        Then she rode forth, clothed on in chastity.'"
                     
                  
               
               "How noble!" said Mrs. S. "Yes," I replied, "and now, after this, I want to read
                  you my story. I call it
               
                  THE NEW GODIVA.
                  Sometime after the year eighteen hundred and fifty, a young Englishman landed
                     at one of the quays that afford accommodation to packet ships, around the city
                     of New York He had come to the New World full of hope and enthusiasm, and he
                     stepped upon the quay without a penny in his pocket. Seldom does an American
                     find himself in this condition, in a foreign port. Here it is so familiar, so
                     much of an every-day occurrence, that sympathy has grown callous to the
                     repetition of the old story;—so this emigrant found, by bitter experience. His
                     fine, intelligent face, under a check-cloth cap, presented itself at various
                     counting-rooms of the city. Check-cloth caps, in search of employment, are
                     common enough; and few merchants can spare time to analyze the lineaments of a
                     fine, intelligent countenance.
                  So the young emigrant found no employment in the busy, active city; the fine, intelligent
                     countenance suffered by unwholesome resting-places, among funeral mahogany at
                     night, and by pride struggling with hunger in the day, until at last the
                     check-cloth cap bent over a stone mallet to beat down the city cobble stones,
                     for a corporation contractor. Oh, the dreary, desolate city, crowded with
                     strangers! Oh, the bright alien sunshine, that never lighted up a sympathetic
                     face! Oh, the green shores of Merrie England, that he had seen sinking in the
                     distant sea, with misty eyes! There they all were; mother and brothers, and
                     she, the dear one—all! and every blow of the stone-rammer went down like a sob.
                     In no period of life is disappointment so poignant as in youth. The dreams of
                     maturity are limited by experience, and the awakening is almost anticipated.
                     But youth believes its gorgeous visions, and looks upon the real, work-day
                     world as a monstrous fable. But, oh, the touch of the Ithuriel spear!
                  The stone-rammer, for months, steadily beat down the cobble-stones. The
                     check-cloth cap had lost its pristine freshness; the fine, intelligent
                     countenance became dead, dull, apathetic. There was a trifling sum deposited
                     weekly in the Emigrants' Saving Bank. It was all withdrawn one day. It was the
                     day the "Devonshire" Liverpool packet sailed. From that day the check-cloth
                     cap, and the fine, intelligent countenance were seen no more by the corporation
                     contractor.
                  The "Devonshire" packet ship had a fine passage out, and was beating up towards
                     the Mersey in little more than a fortnight after she bade farewell to the
                     American city. There she met another packet ship, outward bound. The ships came
                     so near each other that passengers could recognize faces on either deck. Amid
                     the multitude of emigrants, thronging the side of the outward-bound packet, one
                     face had particularly attracted the attention of the passengers on the
                     "Devonshire." It was that of an emigrant girl, a right English face, in a
                     Dunstable bonnet, but still strikingly lovely. It was a face not simply
                     beautiful only, it was ideally so; one of those faces to inspire love in a
                     woman, adoration in a man, and respect in coarser natures. It was not
                     surprising, then, when one of the younger passengers on the "Devonshire"
                     proposed at dinner, "the health of that English girl," that
                     everybody understood it—that ladies and all joined in the toast with
                     enthusiasm.
                  
                  One person alone, a steerage passenger on the "Devonshire," had been insensible
                     to the excitement occasioned by the passing ships. From the time the blue land
                     hove in sight, the inevitable check-cloth cap, and fine intelligent countenance
                     had been turned shorewards, from the bowsprit. Never once had that eager gaze
                     been diverted from the land; never once had it turned towards the packet,
                     outward bound!
                  A fragment of his history must be inserted in the mosaic of the story. When he
                     left home to seek his fortune in the Western republic, he did so with a
                     feeling, a faith that seemed prophetic of success. His talents, for he had
                     talents; his perseverance, for he had perseverance; his indefatigable industry,
                     for he had that also, assured him there could be no failure. Nor would there
                     have been, in time. Industry, perseverance, and talent, may fearlessly
                        begin with the stone rammer, or even with a lower calling.
                     Begin, begin, somewhere—anywhere—only begin. There is no position, no dignity,
                     without the inevitable steps. If need be, take the lowest and surmount them.
                     Here, then, might have been laid the foundation of his fortunes, had pride
                     permitted; but that young, ardent spirit, crushed by drudgery, saw the future
                     only as a continuation of the present; the busy world had rudely thrust him
                     aside; it is true, pride had succumbed to hunger, and beat down the cobble
                     stones, but this, to him, was not the dawn of hope, but the sequel. Henceforth,
                     one thought controlled his mind. "Home, home! return, return!" rang out from
                     the flinty pavements. There was the face of mother, there were the faces of
                     brothers, there was her face, the face of his beloved one—his
                     betrothed, to whom, in his anguish, he had not written since he first stepped
                     upon the shores of the busy, heartless New World. "Home, home!" was the
                     constant burthen, until the "Devonshire" packet carried him, with his slender
                     fortunes, once more across the Atlantic. What was that outward-bound ship to
                     him, when his eyes were fixed again on Merrie England, where they all were?
                  Not very long after this period, Mr. Ultramarine, the famous artist, was
                     arranging the drapery on his lay-figure. A lay-figure is a huge doll, usually
                     about five feet three in height, kept in artists' studios. Its joints are
                     flexible, back, arms, neck, et cetera, movable at will; it can be made to stand
                     up, to sit down or lie down, in fact, may be put in any posture; its limbs, bust, body, are stuffed
                     out so as to cleverly represent womanity, in perfect and divine proportions;
                     its ordinary use is to be dressed up as a lady, and to act as such in the
                     studio. For example, Mrs. Honiton is sitting for her portrait, the lovely face,
                     the rounded arms, the taper fingers, are transferred to the canvas; but Mrs.
                     Honiton's elaborate dress must also be painted, and a two hours' sitting, day
                     after day, is tiresome and tedious. The lay-figure then becomes useful, and
                     plays a brief part in society. For a period, it represents Mrs. Honiton. While
                     Mr. Ultramarine is finishing the picture, it wears her brocades, velvets,
                     shawl, bertha, bracelets, lace-sleeves, with becoming dignity. There is one
                     peculiarity in lay figures, sometimes objectionable. They are apt to transfer
                     an air of stiffness to the likeness; this, however, may be also in the
                     original, and then the effect is wonderful.
                  Mr. Ultramarine could not arrange the drapery on the lay-figure to suit his
                     fancy. The delicate, careless curve of Mrs. Honiton's arm, holding the
                     thrown-off shawl, was beyond the lay-figure's ability. So Mr. Ultramarine gave
                     it up, and went on setting his pallet, with now and then a fiendish look at his
                     lay-figure. There was that rigid arm, stiffly holding out the shawl, with the
                     precision of porcelain; completely excluding the idea Mr. U. wished to portray,
                     of carelessness.
                  There is always, in every studio, of every artist in the city of New York, in
                     the morning, before visitors arrive, a respectable, elderly female. Her duties
                     are sweeping and dusting. By constantly breathing its magic atmosphere, she
                     often gains an intuitive conception of art, beyond even the skill of the
                     newspaper critic. The respectable elderly female who was putting Mr.
                     Ultramarine to rights, understood the difficulty at once. She glanced at the
                     artist and at the shawled manikin. Then she hushed the music of the broom, and
                     said, timidly, "Please, sir, there is a poor creature, a young English girl,
                     sir, at my room, a living with me, that would be glad to earn a shilling or
                     two; and she would hold yon shawl just as you want it." Mr. Ultramarine
                     squeezed a little vermilion out of the capsule upon his pallet, and looked up.
                     "Hum," he replied, "a coarse creature, I presume." This was said in a kind
                     voice, with a lingering accent on "coarse creature," that did not convey
                     harshness by any means. "No, sir," she answered, "I would call her an English beauty. The finest
                     face and figure, sir." "Dear me," said the artist, "why did you not speak of it
                     before? Can you bring her now, Mrs. Hill?" "I can, sir," she replied,
                     "immegently." So Mrs. Hill left the studio for the model, and Mr. U. went on
                     preparing Mrs. Honiton's toilet on his pallet. He squeezed a tiny pod of blue
                     in one place, then mixed it with white, in a variety of tints; then he smeared
                     another place over with Vandyke brown; then he dropped a curious little worm of
                     yellow ochre, out of another capsule; then the pallet-knife dipped into a patch
                     of white, and then the ochre was graduated into various tints; then he dug a
                     mass of magilp out of a bottle, and put that on the board; then glanced on the
                     lovely Honiton, and again took up another capsule, from which he pressed a
                     cogent blush of carmine. Then the door opened, after a short knock, and in
                     walked Mrs. Hill and the model. Under a plain English bonnet was the same face
                     the passengers on the "Devonshire" had seen looking over the side of the
                     packet, outward-bound.
                  Mr. Ultramarine was a painter, and felt the divine inspiration of his
                     profession realized in that face. But when the model had been arrayed by Mrs.
                     Hill in the ante-room in the splendid dress of Mrs. Honiton, and stood upon the
                     dais, the effect was bewildering. "Such," said the artist to himself, "was the
                     face Raphael knew and painted, and men turned from Divinity to worship art in
                     the ideal Virgin. It is not surprising the church has made so many
                     proselytes."
                  Mr. Ultramarine was an artist; he set to work manfully and painted the shawl.
                     There was an ease and grace in the careless curve of the living arm holding it,
                     that made lay-figure absolutely repulsive. He put lay-figure in one corner of
                     his studio, and covered her all over with old coats, pantaloons, a rug, and bit
                     of curtain, besides piling on his fishing-rod, and laying a cracked pallet on
                     top, by way of cap-stone. In a few days Mrs. Honiton was done. Alas, Mr.
                     Ultramarine had not another lady sitter just then; there were a score of
                     gentlemen whose portraits had to be painted. They must be painted; he had a
                     family to support, and not much to do it with. He must pay the model and send
                     her away. So he told her simply and kindly, and then——
                  The model turned deadly pale, essayed to speak, failed, and fainted
                     outright.
                  
                  Mr. Ultramarine took it into his head that the model had fallen in love with
                     him. Never was he more mistaken, nor more relieved when he found he was
                     mistaken. He carried the helpless form to a chair, bathed the Madonna face with
                     water, and brought the model to.
                  Then came the story. She was betrothed; her lover had left England for America
                     months ago; she had waited patiently to hear from him by letter; steamer after
                     steamer arrived, but no letter. In the seclusion of her native village suspense
                     had become intolerable. She determined to follow him. Not for an instant
                     doubting his faith, but fearing all that woman can fear save that. Never did
                     she think she could not find him; no, not if he were in the world. She had
                     traced him even in the wilderness of New York, until at last she found he had
                     taken passage to England again by the "Devonshire." For her there was but one
                     thought, one hope, one overpowering desire. That was also to return, speedily,
                     instantly, if possible, but——she was almost penniless.
                  When she had concluded, a bright idea suggested itself to Mr. Ultramarine, and
                     played with a lambent light over his features. "My child," said he, "it would
                     be impossible for me to assist you with means sufficient for your purpose, but
                     I can tell you of a way by which you can make enough to enable you to return,
                     and make it speedily too. We are in want of a nude model for the National
                     Academy of Design. Our present models have been so long on the carpet that they
                     have grown too stringy even for high art. You understand me, we are in want of
                     a nude model for the life school. If you will consent to sit, you can speedily
                     earn enough to enable you to return, say in a few weeks."
                  What was passing in that young mind while the artist was saying this, in a
                     plain matter-of-fact way? What terrible thoughts were being balanced there?
                     What years of blinding toil, to earn even a pittance for daily support, with no
                     hope of regaining far-off England, were being weighed against this startling
                     alternative? With all there was a little flush of hope;—in a month she could be
                     on the broad ocean; once more she would see him for whom she had suffered so
                     much; and in that pure, maiden heart arose the determination to make the
                     sacrifice. So, when the burning blush left her features, and she had heard all,
                     it was a face as calm as marble that
                     bowed assent, meekly but firmly, and then she went forth from the studio.
                  In the National Academy of Design there are two schools of art—the Antique and
                     the Life. The first comprises casts of the famous statues, the Farnese
                     Hercules, the Venus de Medici, the Apollo Belvidere, Thorwaldsen's Mercury with
                     the pipe, and Venus with the apple, the Nymph of the bath, Venus Victrix, the
                     Greek Suppliant, and other immortal achievements. Here the neophytes of the
                     Academy assemble in winter to draw from the casts. In the adjoining room
                     maturer students copy from life. In no place is the ennobling influence of art
                     more apparent than in the Life-school. The sacred stillness of the place, the
                     calm, earnest faces of the sketchers, the statue-like repose of the living
                     model; the analytical experience constantly suggested by the nude figure—the
                     muscles, first round and firm, then flattened, then lax and shrunken by the
                     hour's duty, teaching the physical aspects of nature in various conditions,
                     from which the true painter draws the splendid corollary, "that art
                        represents nature best, when art comprehends nature in all its
                        developments."
                  Was there no shrinking in that young creature's heart when they had left her
                     alone in the unrobing room? Was there no touch of unconscious pride as she
                     stood at last, in her abundant beauty, before the mirror? Did she not hesitate
                     as she opened the door, and stepped forth upon the curtained dais? Or, was that
                     pure, innocent breast so unsullied, that even to shame it was alien? The truly
                     good alone can answer this question.
                  To the most discreet, the wisest, and the gravest counsellors of the Academy is
                     confided the delicate task of arranging the pose of the nude model on the dais. Then the curtains are drawn,
                     and the figure is revealed to the students. There are usually three of these
                     counsellors; for, "in a multitude of counsellors is wisdom." This time no
                     artistic interference was needed. The natural posture of the nude figure upon
                     the dais-sofa was one of such exquisite grace that it rivalled even the Greek
                     marble. So the wise greybeards of the Academy besought the model to sit
                     perfectly still, and with this slight premonition, the curtains were swept
                     away, and a flood of light fell upon the dais and Godiva.
                  Thou white chastity! Amid that blaze of eager eyes now fastened upon thy
                     beauties, there is not a soul so base as to harbor one evil thought of thee! Here, where "art's pure dwellers
                     are," thou art secure as in a shrine!
                  The hour's probation is over: the curtains close. And now the touching history
                     of her love is told by Mr. Ultramarine to the listening students, and ere the
                     Madonna face is hidden again in the Dunstable bonnet, the artists before the
                     curtain have a little gift for the model. It is a purse, not heavy, but
                     sufficient. Young artists cannot give much. But there was an unanimous
                     determination that she should be protected by them until such time as she could
                     be safely placed on a steamer "outward bound." And before a week had elapsed
                     she stood again upon a deck; and never were farewells, waved to the departing
                     passengers of the "Atlantic," fuller of generous sympathy, than those that bade
                     adieu to Godiva!
                  
                  "Is that all?" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, as I rolled up the manuscript. "That is
                     all, my dear." "Did she find her lover?" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass. "I do not
                     know," I replied; "but I suppose she did." "I hope she did," said Mrs. S.,
                     "from the bottom of my heart I do."—(A pause.)—"Come," said I, "it is late.
                     To-morrow we must rise early, for you know the man is to bring the other horse
                     here;—the one that belongs to his brother, Mrs. Sparrowgrass."
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               
                  A Horse of another color—Ancient and Modern Points of a Horse—A suspected Organ
                     and Retrograde Movement—Mr. Sparrowgrass buys the Horse that belongs to the
                     Man's Brother—A valuable Hint as to Stable-building—A Morning Ride, and a
                     Discovery—Old Dockweed—An Evening Ride, and a Catastrophe.
               
               "IT rains very hard," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, looking out of the window next
                  morning. Sure enough, the rain was sweeping broadcast over the country, and the
                  four Sparrowgrassii were flattening a quartette of noses against the window-panes,
                  believing most faithfully the man would bring the horse that belonged to his
                  brother, in spite of the elements. It was hoping against hope: no man having a
                  horse to sell will trot him out in a rain-storm, unless he intend to sell him at a
                  bargain—but childhood is so credulous! The succeeding morning was bright, however,
                  and down came the horse. He had been very cleverly groomed, and looked pleasant
                  under the saddle. The man led him back and forth before the door. "There, squire,
                  's as good a hos as ever stood on iron." Mrs. Sparrowgrass asked me what he meant
                  by that. I replied, it was a figurative way of expressing, in horse-talk, that he
                  was as good a horse as ever stood in shoe-leather. "He's a handsome hos, squire,"
                  said the man. I replied that he did seem to be a good looking animal, but, said I,
                  "he does not quite come up to the description of a horse I have read." "Whose hos
                  was it?" said he. I replied it was the horse of Adonis. He said he didn't know
                  him, but, he added, "there is so many hosses stolen, that the descriptions are
                  stuck up now pretty common." To put him at his ease (for he seemed to think I
                  suspected him of having stolen the horse), I told him the description I meant had
                  been written some hundreds of years ago by Shakspeare, and repeated it— 
                     
                        "Round-hooft, short-joynted, fetlocks shag and long,
                        Broad brest, full eyes, small head, and nostril wide,
                        High crest, short ears, strait legs, and passing strong,
                        Thin mane, thick tail, broad buttock, tender hide."
                     
                  
               
               "Squire," said he, "that will do for a song, but it ain't no p'ints of a good hos.
                  Trotters now-a-days go in all shapes,
                  big heads and little heads, big eyes and little eyes, short ears or long ones,
                  thick tail and no tail; so as they have sound legs, good l'in, good barrel, and
                  good stifle, and wind, squire, and speed well, they'll fetch a price. Now, this
                  animal is what I call a hos, squire; he's got the p'ints, he's stylish, he's
                  close-ribbed, a free goer, kind in harness—single or double—a good feeder." I
                  asked him if being a good feeder was a desirable quality. He replied it was; "of
                  course," said he, "if your hos is off his feed, he ain't good for nothin'. But
                  what's the use," he added, "of me tellin' you the p'ints of a good hos? You're a
                  hos man, squire: you know"—"It seems to me," said I, "there is something the
                  matter with that left eye." "No, sir," said he, and with that he
                  pulled down the horse's head, and, rapidly crooking his fore-finger at the
                  suspected organ, said, "see thar—don't wink a bit." "But he should wink," I
                  replied. "Not onless his eye are weak," he said. To satisfy myself, I asked the
                  man to let me take the bridle. He did so, and, so soon as I took hold of it, the
                  horse started off in a remarkable retrograde movement, dragging me with him into
                  my best bed of hybrid roses. Finding we were trampling ling down all the best
                  plants, that had cost at auction from three-and-sixpence to seven shillings
                  apiece, and that the more I pulled, the more he backed, I finally let him have his
                  own way, and jammed him stern-foremost into our largest climbing rose that had
                  been all summer prickling itself, in order to look as much like a vegetable
                  porcupine as possible. This unexpected bit of satire in his rear changed his
                  retrograde movement to a side-long bound, by which he flirted off half the pots on
                  the balusters, upsetting my gladioluses and tube-roses in the pod, and leaving
                  great splashes of mould, geraniums, and red pottery in the gravel walk. By this
                  time his owner had managed to give him two pretty severe cuts with the whip, which
                  made him unmanageable, so I let him go. We had a pleasant time catching him again,
                  when he got among the Lima bean-poles; but his owner led him back with a very
                  self-satisfied expression. "Playful, ain't he, squire?" I replied that I thought
                  he was, and asked him if it was usual for his horse to play such pranks. He said
                  it was not. "You see, squire, he feels his oats, and hain't been out of the stable
                  for a month. Use him, and he's as kind as a kitten." With that he put his foot
                     in the stirrup, and mounted. The
                  animal really looked very well as he moved around the grass plot, and, as Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass seemed to fancy him, I took a written guarantee that he was sound,
                  and bought him. What I gave for him is a secret; I have not even told Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass.
               It is a mooted point whether it is best to buy your horse before you build your
                  stable, or build your stable before you buy your horse. A horse without a stable
                  is like a bishop without a church. Our neighbor, who is very ingenious, built his
                  stable to fit his horse. He took the length of his horse and a little over, as the
                  measure of the depth of his stable; then he built it. He had a place beside the
                  stall for his Rockaway carriage. When he came to put the Rockaway in, he found he
                  had not allowed for the shafts! The ceiling was too low to allow them to be
                  erected, so he cut two square port-holes in the back of his stable and run his
                  shafts through them, into the chicken-house behind. Of course, whenever he wanted
                  to take out his carriage, he had to unroost all his fowls, who would sit on his
                  shafts, night and day. But that was better than building a new stable. For my
                  part, I determined to avoid mistakes, by getting the horse and carriage both
                  first, and then to build the stable. This plan, being acceptable to Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, was adopted, as judicious and expedient. In consequence, I found
                  myself with a horse on my hands with no place to put him. Fortunately, I was
                  acquainted with a very honest man who kept a livery stable, where I put him to
                  board by the month, and in order that he might have plenty of good oats, I bought
                  some, which I gave to the ostler for that purpose. The man of whom I bought the
                  horse did not deceive me, when he represented him as a great feeder. He ate more
                  oats than all the rest of the horses put together in that stable.
               It is a good thing to have a saddle-horse in the country. The early morning ride,
                  when dawn and dew freshen and flush the landscape, is comparable to no earthly,
                  innocent pleasure. Look at yonder avenue of road-skirting trees. Those marvellous
                  trunks, yet moist, are ruddy as obelisks of jasper! And above—see the leaves
                  blushing at the east! Hark to the music! interminable chains of melody linking
                  earth and sky with its delicious magic. The little, countless wood-birds are
                  singing! and now rolls up from the mown meadow the fragrance of cut grass and
                     clover.
                  
                     
                        "No print of sheep-track yet hath crushed a flower;
                        The spider's woof with silvery dew is hung
                        As it was beaded ere the daylight hour:
                        The hookéd bramble just as it was strung,
                        When on each leaf the night her crystals flung,
                        Then hurried off, the dawning to elude."
                        
                        "The rutted road did never seem so clean,
                        There is no dust upon the way-side thorn,
                        For every bud looks out as if but newly born."
                     
                  
               
               Look at the river with its veil of blue mist! and the grim, gaunt old Palisades,
                  as amiable in their orient crowns as old princes, out of the direct line of
                  succession, over the royal cradle of the heir apparent!
               There is one thing about early riding in the country; you find out a great many
                  things which, perhaps, you would not have found out under ordinary circumstances.
                  The first thing I found out was, that my horse had the heaves. I had been so wrapt
                  up in the beauties of the morning, that I had not observed, what perhaps everybody
                  in that vicinity had observed, namely, that the new horse had been waking up all
                  the sleepers on both sides of the road with an asthmatic whistle, of half-a-mile
                  power. My attention was called to the fact by the village teamster, old Dockweed,
                  who came banging after me in his empty cart, shouting out my name as he came. I
                  must say, I have always disliked old Dockweed's familiarity; he presumes too much
                  upon my good nature, when he calls me Sparrygrass before ladies at the dépôt, and
                  by my Christian name always on the Sabbath, when he is dressed up. On this
                  occasion, what with the horse's vocal powers and old Dockweed's, the affair was
                  pretty well blown over the village before breakfast. "Sparrygrass," he said, as he
                  came up, "that your hos?" I replied, that the horse was my property. "Got the
                  heaves, ain't he? got 'em bad." Just then a window was pushed open, and the white
                  head of the old gentleman, who sits in the third pew in front of our pew in
                  church, was thrust out. "What's the matter with your horse?" said he. "Got the
                  heaves," replied old Dockweed, "got 'em bad." Then, I heard symptoms of opening a
                  blind on the other side of the road, and as I did not wish to run the gauntlet of
                  such inquiries, I rode off on a cross road; but not before I heard, above the
                  sound of pulmonary complaint, the voice of old Dockweed explaining to the other
                  cottage, "Sparrygrass—got a hos—got the heaves—got 'em bad." I was so much ashamed, that I took a
                  round-about road to the stable, and instead of coming home like a fresh and
                  gallant cavalier, on a hand gallop, I walked my purchase to the stable, and
                  dismounted with a chastened spirit.
               "Well, dear," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, with a face beaming all over with smiles,
                  "how did you like your horse?" I replied that he was not quite so fine a
                  saddle-horse as I had anticipated, but I added, brightening up, for good humor is
                  sympathetic, "he will make a good horse, I think, after all, for you and the
                  children to jog around with in a wagon." "Oh, won't that be pleasant!" said Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass.
               Farewell, then, rural rides, and rural roads o' mornings! Farewell, song birds,
                  and jasper colonnades; farewell misty river, and rocky Palisades; farewell mown
                  honey-breath, farewell stirrup and bridle, dawn and dew, we must jog on at a foot
                  pace. After all, it is better for your horse to have a pulmonary complaint than
                  have it yourself.
               I had determined not to build a stable, nor to buy a carriage, until I had
                  thoroughly tested my horse in harness. For this purpose, I hired a Rockaway of the
                  stable-keeper. Then I put Mrs. Sparrowgrass and the young ones in the double
                  seats, and took the ribbons for a little drive by the Nepperhan river road. The
                  Nepperhan is a quiet stream that for centuries has wound its way through the
                  ancient dorp of Yonkers. Geologists may trace the movements of time upon the rocky
                  dial of the Palisades, and estimate the age of the more modern Hudson by the
                  foot-prints of sauriæ in the strata that fringe its banks, but it is impossible to
                  escape the conviction, as you ride beside the Nepperhan, that it is a very old
                  stream—that it is entirely independent of earthquakes—that its birth was of
                  primeval antiquity—and, no doubt, that it meandered through Westchester valleys
                  when the Hudson was only a fresh water lake, land-locked somewhere above
                  Poughkeepsie. It was a lovely afternoon. The sun was sloping westward, the meadows 
                     
                        ———"were all a-flame
                        In sunken light, and the mailed grasshopper
                        Shrilled in the maize with ceaseless iteration."
                     
                  
               
               We had passed Chicken Island, and the famous house with the stone gable and the
                  one stone chimney, in which General Washington slept, as he made it a point to sleep in every old stone house
                  in Westchester county, and had gone pretty far on the road, past the cemetery,
                  when Mrs. Sparrow-grass said suddenly, "Dear, what is the matter with your horse?"
                  As I had been telling the children all the stories about the river on the way, I
                  had managed to get my head pretty well inside of the carriage, and, at the time
                  she spoke, was keeping a look-out in front with my back. The remark of Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass induced me to turn about, and I found the new horse behaving in a
                  most unaccountable manner. He was going down hill with his nose almost to the
                  ground, running the wagon first on this side and then on the other. I thought of
                  the remark made by the man, and turning again to Mrs. Sparrowgrass, said,
                  "Playful, isn't he?" The next moment I heard something breaking away in front, and
                  then the Rockaway gave a lurch and stood still. Upon examination I found the new
                  horse had tumbled down, broken one shaft, gotten the other through the check-rein
                  so as to bring his head up with a round-turn, and besides had managed to put one
                  of the traces in a single hitch around his off hind leg. So soon as I had taken
                  all the young ones and Mrs. Sparrowgrass out of the Rockaway, I set to work to
                  liberate the horse, who was choking very fast with the check-rein. It is
                  unpleasant to get your fishing-line in a tangle when you are in a hurry for bites,
                  but I never saw fishing-line in such a tangle as that harness. However, I set to
                  work with a penknife, and cut him out in such a way as to make getting home by our
                  conveyance impossible. When he got up, he was the sleepiest looking horse I ever
                  saw. "Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I, "won't you stay here with the children until I
                  go to the nearest farm-house?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass replied that she would. Then I
                  took the horse with me to get him out of the way of the children, and went in
                  search of assistance. The first thing the new horse did when he got about a
                  quarter of a mile from the scene of the accident, was to tumble down a bank.
                  Fortunately the bank was not over four feet high, but as I went with him, my
                  trowsers were rent in a grievous place. While I was getting the new horse on his
                  feet again, I saw a colored person approaching, who came to my assistance. The
                  first thing he did was to pull out a large jack-knife, and the next thing he did
                  was to open the new horse's mouth and run the blade two or three times inside of the new horse's gums. Then the new
                  horse commenced bleeding. "Dah, sah," said the man, shutting up his jack-knife,
                  "ef 't hadn't been for dat yer, your hos would a' bin a goner." "What was the
                  matter with him?" said I. "Oh, he's ony jis got de blind-staggers, das all. Say,"
                  said he, before I was half indignant enough at the man who had sold me such an
                  animal, "say, ain't your name Sparrowgrass?" I replied that my name was
                  Sparrowgrass. "Oh," said he, "I knows you, I brung some fowls once down to you
                  place. I heerd about you, and you hos. Dats de hos dats got de heaves so bad, heh!
                  heh! You better sell dat hos." I determined to take his advice, and employed him
                  to lead my purchase to the nearest place where he would be cared for. Then I went
                  back to the Rockaway, but met Mrs. Sparrowgrass and the children on the road
                  coming to meet me. She had left a man in charge of the Rockaway. When we got to
                  the Rockaway we found the man missing, also the whip and one cushion. We got
                  another person to take charge of the Rockaway, and had a pleasant walk home by
                  moonlight. I think a moonlight night delicious, upon the Hud-
               Does any person want a horse at a low price? A good, stylish-looking animal,
                  close-ribbed, good loin, and good stifle, sound legs, with only the heaves and
                  blind-staggers, and a slight defect in one of his eyes? If at any time he slips
                  his bridle and gets away, you can always approach him by getting on his left side.
                  I will also engage to give a written guarantee that he is sound and kind, signed
                  by the brother of his former owner.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  Children—An Interrupted Discourse—Mrs. Sparrowgrass makes a Brilliant
                     Remark—Philadelphia Phrases—Another Interruption—Quakers—A few Quakeristics—A
                     Quaker Baby—The Early Quakers—John Woolman—Thomas Lurting—Broadbrims in a
                     Cathedral—And a Friendly Suggestion.
               
               CHILDREN, God bless them! Who can help loving them! Children, God bless them! are
                  the only beings for whom we have no "imperfect sympathies." We love them through
                  and through. There is nothing conventional in the hearty laugh of a child. The
                  smile of a child is unsuspectable of artifice. I once corrected one of my little
                  ones, and put him to bed, for having been stubborn at his letters. Then I waited
                  until he fell asleep, and then I watched beside him until he slumbered out his
                  sorrows. When he opened his eyes, he stretched out his little arms, smiled up in
                  my face, and forgave me. The Lord forgive me for the whaling I gave him! I owe him
                  an apology, which I intend to make so soon as he is old enough to understand it.
                  There is nothing so odious to the mind of a child as injustice, and young married
                  people are prone to expect too much, and exact too much of their eldest born. If
                  then we are unjustly severe from our want of experience, it seem to me there is
                  something due, some reparation on our part, due to the individual whose feelings
                  we have injured. If we lose temper with a gentleman six feet high, and call him
                  hard names, we often find it convenient to apologize. It seems to me that three
                  feet of wounded sensibility is, at least, entitled to respectful consideration.
                  What do you think of that, Mrs. Sparrowgrass? Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she thought
                  it was true. "How much," I continued, reflectively, "children occupy the father's
                  mind." "Yes," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "and the mother's." "Children," said I, "are
                  to the father as weights are to the clock—they keep him steady and they keep him
                  busy."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass looked up from the plaid patch of new gingham she was needling
                  into the breast of a faded gingham apron, and nodded significantly: "True," said
                  she, "you are the hour hand, but I am the minute hand."
               
               As this was the most brilliant remark Mrs. S. had made for months, I was silent
                  for some time.
               "My dear," said I, after a pause, "speaking of children, I wish you would not
                  teach the young ones so many of your Philadelphia phrases." Mrs. Sparrowgrass
                  looked surprised. "You know, my dear," I continued, "how proud I am this year, and
                  justly proud, too, of our musk-melons?" "Well?" "And when Uncle Sourgrass was here
                  the other day, what should Ivanhoe do but ask him to go out to look at the
                  cantelopes." "Well, what of that?" said Mrs. S. "Cantelope," said I, "in this part
                  of the world, is the name of a very inferior species of melon, and I would not
                  have had Uncle Sourgrass think we had nothing but cantelopes in the garden, upon
                  any account." "You wouldn't?" "No! You call all kinds of melons
                  'cantelopes' in Philadelphia, but permit me to say that it is a local error, which
                  should not be transplanted and trained in juvenile minds on the banks of the
                  Hudson." Mrs. Sparrowgrass was much impressed by this horticultural figure. "Then,
                  when visitors come, you always will take them to see that patch of 'Queen
                  Margarets,' and everybody gets disappointed to find they are only China-asters
                  asters." "Well?" "And there is another thing too Mrs. Sparrowgrass; next Christmas
                  Santa Claus, if you please—no Kriss Kringle. Santa Claus is the patron saint, Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, of the New Netherlands, and the ancient Dorp of Yonkers; he it is
                  who fills the fireside stockings; he only can come down Westchester chimneys, and
                  I would much prefer not to have the children's minds, and the flue, occupied with
                  his Pennsylvania prototype. And, since I must speak of it, why will you always
                  call a quail a partridge? All you Philadelphians will call a quail a partridge.
                  Did you ever read Audubon?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said she never had. "Wilson?"
                  "Never." "Charles Bonaparte?" (A dead silence.) "Nor any other work on
                  ornithology?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said there was a little bundle of remnants and
                  patches in the upper part of the closet, which she wished I would reach down. "A
                  quail," I continued, as I reached down the bundle, "is not a partridge, my dear."
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass said the next time we had partridges she would call them all
                  quails, as she supposed I knew which was correct better than she did. With that
                  she unrolled the bundle and drew
                  therefrom a long, triangular piece of faded, mouse-colored silk.
               There are moments when I feel as if I would like to launch into a little sea of
                  language, and spread a nautilus sail in delicate air. The great, three-deckers of
                  thought, the noble orators and splendid statesmen, require the broader and more
                  turbulent ocean for their ponderous movements. But for me, who have seen something
                  of the eloquent world, from the magnates of the senate, in palmy days, down to the
                  present windy representatives of the great metropolis in Common Council assembled,
                  there seems to be a more captivating charm in those lighter crafts that float in
                  safety over the shallows of polite conversation, and venture securely amid the
                  rocks and whirlpools of social argument. Who has not felt as if he would like to
                  preach for half an hour or so upon some favorite text or topic? Who has not, in
                  some auspicious instant, been so fortified in argument as to absolutely suffer for
                  the stimulant of opposition, to enable him to unload his mind and be comfortable?
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass, by an ill-timed, brilliant remark, had broken the thread of my
                  discourse upon children, and she had put an end to my argument against local
                  phrases, by requesting me to reach down a piebald bundle of patches. But from that
                  roll of remnants she had drawn forth a long, triangular piece of mouse-colored
                  silk. The tint was suggestive. It was a text, a thesis, that would bear
                  amplifying. So I at once started off. "My dear, do you know I have long felt as if
                  I would like to be one of the society called 'Friends?'" Mrs. Sparrowgrass
                  replied, she did not know I had contemplated so serious a departure from the rules
                  of propriety. "My dear," I said, "no person has a greater feeling of respect and
                  regard than I have for the sect that so unjustly bears the name of
               
                  QUAKERS.
                  "There is something, in the very aspect of a 'Friend,' suggestive of peace and
                     good will. Verily, if it were not for the broad-brimmed hat, and the straight
                     coat, which the world's people call 'shad,' I would be a Quaker. But for the
                     life of me I cannot resist the effect of the grotesque and the odd. I must
                     smile, oftenest at myself. I could not keep within drab garments and the bounds
                        of propriety. Incongruity would
                     read me out of meeting. To be reined in under a plain hat would be impossible.
                     Besides, I doubt whether any one accustomed to the world's pleasures could be a
                     Quaker. Who, once familiar with Shakspeare and the opera, could resist a
                     favorite air on a hand organ, or pass, undisturbed, 'Hamlet!' in capital
                     letters on a play bill? To be a Quaker, one must be a Quaker born. In spite of
                     Sydney Smith, there is such a thing as a Quaker baby. In fact, I have seen it—a
                     diminutive demurity, a stiff-plait in the bud. It had round blue eyes, and a
                     face that expressed resignation in spite of the stomach-ache. It had no lace on
                     its baby-cap, no embroidered nonsense on its petticoat. It had no beads, no
                     ribbons, no rattle, no bells, no coral. Its plain garments were innocent of
                     inserting and edging; its socks were not of the color of the world's people's
                     baby. It was as punctiliously silent as a silent meeting, and sat up rigidly in
                     its mother's lap, twirling its thumbs and cutting its teeth without a gum-ring.
                     It never cried, nor clapped its hands, and would not have said 'papa' if it had
                     been tied to the stake. When it went to sleep it was hushed without a song, and
                     they laid it in a drab-colored cradle without a rocker. Don't interrupt me, I
                     have seen it, Mrs. Sparrowgrass!
                  "Something I have observed too, remarkably, strikingly Quakeristic. The young
                     maidens and the young men never seem inclined to be fat. Such a thing as a
                     maiden lady, nineteen years of age, with a pound of superfluous flesh, is not
                     known among Friends. The young men sometimes grow outside the limits of a
                     straight coat, and when they do, they quietly change into the habits of
                     ordinary men. Either they are read out of meeting, or else they lose their hold
                     when they get too round and too ripe, and just drop off. Remarkably
                     Quakeristic, too, is an exemption the Friends appear to enjoy from diseases and
                     complaints peculiar to other people. Who ever saw a Quaker marked with the
                     small-pox, or a Quaker with the face-ache? Who ever saw a cross-eyed Quaker, or
                     a decided case of mumps under a broad-brimmed hat? Nobody. Mrs. Sparrowgrass,
                     don't interrupt me. Doubtless much of this is owing to their cleanliness,
                     duplex cleanliness, purity of body and soul. I saw a face in the cars, not long
                     since—a face that had calmly endured the storms of seventy yearly meetings. It
                     was a hot, dry day, the windows were all open; dust was pouring into the cars; eye-brows,
                     eye-lashes, ends of hair, mustachios, wigs, coat-collars, sleeves, waistcoats,
                     and trowsers of the world's people, were touched with a fine tawny color. Their
                     faces had a general appearance of humidity in streaks, now and then tatooed
                     with a black cinder; but there, within a satin bonnet (Turk's satin), a bonnet
                     made after the fashion of Professor Espy's patent ventilator, was a face of
                     seventy years, calm as a summer morning, smooth as an infant's, without one
                     speck or stain of dust, without one touch of perspiration, or exasperation,
                     Mrs. S. No, nor was there, on the cross-pinned 'kerchief, nor on the
                     elaborately plain dress, one atom of earthy contact; the very air did seem to
                     respect that aged Quakeress.
                  "Mrs. Sparrowgrass, don't interrupt me. Did you ever, my dear, 'get the
                     writings of John Woolman by heart, and love the early Quakers,' as beloved
                     Charles Lamb recommends? No? Then let me advise you to read the book, and learn
                     something of one who had felt the efficacy of that power, which, as he says,
                     'prepares the creature to stand like a trumpet, through which the Lord speaks
                     to his people.' Here is a little story of his early childhood, which I want you
                     to read to the children now and then.
                  "'Once going to a neighbor's house, I saw, on the way, a Robin
                     sitting on her nest, and, as I came near, she went off; but, having young ones,
                     flew about, and, with many cries, expressed her concern for them. I stood and
                     threw stones at her, till, one striking her, she fell down dead. At first, I
                     was pleased with the exploit; but, after a few minutes, was seized with horror,
                     as having, in a sportive way, killed an innocent creature while she was careful
                     of her young. I beheld her lying dead, and thought those young ones, for which
                     she was so careful, must now perish for the want of their dam to nourish them;
                     and, after some painful considerations on the subject, I climbed up the tree,
                     took all the young birds, and killed them, supposing that better than to leave
                     them to pine away and die miserably; and believed, in this case, that Scripture
                     proverb was fulfilled, "The tender mercies of the wicked are cruel." I then
                     went on my errand; but, for some hours, could think of nothing else but the
                     cruelties I had committed, and was much troubled. Thus He, whose tender mercies
                     are above all his works, hath placed a principle in the human mind, which incites to exercise
                     goodness toward every living creature; and this being singly attended to,
                     people become tender-hearted and sympathizing; but being frequently and totally
                     rejected, the mind becomes shut up in a contrary disposition.'
                  "Don't interrupt me, my dear. And Thomas Lurting, too; his adventures are well
                     worth reading to the children. A Quaker sailor, the mate of a Quaker ship,
                     manned with a Quaker crew, every one of which had a straight collar to his
                     pea-jacket, and a tarpaulin, with at least three feet diameter of brim. Thomas
                     Lurting, whose ship was captured by Algerine pirates after a hard chase, and
                     who welcomed them on board as if they had been brothers. Then, when the Quaker
                     vessel and the Algerine were separated by a storm, how friendly those
                     salt-water non-resistants were to their captors on board their own vessel; with
                     what alacrity did they go aloft to take in sail, or to shake out a reef, until
                     those heathen pirates left the handling of the ship entirely to their
                     broad-brimmed brethren, and went to sleep in the cabin; and then, what did the
                     Quakers do but first shut the cabin doors, and fasten them, so that the Turks
                     could not get out again? And then, fearless of danger, they steered for the
                     Barbary coast, and made those fierce, mustached pirates get into a small boat
                     (they had been for ever locked up else), and rowed them to the shore; and when
                     the Turks found themselves in a small boat with but a small crew of
                     broad-brims, and gave signs of mutiny, what did the brave Thomas Lurting? Lay
                     violent hands on them? Draw a cut-lass, or cock a pistol? No, he merely struck
                     the leader 'a pretty heavy blow with a boat-hook, telling him to sit still and
                     be quiet,' as he says himself, 'thinking it was better to stun a man than to
                     kill him.' And so he got the pirates on shore, and in their own country. Brave
                     Thomas Lurting! True? Of course, it is true.
                  "The most singular spectacle I ever witnessed was the burial-service over a
                     Quaker, in a Catholic cathedral. He had formerly been the rigidest of his
                     sect—a man who had believed the mitre and crozier to be little better than the
                     horns and tail of the evil one—a man who had looked upon church music and
                     polygamy with equal abhorrence, and who would rather have been burnt himself
                     than burn a Roman candle on the anniversary of the national jubilee. Yet, by
                     one of those inexplicable
                     inconsistencies, peculiar to mere men, but rare among Quakers, he had seceded
                     from the faith of his fathers, and become one of the most zealous of
                     papists.
                  "The grand altar was radiant with wax tapers; the priests on either side, in
                     glittering dresses, were chanting responses; the censer boys, in red and white
                     garments, swung the smoke of myrrh and frankincense into the air, and as the
                     fragant mist rolled up and hung in rosy clouds under the lofty, stained-glass
                     windows, the great organ panted forth the requiem. Marvellously contrasted with
                     this pomp and display appeared the crowd of broad-brims and stiff-plaits, the
                     friends and relatives of the deceased. Never, perhaps, had such an audience
                     been grathered in such a place in the world before. The scene, to the priests
                     themselves, must have been novel and striking. Instead of the usual display of
                     reverence, instead of the customary show of bare heads and bended knees, every
                     Quaker stood stoutly on his legs, with his broad-brimmed hat clinging to his
                     head as strongly as his faith to his heart. Disciplined as they had been in
                     many a silent meeting, during the entire mass not one of the broad-brims moved
                     an inch until the service was over. Then the coffin was opened and solemnly,
                     silently, decorously, the brethren and sisters moved towards it to look, for
                     the last time, upon the face of the seceder. Then silently, solemnly,
                     decorously, they moved from the Popish temple. 'I saw,' said one of the
                     sisters, 'that he (meaning the departed ex-Quaker) had on worked slippers with
                     silver soles, what does thee think that was for?' The person spoken to wore a
                     hat with a goodly brim. Without moving his head, he rolled around, sideways,
                     two Quakeristic eyes, large blue eyes, with little inky dots of pupils, like
                     small black islands in oceans of buttermilk, and said, awfully—'I suppose they
                     was to walk through Purgatory with.'"
                  
                  "I do not believe it," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass. "Nevertheless, my dear, it is
                     true," I replied; "true, every word of it. You have not seen all the world yet,
                     my dear; it is a very large place—a very large place, indeed, Mrs.
                     Sparrowgrass."
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  Our new Horse improves—He is loaned to to a Neighbor, and disgraces
                     himself—Autumnal Vegetation—The Palisades and Rock Cataract—An agreeable
                     Surprise—Mr. Sparrowgrass takes a short trip to the County of Broome——Meets
                     with a Disappointment on his Return, but indulges in a flowing vein of
                     "Adversity's sweet milk."
               
               OUR new horse waxes fat. He takes kindly to his feed, and has already eaten
                  himself into the shape of a bell-pear. As he was suffering from want of exercise,
                  I loaned him, for a few days, to a neighbor, who was moving his chattels into a
                  new house. He was quite serviceable for a time, and really would have done very
                  well, but for a sudden return of his epilepsy as he was carrying a load of
                  crockery. I think our neighbor has acquitted me of any malicious intention in
                  letting him have the animal, but his wife always meets me with a smile as fine as
                  a wire. In fact, she told Mrs. Sparrowgrass it was of no consequence, that it was
                  all right, and she never would have thought of it at all, if it had not been for
                  an old family teapot that had belonged to her grandmother, that could not be
                  replaced—"a thing, my dear, the family has always set a great deal of store by."
                  Confound the family teapot! If it were really so choice a piece of porcelain, what
                  did they put it in the wagon for? Why didn't they carry it by hand? I suppose we
                  will have that broken teapot alluded to, every now and then, at village
                  tea-parties, for years to come.
               Our horse waxes fat. I had serious thoughts of parting with him once, but the
                  person who was negotiating for him wanted me to take another horse in exchange,
                  and pay him a sum of money to boot, which seemed to be, at least, as much as, if
                  not more than, both horses were worth. Upon consultation with Mrs. S., I declined
                  the trade.
               Notwithstanding the continued warm weather, the leaves already manifest the
                  visible approaches of autumn. Earliest of all, the velvet-podded sumach hangs its
                  fringe of fire, here and there, in the heart of the deep old wood. Then the
                  sugar-maples, golden at the top, and the deeper green leaves of the swamp-maple,
                  are bound with a florid border. The pointed foliage of the gum-tree comes out with a chromatic spread of tints,
                  and, around the trunks, and up in the heavy verdure of cedar and oak, the
                  five-fingered creeper winds its threads of gleaming crimson. Countless little
                  purple flowers scatter between the trees, and margin the roads; white asters,
                  large and small, put forth their tufts of stars; and above them the golden rod
                  waves in the wind its brilliant sceptre. Down by the plashy spring, the wild-rose
                  thickets are densely spotted with round, red berries, beautiful to behold, and, if
                  you look in the grass, you will often find a yellow jewel, a sort of wild
                  lady's-slipper.
               But, oh, the glory of those grand old Palisades! Those bald, storm-splintered
                  crags, that overlook the river! Far as the vision stretches, reach their grim,
                  grey precipices, gorgeous, in autumnal tartan, to the waist, but bare, disrobed,
                  and regal to the summit. Brave old thunder-mockers, they. I once suggested, to
                  some of my neighbors, the propriety of having them white-washed, for appearance
                  sake, but I do most heartily repent me of the irreverent jest. Truth to say, I had
                  no intention in it, although the project was taken seriously, and as seriously
                  objected to, partly on the ground that there were other things about
                  the village, to be done, of more pressing importance, and partly on account of the
                  expense.
               There is another hint of the coming of autumn; the evening music of the insect
                  world hath ceased; the iterated chirp of the cricket, the love-lorn cry of
                  Katy-did, and the long, swelling monotone of the locust, have departed. But we
                  have brought forth the antique andirons, and the winter-wood lies piled up in the
                  shed, and, with the first crackle of the hickory, we shall hear, at least, one
                  summer-voice, on the earth. We shall miss our beetles, though; we shall see no
                  more of those window-visitors who used to bump against the centre-lamp and then go
                  crawling, in a very improper way, over the table, with a segment of white shirt
                  sticking forth from their nether garments behind. We shall miss our beetles. The
                  swamps and ponds, too, are silent. The frogs no longer serenade us with their
                  one-pronged jews-harps, and, oh, saddest of all, the birds! the summer birds! now
                  pipe in other lands, and under alien skies. 
                     
                        "The melancholy days are come,
                        The saddest of the year."
                     
                  
               
               Take it all in all, our garden, this season, has redeemed itself. To be sure, our fruit-trees
                  blossomed away their energies, attempting to make too much of a show in the
                  spring. But we do not care a great deal for pears, and as one cherry-tree put out
                  quite a respectable show of ox-hearts, we were content. As for musk and
                  water-melons, we had much to brag of; and our potatoes have yielded an abundant
                  crop of all sizes. When we get in our tomatoes, we shall feel pretty comfortable
                  for the winter; at present, they are green, but thrifty.
               It is a good thing to have an agreeable surprise, now and then, in the country. I
                  have been tempted lately, by the fine moonlight evenings, to take short rides in
                  the saddle by the haunted shores of the Nepperhan. I love to note the striking
                  contrasts of massive foliage in deep shadow, silvery water in breaks and bends, a
                  pond here, a mill-dam there, with its mimic cascade, and at times the red glare of
                  a belated cottage window. I enjoy these rides, even at the risk of a tumble. And
                  this custom was the cause of a pleasant surprise. One evening, I returned rather
                  early from the river, on account of the fog, and tied our new horse under the
                  shed, intending to ride him over to the stable at the usual hour. But finding some
                  visitors at home, the pleasure of conversation, in regard to the fall crops,
                  beguiled me, and I went to bed, leaving the new horse tied under the shed. When I
                  woke up next morning he was gone. Some person had stolen him in the night. I do
                  not believe he got very far with him before he found out it was easier to get him
                  away than to bring him back. At all events, he was off, and I paid his bill at the
                  stable, to date, with great pleasure. At first I thought I would tell my wife, and
                  then I concluded to keep the good news for a while, and break it to her gradually.
                  There is a great deal in keeping a good thing to yourself for a while. You can
                  turn it over and over in your mind, and enjoy, in anticipation, the effect it will
                  produce when you come to relate it to another. This was too good, though, to keep
                  very long. Here was a snub-nosed, blear-eyed, bandy, legged horse-thief, with a
                  pocketful of oats, and a straw in his mouth, covertly sneaking off at midnight
                  with an animal he did not know anything about—a horse that was an ostrich, in
                  appetite only—a horse that would keep him, by night and by day, constantly busy,
                  in doing nothing else but stealing his feed. A horse that was a
                     weaver! And of all hard feeders, a weaver is the worst. A weaver, that would stand weaving his
                  head from side to side, like a shuttle, over the manger, eating away with a
                  sinister look in his one eye expressive of— 
                     
                        "You, nor I, nor nobody knows,
                        Where oats, peas, beans, and barley grows."
                     
                  
               
               It was too good to keep. Once or twice I came very near letting it out; but by
                  great presence of mind I succeeded in keeping it in.
               By and by it will be a great joke for somebody!
               
               We have had a slight frost. The first tender touch of winter's jewelled finger. A
                  premonition, no more. How kindly the old dame moves in the country—how orderly.
                  How cleverly she lays everything to sleep, and then folds over all her delicate
                  drapery! It is a grand sight to see the snow driving across the rocky face of the
                  Palisades. We shall welcome in the winter with pleasure. Sleep, little flowers,
                  for a time; the kind old nurse will be beside your tiny cradles, and wrap you up
                  softly in light blankets! Sleep, little hard-shell beetles, rest Katy-did, and
                  you—nocturnal bugler, mosquito, rest!
               We have had again warmer weather and fogs. We love to see a fog in the country.
                  Look over the wide expanse of the river, smooth as looking-glass—two miles across;
                  see the morning sunlight on the eternal precipices. Look at the variegated foliage
                  fused to lava under the thin screen of mist. It seems as if nature had poured down
                  in floods of melted sulphur, vermilion, and orpiment. And now the slight veil
                  sweeps away, and the round masses of vegetation jut forth in light and shadow.
                  Once more we recognize the bare strip that indicates the course of the ROCK
                  CATARACT! If you watch the summit now, you will see something. The blasters are at
                  work with gunpowder. There! Puff number one! Up rolls the blue smoke, and hark at
                  the echoes! You do not see the blown out mass, as it falls sheer down the barren
                  cliff; but now watch the yellow cloud of dust that whirls along, as the huge
                  fragment bounds, hundreds of feet below, over the steep sloping earth, until it
                  buries itself, amid the uproar, at the very brink of the river. Follow its course
                  to the city, and you will behold it, and its brethren, rising in massive piles of
                  architecture; but look at the grand old rocks again, and tell if there be a scar
                  or spot left, to indicate whence it fell. Strange that you cannot, for it is a
                  great quarry that—over there.
               
               Not a person knows anything concerning the horse's hegira, yet. Old Dockweed, the
                  inquisitive old sand-piper, asked me, "how that horse was getting along with his
                  heaves?" I replied, he was getting on pretty well. I mean to ask Mrs. S., some
                  day, how much she thinks my stable bill has been for the past week or two. How she
                  will open her eyes, when I tell her that expense is at an end. And horse-shoes
                  too; what a costly luxury a blacksmith is, in the country.
               I shall leave home to-morrow, for a short sojourn in Broome county with a friend.
                  When I return, it will be time enough to tell Mrs. S. about our good luck. How
                  surprised she will be.
               It is a good thing to travel in the country—to go from one country place to
                  another country place—to meet old friends with fresh welcomes, old hearths, and
                  old wood, old side-boards, old wine, and, above all—old stories. I love an old
                  story. There is no place where you will find so many old stories as in the
                  country. Our village is full of old stories. They have a flavor of antiquity, too,
                  that commends them always to the connoisseur. The old stories of Broome county
                  have a rarer merit—some of them are good. How pleasant it was to sit with my old
                  friend by his hospitable hearth-stone, and enjoy the warmth of his fire, his wine,
                  and his welcome! How pleasant it was to listen to his old stories,
                  like the chime of some old bell, or the echo of some old song, bringing up again
                  days, men, scenes, and scores of happy memories! How we went into the deep green
                  cover to shoot woodcock; how I bagged my first bird; how we stopped at the spring,
                  and could not find the flask, but we did not mean the powder-flask; how we got Mr.
                  Peapod to fire at the mark, but forgot to put the shot in his gun; and all about
                  our old friends on the Susquehanna, the rides, the drives, the junketings—up
                  above, where the broad river sweeps on behind the garden, or where the brook ramps
                  over the rocks, and rambles musically down through the glen. Those, indeed, were
                  fine old stories.
               I love, too, to sleep in an old-fashioned house—to hear the dew drip from the
                  eaves at night, and the rustle of autumnal leaves around the porch—to wake with
                  the cheery crow of the rooster, and the chirrup of the coffee-mill—to look forth
                  from the low-browed window upon the early morning, and to see clouds, and hills,
                  and ever so many rural pictures tures.
                  It is a good thing to travel sometimes in the country.
               When I returned home, I determined to break the whole matter to Mrs. Sparrowgrass
                  about the horse. There is such a thing as keeping a secret too long from the
                  partner of one's bosom. This thought oppressed me. So, after I had deposited my
                  over-coat and carpet-bag in the hall, I could scarcely keep the secret quiet until
                  the proper moment. The children never seemed to be so pertinaciously curious as
                  they did on the evening of my return. I think we should never refuse answering the
                  questions children put to us, unless they ask questions it would be improper to
                  answer. To tell the truth, I was not sorry when they were cased in their
                  Canton-flannel long-drawers, and ready for bed. Then I had to tell Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass all about the journey; but first she had to tell me all about
                  everything that had occurred during my absence. Then I commenced: "My dear," said
                  I, "do you know notwithstanding the extraordinary large crops this fall, that feed
                  still remains very high?" Mrs. S. replied that she had neglected to speak of the
                  horse; but as I had reminded her of it—"My dear," said I, interrupting her, "I
                  know what you want to say. You want me to part with him, even if I give him away."
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass replied that she did. "What," I continued, "do you suppose he
                  has cost me within the two past weeks?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass answered that I would
                  find he had cost more than he was worth, twice over. "You think so, do you?" said
                  I. "Then, my dear, I want to tell you something that will gratify and surprise
                  you." Then I followed it up: "In the first place, do you remember, about two weeks
                  ago, that I returned home from a moonlight ride beside the romantic shores of the
                  Nepperhan?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass replied that she remembered it. "Well, then, that
                  night I tied our horse under the shed, and I forgot him. The next morning he was
                  missing." Mrs. Sparrowgrass requested me to go on.
               There is a great deal, sometimes, in the manner of saying those two words, "go
                  on." It sometimes implies that you have arrived at the end of what you have to
                  say, and that the other party has something yet to add. There was a pause.
               "Go on," said Mrs. Sparrograss, "tell your story, and then let me tell mine!"
                  "Wasn't he stolen?" said I, beginning to fear that some news of an unpleasant nature was in store for me. "I do not
                  know whether he was stolen or whether he strayed away; but at all events he has
                  been found, my dear," replied Mrs. S. "Where did they find him, Mrs. S.?" said I,
                  feeling a little nervous. "In the Pound!" replied Mrs. Sparrowgrass,
                  with a quiet, but impressive accent on the last word. "In the pound!" I echoed,
                  "then, Mrs. S., we will leave him in the hands of the village authorities." "Bless
                  me!" replied Mrs. S., "I had him taken out immediately, so soon as I heard of it.
                  Why you would not have your horse kept in the pound, my dear, for everybody to
                  make remarks upon? He is in the stable, my dear, and as fat as ever; the man that
                  keeps him said it would do you good to see him eat the first day he got back. You
                  will have to pay a pretty nice bill, though. There are the fees of the
                  pound-master, and the damages to the Rev. Mr. Buttonball, for breaking into his
                  carrot patch, where he was found, and then you will have to get a new saddle and
                  bridle, and"———
               "Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I, interrupting the catalogue of evils, by putting up my
                  hand with the palm turned toward her like a monitor, "Mrs. S., there are times
                  when trifles occupy too conspicuous a position in the human mind. Few people lose
                  their night's rest from a superabundance of joy, but many suffer from a species of
                  moral nightmare. Do not let this matter, then, give you any more uneasiness." Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass said it did not give her any uneasiness at all. "If this wretched
                  animal is again upon our hands, we must make the best of him. While I was away, I
                  heard in the country there was a prospect of oats not being able to keep up this
                  winter. Next year we can put him out to pasture. I also learn that a new and fatal
                  disease has broken out among horses lately. We must hope, then, for the best. Let
                  us keep him cheerfully, but do not let us be haunted with him. He is,
                  at least, a very nice looking animal, my dear. Excuse me a moment—— 
                     
                        'Let Fate do her worst, there are relics of joy,
                        Bright dreams of the past, which we cannot destroy.'
                     
                   You had, at least, the pleasure of riding after him once; and I had the
                  pleasure of hearing that he was stolen—once. Perhaps somebody may take a fancy to
                  him yet, Mrs. Sparrowgrass."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  Our New Barber—Reminiscences of our Old Barber—A Dog of another Color—October
                     Woods—A Party on the Water—Home, Sweet Home, with Variations (flute obligato)—A
                     row to the Palisades—Iroquois Legend—Return to the Cottage.
               
               WE have gotten a new barber in the village. It is a good thing to have a barber in
                  the country. You hear all the news, all the weddings, the engagements, the
                  lawsuits, and other festive matters, in his aromatic shop. Our former Master
                  Nicholas has left us suddenly. "Maese Nicolas, quando
                     barbero, del mismo pueblo." We miss him very much. I used to admire
                  his long and learned essay upon the 'uman 'air. The 'uman 'air, for want of
                  capillary attraction, could not maintain its place upon the 'uman 'ead, without
                  the united juices of one hundred and fifty-five vegetables. So long as he devoted
                  himself to procuring the necessary vegetables, and hung his argument upon a hair,
                  he did very well. It was pleasant to doze under his glib fingers and his
                  vegetative philosophy. But unfortunately he got into politics. Barbers usually
                  have excitable temperaments. The barber of our village became the softest of the
                  softs. He was ready to argue with anybody, and everybody, in his "garden of
                  spices."
               One day while I was under his tuition, at the end of a prolonged debate with one
                  of his sitters, by way of clinching his point, he did me the honor of tapping me
                  twice upon the cranium with the back of his hair-brush. "Sir," said he (tap), "I
                  tell you that is so" (heavy tap). In consequence, I
                  predicted his speedy downfall. Sure enough, he laid a wager that his candidate
                  would have a majority in our village over all the rest of the candidates, and the
                  next election only gave his candidate two votes. Next day our barber
                  was missing. Public vandalism had crushed him.
               We have procured a new barber. He is in the dyeing line of business. It is the
                  color, not the quantity of hair, that engages all his lubricating efforts. To
                  convert the frost of age into a black or brown scalp is the highest ambition of
                  his genius. Not only that: he anticipates time, and suggests preventive treatment to younger men. To me he is
                  excessively tiresome.
               I have bought me a new dog. A snow-white terrier, with rose-colored ears and paws.
                  She is as white as new-plucked cotton, or February clouds. All our other dogs,
                  Jack, Zack, and Flora, are black; Juno, by contrast, looks strikingly white. One
                  day, I found four black dogs under the porch. Of the four, I should
                  say Juno was the blackest. She had been to the barber's on a visit, and he had
                  given her a coat of his confounded Praxitiles balsam. Now she is growing out of
                  it, but her present appearance is so repulsive the other dogs will not associate
                  with her. Some day I mean to give that barber a talking to about the matter.
               Who that loves nature can forsake the country in October? Before the leaves fall,
                  before "the flying gold of the woodlands drive through the air," we must visit our
                  old friends opposite—the Palisades. We must bring forth our boat once more, and
                  "white-ash it" over the blue river to the "Chimneys." "What do you
                  think of it, Mrs. Sparrowgrass?" Mrs. S. replied, she was willing. So, then, on
                  Saturday, if the weather be fair, we will make our final call upon them. The
                  weather was fair, the air warm, the sky clear, the river smooth, the boat in
                  order, and over we went. I had invited a German gentleman, Mr. Sumach, to
                  accompany us, on account of his flute. He is a very good performer on that
                  instrument, and music always sounds to great advantage upon the water. When we
                  approached the great cliffs, Mr. Sumach opened his case and took therefrom the
                  joints of an extraordinarily large flute. Then he moistened the joints and put it
                  together. Then he held it up and arranged the embouchure to his satisfaction, and
                  then he wiped it off with his handkerchief. Then he held it up again at right
                  angles, and an impudent boy in another boat, fishing, told him he'd better take in
                  his boom if he did not want to jibe. Then Mr. Sumach ran rapidly through a double
                  octave, executed a staccato passage with wonderful precision, and wound up with a
                  prolonged bray of great brilliancy and power. Then the boy, by way of jibing
                  himself, imitated the bleating of a sheep. Then I bent the white ash oars to get
                  out of the reach of the boy, and the blisters on my hands became painfully
                  bloated. Then Mr. Sumach, who had been trilling enough to make anybody nervous,
                  proposed that we should sing something.
                  Then Mrs. Sparrowgrass suggested "Home, Sweet Home." Then we commenced (flute
                  obligato.)
               
                  
                     
                        
                           HOME, SWEET HOME!
                           WITH VARIATIONS.
                           
                              "Mid (taw-tawtle) pala—(tawtle)
                              Though—oh! (tawtle-taw!)
                              Be it (taw-tawtle) hum—(tawtle)
                              Taw, tawtle-taw! (rapid and difficult
                                 passage, ending with an inimitable shake).
                              A cha—(tawtle) skies! (tawtle) halo (taw, taw)
                              Which (taw-tawtle) world (taw) not (taw-tawtle)
                                 where.
                              Home! (trill B flat) Hoem! (rapid and
                                 difficult passage)
                              Sweet! (toodle) sweet! (toodle) home! (toodle)
                              Be it (tawtle-de-doodle-diddle-doodle—taw) 'ble,
                              There's no—oh! (toodle!) home!"
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               By this time we had reached the base of the Palisades.
               Now then—here we are! A segment of sand you might cover with a blanket, and all
                  the rest of the beach a vast wreck of basaltic splinters! Rocks, rocks, rocks!
                  From bits not larger than a watermelon, up to fragments the size of the family
                  tea-table. All those have fallen off those upper cliffs you see rising from the
                  gold, brown, and crimson of autumnal leaves. Look up! No wonder it makes you dizzy
                  to look up. What is that bird? Mrs. Sparrowgrass, that is an eagle!
               It was a pleasant thing, after we had secured the boat by an iron grapnel, to pick
                  our way over the sharp rocks; now holding by a lithe cedar, now swinging around a
                  jutting crag by a pendulous, wild grape-vine, anon stepping from block to block,
                  with a fine river view in front and below; and then coming suddenly upon the
                  little nook where lay the flat stone we were in quest of; and then came the great
                  cloth-spreading, and opening of the basket! And we took from the basket, first a
                  box of matches, and a bundle of choice segars of delicate flavor. Next two side
                  bottles of claret. Then we lifted out carefully a white napkin, containing only
                  one fowl, and that not fat. Then two pies, much the worse for the voyage. Then two
                  more bottles of claret. Then another centre-piece—ham sandwiches. Then a bundle of
                  knives and forks, a couple of cork-screws, a tier of plates, six apples, and a
                  half bottle of olives. Then twenty-seven hickory nuts, and a half dozen
                  nut-crackers. And then came the cheese, and the manuscript.
               
               Oh, golden November sky, and tawny river! bland distance and rugged foreground!
                  wild, crimson vines, green cedars, many-colored, deciduous foliage, grey
                  precipices, and delicious claret! What an afternoon that was, under the
                     Palisades!
               
               "Mr. Sumach," said I, after the pippins and cheese, "if you will cast your eyes up
                  beyond the trees, above those upper trees, and follow the face of the
                  precipice in a direct line for some four hundred feet perpendicularly, you will
                  see a slight jutting out of rock, perhaps twenty feet below the top of the crags."
                  Mr. Sumach replied, the sun was shining so brilliantly, just then, upon that
                  identical spot, that he could see nothing at all. As, upon careful inspection, I
                  could not see the spot myself, I was obliged to console myself with another sip of
                  claret. Yet there it was! Just above us!
               "Mr. Sumach," said I, "I wish you could see it, for it is one of the curiosities
                  of our country. You know we have five wonders of the world in America—the Falls of
                  Niagara, the Natural Bridge in Virginia, the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky, Trenton
                  Falls, and the Palisades. Now, sir, just above us, almost at the brink of that
                  dizzy height, there is a singular testimony of the freaks of nature. That tough
                  old rock, sir, has had a piece taken out of it—squarely out, by lightning
                  probably, and the remnants of the vast mass now lie around us, covered with
                  lichens, nutshells, dead leaves, table-cloth, and some claret bottles. If you will
                  go with me, some two miles north, there is a path up the mountains, and we can
                  then walk along the top of the vast precipice to the spot directly over us." Mr.
                  Sumach declined, on the ground of not being accustomed to such rough walking.
                  "Then, sir, let me describe it to you. From that jutting buttress of rock in
                  front, to the opening there, just back of you, there is a flat platform above us,
                  wide enough for a man to lie down with his head close to the inner wall and his
                  feet a few inches over the precipice. That platform is probably one hundred and
                  fifty feet long; the wall behind it is some twenty feet high; there is a little
                  ravine, indicated by the gap up there, by which you can reach the platform. Once
                  on it, you will see the wall back of you is very flat and even, as well as the
                  stone floor you tread upon." Mr. Sumach answered, "Very well?" in a tone of
                  inquiry. "Now," said I, "here in this paper is the Legend of the Palisades, and as
                  we are upon legendary ground, I will read it to you." Mr. Sumach, with a despairing look at his
                  giant flute-case, said he would like much to hear it. So, after another sip of
                  claret, I unrolled the manuscript and read
               
                  A LEGEND OF THE PALISADES
                  Long before the white sails of Europe cast their baleful shadows over the sunny
                     waters of the western continent, a vast portion of this territory, bounded by
                     perpetual snows and perpetual summer, was occupied by two mighty nations of red
                     men. The Iroquois, by far the most warlike nation, dominated, with its united
                     tribes, the inland from Canada to North Carolina, and east and west from
                     Central Pennsylvania to Michigan; while the great Algonquin race peopled the
                     sea-board, from Labrador almost to the Floridas, and extending itself westward,
                     even to the borders of Oregon, again stretched away beyond the waters of the
                     Mississippi, unto the hunting-grounds of the swarthy Appalachians. This bright
                     river, in those days, flowed downward to the sea under some dark, Indian name;
                     and where yonder village glitters with its score of spires and myriad windows,
                     the smoke of numerous campfires fires curled amidst pointed wigwams, of poles,
                     and skins, and birch-bark wrought with barbaric characters.
                  Of the Algonquin tribes, that formerly inhabited the banks of this mighty
                     stream, tradition has scarcely preserved a name. A handful of colored, earthen
                     beads, a few flint arrow-heads, are the sole memorials of a once great
                     populace. But tradition, with wonderful tenacity, clings to its legends. Even
                     from the dross of nameless nations, some golden deed shines forth, with a
                     lustre antiquity cannot tarnish. So among the supernatural songs of the
                     Iroquois we find a living parable.
                  Long before the coming of the pale-faces, there was a great warrior of the
                     Onondaga-Iroquois, by name "The Big Papoose." He had a round, small, smooth
                     face, like that of a child, but his arms were long, and his shoulders broad and
                     powerful as the branches of an oak. At the council fires he spoke not, at
                     hunting parties he was indolent, and of the young squaws none could say, "he
                     loves me." But if he spoke not at the council fires, the people knew the scalps
                     in his wigwam were numerous as the cones upon the pine tree; and if he cared
                     not for hunting, yet he wore a triple collar made of the claws of three grizzly bears, and the old braves
                     loved to sing of the great elk he had pursued and killed with a blow of his
                     stone axe, when his feet were as the wings of a swallow. True it was, the love
                     that is so common to man, the love of woman, was not in his breast; but the
                     brightest and boldest maiden's eyes dropped in his presence, and many a time
                     the bosoms of the young squaws would heave—just a little. Yet the Big Papoose
                     was the friend of children. Who bound the tiny, flint arrow-heads to the
                     feathered shafts, and strung the little bow with the sinews of deer, and
                     practised the boy-warriors of the tribe in mimic warfare, and taught them to
                     step with the foot of the sparrow, and to trap the fox, the rabbit, and the
                     beaver, and to shout the death-whoop, the sa sa kuan? Who
                     was it, but the Big Papoose lying yonder, face downward, on the frozen crust of
                     the lake, his head covered with skins, and around him a score of boy-warriors,
                     lying face downward too, watching the fish below, through the holes in the ice,
                     that they might strike them with the pointed javelin, the
                        aishkun? Yes, he was the friend of children, the Big
                     Papoose!
                  There was then a very old brave of the Onondaga tribe; his hair was like the
                     foam of the waterfall, and his eyes were deep and dark as the pool beneath it.
                     He was so old that he could lay his hand upon the head of a hundred years and
                     say—"boy!"
                  He it was who had found, far in the north, under the uttermost stars, the
                     sacred pieces of copper; he it was who had seen the great fish, so large that a
                     single one could drink up the lake at a mouthful, and the great Thunder Water
                     he had seen—Niagara! and the cavern, big enough to contain all the
                     Indian tribes, the Iroquois and the Algonquins; and the stone arch that held up
                     the skies, the sun, and moon, and the clouds he had stood beneath, and he had
                     seen it.
                  He was called The White Cloud, and sometimes, when the summer's heat had been
                     too powerful upon the earth, and the green leaves of the maize drooped too
                     much, he would bring forth the magic red pipe, and smoke, and blow the smoke
                     towards the west, and then the vapors would rise up from the great lake
                     Ontario, and approach him, and overshadow him, and the rain would fall, and the
                     leaves rise up refreshed, and the little birds would sing loudly in the wet
                     forest. Then, too, would the Big Papoose sit on the same log with the White
                     Cloud, and ask him to tell of the mysteries of the skies, and the Sachem would chant of the White
                     Rabbit of the North, the Queen of the Heavens, that holds dominion over the
                     uttermost stars, and the snows of winter; that hides in the summer, when the
                     sun is powerful, that she may rival his brightness in the season of frost.
                  One day the Big Papoose said to the old chief—"Why, oh White Cloud, do you ever
                     blow the smoke of the calumet towards the west; is there not rain too in the
                     east?" Then the white-haired answered—"Because I like not the visions I see
                     when I blow the smoke towards the east. As the smoke from the calumet moves
                     westward, I behold in it nations of red men, moving, and ever moving, towards
                     the caverns of the sun. But when I blow the smoke towards the east, I see the
                     red men no more, but the glitter of mighty waters, and winged canoes, in size
                     like the lofty hemlocks of the forest, and potent arrows of fire, that dart
                     forth with clouds and thunderings. And further and further towards the east, I
                     see more and more of the winged canoes, in number like the leaves that are
                     blown by the winds of autumn, and the winged canoes bear many nations, and in
                     the approaching nations I see not one red man." "I have dreamed," replied the
                     young warrior, "of a maiden whose eyes were in color like yonder lake, and
                     whose skin was beautiful as the snow at sunset." "Do you not think of her
                     often; more than of the women of the Onondagas?" said the White Cloud. The
                     young warrior bowed his head. "The time will come," said the old chief, "when
                     the woman with blue eyes will think of the young chief of the Onondagas."
                     "When?" said the listener, eagerly. The White Cloud touched with his finger a
                     young pine, whose stem was not thicker than a stalk of maize one moon old, and
                     replied, "When this trunk shall have grown so a man may stretch his arms around
                     it, and yet his right hand cannot meet his left, then will the young chief of
                     the Onondagas live in the thoughts of the maiden with the skin like the flush
                     of sunset on the snow." "You speak truth," answered the young chief, "so, too,
                     have I dreamed." "Tell me," continued the white-haired prophet, "whom do you
                     envy of living men?" "Not one," replied the young warrior. "Whom of the dead do
                     you envy?" "The warriors who are dead in battle, and yet live famousest in the
                     songs of the Iroquois." "Look!" said the prophet. A volume of smoke arose from
                     the red pipe, and the old man blew
                     it gently towards the east. The Iroquois saw it spread into a plain, variegated
                     with hills and rivers, and the villages of his tribe. Then it passed beyond the
                     boundaries of his nation, and he recognized the habitations of the Algonquins;
                     he saw their burial-places, and the stretched skins with the accursed totems of
                     his hereditary enemies; he saw, too, the noted warriors of their tribes, the
                     women, the medicine-men, and the children. Then the cloud rose up over a
                     mountain, and he looked from its level summit down upon a sparkling river,
                     broader than the rivers of his own country, and beyond, on the opposite side,
                     villages of Algonquin tribes, the wigwams of the Nepperhans. And he was
                     standing on the brink of gigantic cliffs, whose vast shadows lay midway across
                     the sparkling river; and, as he looked, his foot touched a fragment of rock,
                     and it fell sheer down from the summit of the precipice to its base, and struck
                     nothing as it fell. And just beyond him was a shelf of rock hanging over a
                     terrible shore—huge splinters of stone below, under his feet, and as his eyes
                     wandered up and down the sparkling river, far as his vision reached, the great
                     shadow of the precipices, and the savage walls of stone, and the fragmentary
                     mentary shore went on unending. Then the sparkling river grew dimmer, and the
                     rocks faded from view, and he saw only the blue sky, and the clouds, and high
                     up in the east, an eagle. "My son," said the white-haired, "you have seen it.
                     To-morrow night, loosen the thongs of your moccasins beyond the wigwams of the
                     Iroquois. In the country of the Algonquins, are those wondrous precipices, and
                     before seven days you will see the eastern sun rising over the sparkling river.
                     Take with you this bag of pigments and painting implements. On the bare rocks,
                     above the platform you have seen, inscribe the totem of your tribe, and the
                     record of your achievements. Go! I say no more."
                  Then the White Cloud put the tube of the calumet to his lips, and as the smoke
                     arose from the kinikinic, the bowl of the red pipe expanded wider and wider,
                     and the blue vapor spread out like the mist that rises from a lake in a
                     midsummer morning. Then there came a powerful wind from the east, and the smoke
                     rolled away before it, and was driven, with inconceivable swiftness, over the
                     Lake Ontario, until it grew red under the sinking sun, and passed to the far
                     off hunting-grounds of the Dacotahs. The young chief watched until it
                        vanished ished, and then turned
                     to his companion. There was nothing near him but the green grass and the
                     slender pine the White Cloud had touched with his finger.
                  Then the Big Papoose took the bag of pigments to his wigwam, and prepared for
                     the journey. Around his broad chest he drew the folds of a gorgeous
                     hunting-shirt, decorated with many-hued barbs of the porcupine, and secured it
                     with a gaudy belt of wampum. His leggings were fringed with the hair of scalps,
                     and Indian beads and shells of various colors, and his moccasins were wrought
                     with quills, tinted like flowers of the prairie. Then he took from the notched
                     poles of the wigwam his tufted bow, and a sheaf of arrows tipped with brilliant
                     feathers, and he thrust the stone axe through his belt of wampum, and shook
                     once more the slender spear-staff, with its ponderous head of pointed flint.
                     And as he passed on beyond the wigwams of his tribe, the young squaws gazed
                     after him with wondrous dark eyes, and the old women said, "Perhaps he will
                     bring with him, when he returns, a Chenango woman, or a squaw from the blue
                     Susquehanna."
                  Twice the moon rose, and he saw the maize fields of the Algonquins. Later and
                     later she glittered over his solitary path by the rocky gorges of the Delaware.
                     Then he saw in the north the misty mountains of Shawangonk, and lodges of
                     hostile tribes without number, and other maize fields, and at night the
                     camp-fires of a great people. Then he came to shallow rivers dotted with
                     canoes, but the streams were less broad than the river of the Oswegos. And then
                     he saw before him a sloping upland, and just as the moon and the dawn were
                     shining together, he stood under tall trees on the summit, and beneath him was
                     the platform of rock, and the waters of the sparkling river.
                  "My dear," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "I am sorry to interrupt you, but is not
                     that our boat out there, going up the river?" "Yes," added Mr. Sumach, suddenly
                     leaping up with energy, "and my flute too, I believe." "It cannot be," I
                     replied, "for I fastened the boat with an iron grapnel," and, as I did not like
                     to be interrupted when I was reading, told Mr. Sumach, very quietly, but
                     severely, he would find his bassoon just back of our stone table.
                     The explanation being satisfactory, I was allowed to proceed with the
                     legend.
                  
                  There was a pathway to the platform, as it might be, a channel for the heavy
                     rains that sometimes pour from the table-lands of the precipice to the ravine,
                     and tumble, in a long, feathery torrent over its rocky breast. It was a narrow
                     passage, with walls of stone on either side, and ended just a few feet south of
                     the jutting ledge, so that the young chief had to leap from the brink of the
                     gorge to the edge of the platform. Then he looked around, and behind him rose
                     up the flat surface of thunder-split rock. Then he walked to the further end of
                     it, and laid upon the ground his tufted bow and sheaf of arrows, loosened his
                     belt of wampum, cast down his terrible stone axe, and leaned his pointed spear
                     against the vast wall of the terrace. Then he took from the bag the pigments
                     and the painting implements, and before mid-day he had sketched upon the rocky
                     back-ground the vast outlines of his picture.
                  It was at the moment when he had completed the totem of his tribe, when he was
                     nearest the gorge and furthest from his weapons, that a fawn darted from the
                     chasm to the plateau, gathered up its affrighted form at sight of him, and then
                     sprang sheer over the brink. The next instant an Algonquin quin warrior leaped
                     upon the ledge. A startled look at the Iroquois—a contemptuous glance at the
                     pictograph—two panther bounds—and the hereditary foes were struggling in a
                     death-grapple upon the eaves of the precipice. Sometimes they leaned far over
                     the brink, and then unitedly bent back, like twin pine trees over-blown. Both
                     were unarmed, for the Algonquin had not suspected an enemy in a place where the
                     foot of Iroquois had never trod, and the weapons of his adversary were distant
                     from them a bow-shot. So, with terrible strength, and zeal, and skill, each
                     sought to over-throw the other, until in the struggle they fell, still clutched
                     together, upon the rocky floor of the battle-ground. There, with tremendous
                     throes and throbs of anger, they lay, until the shadows of the cliffs had
                     stretched far over the bosom of the sparkling river.
                  "Let us rise," said the Algonquin. The warriors rose to their feet and stood
                     gazing at each other.
                  There they were upon that terrible brink, within reach of each other. A touch
                     of the hand would have precipitated either upon the fragmentary shore
                     below.
                  "Let us not perish," said the Algonquin, "like the raccoon and the fox, starving in the
                     death-lock, but let us die like braves."
                  The Iroquois listened.
                  "Do you go," continued the Algonquin, "tell the warriors of my tribe to come,
                     that they may witness it, and I will leap with you from this ledge upon the
                     death below."
                  The Iroquois smiled.
                  "Stay," added the Algonquin, "I am a child. Do I not know the fate of an
                     Iroquois who would venture within the camp of my people? Remain you, until my
                     return, that the history of my deed may be inscribed with that you have
                     pictured upon these rocks."
                  The Iroquois smiled again, and said, "I wait."
                  The Algonquin bounded from the parapet and was gone.
                  Left to himself, the Iroquois collected together his painting implements, and
                     filled with brilliant colors the outlines he had sketched upon the wall. Then
                     he cast his spear far into the sparkling river, and sent the stone axe circling
                     though the air until it splashed far out in the stream, and he broke the tufted
                     bow with his powerful arms, and snapped his feathered arrows one by one. Then
                     he girded on his gorgeous belt of wampum, and waited. Of whom was he dreaming
                     as he sat beneath the shadow of the pictograph? Was it not of the blue-eyed
                     maiden with cheeks like the flush of sunset on the snow?
                  The Iroquois waited. Then he heard a murmur, as of the wind stirring the
                     leaves, then the rush of rapid footsteps, and, as he started to his feet, the
                     cliffs above him were thronged with Algonquin warriors. There was silence for
                     an instant, and then an hundred bows were bent, an hundred bowstrings snapped,
                     an hundred arrows converged through the air and struck him! But as he turned to
                     hurl defiance at his enemies, a lithe form bounded upon the parapet—it caught
                     the figure studded with arrows and tottering upon the brink in its arms—and
                     screamed into the dying ears—"I am here, oh, Iroquois!" and then, except the
                     pictograph, nothing human remained upon the platform of the Palisades!
                  When I had finished the legend, Mr. Sumach startled the echoes with a burst of
                     fluting that defies description. So I set to work resolutely to pack up the
                     basket, for I thought such a place as the one we were visiting did not require the aid of art
                     to make it interesting. After the packing was finished, we started off for the
                     boat, Mr. Sumach tooting over the rocks in a marvellous manner, until we came
                     to the place where some climbing was necessary, and there I had the
                     satisfaction of seeing the flute dislocated and cased, and then it fell in the
                     water, when Mr. S. had some trouble to get at it. When we got to the place of
                     anchorage, we found the tide had risen and the grapnel under water, but no
                     boat; so I suppose the other end of the rope had not been tied to the ring in
                     the bow. We had a pretty walk, though, to Closter, and hired another boat. As
                     our boat was brought home next day it was no great matter; but I wished the
                     person who found it for us had found also the oars and the thole pins.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  The Children are sent to School—Old Soldiers—An Invitation, and Cruel
                     Disappointment—Our Eldest begins to show Symptoms of the Tender
                     Passion—Poetry—The Melodies of Mother Goose—Little Posterity by the Wayside—A
                     Casualty—The Drowning of Poor Little Tommy.
               
               WE have sent the children to school. Under the protecting wing of Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, our two eldest boys passed in safety through the narrow channel of
                  orthography, and were fairly launched upon the great ocean of reading before a
                  teacher was thought of. But when boys get into definitions, and words more than an
                  inch long, it is time to put them out, and pay their bills once a quarter. Our
                  little maid, five years old, must go with them, too. The boys stipulated that she
                  should go, although she had never gone beyond E in the alphabet before. When I
                  came home from the city in the evening, I found them with their new
                  carpet-satchels all ready for the morning. There was quite a hurrah! when I came
                  in, and they swung their book-knapsacks over each little shoulder der by a strap, and stepped out with great pride,
                  when I said, "Well done, my old soldiers." Next morning we saw the old soldiers
                  marching up the garden-path to the gate, and then the little procession halted;
                  and the boys waved their caps, and one dear little toad kissed her mitten at
                  us—and then away they went with such cheerful faces. Poor old soldiers! what a
                  long, long siege you have before you!
               Thank Heaven for this great privilege, that our little ones go to school in the
                  country. Not in the narrow streets of the city; not over the flinty pavements; not
                  amid the crush of crowds, and the din of wheels: but out in the sweet woodlands
                  and meadows; out in the open air, and under the blue sky—cheered on by the birds
                  of spring and summer, or braced by the stormy winds of ruder seasons. Learning a
                  thousand lessons city children never learn; getting nature by heart—and treasuring
                  up in their little souls the beautiful stories written in God's great
                  picture-book.
               We have stirring times now when the old soldiers come home from school in the
                  afternoon. The whole household is put under martial law until the old soldiers get
                  their rations. Bless their white heads, how hungry they are. Once in a while they
                  get pudding, by way of a treat. Then what chuckling and rubbing of little fists,
                  and cheers, as the three white heads touch each other over the pan. I think an
                  artist could make a charming picture of that group of urchins, especially if he
                  painted them in their school-knapsacks.
               Sometimes we get glimpses of their minor world—its half-fledged ambitions, its
                  puny cares, its hopes and its disappointments. The first afternoon they returned
                  from school, open flew every satchel, and out came a little book. A conduct-book!
                  There was G. for good boy, and R. for reading, and S. for spelling, and so on; and
                  opposite every letter a good mark. From the early records in the conduct-books,
                  the school-mistress must have had an elegant time of it for the first few days,
                  with the old soldiers. Then there came a dark day; and or that afternoon, from the
                  force of circumstances, the old soldiers did not seem to care about showing up.
                  Every little reluctant hand, however, went into its satchel upon requisition, and
                  out came the records. It was evident, from a tiny legion of crosses in the books,
                  that the mistress's duties had been rather irksome that morning. So the small column was ordered to deploy in line of
                  battle, and, after a short address, dismissed—without pudding. In consequence, the
                  old soldiers now get some good marks every day.
               We begin to observe the first indications of a love for society growing up with
                  their new experiences. It is curious to see the tiny filaments of friendship
                  putting forth, and winding their fragile tendrils around their small
                  acquaintances. What a little world it is—the little world that is allowed to go
                  into the menagerie at half price! Has it not its joys and its griefs; its cares
                  and its mortifications; its aspirations and its despairs? One day the old soldiers
                  came home in high feather, with a note. An invitation to a party, "Master Millet's
                  compliments, and would be happy to see the Masters, and Miss Sparrowgrass to tea,
                  on Saturday afternoon." What a hurrah! there was, when the note was read; and how
                  the round eyes glistened with anticipation; and how their cheeks glowed with the
                  run they had had. Not an inch of the way from school had they walked, with that
                  great note! There was much chuckling over their dinner, too; and we observed the
                  flush never left their cheeks, even after they were in bed, and had been asleep
                  for hours. Then all their best clothes had to be taken out of the drawer and
                  brushed; and the best collars laid out; and a small silk apron, with profuse
                  ribbons, improvised for our little maid; and a great to-do generally. Next morning
                  I left them, as I had to go to the city; but the day was bright and beautiful. At
                  noon, the sky grew cloudy. At two o'clock, it commenced raining. At three, it
                  rained steadily. When I reached home in the evening, they were all in bed again;
                  and I learned they had been prevented going to the party on account of the
                  weather. "They had been dreadfully disappointed," Mrs. Sparrowgrass said; so we
                  took a lamp and went up to have a look at them. There they lay—the hopeful roses
                  of yesterday, all faded; and one poor old soldier was sobbing in his sleep.
               We begin to think our eldest is nourishing a secret passion, under his
                  bell-buttons. He has been seen brushing his hair more than once, lately; and, not
                  long since, the two youngest came home from school, crying, without him. Upon
                  investigation, we found our eldest had gone off with a school-girl twice his size;
                  and, when he returned, he said he had only gone home with her, because she promised to put some bay-rum on his
                  hair. He has even had the audacity to ask me to write a piece of poetry about her,
                  and of course I complied.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO MY BIG SWEETHEART.
                           
                              My love has long brown curls,
                              And blue forget-me-not eyes;
                              She's the beauty of all the girls—
                              But I wish I was twice my size;
                              Then I could kiss her cheek,
                              Or venture her lips to taste;
                              But now I only reach to the ribbon
                              She ties around her waist.
                           
                           
                              Chocolate-drop of my heart!
                              I dare not breathe thy name;
                              Like a peppermint stick I stand apart
                              In a sweet, but secret flame:
                              When you look down on me,
                              And the tassel atop of my cap,
                              I feel as if something had got in my throat
                              And was choking against the strap.
                           
                           
                              I passed your garden and there,
                              On the clothes-lines, hung a few
                              Pantalettes, and one tall pair
                              Reminded me, love, of you;
                              And I thought, as I swung on the gate
                              In the cold, by myself alone,
                              How soon the sweetness of hoarhound dies,
                              But the bitter keeps on and on.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It was quite touching to see how solemnly the old soldiers listened, when this was
                  being read to them; and when I came to the lines:— 
                     
                        "I feel as if something had got in my throat.
                        And was choking against the strap"—
                     
                   Ivanhoe looked up with questioning eyes, as if he would have said, "how did
                  you know that?"
               It is surprising how soon children—all children—begin to love poetry. That dear
                  old lady—Mother Goose! what would childhood be without her? Let old Mother Goose
                  pack up her satchel and begone, and a dreary world this would be for babies! No
                  more "Pat-a-cake baker's man;" no more "Here sits the Lord Mayor;" no more "This
                  little pig went to market;" no more "Jack and Jill," going up the hill after that
                  unfortunate pail of water; no more "One, two, buckle my shoe;" and "Old Mother
                  Hubbard," who had such an uncommonly brilliant dog; and "Simple Simon," who was
                  not quite so simple as the pieman thought he was; and "Jacky Horner," whose thumb stands out in childhood's memory like
                  Trajan's legended pillar; and the royal architecture of "King Boggin; and the peep
                  into court-life derived from the wonderful "Song of Sixpence:"—what would that
                  dear little half-price world do without them? Sometimes, too, the melodious
                  precepts of that kind old lady save a host of rigid moral lessons—"Tell-tale-tit,"
                  and "Cross-patch, draw the latch," are better than twenty household sermons. And
                  then those golden legends: "Bobby Shaftoe went to sea;" and "Little Miss Muffitt,
                  who sat on a tuffit;" and the charming moon-story of "Little Bo Peep with her
                  shadowless sheep;" and the capital match Jack Sprat made, when he got a wife "who
                  could eat no lean;" and the wisdom of that great maxim of Mother Goose:— 
                     "Birds of a feather flock together."
                  
               
               What could replace these, should the priceless volume be closed upon childhood for
                  ever?
               When we think of the great world, and its elaborate amusements—its balls, and its
                  concerts; its theatres and its opera-houses; its costly dinners, and toilsome
                  grand parties: its clanging pianos, and its roaring convival songs; its carved
                  furniture, splendid diamonds, rouge, and gilding; its hollow etiquette, and its
                  sickly sentimentalities, what a poor, miserable show it makes beside little
                  Posterity, with his toils and pleasures; his satchel, and scraps of song, sitting
                  by his slender pathway, and watching with great eyes the dazzling pageant passing
                  by. Little Posterity! Sitting in judgment by the wayside, and only waiting for a
                  few years to close, before he brings in his solemn verdict.
               What delicate perceptions children have, lively sympathies, quick-eyed
                  penetration. How they shrink from hypocrisy, let it speak with never so soft a
                  voice; and open their little chubby arms, when goodness steps into the room. What
                  a sad-faced group it was that stood upon our bank, the day little Tommy was
                  drowned.
               There is a smooth sand beach in front of our house, a small dock, and a
                  boat-house. The railroad track is laid between the bank and the beach, so that you
                  can look out of the car-windows and see the river, and the Palisades, the sloops,
                  the beach, and the boat-house. One summer afternoon, as the train flew by the
                  cottage (for the station is beyond it a
                  short walk), I observed quite a concourse of people on one side of the track—on
                  the dock—and sat down by the water's edge. So when the cars stopped, I hurried
                  back over the iron track I had just passed, and on my way met a man, who told me a
                  little boy was drowned in the water in front of my house. What a desperate race
                  Sparrowgrass ran that day, with the image of each of his children successively
                  drowned, passing through his mind with the rapidity of lightning flashes! When I
                  got in the crowd of people, I saw a poor woman lying lifeless in the arms of two
                  other women; some were bathing her forehead, some were chafing her hands, and just
                  then I heard some one say, "It is his mother, poor thing." How cruel it was in me
                  to whisper, "Thank God!" but could I help it? To rush up the bank, to get the
                  boat-house key, to throw open the outside doors, and swing out the davits, was but
                  an instant's work; and then down went the boat from the blocks, and a volunteer
                  crew had pushed her off in a moment. Then they slowly rowed her down the river,
                  close in shore; for the tide was falling, and every now and then the iron
                  boat-hook sank under the water on its errand of mercy. Meanwhile we lashed hooks
                  to other poles; and along the beach, and on the dock, a number of men were busy
                  with them searching for the body. At last there was a subdued shout—it came from
                  the river, a little south of the boat-house—and the men dropped the poles on the
                  dock, and on the beach, and ran down that way, and we saw a little white object
                  glisten in the arms of the boatmen, and then it was laid tenderly, face downward,
                  on the grass that grew on the parapet of the railway. Poor little fellow! He had
                  been bathing on the beach, and had ventured out beyond his depth in the river. It
                  was too late to recall that little spirit—the slender breath had bubbled up
                  through the water half an hour before. The poor women wrapped up the tiny white
                  death in a warm shawl; and one stout fellow took it in his arms, and carried it
                  softly along the iron road, followed by the concourse of people.
               When I came up on the bank again, I thanked God, for the group of small, sad faces
                  I found there—partly for their safety—partly for their sympathy. And we observed
                  that afternoon, how quiet and orderly the young ones were; although the sun went
                  down in splendid clouds, and the river
                  was flushed with crimson, and the birds sang as they were wont to sing, and the
                  dogs sported across the grass, and all nature seemed to be unconsciously gay over
                  the melancholy casualty; yet our little ones were true to themselves, and to
                  humanity. They had turned over an important page in life, and were profiting by
                  the lesson.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  Winter once more—Mr. Sparrowgrass feels as if he would like to Chirp a
                     little—Thomas Fuller, D. D.—The Good Wife—Old Dockweed again—A Barrel of
                     Cider—News of the Saddle and Bridle—Superior Tactics of the Village
                     Teamster—Christmas—Great Preparations—Christmas Carols and Masques—A Suggestion
                     of Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
               
               "THE first flurry of snow," said I, making a show of shaking off a few starry
                  flakes from my hat, "the first sky-signals of winter." It is a good thing to have
                  winter in the country. There is something cheery in the prospect of roaring fires;
                  and Christmas trees, glittering with tapers—and golden eggs—and sugar-hearts—and
                  wheels—and harps of sparry sweets; and pipes and tabors; and mince pies; and
                  ringing sleigh-bells; and robes of fur, and reeking horses; and ponds with glassy
                  floors, alive with, and rattling under the mercurial heels of skaters. We love to
                  watch the snow shaking down from the clouds; and to rise up some bright morning,
                  when its fine woof is folded over the
                  backs of mountains, and in the laps of valleys, like a web; and to pass through
                  the colonnaded woods, where the gaunt old trees are feathered to the uttermost
                  twigs; and to drink from the cold spring-water, that trickles over a beard of
                  icicles, and pours, with a summer sound, in the rusty tin-cup, that belongs to the
                  old saw-mill in the glen. It is pleasant to think how soon the birds will be about
                  us once more, not birds of summer, but snow-birds; and with what glee those wily
                  freebooters—crows, will croak forth their gratulations that the winter has come,
                  and with it the privilege of picking up an honest livelihood, in spite of Lazarus
                  in the frozen corn-field, with his hat like a pod of cotton. All the poets love
                  winter, why should not everybody? 
                     
                        "Winter's the time to which the poet looks
                        For hiving his sweet thoughts, and making honey-books."
                     
                  
               
               "I feel as if I would like to chirp a little this evening, Mrs. SparrowG. What
                  shall we have? Lamb? Let me read you 'Dream Children,' or, perhaps, Fuller would
                  be newer—old Fuller! Here he is; the ancient and venerable D. D. Now, my dear,
                  'The Good Wife.' Mrs. Sparrowgrass grass bridled up, and was all smiles. Then I
                  read:
               "St. Paul to the Colossians (iii. 18), first adviseth women to submit themselves
                  to their husbands, and then counselleth men to love their wives. And sure it was
                  fitting that women should have their lesson given them, because it was hardest to
                  be learned, and, therefore, they need have the more time to con it."
               "H'm!" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "St. Paul! He was a wise man (ironically). Read
                  on."
               "She keeps house if she have not her husband's company (that you
                  always have), or leave, for her patent, to go abroad."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass wished to know what "patent" meant, in that sense. "My dear,"
                  said I, "'patent' is a writ or privilege, given or granted." Then I continued:
               "For the house is the woman's centre. It is written: 'The sun ariseth; man goeth
                  forth unto his work and to his labor until the evening' (Psalm civ. 22); but it is
                  said of the good woman: 'She riseth while it is yet night' (Prov. xxxi. 15). For
                  man in the race of his work starts from the rising of the sun, because his
                  business is without doors, and not to
                  be done without the light of heaven; but the woman hath her work within the house,
                  and, therefore, can make the sun rise by lighting of a candle."
               "Was Dr. Fuller married?" quoth Mrs. S. "Yes, my dear, probably two hundred years
                  ago." "H'm!" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass. "She was a model wife, my dear," said I.
                  "Who? Mrs. Fuller!" "No, Monica." Then I read the beautiful story from the book,
                  and afterwards took down old, gilt Boccaccio, and repeated the still more
                  beautiful story of Griselda—the pearl of the Decameron. This latter story pleased
                  Mrs. Sparrowgrass very much; so it grew to be exceedingly pleasant in-doors, what
                  with the wood fire and the candles; while the cold, the white snow, and the
                  moonshiny river, made it harmonious out of the window; and I was just about
                  saying, I meant to read all Dickens' Christmas Stories over, and Thackeray's Rose
                  and the Ring, and Bracebridge Hall, and the Sketch Book, before the holidays; when
                  we heard something like wheels cheeping through the snow outside, and a muffled
                  crumping, and then a knock at the front-door.
               Upon opening the door, whom should we see but old Dockweed, in a very short
                  overcoat, with duck-legs, attached to a shadow of supernatural proportions, that
                  folded over the side steps of the porch, and ran out to, and up the trunk of a
                  tree, with wonderful sharpness of outline. And there was his swart wagon, with
                  ebony spokes, and a very spectre of a horse: and high up in the wagon, a ghastly
                  barrel, with icy hoops, and chime of silver, and all under the moon—oh! Then we
                  knew the cider had come from Binghamton!
               It is a good thing to have a friend in Broome County.
               Then I told old Dockweed, who had aroused all the small-fry in their beds, cribs,
                  and cradles, with his voice, to take his horse and wagon to the back of the house;
                  and after some heaving and tilting, we got the barrel down in the snow, and rolled
                  it, with purple fingers, safely into the cellar. Then I put my hand in my pocket
                  to pull out the customary amount, but old Dockweed laid his mitten upon my elbow,
                  with a familiarity that might be excusable in a small village, but which was by no
                  means respectful in a village so extensive as our village. "Sparrygrass," said he,
                  "how's yer hos?" I replied that he seemed to be doing well. "Sparrygrass rygrass," continued he, "I got
                  somethin' to tell you now, that'll please yer; I got your saddle and bridle, and
                  what's more, I got the fellow that stole yer hos—all right—up at White Plains, in
                  the lock-up—and nothin' to do but just to go there and appear agin him, and send
                  him to Sing-Sing.
               "Don't you know," he continued, "some time ago I asked you how yer hos was gettin'
                  on, and you said 'purty well?'" I replied that I remembered it. "Well, then, I
                  knowed then where your hos was, but thinks I, if Sparrowgrass is a-goin' to keep
                  his head shet up about losin' his hos, I can keep my head shet up about findin' on
                  him. 'Taint my business, you know. I always think that when anybody puts
                  confidence into me, that I ought to put confidence into them, and not without."
                  This just distribution of relative duties inspired me with such a feeling of
                  respect for old Dockweed and his principles, that if any person had been just then
                  pushing him into the river I should not have interfered. "So you knew that he was
                  in the pound," said I. "Yes," he replied, "and knowed about him bein' stolen afore
                  that. You see one night my wife says to me, says she, 'Is that the cars a-comin'?'
                  I says 'No,' but wasn't sure. You see my wife she heard it first, because she
                  sleeps on the side of the bed that's nighest to the window; well, we heard it a
                  comin', and by and by it got up close to our house, and then says my wife, 'Did
                  you ever hear such awful whistling?' Says I, 'No, but I know what it is,' says I;
                  'that is Sparrygrasses hos.'" "Why didn't you try to stop him, then," said I, "if
                  you knew it was my horse?" "Well," replied Dockweed, "how did I know that you
                  wasn't a-top of him? Well, next morning it was all out, and the hos was took into
                  custody and pounded; and so I told the boys not to say nothing about it until I
                  see you, and then you see, when I see you, you wouldn't let on, and I wouldn't let
                  on." "And pray," said I, "how did you find the bridle and saddle, and the thief?"
                  "Well," continued the veteran teamster, "you see I had to carry a bag of potatoes
                  up for a colored woman; she lives way up t'other side of the aquaduck, and when I
                  took the bag into the kitchen, I see a little end of the girt and a buckle just
                  peeking out under the bed, so I said nothin', but thinks I, wherever there's a
                  girt there's a saddle, and what are they doin' with a saddle when they ain't got
                  no horse? says I; so I told my wife,
                  and she told me to tell the squire, and so he sent up the constable and took the
                  man and the things, and now he's up at White Plains."
               I immediately thanked old Dockweed for this kind effort on his part, which would
                  cost me a week's time at least, waiting upon the court as witness, to say nothing
                  of expenses of wagon-hire to get there, and hotel bills when I got there; besides,
                  if there ever were a case of horse-thieving that merited my approval, over which I
                  had chuckled in golden chuckles, and satirically approved and forgiven, this was
                  one. "Dockweed," said I, "I feel much obliged to you for your kind attentions, and
                  as a public spirited individual—as one to whom the community owes a debt of
                  gratitude, permit me to make a slight present in acknowledgment of your eminent
                  services. This oration being in concord with the mind of old Dockwood, he took off
                  his mitten, and held out his hand. "I do not intend," said I, "to offer you money,
                  but something more pleasing to you, something you will watch over, and guard with
                  tender care; something that will constantly remind you of yourself as a
                  conservator of public morals." Here old Dockweed doffed his rabbit-skin cap, and
                  dropped into the deepest deep of humility. "I intend," said I, "to present you
                  with my horse!" I never saw so wild and withered a look as the old teamster's,
                  when these awful words broke upon his two credulous ears. "Well," he replied,
                  slowly drawing on his mitten, his eyes still cast down, "well, as to that, I ain't
                  got stable room just now, and—and it's too much—it's a lettle too much, to give
                  away yer hos—jist for that—but (in great perplexity) now—I'll tell you what I'll
                  do—I won't touch yer hos—it's too much, but I'll call it square, and take
                     the saddle and bridle!" With that he hooked on his rabbit-skin cap,
                  collected his fee for bringing the cider, and put himself in his wagon without
                  further delay. I watched the old rogue as he stood up under the moon, and envied
                  him his ride home. "Well, my dear," said I to Mrs. S., after I had told her the
                  whole story, "I suppose it will be a pleasant thing to go to White Plains; it will
                  enable me to give you an account of it, its scenery, its people, its manners and
                  customs, its population, its geology, and above all, its court-house. I hope the
                  snow will hold, so that at least there will be good sleighing.
               "After all Christmas is coming—a fig for subpœnas! Merry Christmas, and in the
                  country! I wish some of the rare old
                  sports remained of picturesque ages. We certainly must do something; a boar's head
                  for instance, and a lemon; snap-dragon, and some chirping old songs— 
                     
                        'Now does jolly Janus greet your merriment;
                        For since the world's creation,
                        I never changed my fashion;
                        'Tis good enough to fence the cold:
                        My hatchet serves to cut my firing yearly,
                        My bowl preserves the juice of grape and barley:
                        Fire, wine, and strong beer, make me live so long here,
                        To give the merry New-Year a welcome in.'
                     
                  
               
               "A Christmas tree we must have, and some masque, or pantomime for the children.
                  Let us look up some good old carols, for the morning, and rouse the small world
                  with gun-fire and blare of bugle. There will be stockings to fill, and we will get
                  colored candles to light the toy-table before cock-crow. I wish we could have a
                  yule clog for the hearth, but the chimney flue is too small; at all events, we can
                  brew a pitcher of mulled wine, and stick sprigs of evergreens all around the room.
                  That will make some show and jollity. Holly, bay, and mistletoe, so common in the
                  Southern States, are not plants of this region, but we can borrow some ivy leaves
                  and make out as we may. 
                     'Sing holly, go whistle and ivy!'
                  
               
               "Come, we must have old Misrule with his yellow ruff, and Carol with his robe and
                  flute, and Mistress Mince Pie, and Mumming, in his mask, and ancient Wassail, with
                  his brown bowl. 
                     
                        'And we will drink from the barrel, my boys,
                        A health to the barley mow!
                        The barrel, half-barrel, firkin, half-firkin, gallon, half-gallon,
                        quart, pint, half-pint, nipperkin—
                        AND THE BROWN BOWL!
                        A health to the barley mow!'
                     
                   And I mean to read to the young-ones, Robert Southwell's pretty carol: 
                     
                        'As I in hoarie winter's night
                        Stood shivering in the snow,
                        Surprized I was with sudden heat,
                        Which made my heart to glow;
                        And lifting up a fearefull eye
                        To view what fire was neere,
                        A pretty babe, all burning bright,
                        Did in the aire appeare.'
                     
                  
               
               "There, now, and if the snow holds, we will have a snow statue—say Santa Claus,
                  with his arms stuck full of toys, and
                  his cold cheeks blown out with a penny trumpet. 
                     'Santa Claus, goed beilig man.'
                   Santa Claus, good, holy man; and then we can make a martyr of him,
                  afterwards, with snow-balls. And in the evening we will have the masque and the
                  brown bowl-a; 'the nipperkin, and the brown bowl!' 
                     
                        'Next crowne the bowle full
                        With gentle lamb's-wool;
                        Add sugar, nutmeg, and ginger,
                        With store of ale too,
                        And thus ye must doe,
                        To make the wassaile a SWINGER!'
                     
                  
               
               "I wish we had suitable music for the day, Mrs. Sparrowgrass—harps and pipes; but
                  who could play harp and pipe, if we had them? I think, though, we can get a drum. 
                     
                        'A drum, a drum, a sheepskin drum,
                        Or tabor rubbed with a rousing thumb,
                        Or a cholicky bagpipe's blowsy hum,
                        To show my master's †mas's come!'
                     
                   Anything noisy and cheerful will do. I suppose it will be necessary to write
                  off some lines to speak in the masque for Christmas evening; so, Mrs. S., I want
                  you to get the dresses, and everything ready, and I will do all the rest. Have you
                  any red ribbons, my dear?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass replied she had not. "Well, then, we
                  must get some; and we want a few feathers, and spangles, and a high-peaked hat or
                  two, and some ruffs made, and rosettes, and a red petticoat, and a wimple, and
                  some swords, and red paint, and trunk hose, doublets, and mantles, and white
                  shoes, and a velvet cap, and some hoops and bells, and torches, and masks— 
                     
                        ——'To present,
                        With all its appurtenances,
                        A right Christmas, as of old it was,
                        To be gathered out of the dances.'"
                     
                  
               
               "I think," said Mrs. S., who was very busy making a little cap, "it will please
                  the children quite as well if you buy them a magic lantern, and put up a white
                  sheet to exhibit it on. It seems to me this Christmas masque will cost a world of
                  labor." "Capital!" said I. "You have a wise little head of your own, Mrs. S., and
                  when I buy the lantern, I mean to buy a big one! 
                     
                        'Christmas comes but once a year,
                        Once a year,
                        Once a year!'"
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  An offer for the Horse—Difficulty of Shipping him according to the Terms of
                     Bill of Lading—Anticipations—Marine Sketch—Mrs. Sparrowgrass buys a Patent
                     Bedstead—An essay on Mechanical Forces, and Suggestions in regard to a Bronze
                     Legislature—The New Bedstead is tried and found—"not available."
               
               "MRS. SPARROWGRASS," said I, during one of the remarkably bland evenings we have
                  had lately; "there is, at last, an offer for our horse." This good news being
                  received with an incredulous look, I pulled from my pocket the Louisville
                     Journal, and read therein as follows:
               
                  "The admirers of 'Mr. Sparrowgrass' will be pleased to learn, that he bargained
                     for a horse. After detailing his experiences with the animal, Mr. Sparrowgrass
                     thus posts him: 'Does anybody want a horse at a low price? A good,
                     stylish-looking animal, close-ribbed, good loin, and good stifle, sound legs,
                     with only the heaves, and the blind staggers, and a slight defect in one of his
                     eyes?" We can put Mr. S. in the way of a trade. We know a physician, who feeds
                     his horse well, who pays more for horsewhips than for provender. He would trade
                     for any animal that has a thin skin and a good memory."
               
               "Well," said Mrs. Sp., "what of that? What can you do in relation to the matter?
                  You have not seen the other horse." "True," I replied, "but that need not prevent
                  me SHIPPING MINE! And you may depend upon it, if ever I get him on board ship, and
                  the bill of lading is in my pocket, no earthly power can make me take him back
                  again. I shall say to the captain, 'My dear sir; that horse is not accustomed to
                  going, but, if he has any go in him, he will have to go now.'" This play upon
                  words, so entirely original, struck me as being pretty fair; whereupon, I sat down
                  quite complacently to read the rest of the paper. "But," continued Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, smoothing her hair with both hands, "suppose, after they get him on
                  board the vessel, they should find out what kind of a horse he was, and suppose,
                  then, they should refuse to take him, how could you help it?" "Why, my dear,"
                  replied I, "if I have a bill of lading, they must take him. A bill of lading is a
                  certificate or contract signed by the captain and owners of the vessel, in which
                  they agree to carry such and such goods from the port where they receive them, to
                  the port to which the vessel is bound. A bill of lading reads something like this: 'Shipped in good order, and
                  well-conditioned'"——
               "How does it begin?" said Mrs. S., with the first word in the key of C sharp.
               "Shipped in good order, and well-conditioned," I responded, but my voice was in
                  the key of F minor. For here, at the very threshold of my hope, was a barrier. The
                  terms of the bill of lading itself would prevent me shipping him. How could I say
                  he was "in good order and well-conditioned?"
               To my mind, there is nothing so common in life as disappointments. Let any man
                  take his happiest day, and see if it be not somewhat flecked and flawed with them.
                  I think the most favored could count twenty balks to one success in his past days.
                  The human mind is apt to anticipate the end before the beginning has begun. Tom
                  Ailanthus hears he has fallen heir to an estate worth one hundred thousand
                  dollars, and before he sleeps, buys a house near Fifth Avenue, furnishes it, gets
                  married, presents his wife with a splendid set of diamonds, invests forty thousand
                  as special partner in some safe concern, makes another fortune, does the tour of
                  Europe, gets back, marries ries off his daughters, moves into the country, builds
                  a villa, with lawns, fish-ponds, conservatories, hot and cold graperies, and
                  circulates around his domains, the Sir Roger de Coverly of the neighborhood. But
                  when the estate comes to be settled, and its value established, Tom Ailanthus, who
                  before never had kept a dollar long enough in his company to get thoroughly
                  acquainted with it, finds himself a poor man, with only fifty thousand. His
                  anticipations have presented him with fifty thousand disappointments. So we go: 
                     
                        "The space between the ideal of man's soul
                        And man's achievement, who hath ever past?
                        An ocean spreads between us and that goal,
                        Where anchor ne'er was cast!"
                     
                   We are born to disappointments as the sparks fly upward. See, now, how my
                  anticipations were balked. I had imagined everything when I read that paragraph.
                  Look upon the picture:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE HORSE—HIS EXODUS.
                           
                              Livery-stable keeper hears he's going to Kentucky-ho!
                              Whoa! (Tableau.)
                              A crowd of idle Nepperhanners cluster at the steamboat wharf,
                              To see him g' off.
                              
                              Steamboat struggles down the river (panorama—Palisades)
                              Country fades—
                              Town approaches—churches, cabmen, steamboats, stenches, streets,
                                 and slips,
                              Lots of ships!
                              GANG-PLANK SCENE—Old ladies, baskets—land him! "g'
                                 up!" won't budge a bit.
                              'P'leptic fit!
                              Orange-woman bankrupt, crazy! (horse has smashed her tropic
                                 fruit).
                              Pay the woman—have to do't.
                              Reach the N' Orleans packet (racket), horse is hoisted up in
                                 slings,
                              Pegasus! (no wings.)
                              
                                 Skipper signs the bill of lading! horse is lowered
                                 down below.
                              "Whose horse is't?" "Don't know."
                              Steam-tug Ajax 'long-side packet—lugs her, tugs her down the
                                 bay;
                              (S'pulchral neigh!)
                              SEA SCENE!—Narrows—Staten Island—horsep't'l—light-house—Sandy
                                 Hook—
                              Captain—cook.
                              Morning—dawning—lighthouse fainting—at the anchor heaves the
                                 crew.
                              Horse heaves too!
                              And ship goeth over the ocean blue!
                           
                           
                              SCENE II.
                              GULF-SCENE—Tempest—inky water—Norther! (strikes one like a
                                 blow).
                              Squalls (with snow).
                              Midnight—lighthouse sinks, a star now!—"Captain?" "Yes, we run from
                                 shore."
                              "Captain—pshaw!"
                              Trunks philander round the cabin—state-rooms getting sick and
                                 sicker.
                              "I say—Ick-ah!"
                              Morning—sunbeams—fair winds—billows—sandy beaches—stunted
                                 trees;
                              Hail Balize!
                              Pilot—river—rushing current—yellow water—crooks and bends:
                              Sickness ends.
                              Dinner—sunset—N' Orleans City—Crescent—Levee—Lafayette.
                              "Not there yet!"
                           
                           
                              SCENE III.
                              Horse re-shipped—high-pressure steamboat—pipes alternate puff and
                                 cough.
                              There—he's off!
                              "Up the river!"—drift-wood—moonlight—L'wesiana glorious—great
                              Sugar state!
                              Level country—white-washed villas, negro cabins, fences,
                                 hedges,
                              Skirt the edges.
                              Baton Rouge is passed, and then, for long, long days and nights, he
                                 sees
                              Cotton trees!
                              Ever, ever, growing, growing, sunlight, moonlight, near and
                                 far,
                              There they are.
                              Natchez—Vicksburgh—Memphis! Each one stands upon a separate
                                 bluff,
                              Bold and rough!
                              
                              Cairo—flat-boats—fiddling—dancing—gambling—wharf-boats—on we
                                 go.
                              Ohio!
                              'Past we glide" (see Robert Browning), up that river
                                 on we glide.
                              (We say—"slide.")
                              Past Paducah—past Shawneetown—till (Ah! stop—my trembling
                                 quill),
                              LOUISVILLE!!!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Now, Mrs. Sparrowgrass, I had imagined all of that panorama; and
                  here we are, with the horse upon our hands, just because bills of lading begin in
                  the way they do. I believe I shall have to make him a present to some bone-boiling
                  establishment." "That is a cruel thought," said Mrs. S. "By the way," said I,
                  "what do you think of my poetry, my dear?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass answered she had not
                  heard any poetry, except now and then a rhyme, which seemed to come in the prose
                  very well. "Prose," said I, "prose? Do you not know the verse is
                  octameter catalectic, alternating with lines of a trochee and a half, sometimes
                  irregulated in order to give scope to my fancy?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass said it did not
                  strike her in that way. "Then if it did not strike you it cannot be poetry. Of
                  course not. Poetry to be poetry must
                  strike. If it do not, then it is not poetry, but, Mrs. Sp. it may be
                  (excuse me) werse."
               I have bought me a new patent bedstead, to facilitate early rising, called a
                  "wake-up." It is a good thing to rise early in the country. Even in the winter
                  time it is conducive to health to get out of a warm bed by lamp-light; to shiver
                  into your drawers and slippers; to wash your face in a basin of ice-flakes; and to
                  comb out your frigid hair with an uncompromising comb, before a frosty
                  looking-glass. The only difficulty about it lies in the impotence of human will.
                  You will deliberate about it, and argue the point. You will induge in specious
                  pretences, and lie still with only the tip end of your nose outside the blankets;
                  you will pretend to yourself that you do intend to jump out in a few
                  minutes; you will tamper with the good intention, and yet indulge in the delicious
                  luxury. To all this the "wake-up," is inflexibly and triumphantly antagonistic. It
                  is a bedstead with a clock scientifically inserted in the head-board. When you go
                  to bed, you wind up the clock, and point the index-hand to that hour on the dial,
                  at which you wish to rise in the morning. Then you place yourself in the hands of
                  the invention, and shut your eyes. You
                  are now, as it were, under the guardianship of King Solomon and Doctor Benjamin
                  Franklin. There is no need to recall those beautiful lines of the poet's— 
                     
                        "Early to bed, and early to rise,
                        Will make a man healthy, wealthy, and wise."
                     
                   Science has forestalled them. The "wake-up" is a combination of hard wood,
                  hinges, springs, and clock-work, against sleeping late o' mornings. It is a
                  bedstead, with all the beautiful vitality of a flower—it opens with the dawn. If,
                  for instance, you set the hand against six o'clock, in the morning, at six, the
                  clock at the bed's head solemnly strikes a demi-twelve on its sonorous bell. If
                  you pay no attention to the monitor, or idly, dreamily endeavor to compass the
                  coherent sequence of sounds, the invention, within the succeding two minutes,
                  drops its tail-board, and lets down your feet upon the floor. While you are
                  pleasantly defeating this attempt upon your privacy, by drawing up your legs
                  within the precincts of the blankets, the virtuous head-board, and the rest of the
                  bed, suddenly rise up in protest; and the next moment, if you do not instantly
                  abdicate, you are launched upon the floor by a blind elbow that connects with the
                  crank of an eccentric, that is turned by a cord, that is wound around a drum, that
                  is moved by an endless screw, that revolves within the body of the machinery. So
                  soon as you are turned out, of course, you waive the balance of the nap, and
                  proceed to dress.
               "Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I, contemplatively, after the grimy machinists had
                  departed, "this machine is one of the most remarkable evidences of progress, the
                  ingenuity of man has yet developed. In this bedstead we see a host of cardinal
                  virtues made practical by science. To rise early, one must possess courage,
                  prudence, self-denial, temperance, and fortitude. The cultivation of these
                  virtues, necessarily attended with a great deal of trouble, may now be dispensed
                  with, as this engine can entirely set aside, and render useless, a vast amount of
                  moral discipline. I have no doubt, in a short time we shall see the finest
                  attributes of the human mind superseded by machinery. Nay, more, I have very
                  little doubt that, as a preparatory step in this great progress, we shall have
                  physical monitors of cast-iron and wheel-work to regulate the ordinary routine of
                  duty in every family." Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass said she did not precisely understand what I meant. "For instance,"
                  said I, in continuation, "we dine every day; as a general thing, I mean. Now
                  sometimes we eat too much, and how easy, how practicable it would be to regulate
                  our appetites by a banquet-dial. The subject, having had the superficial area of
                  his skull, and the cubic capacity of his body worked out respectively by a
                  licensed craniologist, and by a licensed coporalogist, gets from each a
                  certificate, which certificates are duly registered in the county clerk's office.
                  From the county clerk he receives a permit, marked, we will say, ten." "Not ten
                  pounds, I hope," said Mrs. S. "No, my dear," I replied, "ten would be the average
                  of his capacity. We will now suppose the chair, in which the subject is seated at
                  dinner, rests upon a pendulous platform, over a delicate arrangement of levers,
                  connected with an upright rod, that runs through the section of table in front of
                  his plate, and this rod, we will suppose, is toothed into a ratchet-wheel, that
                  moves the index of the banquetdial. You will see at once, that, as he hangs
                  balanced in this scale, any absorption of food would be instantly indicated by the
                  index. All then, he is called upon to do, is to watch the dial, until the hand
                  points to 'ten,' and then, stop eating." "But," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "suppose
                  he shouldn't be half through?" "Oh," said I, "that would not make any difference.
                  When the dial says he has had enough, he must quit." "But," said Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass, "suppose he would not stop eating?" "Then," said I,
                  "the proper way to do would be to inform against him, and have him brought
                  immediately before a justice of the peace, and if he did not at once swear that he
                  had eaten within his limits, fine him, and seize all the victuals on his
                  premises." "Oh," said Mrs. S., "you would have a law to regulate it, then?" "Of
                  course," said I, "a statute—a statutory provision, or provisionary act. Then, the
                  principle once being established, you see how easily and beautifully we could be
                  regulated by the simplest motive powers. All the obligations we now owe to society
                  and to ourselves, could be dispensed with, or rather transferred to, or vested in,
                  some superior machine to which we would be accountable by night and day. Nay, more
                  than that, instead of sending representatives to legislate for us, how easy it
                  would be to construct a legislature of bronze and wheel-work—an incorruptible legislature. I
                  would suggest a hydraulic or pneumatic congress, as being less liable to explode,
                  and more easily graduated than one propelled by steam simply. All that would be
                  required of us then would be to elect a state engineer annually, and he, with the
                  assistance of a few underlings, could manage the automata as he pleased." "I do
                  not see," replied Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "how that would be an improvement upon the
                  present method, from all I hear." This unexpected remark of Mrs. S. surprised me
                  into silence for a moment, but immediately recovering, I answered that a hydraulic
                  or pneumatic legislature would at least have this advantage—it would construct
                  enactments for the State at, at least, one fifthieth part of the present expense,
                  and at the same time do the work better and quicker.
               "Now, my dear," said I, as I wound up the ponderous machinery with a huge key, "as
                  you are always an early riser, and as, of course, you will be up before seven
                  o'clock, I will set the indicator at that hour, so that you will not be disturbed
                  by the progress of science. It is getting to be very cold, my dear, but how
                  beautiful the stars are to-night. Look at Orion and the Pleiades! Intensely
                  lustrous, in the frosty sky."
               The sensations one experiences in lying down upon a complication of mechanical
                  forces, are somewhat peculiar, if they are not entirely novel. I once had the
                  pleasure, for one week, of sleeping directly over the boiler of a high-pressure
                  Mississippi steamboat; and, as I knew, in case of a blowup, I should be the first
                  to hear of it, I composed my mind as well as I could under the circumstances. But
                  this reposing upon a bed of statics and dynamics, with the constant chirping and
                  crawling of wheel-work at the bed's head, with a thought now and then of the
                  inexorable iron elbow below, and an uncertainty as to whether the clock itself
                  might not be too fast, or to slow, caused me to be rather reflective and watchful,
                  than composed and drowsy. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the lucent stars in their blue
                  depths, and the midnight moon now tipping the Palisades with a fringe of silver
                  fire, and was thinking how many centuries that lovely light had played upon those
                  rugged ridges of trap and basalt, and so finally sinking from the reflective to
                  the imaginative, and from the imaginative to the indistinct, at last reached that happy state of
                  half-consciousness, between half-asleep and asleep, when the clock in the machine
                  woke up, and suddenly struck eight! Of course, I knew it was later, but I could
                  not imagine why it should strike at all, as I presumed the only time of striking
                  was in the morning, by way of signal. As Mrs. S. was sound asleep, I concluded not
                  to say anything to her about it; but I could not help thinking what an annoyance
                  it would be if the clock should keep on striking the hours during the night. In a
                  little while the bed-clothes seemed to droop at the foot of the bed, to which I
                  did not pay much attention, as I was just then engaged listening to the drum
                  below, that seemed to be steadily engaged in winding up its rope, and preparing
                  for action. Then I felt the upper part of the patent bedstead rising up, and then
                  I concluded to jump out, just as the iron elbow began to utter a cry like unto the
                  cry of a steel katy-did, and did jump, but was accidentally preceded by the
                  mattress, one bolster, two pillows, ditto blankets, a brace of threadbare linen
                  sheets, one cover-lid, the baby, one cradle (over-turned), and Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
                  To gather up these heterogeneous materials of comfort required some little time,
                  and, in the meanwhile, the bedstead subsided. When we retired again, and were once
                  more safely protected from the nipping cold, although pretty well cooled, I could
                  not help speaking of the perfect operation of the bedstead in high terms of
                  praise, although, by some accident, it had fulfilled its object a little earlier
                  than had been desirable. As I am very fond of dilating upon a pleasing theme, the
                  conversation was prolonged until Mrs. Sparrowgrass got sleepy, and the clock
                  struck nine. Then we had to turn out again. We had to turn out every hour during
                  the long watches of the night, for that wonderful epitome of the age of progress.
                  When the morning came, we were sleepy enough, and the next evening we concluded to
                  replace the "wake-up," with a common, old-fashioned bedstead. To be sure, I had
                  made a small mistake the first night, in not setting the "indicator,"
                  as well as the index of the dial. But what of that? Who wants his
                  rest, that precious boon, subjected to contingencies? When we go to sleep, and say
                  our prayers, let us wake up according to our natures, and according to our
                  virtues; some require more sleep, some less; we are not mere bits of mechanism
                  after all; who knows what world we may
                  chance to wake up in? For my part, I have determined not to be a humming-top, to
                  be wound up, and to run down, just like that very interesting toy, one of the
                  young Sparrowgrassii has just now left upon my table, minus a string.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  Casualties will occur—Ice and ice-houses—A hint from the Flowery
                     Nation—Baldwin's Pond—Skaters—Our horse gets into business and is launched upon
                     an ice island—A Derrick—The result thereof.
               
               CASUALTIES will occur; there is no providing against the infinite chapter of
                  accidents. We have met with a misfortune. Our country horse is dead. Much as we
                  grieved over him living, still we cannot help brooding over his untimely fate.
                  After all, sympathy, pity, tenderness, are inexplicable virtues; why should such a
                  loss cast its little cloud over our domestic sun, when greater, more pitiable
                  events, fail to affect us? Our horse is dead! Well, he was not worth his fodder,
                  yet we sorrow for him. The loss of fifty thousand Russians at Kars or Erzeroum,
                  would not, could not, touch us so nearly. This is a strange instrument—the human
                  heart! An organ with unaccountable stops—a harp of a thousand strings, many of
                  them, I fear me, deplorably short.
               
               In the winter time, when the frost builds its transparent flooring over the ponds,
                  it is customary to fill the ice-houses in the country. It is a good thing to have
                  an ice-house in the country. You keep your summer Sunday dinner, your milk, and
                  your butter, in great perfection, if you have such a frigid tabernacle. Sometimes,
                  on a sultry day, it is pleasant to descend to its cool depths—to feel a winter
                  atmosphere in the heart of the dog-days—to enjoy a sparry arctic in the midst of a
                  flowery tropic. To build a good ice-house, you must have foresight, and a capable
                  carpenter. In China they rear them above ground; say a circle of bamboo poles
                  lashed together; at the top, thatched over with straw, and a few feet of earth
                  thrown up around the base; these keep the ice, even until the next year. Here,
                  where ornate architecture is a necessity, ice-houses are more elaborately
                  structured. What with a cupola, and a bracketted roof, knobs, and balls, and
                  bells, a very pretty temple can be made of pagoda pattern, but then, it must be
                  conceded, not so well calculated to resist a heavy thaw in July, as others of
                  plainer mould.
               Our ice-house, however, is not of the ornate kind; nor is it of the conservative
                  species. In style, it is of the super-and-sub-terranean order of architecture, and
                  really holds its own quite comfortably—except in very hot weather. We fill it
                  usually in December, and this season our horse was brought forth in all his
                  harness, to draw the clear blue blocks from Baldwin's haunted pond, upon a strong
                  sled;—we supposed he could perform that duty with credit to himself. So we
                  thought, "Alas poor Yorick!"
               Baldwin's pond is a vast sheet of water, in truth it is The
                  Nepperhan River dammed up; and around its legended brink there are villas, and
                  gardens, and noble trees, and wild vines, and a couple of hat factories, and, just
                  below it, a waterfall, and, in the distance, Chicken Island, and beyond that a
                  bridge, and further on a gate, with a broad arch above it, through which you enter
                  the village. In the summer time its sweet seclusion would enchant Kensett; in
                  winter its picturesqueness would arrest Gignoux. The pond in December is a mine of
                  wealth to the teamsters, as there are scores of ice-houses to be filled in the
                  village; and from the transparent clearness of its waters, it makes pure,
                     blue ice, valuable to pack, and to keep, and to use. "Alas poor
                  Yorick!"
               
               Just above it is 'The Glen,' which in autumn is the wildest and grandest place
                  imagination can conceive of, with its proud abundance of foliage in such profusion
                  of color, that nature's opulence itself seems to be there exhausted in tints. As
                  you stand upon its western shore, and look across the pond, you see opposite, THE
                  HOUSE WITH THE STONE CHIMNEY, nestled down among the frowzy willows, and just
                  beyond that again, is the road that skirts the river, and if you follow that for a
                  short distance you will come to the upper pond, over which hangs the double arch
                  of the aqueduct.
               The pond is a great resort for skaters in the winter, and sometimes of a moonlight
                  evening, its white floor is a scene of enchantment, with the phantom-like crowd,
                  whirling and shifting, in a maze of light and shadow. To and from this pond our
                  poor old horse, with his rude sled, had been travelling all day, really earning
                  his feed, and establishing a reputation for himself of the most creditable nature,
                  when it chanced, towards night-fall, there befell him an accident.
               In getting out the blocks of ice, the men had worked down towards the dam, making
                  a sort of basin of water, which reached from the centre of the frozen sheet to the
                  brink of the fall, and projecting into this tiny bay was a tongue, or peninsula of
                  ice, connected with the main sheet over the upper, or northern part of the pond.
                  Upon this narrow peninsula the sled was backed, with the rear end close to the
                  open water, our poor horse standing with his back towards it also; unconscious of
                  the fate which was awaiting him. In this position he had stood hour after hour, as
                  block after block had been hauled up from the water, until his load was completed,
                  and then straining at his cracking harness until the half-frozen runners of the
                  sled slipped from their icy grooves, away he would go with his crystal freight, to
                  fill up the ice-house. It seems, however, that, by reason of the continued cold
                  weather, the blocks of ice were unusually thick, and heavy, so that hauling them
                  out of the basin by hand labor, was very severe upon the men, but, as it chanced,
                  there came a good Samaritan to the pond, towards the close of the day, who seeing
                  the men so hard at work, bethought him of a remedy which was in the village, in
                  the shape of a "derrick." Now a derrick is an instrument well known upon our
                  coasts, and in our larger cities, but not so common in the country. It is a
                     frame-work of timber that stands up
                  upright, sometimes upon two legs, sometimes upon three or four, and at the top of
                  the upright beams there is a long cross-piece, like the mizen yard of a ship, and
                  at the end of the yard-arm, a block and tackle. Of course it would be quite easy
                  with this engine to raise the largest lumps from the water, so some of the men
                  went to bring it to the pond upon a sled, while others ceased hauling the ice, and
                  gave up working until it arrived to assist them. In a short time the men returned,
                  and at once they were hard enough at work, raising the derrick upright on the
                  unbroken sheet of ice, just over against, and parallel with, the peninsula, upon
                  which our poor horse, with his empty sled was standing, patiently waiting for his
                  load. Once or twice he was seen to give the huge instrument an ominous glance, so
                  that one of the men walked up to hold his head, for fear he would take fright and
                  run away from it. Pity he had not. Up it rose portentous in the air, got almost to
                  its place, stood for a moment straight up, then leaned over the other side,
                  slipped upon the ice—there was a cry "Get out of the way!"—and down rushed the
                  derrick with a thunderous blow that broke off our poor horse's peninsula, and
                  launched him and his sled on an ice-island, in the midst of the basin of water.
                  For a short time he kept his footing upon the island, but the end upon which he
                  was standing gradually sank into the water, until he slid into the cool element,
                  and then, instead of swimming towards the unbroken ice, where he would have found
                  assistance, he turned down stream, and towing his sled behind him, reached at last
                  the edge of the mill-dam. There, after some struggles, he managed to get one fore
                  leg over the brink, and so hung, in spite of all persuasion, his nostrils
                  throbbing with terror, his neck smoking with cold, and his one pitiful eye looking
                  wistfully toward the crowd that had betrayed him. Had there been a boat he might
                  have been saved, but there was none near, except a skiff, both filled with, and
                  bedded in, a solid mass of ice, near the shore. The water was pouring over the
                  dam, so that no one could approach him from below, nor could living man walk upon
                  its slippery edge. They tried to throw a slip-noose over his neck, but without
                  success; they held a sieve of oats in the most tempting way towards him, but he
                  shook his head. At last, when all efforts to save him proved unavailing, an old
                  sea-captain who had commanded a
                  Nepperhan sloop in the last war, and had seen service, was touched with pity; he
                  sent for his gun. The old fellow's hand shook as he loaded it, but he loaded it
                  deliberately, took excellent aim, fired, and, amid a thousand echoes, the head of
                  our poor old horse was thrown up in the air for a moment, and then it dropped upon
                  the brink of the dam. There it lay, in the midst of the waters—stirring from side
                  to side with the ripples that poured over the edge—so life-like in its motions,
                  that some said "he must yet live;" but it was not so, and the next morning it was
                  firmly set in an icy collar, and to this day he may be seen looking over the
                  mill-dam, as you approach Baldwin's pond, from the south, by way of Chicken
                  Island, or as you come up the road, hard by THE HOUSE WITH THE STONE CHIMNEY.
               
                  FEBRUARY, 1856.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  The great Snow-storm—A quotation from Samuel—Recollections of Town—What we then
                     thought—A Song—Scraps in a Commonplace-book—An old epistle—And
                     anticipations.
               
               THIS has been a great snow-storm. Since we have lived in the country we have had
                  two great snow-storms. A snow-storm in the city, with its motley
                  panorama, is a curious spectacle, but a snow-storm in the country is sublime. The
                  harmony of a winter landscape always inspires me with a sweet and melancholy
                  gravity, exceeding, in its profound tranquillity, any emotion derived from a mere
                  transitory flush of joy. The soul rests amid the hush and calm. Nature
                  itself,—restless, industrious nature—at last reposes, in a sort of frozen
                  rapture.
               One does not wish to hear, at all hours, the pleasant jargon of sleigh-bells, let
                  them ring never so melodiously: it is good, sometimes, to shut out the noisy
                  carnival, to enjoy the broader winter of the country, with feelings akin to those
                  the hardy navigator gator experiences
                  amid the strange solitudes of the Arctic. Look at the crags opposite, muffled
                  breast high in snow, and the broad river with its myriad ice-islands. Look at the
                  leagues of coldness, stretching northward until the vision rests upon the crescent
                  line of hills glowing like sunset-clouds upon the borders of the Tappan-Zee. Look
                  up at the bright sun of winter in his cerulean dome above, and at the fair country
                  around us, within the horizon's blue ring, and say, if it be not a good thing to
                  have a snow-storm in Westchester County. Thou ancient Dorp of Yonkers! I love thee
                  with a love passing the love of women.
               The ambiguity of this last expression gave rise to a novel train of ideas in the
                  mind of Mrs. Sparrowgrass, upon which I immediately turned to the twenty-sixth
                  verse of the first chapter of Samuel II., and read therefrom the exquisite lines I
                  had so happily quoted.
               "It is a good thing to live in the country," said I; "this is something different
                  from what we had surmised in the little back parlor in Avenue G, Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass. Do you not remember how we used to anticipate rural felicity?" Mrs.
                  Sparrowgrass replied, she remembered it very well. "It is not precisely what we
                  had pictured to ourselves, is it? 
                     
                        "When a little farm we keep,
                        And have little girls and boys,
                        With little pigs and sheep,
                        To make a little noise,
                        Oh what happy, happy days we'll see,
                        With the children sitting, sitting on our knee."
                     
                  
               
               "Not precisely," echoed Mrs. S., "but still I like it as it is. To think of going
                  back to the city now, is to think of moving into a prison. Yet there was something
                  cheerful in the little house in town, too. There was a gas-lamp in front of the
                  door, that even in stormy weather threw out its friendly ray, and I used to think
                  it good company to have it always burning before the window, and shining up
                  through the blinds. Then your library was quite a jewel in its way, with the
                  brilliant jet of light over the table—and the rows of gilt books—and the pictures
                  on the walls—and the brackets, niches, and busts, and statuettes, and pieces of
                  armor, and bows, and spears, and stag-horns, all looking so bright and pleasant. I
                  do not think this one lights up so well as that did." "Not with two candles and a
                  wood fire?" said I. "No," replied Mrs.
                  S., "it is not so bright as that little town library." "Then," said I, "permit me
                  to substitute, my dear, the word 'cosy,' as suggestive of the
                  impression one has in entering this bookery." "That will do very well," replied
                  Mrs. S., "I am not making comparisons, but you must remember we were very happy in
                  that little house in town. We had a great many friends there." "So we had." "A
                  great many friends, and a great many pleasant days, and pleasant evenings,
                  especially in winter, when we had little pop visits from our neighbors." "Yes,
                  Mrs. S.," remarked I, "but if I remember truly, there was one winter which of all
                  others seems to me the brightest and the cheerfullest." "Which one was that?" said
                  Mrs. S. "The last one we passed in town," I replied, with great impressiveness of
                  manner, "the winter of anticipations—when we were laying out our plans for living
                  in the country."
               To this Mrs. Sparrowgrass answered by smoothing her hair with her thimble, and
                  putting on an expression of wonderful contentment. "I wish," said she, after a
                  pause, "I could remember all we talked about in those days, and all we had
                  pictured to ourselves about it. I know that when anybody came in it was the
                  constant topic of conversation, and I know when we were alone, how much you were
                  engaged with your plans for the new house. And then, too, whenever you wrote a
                  letter, there was always something to say about leaving town, and whenever you
                  received a letter, there was always a great deal of congratulation, and a great
                  deal of advice, and a great many inquiries as to whether there was any fever and
                  ague in the district. Then, too, you had a little song which you sang once or
                  twice to the children, which I have never heard you sing since, and which I have
                  forgotten, and which I would not have remembered but for your speaking of our
                  little house in town, where we were certainly very, very happy." "What," said I,
                  "forgotten my song, Mrs. Sparrowgrass? Forgotten my song? Then I mean to sing it
                  if I have any voice left." So after a few preliminary attempts I commenced it.
                  But, alas! my memory gave out with the first two lines, so I had to take down my
                  old commonplace book where I found these reminiscent lines.
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           OH, A COUNTRY HOME FOR ME!
                           Air—JEANETTE AND JEANNOT.
                           
                              Oh, a country home for me! where the clover blossoms blow;
                              And the robin builds his nest in the old cherry bough;
                              Where the roses, and the honey-buds are clinging to the wall,
                              Each a perfumed cup of jewels when the rain-drops fall.
                              Where the leaves and lights are blending,
                              And the swallows soar and sing,
                              And the iron chain and bucket drips
                              Above the silver spring:
                              Oh, a country home for me! etc.
                           
                           
                              When the sun is in the west, and the winds are lulled to rest,
                              And the babe sleeps on its mother's arm, the robin in her nest;
                              When the cottage taper twinkles through the lattice, and the
                                 gloom
                              Of the dusky trellis roses, and the woodbine's bloom:
                              When the moon is on the wave,
                              And the shadows in the grove,
                              How sweet to wander side by side
                              With those we dearly love:
                              Oh, a country home for me! etc.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "I am so glad you have found it," said Mrs. S. "It quite reminds me of old times.
                  But it seems to me in a few places the lines might be improved; for instance, 
                     "Where the swallows soar and sing."
                  
               
               "True," said I, interrupting further criticism, "that line could never have been
                  written in the country; swallows soar not, neither do they sing, but still we will
                  let the lines remain, as they shadow forth the idea of what we thought of the
                  country, when we lived in town. Here," I continued, turning over some yellow
                  paper, and tumbling out a wilderness of scraps that were lying perdue between the
                  pages, "here are a few more scraps of anticipation, odds and ends of hope, minutes
                  of dead-reckoning. Look now at that list of climbing plants! It was certainly my
                  intention to get each and every one, and if I had, what a gorgeous show the
                  cottage would have made by this time: the bower of roses, "by Bendemeer's stream,"
                  would have been nothing to it. Then look here; another list! Rural ornaments for
                  gardens, rustic vases, hanging flower-pots, urns, sun-dials, kiosks, arbors,
                  terrace-work, rock-work, and as I live a fountain! Think of it; a fountain, with a
                  pool of goldfish below to catch the shredded silver— 
                     
                        "And in the midst, fresh whistling through the scene,
                        A lightsome fountain starts from out the green,
                        Clear and compact, till, at its height o'er-run,
                        It shakes its loosening silver in the sun."
                     
                  
               
               "How beautiful that would have been, viewed through a vista of stately trees, with a grand
                  arched gate at the end, and a pair of stone lions after Canova—one on either
                  side." "All fancy," said Mrs. S. "All fancy," I echoed, "and not all fancy." Here
                  are more scraps of the same kind. Memoranda, Downing's Rural Architecture,
                  Landscape Gardening—a few hints from Lord Bacon. Mem. "have a bed of
                     Shakspeare flowers," 
                     
                        —Daisies pied, and violets blue,
                        And lady-smocks all silver-white,
                        And cuckoo buds of yellow hue.
                     
                  
               
               Those I mean to have, and rosemary for remembrance! and 'pansies for thoughts,'
                  and columbines." "That would be charming." "Charming? so it would. And now look at
                  this practical bundle of hints cut from newspapers—the careful gleanings from the
                  harvests of the Evening Post—the articles marked, "Agricultural," in that
                  excellent paper. "There Mrs. S., I have read everything in that bundle
                  religiously, and if I had an estate, twice the size of this county, it would be
                  scarcely large enough to cultivate turnips in, according to the various methods
                  proposed by those agricultural articles, and as for the potato, I will venture to
                  say the Greeks and Trojans around the dead body of Protoclus, could scarcely vie
                  in zeal with the champions of the Evening Post that contest the palm around that
                  famous root. True? It is true; in our more modern days, such a contest here might,
                  perhaps, be limited to the un-warlike columns that muster under the editorial
                  Generalissimo, but, nevertheless, it is likewise true that there is enough
                  partisan spirit displayed in those antagonistic paragraphs, marked 'potato,' to
                  breed a rebellion in Ireland, Mrs. Sparrowgrass, in twenty-four hours."
               "Whew! look here, another relic of the past. A draft of a letter to a friend
                  h'm—h'm—
               "For my part, I begin to weary of artificial life, and sigh for the Great Mother
                  (this is from the city you know, to a friend in the country). I see the waving of
                  trees, but they are rooted in a church-yard (St Mark's) or grow up between
                  flag-stones: I hear the melody of birds, but they are pewter canaries at sixpence
                  apiece. I am tired of water 'running up and down and through my lady's chamber,' I
                  want to see it rise like a naiad dripping from a well. I am weary of stone steps,
                  and have a sort of green sickness for rustic porches clambered over with vines; I sigh for
                  flowers other than artificial; and do much desire to look upon the rain, not as an
                  inconvenience, but as a blessing to the crops,
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THEREFORE
                           
                              I'd kind o'like to have a cot
                              Fixed on some sunny slope; a spot
                              Five acres more or less;
                              With maples, cedars, chesnut trees,
                              And poplars whitening in the breeze.
                           
                           
                              'Twould suit my taste, I guess,
                              To have the porch with vines o'erclung,
                              With pendant bells of woodbine swung,
                              In every bell a bee;
                              And round my latticed window spread
                              A clump of roses, white and red.
                           
                           
                              To solace mine and me,
                              I kind o'think I should desire
                              To hear about the lawn a choir
                              Of wood-birds singing sweet;
                              And in a dell, I'd have a brook
                              Where I might sit and read my book.
                           
                           
                              Such should be my retreat;
                              Far from the city's crowds and noise
                              Where I could rear my girls and boys,—
                              I have some two or three,
                              And if kind Heaven should bless my store
                              With five, or six, or seven more,
                              How happy I would be.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "There, Mrs. S., take those papers and put them away with the old love-letters,
                  and the rest of the bye-gones. Some day you will take them out again; perhaps, to
                  read to another generation—?Quien sabe?'
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               
                  A Conference in the Library—Mr. Sparrowgrass writes an Essay—Life in Town and
                     Life in the Rural Districts—Mrs. Sparrowgrass continues the theme—Two Pictures
                     from Nature—and the Last Word.
               
               "HERE we are, Mrs. Sparrowgrass, just on the eve of retiring to private life. We
                  must shake hands with our friends, and say 'good-bye.' This is to be the last
                  paper—'to-morrow to fresh fields and pastures new.'" Mrs. Sparrowgrass smiled a
                  little smile, and sighed a little sigh; then it became very still, but the clock
                  ticked loudly on the library mantel, and the wood-fire chirped, and the sound of
                  thread and needle tugging through a stiff piece of linen, were quite audible. "I
                  think," said Mrs. S., after a long pause, "I think there is a great deal to be
                  said about living in the country; a great deal yet to be said."
               "True," I replied, "but I believe, Mrs. S., I have said my say about it. I begin
                  to feel that the first impressions, the novelty, the freshness, incident dent to
                  the change from city to country are wearing away."
               "Do you think so?" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
               "Yes," I replied, "I think so; in truth I am very sure of it. Do you not see it
                  with very different eyes from those you first brought with you out of the
                  city?"
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass said, "She did not know but that she did."
               "Of course you do," I continued, "the novelty of the change is gone; we have
                  become used to our new life—custom has made every part of it familiar."
               "Not to me," answered Mrs. S., brightening up; "not to me; every day I see
                  something new, every day the country seems to grow more beautiful; there are a
                  thousand things to attract me, and interest me here, which I never could have seen
                  in the city; even the winters seem to be brighter, and the days longer, and the
                  evenings pleasanter; and then I have so much to be thankful for, that the children
                  are so strong and hardy; that we keep such good hours; and that you have grown to
                  be so domestic."
               This compliment made me smile in turn, but I pretended to be very busy with my
                  writing. The smile, however, must have
                  been seen, I think, for Mrs. S. repeated, very softly, "You have
                  grown to be more domestic, and that alone is enough to make me happy here."
               "So, my dear," said I, after a pause, "you believe that, among other things, a
                  domestic turn of mind can be better cultivated in the country than in the
                  city?"
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass assented by nodding like a crockery Chinese lady.
               "Then," said I, "the fact is worth publishing, and it shall be, for the benefit of
                  all concerned. And now let me read to you a short essay I have been writing on
                  country life, seen in a twofold aspect—that is, as we had imagined it, and as we
                  have found it."
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass placed the candles nearer the desk and resumed her needlework.
                  Now then— 
                     
                        "To one who has been long in city pent,
                        'Tis very sweet to look into the fair
                        And open face of heaven, to breathe a prayer
                        Full in the smile of the blue firmament.
                        Who is the more happy, when, with heart's content,
                        Fatigued he sinks into some pleasant lair
                        Of wavy grass, and reads a debonair
                        And gentle tale of love and languishment."
                     
                  
               
               There are very few persons insensible to the tender influence of nature; few who
                  do not feel at times a yearning to exchange a limited life, held in common with
                  the vast multitude, for one of more generous boundaries, where the soul can repose
                  amid contemplation, and the mind rest from its labors, and even the languid pulse
                  thrill with an inspiration that is independent of excitement. It is this feeling
                  that lends a crowning grace to works of fiction, that adds enchantment to
                  narrative, that makes every virtue conceivable, that echoes into music, and
                  blossoms into song. It is this feeling that leads us to prefer Sir Roger de
                  Coverly to Sir Andrew Freeport; it is this that transports us with delight as we
                  wander with Robinson Crusoe; this that weaves a spell of fascination around the
                  loves of Paul and Virginia.
               But we may leave the kingdom of books and pass from their royal domains into the
                  broader commons of every-day life, and if yonder laborer, trudging along the dusty
                  high road, far from the pitiless pavements, could give expression to his thought,
                  he would affirm that this early, summer, Sunday morning is, to him, an idyl full
                  of poetic beauty and tenderness.
               
               Take, too, the city school-boy and his mates, and see them with uncontrollable
                  instincts pouring forth from the avenues of the town to revel in the ragged grass
                  of the suburbs, to sit, haply, beneath the shadow of a tree, or to bathe in waters
                  that dimple over beaches of sand, instead of beating against piers of weedy
                  timber. Take the school-boy, and if he tell you truly, he will confess that, even
                  amid the discipline of the school, his mind was truant to his hard arithmetic, and
                  his dry grammar; that while he was seemingly plodding through his lessons, he was
                  really dreaming of green fields, and sunny air, tremulous with the murmur of
                  brooks, and fragrant with the odor of lilacs.
               Nor is this feeling limited to certain classes of men, nor is it incident only to
                  our earlier years. It is the prospect of some ideal home in the country, that
                  often binds the merchant to the town, in order that he may win a competency to
                  retire with; binds him to his desk until his head begins to silver over, and habit
                  has made the pursuit of wealth a necessity. It is this ideal future that often
                  haunts the statesman with pictures scarcely less seductive than ambition itself,
                  with prospective hopes, which he promises himself some day shall be realized—some
                  day, when his labors are over, and the nation is safe. It is this that passes like
                  a vision before the eyes of the soldier in the solitary fortress; this that lulls
                  and cradles the mariner to sleep, in his oaken prison; this that leads the angler
                  into the depths of the solemn woods; this that depopulates cities in the sweet
                  summer time.
               Most natural then as this wish may be, to those accustomed to the life of a city,
                  there are certain seasons only when the desire throbs in the veins with an impulse
                  not to be resisted—as during the feverish dog-days, or in the dewy mornings of
                  early spring— 
                     
                        "The Spring is here, the delicate-footed May,
                        With its slight fingers full of buds and flowers,
                        And with it comes a wish to be away,
                        Wasting in wood-paths the voluptuous hours."
                     
                  
               
               At such times the heart, instinctively led by its own happiness, revels in,
                  anticipation of, winding woodpaths, and green glades and quiet nooks, and streams,
                  and the twitter of birds, and the voluptuous breathing of flowers, and the murmur
                  of insects in the holiday fields.
               
               But when the winter comes, the bright city, with its social populace, presents a
                  striking contrast to the dreary, solitary country, with its lonely roads, dark
                  plains, and desolate woods, so that the very thought itself is suggestive only of
                  gloom and discomfort.
               There are other considerations, too, sympathies that may not be readily, nor
                  rudely divorced—actualities by which we are strongly, though almost imperceptibly,
                  bound to a city life, such as customary habits, familiar acquaintances, and
                  communion with old, time-honored friends. These, in themselves, are often potent
                  enough to prevent us. Separation is the saddest word in the book of humanity.
               Then again come other actualities—little actualities of two, and four, and six
                  years old, with preternatural eyes, and feverish lips, and wasted arms, mutely
                  imploring us to follow the doctor's advice, and give them a change of air—not for
                  a few weeks, but for a few years, and these have their influence. For I pity the
                  parent who does not feel the welfare of his little ones nearest his heart. So that
                  at last, after gravely weighing all arguments on either side, the great word is
                  spoken— "We will move into the country." Once settled as a fixed fact, once
                  established as a thing no longer debatable, the idea of living in the country
                  speedily invests itself with its old and happiest colors, puts on cap and kirtle,
                  and cottages the future in an Eden of lattice-work, and lawn. Thenceforth every
                  grass-plat in the city becomes an object of interest, every tree a study, every
                  market vegetable a vital topic. Anticipation can scarcely wait upon fluent time;
                  weeks and months seem narrow and long, as the streets we traverse. At last the
                  period of thraldom over, for such it seems, the May day of moving comes, and then,
                  with all the silver in a basket, and all the children in a glow, and all the
                  canary birds in a cage, we depart from the city, its houses, and its streets of
                  houses, its associations, and its friendships. We depart from the city, not
                  forgetful of its benevolence, its security, its protection. Sorrow be to him who
                  would launch a Parthian arrow at his own birth-place, wherever, or whatever that
                  may be!
               It must be confessed, that the realization of a hope is sometimes not so beautiful
                  as the hope itself. It must be confessed that turnpike roads are not always
                  avenues of happiness; that distance,
                  simply contemplated from a railroad depot, does not lend enchantment to the view
                  of a load of furniture travelling up hill through a hearty rain-storm; that
                  communion with the visible forms of nature, now and then, fails to supply us with
                  the requisite amount of mild and healing sympathy; that a rustic cottage may be
                  overflowing with love, and yet overflowed with water; that, in fine, living in the
                  country rarely fulfils at once the idea of living in clover. To one accustomed to
                  the facile helps of a great city, its numerous and convenient stores, its limited
                  distances, its ready attentions, and its easy means of information and
                  communication, the slow and sleepy village presents a contrast, which, upon the
                  whole, can scarcely be considered as favorable to the latter. Plumbers are very
                  slow in the country; carpenters are not swift; locksmiths seldom take time by the
                  forelock; the painter will go off fishing; the grocer on a picnic; the shoemaker
                  to the menagerie: 
                     
                        "The butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker,
                        And all of them gone to the fair,"
                     
                   strikes harshly upon the nice, civic sense of one accustomed to the prompt
                  exactitudes of the town.
               Say, however, that by the driving wheel of perseverance, the customary, inside
                  economy moves on regularly as usual, yet are there new sources of disquiet; the
                  chickens will walk into the kitchen, the dogs will get into the parlor, and the
                  children will march into the dining-room with an incalculable quantity of mud.
                  This last is the most grievous trouble of all, for how can we keep the children
                  in, or keep them out? Then, too, there are other little matters; the well will dry
                  up, or the chimney will smoke, or the dogs will dig immense holes in the
                  garden-beds, or somebody's wagon will take a slice off the turf border of the
                  grass-plat, or the garden-gate will fracture one of its hinges, or something or
                  other of some kind will happen, in some way, to disturb the serenity of the
                  domestic sky. And let it be remembered also, that although a green hedge is a very
                  pretty object, it requires to be trimmed; that peas must be supplied with bushes
                  from infancy; that lima beans when they want poles, have to be indulged in that
                  weakness; that tomatoes get along best on crutches; that corn and potatoes, being
                  very courteous plants, require a little bowing and scraping at times, with a hoe;
                  that garden vegetables of all conditions seem rather fond of leading a ragged, vagabond life, and
                  therefore should be trained by themselves, and not suffered to grow up in a rabble
                  of weeds.
               Let it then be fairly and candidly confessed, that living in the country does not
                  exempt from care and laborious patience, those, who build their habitations
                  beneath its halcyon skies. There are many things which should have been thought
                  of, and which one never does think of as accessories in the ideal picture. The
                  first effort of rural simplicity is to disabuse the mind of these fallacies. Once
                  understood that life in the country does not imply exemption from all the cares
                  and business of ordinary life; that happiness, here as elsewhere, is only a
                  glimpse between the clouds; that there are positive disadvantages incurred by
                  living out of town; and that anticipation must succumb to the customary discount;
                  once understood, and carefully weighed in a just balance, life in the country
                  becomes settled on a firm basis and puts on its pleasantest aspect.
               Then a well-ordered garden presents manifold charms to the eye, whether it be when
                  the first green shoots appear, or in the ripened harvest; then every bud that
                  blows bears in its heart a promise or a memory; then rain-storms are fountains of
                  happiness; then the chirping of early birds is sweeter than the cunning of
                  instruments; then the iterated chorus of insects in the fields is pleasanter than
                  a pastoral poem; then the brown, unbroken soil has an earthy smell no thing can
                  match; and the skies, the river, the mountains, with a thousand touches,
                  illustrate the bounty, the tenderness, the wondrous providence of the Creator.
               Furthermore, the very toil, which at first seems like a hardship, betimes, carries
                  with it a recompense. As the frame becomes disciplined by the additional duties
                  imposed upon it, the labor grows lighter, and more attractive; not only that, the
                  blood circulates with renewed life, the eye becomes brighter, the muscles more
                  elastic, cheerfulness begins to ring out its bells in the clear air, and sleep
                  falls upon the lids, gentle as a shadow.
               If you have little ones, think what a blessing such discipline is to them. Just
                  look at the boys, and their red-blown cheeks, and their sled out in the snow
                  there! Listen; did you ever hear such a Christmas carol in the streets?
               
               Not the smallest item in the account is this, that for want of other pleasures,
                  parents are prone, in the country, to turn their attentions to the little ones, to
                  enter more familiarly into their minor world, to take a part in its pageants, to
                  read more carefully its tiny history, to become developed by its delicate
                  sympathies, so that in time one gets to be very popular there, and is hailed as a
                  comrade and good fellow—one of the elected—and eligible to receive all the secret
                  grips and pass-words of the order. And this is not to be lightly considered
                  either, for how can we expect our children will make us their choicest companions
                  when we are old, if we make them not our friends when they are young? And as a
                  child is often like a star in the house, why should not the father and mother be
                  nearest to its light. Jean Paul Richter somewhere says of children, "The smallest
                  are nearest God, as the smallest planets are nearest the sun." Therefore, it is a
                  good thing not to be on the outside of their planetary system.
               Take it all in all, then, we may rest assured, that although our first experiences
                  do not fulfill the ideal images we had raised, yet when the fibres become familiar
                  to the soil, and spread, and strengthen, we soon overcome the shock of
                  transplantation. Then our new life burgeons and blossoms, like a tree, that in
                  more open ground spreads forth its happy leaves to catch the sunshine and the
                  rain, the air and the dews; and ever and ever growing and growing, its harmonious
                  proportions are uplifted nearer and nearer to that harmonious Heaven, which God
                  has hung with clouds and studded with stars, as types and symbols, only, of the
                  glories of that which lies still further beyond.
               "Is that all you have to say?" said Mrs. Sparrowgrass. "That is all, my dear," I
                  replied, and then very composedly lighted a cigar. The clock ticked loudly again,
                  the wood-fire chirped, and the thread and needle tugged its way through the linen
                  with a weary note, like a prolonged sigh with the bronchitis.
               "For my part," said Mrs. S., after a pause of fifteen minutes' duration by the
                  library clock, "I think you have not done justice to the country. You do not speak
                  at all of the pleasant neighbors we know, of the pleasant visits we have had, and
                  the parties on the river, and the beach in front of the house, where the children
                  go in bathing during the summer months, and the fishing, and crabbing, and the delightful drives and rides,
                  and the interest we take in planting, and the pleasure of picking off the early
                  peas, and the quiet of our Sabbaths, and 'the charm of seclusion,' which you so
                  often allude to in your library, when you sit down at a pile of books."
               "True."
               "And although it may be a trifling matter, yet it is a very pleasant thing to own
                  a boat, and to have a hammock swung under the trees for the children to play in,
                  or to read and smoke in, when you are tired; and to keep poultry, and to watch a
                  young brood of chickens, and to have eggs fresh laid for breakfast."
               "I know it."
               "And even if we do meet with mishaps, what of them? I never do expect to pass
                  through life without some disappointments; do you?"
               "Certainly not."
               "And then you have scarcely alluded to the country in winter time: why nothing can
                  compare with it; I could not have believed that it would have been so beautiful,
                  if I had not seen it and known it."
               (Three puffs of smoke in rapid succession.)
               "And then to walk through a green, winding lane, with daisies and roses all along
                  on both sides, as we often do towards evening, in summer, is a thing worth
                  remembering."
               "Worth remembering? It is a poem in itself."
               "And the pleasant note of a cow-bell at nightfall, or in the wood by day, is a
                  pretty sound."
               "It is a wonder the golden chime of that bell has not been rolled out in melodious
                  lines by somebody." (two puffs and a half.)
               "And, although it may make you smile, there is something very musical to me, in
                  the bullfrog's whistle. I love to hear it, in early spring."
               "After that we may expect blue-birds."
               "Yes," said Mrs. S., "ah, how fond the children are of blue-birds."
               "Yes, and how thankful we should be that they have such innocent loves."
               "I think," said Mrs. S., "children can scarcely develop their natural affections
                  in the city. There is nothing for them to cling to, nothing to awaken their
                  admiration and interest there."
               "Except toy-stores, which certainly do wake up an immense amount of admiration and
                  interest in the small fry, Mrs. S."
               
               "True, but they are better off with a few occasional presents. I know how happy
                  they are for a short time with them; but I fear me the excitement is not
                  productive of good. Toys produce more strife among the little ones than all the
                  pleasure is worth. For my part, I almost dread to see them come into the house,
                  although I do feel gratified in witnessing the surprise and delight with which
                  they are received by the children."
               "That is a clear case."
               "If you want to see a picture," continued Mrs. S., full of the theme, and putting
                  down her sewing, "I think I can show you one worth looking at."
               (One short puff, and one eye shut, expressive of an anxious desire to see the
                  picture.)
               Mrs. Sparrowgrass rolled back the library window-shutters, and the flood of white
                  light that poured into the room fairly dimmed the candle on the table. There was
                  the pure white snow; and the round, full moon; and the lustrous stars; and the
                  hazy line of the Palisades; and the long reach of river glistening with a thousand
                  brilliants. For from every point of ice there shone a nebulous light, so that the
                  river seemed a galaxy studded with magnificent planets; and as we stood gazing
                  upon this wondrous scene, we heard the sound of an approaching train, and then,
                  suddenly reddening through the stone arch in the distance, there darted forth into
                  the night, the Iron Meteor with its flaming forehead, and so flying along the
                  curve of the road, thundered by, and was presently heard no more.
               I think Mrs. Sparrowgrass rather surpassed herself when she conjured up this
                  splendid vision, for she became very grave and silent.
               "This beautiful scene," said I, "this glistening river, reminds me of something,
                  of a scientific fact, which, although true in itself, sounds like the language of
                  oriental fable. Did you know, my dear, that those vast Palisades yonder, rest upon
                  beds of jewels?"
               "Beds of jewels?" echoed Mrs. Sparrowgrass.
               "Yes, my dear, beds of jewels; for these are basaltic rocks of volcanic birth, and
                  at some time were spouted up, from the molten caverns below the crust of the
                  earth, in a fluid state; then they spread out and hardened on the surface; so that
                  if we go to, or a little below, low-water mark, we shall find the base of them to
                  be the old red sandstone, upon which they rest.
               
               "I thought," replied Mrs. S., "they went down very deep in the earth—that they
                  were like all other rocks."
               "No," I answered, "they are not rooted at all, but only rest upon the
                  top of old red sandstone. Well, in the crevices between the basaltic and sandstone
                  rocks, the mineralogists find the best specimens of amethysts, onyxes, sapphires,
                  agates, and cornelians. And that this is the case with the Palisades, has been
                  often proved at Fort Lee, where the cliffs begin. There the sandstone is visible
                  above ground, and there the specimens have been found imbedded between the
                  strata."
               "You are sure the idea is not imaginary?" said Mrs. S.
               "All true, my dear."
               "Then I shall never think of them in future, without remembering their old jewels;
                  I wonder, if they were to tumble down now and expose their riches, whether the
                  amethysts and onyxes would compare with the brightness of those frozen gems?"
               "Certainly not." (Shutters close.)
               "And now," continued Mrs. Sparrowgrass, "I want to show you another picture;" and
                  with that she lifted the candle and walked softly up stairs before me into the
                  nursery; there were five little white-heads, and ten little rosy-cheeks, nestled
                  among the pillows, and I felt a proud, parental joy in gazing upon their healthy,
                  happy faces, and listening to their robust breathings.
               "These," said Mrs. S., in a whisper, as she shaded the light, "are my
                     jewels."
               "And mine too, Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I.
               "Yes," whispered Mrs. S., very seriously, "and if ever I should be taken away from
                  them, I want you to promise me one thing."
               "Tell me what it is," said I, very much determined that I would do it, whatever it
                  might be.
               "Promise me," said Mrs. S., "that while they are growing up you will keep them
                  from the city—that their little minds and bodies may be trained and taught by
                  these pure influences, that, so long as they are under your direction, you will
                  not deprive them of the great privilege they now enjoy—that of living in the
                  country."
            
            
               
               THE REDOUBTABLE ACHIEVEMENTS OF CAPTAIN DAVIS AND CAPTAIN BELGRAVE.
               
                  
                  CAPTAIN DAVIS:
                  A CALIFORNIAN BALLAD.
                  THE sources of the following ballad are to be found in the California papers of
                     December, 1854. It appears from letters published in the Mountain
                        Democrat (extra) and the Sacramento Statesman,
                     (extra) that a party of miners were encamped near Rocky-Cañon, a deep and
                     almost inaccessible, uninhabited, rocky gorge, near Todd's Valley; and it
                     happened that some of them were out hunting near the cañon, in which they saw
                     "three men quietly following the trail to prospect a mine of gold-bearing
                     quartz in the vicinity. Suddenly, a party of banditti sprang out of a thicket,
                     and commenced firing at the three who were prospecting. James McDonald of
                     Alabama, was killed at the first shot. Dr. Bolivar A. Sparks, of Mississippi, fired twice at the robbers, and fell,
                     mortally wounded. Captain Jonathan R. Davis, of South Carolina, then drew his
                     revolvers and commenced shooting at the enemy—every ball forcing its victim to
                     bite the dust. He was easily distinguished from the rest by his white hat, and
                     from his being above the medium height. The robbers then made a charge upon him
                     with their knives and one sabre. Captain Davis stood his ground firmly until
                     they rushed up abreast within four feet of him. He then made a
                     spring upon them with a large Bowie-knife, and gave three of them wounds which
                     proved fatal." Afterwards he killed all the rest, and then tore up his shirt to
                     bind the wounds of the survivors. The party of spectators then came down. It
                     seems they had been prevented joining in the fight from a sense of etiquette:
                     as the letter of one party expresses it—"Being satisfied that they were
                        all strangers, we hesitated a moment before we ventured to go
                     down." When they got down, they found eleven men stretched on the ground, with
                     some others in a helpless condition. They then formed a coroner's jury, and
                     held an inquest over twelve dead bodies. Captain Davis was the only living
                     person left in the Rocky-Cañon. One letter says: "Although we counted
                     twenty-eight bullet holes through Captain Davis' hat and clothes (seventeen
                     through his hat and eleven through his coat and shirt), he received but two
                     very slight flesh-wounds."
                  The ballad was written, during intervals of severe occupation, upon the backs
                     of business-letters and scraps of cartridge-paper, in railroad cars, and on the
                     Hoboken ferry-boat. This will be obvious to the skillful, upon perusal. The
                     object of the writer was to preserve, in the immortal KNICKERBOCKER Magazine, a
                     record of the 'Battle of Rocky-Cañon,' for fear the story might be lost in the
                     perishable pages of the daily press:
                  
                     Ye Battail of Rocky Canyon.
                     
                        ALL the heroes that ever were born,
                        Native or foreign, bearded or shorn,
                        From the days of Homer to Omar Pasha
                        Who mauled and maltreated the troops of the Czar,
                        And drove the rowdy Muscovite back,
                        Fin and Livonian, Pole and Cossack,
                        From gray Ladoga to green Ukraine,
                        And other parts of the Russian domain
                        With an intimation exceedingly plain,
                        That they'd better cut! and not come again!
                     
                     
                     
                        All the heroes of olden time
                        Who have jingled alike in armor and rhyme,
                        Hercules, Hector, Quintus Curtius,
                        Pompey, and Pegasus-riding Perseus,
                        Brave Bayard, and the brave Roland,
                        Men who never a fight turned backs on;
                        Charles the Swede, and the Spartan band,
                        Coriolanus, and General Jackson,
                        Richard the Third, and Marcus Brutus,
                        And others, whose names won't rhyme to suit us,
                        Must certainly sink in the dim profound
                        When Captain Davis's story gets round.
                     
                     
                        Know ye the land where the sinking sun
                        Sees the last of earth when the day is done?
                        Where the course of empire is sure to stop,
                        And the play conclude with the fifth-act drop?*
                        
                        Where, wonderful spectacle! hand in hand
                        The oldest and youngest nations stand?
                        Where yellow Asia, withered and dry,
                        Hears Young America, sharp and spry,
                        With thumb in his vest, and a quizzical leer,
                        Sing out, "Old Fogie, come over here!"
                     
                     
                        *See Berkeley.
                     
                     
                        Know ye the land of mines and vines,
                        Of monstrous turnips and giant pines,
                        Of monstrous profits and quick declines,
                        And Howland and Aspinwall's steamship lines?
                        Know ye the land so wondrous fair?
                        Fame has blown on his golden bugle,
                        From Battery-place to Union-square,
                        Over the Park and down McDougal;
                        Hither, and thither, and everywhere,
                        In every city its name is known;
                        There is not a grizzly Wall-street bear
                        That does not shrink when the blast is blown:
                        There Dives sits on a golden throne,
                        With Lazarus holding his shield before,
                        Charged with a heart of auriferous stone,
                        And a pick-axe and spade on a field of or,
                        
                        Know ye the land that looks on Ind?
                        There only you'll see a pacific sailor,
                        Its song has been sung by Jenny Lind,
                        And the words were furnished by Bayard Taylor.
                     
                     
                        Seaward stretches a valley there,
                        Seldom frequented by men or women;
                        Its rocks are hung with the prickly-pear,
                        And the golden balls of the wild persimmon;
                        Haunts congenial to wolf and bear,
                        Covered with thickets, are everywhere;
                        There's nothing at all in the place to attract us,
                        Except some grotesque kinds of cactus;
                        Glittering beetles with golden wings,
                        Royal lizards with golden rings,
                        And a gorgeous species of poisonous snake,
                        That lets you know when he means to battle
                        By giving his tail a rousing shake,
                        To which is attached a muffled rattle.
                     
                     
                        Captain Davis, (Jonathan R.,)
                        With James McDonald, of Alabama,
                        And Dr. Bolivar Sparks were thar,
                        
                        Cracking the rocks with a miner's hammer;
                        
                        Of the valley they'd heard reports
                        "That plenty of gold was there in quartz:"
                        Gold in quartz they marked not there,
                        But p'ints enough on the prickly pear,
                        As they very soon found
                        When they sat on the ground,
                        To scrape the blood from their cuts and scratches;
                        For a rickety cactus had stripped them bare,
                        And cobbled their hides with crimson patches.
                        Thousands of miles they are from home,
                        Hundreds from San Francisco city;
                        Little they think that near them roam
                        A baker's dozen of wild banditti;
                        Fellows who prowl, like stealthy cats,
                        In velvet jackets and sugar-loaf hats,
                        Covered all over with trinkets and crimes,
                        Watches and crosses, pistols and feathers,
                        Squeezing virgins and wives like limes,
                        And wrapping their legs in unpatented leathers:
                        Little they think how close at hand
                        Is that cock of the walk—"the Bold Brigand!"
                     
                     
                        And here I wish to make a suggestion
                        In regard to those conical, sugar-loaf hats,
                        I think those banditti, beyond all question,
                        Some day will find out they 're a parcel of flats;
                        For if that style is with them a passion,
                        And they stick to those hats in spite of the fashion,
                        Some Tuscan Leary, Genin, or Knox,
                        Will get those brigands in a —— bad box;
                        For the Chief of Police will send a "Star"
                        To keep a look-out near the hat bazaar:
                        And when Fra Diavolo comes to buy
                        The peculiar mode that suits his whim,
                        He may find out, if the Star is spry,
                        That instead of the hat they've ironed him!
                     
                     
                        Captain Davis, and James McDonald,
                        And Doctor Sparks together stand;
                        Suddenly, like the fierce Clan Ronald,
                        Bursts from the thicket the Bold Brigand,
                        Sudden, and never a word spoke they,
                        But pulled their triggers and blazed away.
                     
                     
                        "Music," says Halleck, "is everywhere;"
                        Harmony guides the whole creation;
                        But when a bullet sings in the air
                        So close to your hat that it moves your hair,
                        To enjoy it requires a taste quite rare,
                        With a certain amount of cultivation.
                        But never music, homely or grand,
                        Grisi's "Norma" or Gungl's band,
                        The distant sound of the watch-dog's bark,
                        The coffee-mill's breakfast-psalm in the cellar,
                        "Home, Sweet Home," or the sweet "Sky-lark,"
                        Sung by Miss Pyne, in "Cinderella;"
                        Songs that remind us of days of yore,
                        Curb-stone ditties we loved to hear,
                        "Brewers' yeast!" and "Straw, oat straw!"
                        "Lily-white corn, a penny an ear!"
                        Rustic music of chanticleer,
                        "Robert the Devil," by Meyerbeer,
                        Played at the "Park" when the Woods were here,
                        Or any thing else that an echo brings
                        From those mysterious vibrant strings,
                        
                        That answer at once, like a telegraph line,
                        To notes that were written in "Old Lang Syne;"
                        Nothing, I say, ever played or sung,
                        Organ panted, or bugle rung,
                        Not even the horn on the Switzer Alp,
                        Was half so sweet to the Captain's ear
                        As the sound of the bullet that split his scalp,
                        And told him a scrimmage was awful near.
                     
                     
                        Come, O Danger! in any form,
                        "The earthquake's shock or the ocean-storm;"
                        Come, when its century's weight of snow
                        The avalanche hurls on the Swiss chateau;
                        Come with the murderous Hindoo Thug,
                        Come with the Grizzly's fearful hug,
                        With the Malay's stab, or the adder's fang
                        Or the deadly flight of the boomerang,
                        But never come when carbines bang
                        That are fired by men who must fight or hang.
                     
                     
                        On they came, with a thunderous shout
                        That made the rocky-cañon ring:
                        ("Cañon," in Spanish, means tube, or spout,
                        Gorge, or hollow, or some such thing.)
                        On they come, with a thunderous noise;
                        Captain Davis said, calmly, "Boys,
                        I've been a-waiting to see them chaps;"
                        And with that he examined his pistol-caps;
                        Then a long, deep breath he drew,
                        Put in his cheek a tremendous chew,
                        Stripped off his waist-coat and coat, and threw
                        Them down, and was ready to die or do.
                     
                     
                        Had I Bryant's belligerent skill,
                        Wouldn't I make this a bloody fight?
                        Or Alfred Tennyson's crimson quill,
                        What thundering, blundering lines I'd write!
                        I'd batter, and hack, and cut, and stab,
                        And gouge, and throttle, and curse, and jab;
                        I'd wade to my ears in oaths and slaughter,
                        Pour out blood like brandy and water;
                        Hit 'em again if they asked for quarter,
                        And clinch, and wrestle, and yell, and bite.
                        But I never could wield a carnivorous pen
                        Like either of those intellectual men;
                        I love a peaceful, pastoral scene,
                        With drowsy mountains, and meadows green,
                        Covered with daisies, grass, and clover,
                        Mottled with Dorset or South-down sheep—
                        Better, than fields with a red turf over,
                        And men piled up in a Waterloo heap.
                        But, notwithstanding, my fate cries out:
                        "Put Captain Davis in song and story!
                        That children hereafter may read about
                        His deeds in the Rocky-Cañon foray!"
                     
                     
                        James McDonald, of Alabama
                        Fell at the feet of Doctor Sparks;
                        Doctor," said he, "I 'm as dead as a hammer,
                        And you have a couple of bullet marks.
                        This," he gasped, "is the end of life."
                        "Yes," said Sparks, "'t is a mighty solver;
                        Excuse me a moment—just hold my knife,
                        And I'll hit that brigand with my Colt's revolver."
                     
                     
                        Then through the valley the contest rang,
                        Pistols rattle and carbines bang;
                        
                        Horrible, terrible, frightful, dire
                        Flashed from the vapor the foot-pads' fire,
                        Frequent, as when in a sultry night
                        Twinkles a meadow with insect-light;
                        But deadlier far as the Doctor found,
                        When, crack! a ball through his frontal bone
                        Laid him flat on his back on the hard-fought ground,
                        And left Captain Davis to go it alone!
                     
                     
                        Oh! that Roger Bacon had died!
                        Or Schwartz, the monk, or whoever first tried
                        Cold iron to choke with a mortal load,
                        To see if saltpetre wouldn't explode.
                        For now, when you get up a scrimmage in rhyme,
                        The use of gunpowder so shortens the time,
                        That just as your lliad should have begun,
                        Your epic gets smashed with a Paixhan gun;
                        And the hero for whom you are tuning the string
                        Is dead before 'arms and the man' you sing;
                        To say nothing of how it will jar and shock
                        Your verses with hammer, and rammer, and stock,
                        Bullet and wad, trigger and lock,
                        Nipple and cap, and pan and cock;
                        But wouldn't I like to spread a few pages
                        All over with arms of the middle ages?
                        Wouldn't I like to expatiate
                        On Captain Davis in chain or plate?—
                        Spur to heel, and plume to crest,
                        Visor barred, and lance in rest,
                        Long, cross-hilted brand to wield,
                        Cuirass, gauntlets, mace, and shield;
                        Cased in proof himself and horse,
                        From frontlet-spike to buckler-boss;
                        Harness glistering in the sun,
                        Plebeian foes, and twelve to one!
                        I tell you now there's a beautiful chance
                        To make a hero of old romance;
                        But I'm painting his picture for after-time,
                        And don't mean to sacrifice truth for rhyme.
                     
                     
                        Cease, Digression; the fray grows hot!
                        Never an instant stops the firing;
                        Two of the conical hats are shot,
                        And a velvet jacket is just expiring:
                        Never yields Captain Davis an inch,
                        For he didn't know how, if he wished, to flinch;
                        Firm he stands in the Rocky Gorge,
                        Moved as much by those vagrom men
                        As an anvil that stands by a blacksmith's forge
                        Is moved by the sledge-hammer's "ten-pound-ten!"
                        Firm, though his shirt, with jag and rag,
                        Resembles an army's storming-flag:
                        Firm, till sudden they give a shout,
                        Drop their shooters and clutch their knives;
                        When he said: "I reckon their powder's out,
                        And I've got three barrels, and that's three lives!
                     
                     
                        One! and the nearest steeple-crown
                        Stood aghast, as a minster spire
                        Stands, when the church below is on fire,
                        Then trembles, and totters, and tumbles down.
                        Don Pasquale the name he bore,
                        Near Lecco was reared his ancestral cot,
                        Close by Lago Como's shore,
                        For description of which, see "Claude Melnotte."
                     
                     
                     
                        Two! and instantly drops, with a crash,
                        An antediluvial sort of moustache;
                        Such as hundreds of years had grown,
                        When scissors and razors were quite unknown.
                        He from that Tuscan city had come,
                        Where a tower is built all out of—plumb!
                        Puritani his name was hight—
                        A terrible fellow to pray or fight.
                     
                     
                        Three! and as if his head were cheese,
                        Through Castadiva a bullet cut;
                        Knocked a hole in his os unguis,
                        And bedded itself in the occiput.
                        Daily to mass his widow will go,
                        In that beautiful city a lovely moaner,
                        Where those supernatural sausages grow,
                        Which we mis-pronounce when we style "Bellona!"
                     
                     
                        As a crowd, that near a depot stands
                        Impatiently waiting to take the cars,
                        Will "clear the track" when its iron bands
                        The ponderous, fiery hippogriff jars,
                        Yet the moment it stops don't care a pin,
                        But hustle and bustle and go right in;
                        So the half of the band that still survives,
                        Comes up with long moustaches and knives,
                        Determined to mince the Captain to chowder,
                        So soon as it's known he is out of powder.
                     
                     
                        Six feet one, in trowsers and shirt,
                        Covered with sweat, and blood, and dirt;
                        Not very much scared (though his hat was hurt,
                        And as full of holes as a garden-squirt);
                        Awaiting the onslaught, behold him stand
                        With a twelve-inch "Bowie" in either hand.
                        His cause was right, and his arms were long,
                        His blades were bright, and his heart was strong;
                        All he asks of the trinketed clan
                        
                           Is a bird's-eye view of the foremost man;
                        
                        But shoulder to shoulder they come together,
                        Six sugar-loaf hats and twelve legs of leather:—
                        Fellows whose names you can't rehearse
                        Without instinctively clutching your purse:
                        Badiali and Bottesini,
                        Fierce Alboni and fat Dandini,
                        Old Rubini and Mantillini,
                        Cherubini and Paganini:
                        (But I had forgot the last were shot;
                        No matter, it don't hurt the tale a jot.)
                     
                     
                        Onward come the terrible crew!
                        Waving their poignards high in air,
                        But little they dream that seldom grew
                        Of human arms so long a pair
                        As the Captain had hanging beside him there,
                        Matted, from shoulder to wrist, with hair;
                        Brawny, and broad, and brown, and bare.
                     
                     
                        Crack! and his blade from point to heft
                        Has cloven a skull, as an egg is cleft;
                        And round he swings those terrible flails,
                        Heavy and swift, as a grist-mill sails;
                        
                        Whack! and the loftiest conical crown
                        Falls full length in the Rocky Valley;
                        Smack! and a duplicate Don goes down,
                        As a ten-pin falls in a bowling-alley.
                     
                     
                        None remain but old Rubini,
                        Fierce Alboni, and fat Dandini:
                        Wary fellows, who take delight
                        In prolonging, as long as they can, a fight,
                        To show the science of cut and thrust,
                        The politest method of taking life;
                        As some men love, when a bird is trussed,
                        To exhibit their skill with a carving-knife:
                        But now with desperate hate and strength,
                        They cope with those arms of fearful length.
                     
                     
                        A scenic effect of skill and art,
                        A beautiful play of tierce and carte,
                        A fine exhibition it was, to teach
                        The science of keeping quite out of reach.
                        But they parry, and ward, and guard, and fend,
                        And rally, and dodge, and slash, and shout,
                        In hopes that from mere fatigue in the end
                        He either will have to give in or give out.
                     
                     
                        Never a Yankee was born or bred
                        Without that peculiar kink in his head
                        By which he could turn the smallest amount
                        Of whatever he had to the best account.
                        So while the banditti cavil and shrink,
                        It gives Captain Davis a chance TO THINK!
                        And the coupled ideas shot through his brain,
                        As shoots through a village an express-train;
                        And then I as swift as the lightning flight,
                        When the pile-driver falls from its fearful height,
                        He brings into play, by way of assister,
                        His dexter leg as a sort of ballista;
                        Smash! in the teeth of the nearest rogue,
                        He threw the whole force of his hob-nailed brogue!
                        And a horrible yell from the rocky chasm
                        Rose in the air like a border slogan,
                        When old Rubini lay in a spasm,
                        From the merciless kick of the iron brogan.
                     
                     
                        As some old Walton, with line and hook,
                        Will stand by the side of a mountain-brook,
                        Intent upon taking a creel of trout,
                        But finds so many poking about
                        Under the roots, and stones, and sedges,
                        In the middle, and near the edges,
                        Eager to bite, so soon as the hackle
                        Drops in the stream from his slender tackle,
                        And finally thinks it a weary sport,
                        To fish where trout are so easily caught;
                        So Captain Davis gets tired at last
                        Of fighting with those that drop down so fast,
                        And a tussle with only a couple of men
                        Seems poor kind of fun, after killing-off ten;
                        But just for the purpose of ending the play
                        He puts fierce Alboni first out of the way,
                        And then to show Signor Dandini his skill,
                        He splits him right up, as you'd split up a quill;
                        Then drops his Bowie, and rips his shirt
                        To bandage the wounds of the parties hurt;
                        An act, as good as a moral, to teach
                        "That none are out of humanity's reach,"
                        
                        An act that might have produced good fruit,
                        Had the brigands survived, but they didn't do it.
                     
                     
                        Sixteen men do depose and say,
                        "That in December, the twentieth day,
                        They were standing close by when the fight occurred,
                        And are ready to swear to it, word for word,
                        That a bloodier scrimmage they never saw;
                        That the bodies were sot on, accordin' to law;
                        That the provocation and great excitement
                        Wouldn't justify them in a bill of indictment;
                        But this verdict they find against Captain Davis,
                        That if ever a brave man lived—he brave is."
                     
                  
               
               
                  CAPTAIN BELGRAVE.
                  
                     I.
                     
                        
                           "My eyes make pictures when they are shut.
                        
                     
                     IN one of those villages peculiar to our Eastern coast, whose long lines of
                        pepper-and-salt stone-fences indicate laborious, if not profitable farming,
                        and where the saline breath of the ocean has the effect of making
                        fruit-trees more picturesque than productive, in a stone chunk of a house,
                        whose aspect is quite as interesting to the geologist as to the architect,
                        lives Captain Belgrave.
                     The Captain, as he says himself, "is American clean through, on the father's
                        side, up to Plymouth Rock, and knows little, and cares less, of what is
                        beyond that." To hear him talk, you would suppose Adam and Eve had landed
                        there from the May-Flower, and that the Garden of Eden was located within
                        rifle distance of that celebrated
                        land-mark. His genealogical table, however, stands upon unequal legs; for,
                        on his mother's side he is part German and part Irishman. I mention this for
                        the benefit of those who believe that certain qualities in men are
                        hereditary. Of course it will be easy for them to assign those of Captain
                        Belgrave to their proper source.
                     The house is square, and would not be remarkable but for a stone turret on
                        one corner. This, rising from the ground some forty feet, embroidered with
                        ivy, and pierced with arrow-slits, has rather a feudal look. It stands in a
                        by-lane, apart from the congregated village. On the right side of the road
                        is a plashy spring, somewhat redolent of mint in the summer. Opposite to
                        this, in a clump of oaks, surrounded with a picket-fence, is the open porch,
                        with broad wooden benches, and within is an ample hall, looking out upon
                        well-cultivated fields, and beyond—blue water! This is the "Oakery," as
                        Captain Belgrave calls it. Here he lives with his brother Adolphus—bachelors
                        both.
                     His title is a mystery. There is a legend in the village, that during the
                        last war Belgrave was enrolled in the militia on some frontier. One night he
                        was pacing as sentinel on a long wooden piazza in front of the General's
                        quarters. It was midnight; the camp was asleep, and the moon was just
                        sinking behind a bank of clouds. Belgrave heard a footstep on the stairs at
                        the foot of the piazza. "Who goes there?" No answer. Another step. "Who goes
                        there?" he repeated, and his heart began to fail him. No answer—but another
                        step. He cocked his musket. Step! step! step! and then between him and the
                        sinking moon appeared an enormous head, decorated with diabolical horns.
                        Belgrave drew a long breath and fired. The next instant the spectre was upon
                        him; he was knocked down; the drums beat to arms; the guard turned out, and
                        found the sentinel stretched upon the floor, with an old he-goat, full of
                        defiance and odor, standing on him. From that time he was called
                        "Captain."
                     No place, though it be a paradise, is perfect without one of the gentler
                        sex. There is a lady at the Oakery. Miss Augusta Belgrave is a maiden of
                        about—let me see; her age was formerly inscribed on the fly-leaf of the
                        family Bible between the Old and New Testaments; but the page was torn out,
                        and now it is somewhere in the Apocrypha. No matter what her age may be; if
                        you were to see her, you would say she was safe over the breakers. Two unmarried brothers,
                        with a spinster sister, living alone: it is not infrequent in old families.
                        The rest of the household may be embraced in Hannah, the help, who is also
                        "a maiden all forlorn," and Jim, the stable-boy. Jim is a unit, as well as
                        the rest. Jim has been a stable-boy all his life, and now, at the age of
                        sixty, is only a boy ripened. His chief pride and glory is to drive a pair
                        of bob-tailed bay trotters that are (traditionally) fast! Adolphus, who has
                        a turn for literature, christened the off-horse "Spectator;" but the near
                        horse came from a bankrupt wine-broker, who named him "Chateau Margaux."
                        This the Captain reduced to "Shatto," and the village people corrupted to
                        "Shatter."
                     There was something bold and jaunty in the way the Captain used to drive old
                        Shatter on a dog-trot through the village (Spectator rarely went with his
                        mate except to church on Sundays), with squared elbows, and whip depending
                        at a just angle over the dash-board. "Talk of your fast horses!" he would
                        say. "Why, if I would only let him out," pointing his whip,
                        like a marshal's baton, toward Shatter, "you would see time!"
                        But he never lets him out.
                     The square turret rises considerably above the house roof. Every night, at
                        bed-time, the villagers see a light shining through its narrow loop-holes.
                        There are loop-holes in the room below, and strong casements of ordinary
                        size in the rooms adjoining. In the one next to the tower Miss Augusta
                        sleeps, as all the village knows, for she is seen at times looking out of
                        the window. Next to that is another room, in which Adolphus sleeps. He is
                        often seen looking out of that window. Next, again, to that is the vestal
                        chamber of Hannah, on the south-west corner of the house. She is sometimes
                        seen looking out of the window on either side. Next to that again is the
                        dormitory of Jim, the stable-boy. Jim always smells like a menagerie, and so
                        does his room, no doubt. He never looks out of his window except upon the
                        Fourth of July, when there is too much noise in the village to risk driving
                        Spec and Shat. No living person but the occupants has ever been in that
                        story of the house. No living person understands the mystery of the tower.
                        The light appears at night through the loop-holes in the second story, then
                        flashes upward, shines again through the slits in the lofty part of the
                        turret, burns steadily half an hour or so, and then vanishes. Who occupies
                        that lonely turret?
                     
                     Let us take the author-privilege and ascend the stairs. First we come to
                        Jim's room; we pass through that into Hannah's apartment. There
                        is a bolt on the inside of her door; we pass on into the room of Adolphus;
                        it, too, has a bolt on the inside. Now all the virtues guide and protect us,
                        for we are in the sleeping-apartment of the spinster sister! It, too, has a
                        bolt on the inside; and here we are in the tower: the door, like the rest,
                        is bolted. There is nothing in the room but the carpet on the floor; no
                        stair-case, but a trap-door in the ceiling. It is but a short flight for
                        fancy to reach the upper story. The trap is bolted in the floor; there is a
                        ladder standing beside it; here are chairs, a bureau, a table, with an
                        extinguished candle, and the moonlight falls in a narrow strip across the
                        features of Captain Belgrave, fast asleep, and beside him a Bible, and an
                        enormous horse-pistol, loaded.
                     Nowhere but in the household of some old bachelor could such discipline
                        exist as in the Oakery. At night the Captain is the first to retire; Miss
                        Augusta follows with a pair of candle-sticks and candles; then metaphysical
                        Adolphus with his mind in a painful state of fermentation; then Hannah, the
                        help, with a small brass candle-stick; then Jim, the stable-boy, who usually
                        waits until the company is on the top-stair, when he makes a false start,
                        breaks, pulls himself up, and gets into a square trot just in time to save
                        being distanced at the landing. Adolphus and Jim are not trusted with
                        candles. Miss Augusta is rigorous on that point. She permits the Captain to
                        have one because he is careful with it; besides he owns the house and
                        everything in it; the land and everything on it; and supports the family;
                        therefore his sister indulges him. We now understand the internal
                        arrangement of the Oakery. It is a fort, a castle, a citadel, of which
                        Augusta is the scarp, Jim the glacis, Hannah the counter-scarp, and Adolphus
                        the ditch. The Captain studied the science of fortification after his return
                        from the wars.
                     The Belgraves are intimate with only one family in the village, and they are
                        new acquaintances—the Mewkers. There is Mr. Mewker, Mrs. Mewker, Mrs.
                        Lasciver, formerly Miss Mewker, and six or seven little Mewkers. Mewker has
                        the reputation of being a good man, but unfortunately his appearance is not
                        prepossessing. He has large
                        bunchy feet, with very ineffectual legs, low shoulders, a sunken chest, a
                        hollow cavity under the waistcoat, little, weak eyes that seem set in
                        bladders, straggling hair, rusty whiskers, black, and yellow teeth, and
                        long, skinny, disagreeable fingers; beside, he is knock-kneed, shuffling in
                        gait, and always leans on one side when he walks. Uncharitable people say he
                        leans on the side where his interests lie, but Captain Belgrave will not
                        believe a word of it. Oh! no; Mewker is a different man from that. He is a
                        member of the church, and sings in the choir. He is executor of several
                        estates, and of course takes care of the orphans and widows. He holds the
                        church money in trust, and of course handles it solely to promote
                           its interests. And then he is so deferential, so polite, so
                        charitable. "Never," says the Captain, "did I hear him speak ill of anybody,
                        but he lets me into the worst points of my neighbors by jest teching on 'em,
                        and then he excuses their fibles, as if he was a kind o' sorry for 'em; but
                        I keeps my eye onto 'em after the hints he give me, and he can't blind me to
                           them."
                     Harriet Lasciver, formerly Miss Mewker, is a widow, perfectly delicious in
                        dimples and dimity, fond of high life and low-necked dresses, music, birds,
                        and camelias. Captain Belgrave has a great fancy for the charming widow.
                        This is a secret, however. You and I know it, and so does
                           Mewker.
                     
                  
                  
                     II.
                     It is Sunday in Little-Crampton—a summer Sunday. The old-fashioned flowers
                        are blooming in the old-fashioned gardens, and the last vibration of the old
                        rusty bell in the century-old belfry seems dying off, and melting away in
                        fragrance. Outside, the village is quiet, but within the church there is an
                        incessant plying of fans and rustling of dresses. The Belgraves are landed
                        at the porch, and Spec and Shat whirl the family carriage into the
                        grave-yard. The Mewkers enter with due decorum. Adolphus drops his hymn-book
                        into the pew in front, as he always does. The little flatulent organ works
                        through the voluntary. The sleek head of the Rev. Mr. Spat is projected
                        toward the audience out of the folds of his cambric handkerchief; and after
                        doing as much damage to the simple and beautiful service as he can by
                        reading it, flourishes through the regular old Spatsonian sermon; its tiresome repetitions and
                        plagiarisms, with the same old rising and falling inflections, the same old
                        tremulous tone toward the end, as if he were crying; the same old
                        recuperative method by which he recovers his lost voice in the last
                        sentence, when it was all but gone; and the same old gesture by which the
                        audience understand that his labors (and theirs) are over for the morning.
                        Then the congregation departs with the usual accompaniments of dresses
                        rustling, and pew-doors slamming; and Mr. Mewker descends from the choir and
                        sidles up the aisle, nursing his knobs of elbows in his skinny fingers, and
                        congratulates the Rev. Mr. Spat upon the excellent discourse he had
                        delivered, and receives the customary quid pro
                           quo in the shape of a compliment upon the excellent singing in
                        the choir. This account adjusted, Mr. Mewker shuffles home beside the lovely
                        widow; and Mrs. Mewker and the small fry of members follow in their
                        wake.
                     "I have looked into the records in the county clerk's office," Mewker says
                        in a whisper, to his sister, "and the property is all right. That old Thing,
                        (unconscious Augusta Belgrave, rolling home behind Spec and Shat, do you
                        hear this?) that old Thing, and that old fool of a book-worm (Adolphus) can
                        be packed off after the wedding, and then we can arrange matters between us.
                        Spat understands me in this, and intends to be hand and glove with Belgrave,
                        so as to work upon him. He will, he must do it, for he knows
                        that his remaining in this church depends upon me." Here Mr. Mewker was
                        interrupted by one of the young Mewkers, who came running up, hat in hand.
                        "Oh! pa, look there! see those beautiful climbing roses growing all over
                        that old tree!" "Jacob," said Mewker, catching him by the hair, and rapping
                        his head with his bony knuckles until the tears came, "haven't I told you
                        not to speak of such trivial things on the Sabbath? How dare you (with a
                        repetition of raps) think of climbing roses so soon after church? Go (with a
                        fresh clutch in the scalp of Mewker, Junior), go to your mother, and when I
                        get home I will punish you." Mr. Mewker resumed the whispered conversation.
                        "Belgrave is ruled entirely by his sister, but between Spat and me, she can
                        be blinded, I think. If she should suspect, now, she would interfere, of
                        course, and Belgrave would not dare to disobey her. But if we can get him
                        committed once in some way, he is
                        such a coward that he would be entirely in my power. Dear," he said aloud to
                        Mrs. M., "how did you like the sermon?" Angelic," replies Mrs. Mewker.
                        "That's my opinion, too," responds Mewker. "Angelic, angelic. Spat is a
                        lovely man, my dear. What is there for dinner?"
                     If there were some feminine meter by which Harriet Lasciver's soul could be
                        measured, it would indicate "good" pretty high up on the scale. Yet she had
                        listened to this after-church discourse of her brother not only with
                        complacency, but with a full and unequivocal assent to all he had proposed.
                        So she would have listened, so assented to anything, no matter what,
                        proposed by him; and all things considered, it was not surprising. Even as
                        continued attrition wears the angles of the flint until it is moulded into
                        the perfect pebbles, so had her nature been moulded by her brother. He had
                        bullied her in her childhood and in her womanhood, except when there was a
                        purpose in view which he could better accomplish by fawning; and her natural
                        good disposition, so indurated by these opposed modes of treatment, had
                        become as insensible to finer emotions as her heart was callous to its own
                        impulses. There was one element in his composition which at times had cast a
                        gloss upon his actions. It was his piety! God help us! that any one should
                        allude to that but with reverence and love! Nor do I here speak of it but as
                        a profession, an art, or specious showing forth of something that was not
                        real, but professed, in order to accomplish other ends. What
                        profited her own experience, when Harriet Lasciver was so far imposed upon
                        as to believe her brother's professions sincere? What though all his life he
                        had been a crooked contriver and plotter, malicious in his enmity, and false
                        in his friendship; and she knew it? Yet, as she could not
                        reconcile it with his affected sanctity, she could not believe it. That
                        wonderful power which men seldom, and women never analyze—hypocrisy, held
                        her entangled in its meshes, and she was his instrument to be guided as he
                        chose. Every noble trait true woman possesses—pity, tenderness, love, and
                        high honor—were commanded by an influence she could not resist. Her reason,
                        nay, her feelings were dormant, but her faith slept securely upon her
                        brother's religion!
                     In this instance there was another consideration —a minor one, it is true, but in justice to
                        the widow, it must be added. She really admired the Captain; but that makes
                        no great difference. A widow must love somebody. Those delicate tendrils of
                        affection which put forth with the experiences of the young wife, die not in
                        the widow, but survive, and must have some support. Even if the object be
                        unworthy or unsightly, as it happens sometimes, still will they bind, and
                        bloom, and cling, and blossom around it, like honey-suckles around a
                        pump.
                  
                  
                     III.
                     The windows at the Oakery are open, and the warm air of a Sunday summer
                        evening pours in, as Augusta pours out the tea. The Captain burns his mouth
                        with the first cup, turns the tea into the saucer, blows it to cool it,
                        drinks it off hastily, takes a snap at the thin, white slice of bread on his
                        plate, takes another snap at a radish somewhat overcharged with salt, wipes
                        his mouth, goes to the window and calls out "Jim!" Jim appears at the
                        stable-door with a wisp of straw and a curry-comb. "Put in the hosses!" Jim
                        telegraphs with the curry-comb, "All right, Sir!" Augusta stares at
                        Adolphus, and Adolphus brushes the metaphysical films from his eyes, and,
                        for once, seems wide awake. The Captain takes his seat and a fresh snap at
                        the bread. Augusta looks at him steadily. "Why, brother, where are you going
                        with the horses on Sunday afternoon?" The Captain squints at the bread, and
                        answers, "To Mewker's." "Mewker's!" repeats Augusta; "Mewker's! why,
                        brother, you're crazy; they never receive company on Sunday. You know how
                        strictly pious Mr. Mewker is, and he would look at you with amazement. To
                        see you riding, too! why—I—never!"
                     The Captain, however, said nothing, but waited, with some impatience, until
                        Spec and Shat turned out with the carriage from the stable. Then he took the
                        ribbons, stopped, threw them down, went up into the tower, came back with a
                        clean shirt on, climbed into the seat, and drove off.
                     "He'll come back from there in a hurry, I guess," said Augusta to the
                        wondering Adolphus.
                     But the Captain did not return until eleven that night, and then somewhat
                        elevated with wine. "Augushta," said he, as the procession formed as usual on the stairs, "that Mucous
                        'sha clever feller, heesha clever feller, heesha dev'lish clever feller;
                        heesh fond of talking on church matters, and sho 'mi. His shister, sheesha
                        another clever feller, she's a chump! I asked 'em to come to-morrow to tea,
                        and shaid they would."
                     "Why, brother, to-morrow is Monday, washing-day!" replied the astonished
                        spinster.
                     "Tha's a fac, Gushta, fac," answered the Captain, as he took the candle from
                        his sister at the tower-door; "but, wash or no wash, musht come. When I ask
                        'em to come, musht come. Goo-ni!"
                     The bolts are closed on the several doors, scarp and counterscarp, ditch and
                        glacis are wrapped in slumber; but the Captain lies wide awake, looking
                        through the slits in the tower casement at the Great Bear in the sky, and
                        thinking rapturously of the lovely Lasciver.
                     Never did the old family carriage have such a polishing as on that Monday
                        morning. Never did Jim so bestir himself with the harness as on that day
                        under the eye of Belgrave. The Captain neglects to take his accustomed ride
                        to the village in the morning, that Spec and Shat may be in condition for
                        the afternoon. At last the carriage rolls down the road from the Oakery,
                        with Jim on the box, and the Captain retires to dress for company. In due
                        course the carriage returns with Spec and Shat somewhat blown with an
                        over-load; for all the young Mewkers are piled up inside, on the laps of
                        Mrs. Mewker and the lovely Lasciver. Then Augusta hurries into the kitchen
                        to tell Hannah, the help, to cut more bread for the brats; and Adolphus is
                        hurried out into the garden to pull more radishes; and the young Mewker
                        tribe get into his little library, and revel in his choice books, and
                        quarrel over them, and scatter some leaves and covers on the floor as
                        trophies of the fight. Then the tea is brought on, and the lovely Lasciver
                        tries in vain to soften the asperity of Augusta; and then Mewker takes her
                        in hand, and does succeed, and in a remarkable degree, too. Meanwhile the
                        ciphers of the party, Mrs. Mewker and Adolphus, drink and eat in silence.
                        Then they adjourn to the porch, and Mewker sits beside Augusta, and
                        entertains her with an account of the missions in Surinam, to which she
                        turns an attentive ear-Then Mrs. Mewker says it is time to go, "on account
                        of the children," at which Mewker darts a petrifying look at her, and turns
                        with a smile to Augusta, who, in
                        the honesty of her heart, says "she, too, thinks it is best for
                        the young ones to go to bed early. Then Jim is summoned from the stable, and
                        Spec and Shat; and the Mewkers take leave, and whirl along the road again
                        toward home.
                     It was long before the horses returned, for Jim drove back slowly. There was
                        not a tenderer heart in the world than the one which beat in the bosom of
                        that small old boy of sixty. He sat perched upon the box, calling out,
                        "Gently, soho!" to Spec and Shat, when they advanced beyond a walk, and held
                        a talk with himself in this wise: "I don't want to carry that old carcase
                        agin. He gits in and praises up the Cap'n so as I can hear him,
                        and then asks me if I won't lay the whip on the hosses. Says I, 'Mr. Mewker,
                        them hosses has been druv.' Says he, 'Yes, James, but you can give 'em a
                        good rubbin' down when you get to hum, and that will fetch 'em all right.'
                        Now, I want to know if you take a man, and lay a whip onto him, and make him
                        travel till he's sore, whether rubbin' down is a-goin' to make him all
                        right? No, Sir. Then he calls me James. I don't want no man to call me
                        James; my name's Jim. There was old Midgely; he called me James; didn't he
                        coax out of me all I'd saved up for more'n twenty years, and then busted?
                        There was Deacon Cotton; didn't he come in over the Captain with that pork?
                        He called me James, too. And there was that psalm-singin' pedlar that got
                        Miss Augusty to lend him the colt; he called me James. Did he
                        bring the colt back? No, Sir; at least not yit, and it's more'n three years
                        ago. When a man calls me James, I take my eye and places it onto him. I
                        hearn him when he tells Miss Mewker not to give beggars nothin'.
                           I hearn him. He sez they may be impostors! Well, 'spose they
                        be? When a feller-creetur' gits so low as to beg, haven't they got low
                        enough? Aint they ragged, dirty, despised? Don't they run a chance of
                        starvin', impostors or not, if every body drives 'em off? And what great
                        matter is it if they do get a-head of you, for a crumb or a cent? When I see
                        a feller-creatur' in rags, beggin', I say human natur' has got low enough;
                        it's in rags! it begs! it's 'way down, and it don't make much difference if
                        it's actin' or not. Them aint impostors that will do much harm. Them aint
                        impostors like old Midgely, and Deacon Cotton, and that old psalm-singin'
                        pedlar that borrowed the colt; at
                        least they don't cut it so fat. But 'spose they don't happen to be
                        impostors, arter all? Whar's that account to be squared? I guess I'd rayther
                        be the beggar than the other man when that account is squared. I guess when
                        that account is squared, it will kind a-look as if the impostor wasn't the
                        one that asked for the stale bread, but the one that wouldn't give it. Seems
                        as if I've heard 'em tell about a similar case somewhere."
                     A good rubbing down, indeed, for Spec and Shat that night, and a well-filled
                        manger too. When Jim picked up his stable-lantern, he gave each horse a pat
                        on the head, and a parting hug, and then backed out, with his eyes still on
                        them. "Spec!" said he at the door. Spec gave a whinny in reply. "Shat!" Shat
                        responded also. "Goodnight, old boys! Old Jim aint a-goin' to lay no whip
                        onto you. If old Jim wants to lay a whip onto something, it won't be onto
                        you, that's been spavined and had the bots, and he's cured 'em, and they
                        know it, hey! No, Sir. His 'tipathy works outside into another quarter. Is
                        my name James? Well, it aint. It's Jim, isn't it? Yes, Sir!"
                  
                  
                     IV.
                     From that night, however, the halcyon days of Spec and Shat were at an end.
                        The Mewkers loved to ride, but they had no horses: the only living thing
                        standing upon four legs belonging to Mr. Mewker was an ugly, half-starved,
                        cross-grained, suspicious looking dog, that had the mange and a bad
                        reputation. Of course, the Captain's horses were at their service, for rides
                        to the beach, for pic-nics in the woods, for shopping in the village, or,
                        perchance, to take Mr. Mewker to some distant church-meeting. And not only
                        were the horses absent at unusual times; there seemed to be a growing
                        fondness in the Captain for late hours. The old-style regularity of the
                        Oakery, the time-honored habits of early hours to bed, the usual procession
                        up the stairs, formal but cheerful, were, in some measure, broken into; not
                        but what these were observed as formerly; not but what every member of the
                        family waited and watched until the Captain returned, no matter how late;
                        but that sympathetic feeling which all had felt when the hour of bed-time
                        came, had ceased to be, and in its place was the dreary languor, the
                           tiresome some, tedious feeling
                        that those experience who sit up and wait and wait, for an absent one,
                        waiting and asking, "Why tarry the wheels of his chariot?" There was an
                        increasing presentiment, a gloomy foreshadowing of evil, in Miss Augusta's
                        mind at those doings of the Captain: and this feeling was heightened by
                        something, trifling in itself, yet still mysterious and unaccountable.
                        Somebody, almost every day, cut off a tolerably large piece from the beef or
                        mutton, or whatever kind of meat there chanced to be in the cellar. And
                        nobody knew anything about it. Hannah was fidelity itself; Jim was beyond
                        suspicion; Adolphus never went into the cellar, scarcely out of the library,
                        in fact. The Captain! could it be her brother? Miss Augusta watched.
                           She saw him do it! She saw him covertly draw his jack-knife
                        from his pocket, and purloin a piece of beautiful rump-steak, then wrap it
                        in paper, put it in his pocket, and walk off whistling, as if nothing had
                        happened. "The widow is at the bottom of this!" was the thought that flashed
                        through the mind of Augusta. She was indirectly correct. The widow was at
                        the bottom of the theft, and I will tell you how. I have mentioned a large
                        mangy dog, of disreputable character, Mr. Mewker's property, and "Bose" by
                        name. Whenever the Captain drove up the path to the house of his friend,
                        there, beside the step of the wagon, from the time it passed the gate until
                        it reached the porch, was this dog, with a tail short as pie-crust, that
                        never wagged; thick, wicked eyes, and a face that did not suggest fidelity
                        and sagacity, but treachery and rapine, dead sheep, and larceny great or
                        small. And although the Captain was a stout, active, well-framed man, with a
                        rosy cheek, a bright eye, and a sprightly head of hair, yet he was afraid of
                        that dog. And therefore the Captain, to conciliate Bose, brought him every
                        day some choice morsel from his own kitchen; and as he did not dare to tell
                        Augusta, the same was abstracted in the manner already described.
                     Here I must mention a peculiarity in Captain Belgrave's character. He never
                        saw a dog without thinking of hydrophobia; he never bathed on the beautiful
                        beach in the rear of his house without imagining every chip in the water, or
                        ripple on the wave, to be the dorsal fin of some voracious shark. When he
                        drove home at night, it was with fear and trembling, for an assassin might
                        be lurking in the bushes; and if he passed a sick neighbor, he walked off with small-pox,
                        measles, typhoid, and whooping-cough trundling at his heels. In a word, he
                        was the most consummate coward in Little-Crampton. It was for this reason he
                        had built and slept in the tower; and what with reading of pirates,
                        buccaneers, Captain Kidd, and Black Beard, his mind was so infected that no
                        sleeping-place seemed secure and safe, but his own turret and trap-door,
                        scarp, counter-scarp, ditch, and glacis, through which all invaders had to
                        pass before they encountered him with his tremendous horse-pistol.
                     It was not the discovery of the theft alone that had opened the eyes of
                        Augusta in regard to her brother's motions. Although he had told her, again
                        and again, that he merely went to Mewker's to talk over church matters, yet
                        she knew intuitively, as every woman would, that, a widow so lovely as
                        Harriet Lasciver could not but have great attractions for such an old
                        bachelor as her brother. In fact, she knew, if the widow, as the phrase is,
                        "set her cap for him," the Captain was a lost man. But to whom could she
                        apply for counsel and assistance? Adolphus? Adolphus had no more sense than
                        a kitten. Hannah? There was something of the grand old spinster-spirit about
                        Augusta that would not bend to the level of Hannah, the help. Jim? She would
                        go to Jim. She would see that small boy of sixty, and ask his advice. And
                        she did. She walked over to the stable in the evening, while her brother was
                        making his toilet for the customary visit to the Mewkery, and without
                        beating around the bush at all, reached the point at once. "Jim," said she,
                        "the Captain is getting too thick with the Mewkers, and we must put a stop
                        to it, How is that to be done?"
                     Jim paused for a moment, and then held up his forefinger. "I know
                           one way to stop him a-goin' there; and, if you say so, Miss
                        Augusta, then old Jim is the boy to do it."
                     Augusta assented in a grand, old, towering nod. Jim, with a mere motion of
                        his forefinger, seemed to reiterate, "If you say so, I'll do it."
                     "Yes."
                     "Then, by Golly!" responded Jim, joyfully, "arter this night he'll never go
                        there ag'in."
                     Augusta walked toward the house with a smile, and Jim proceeded to embellish
                        Shatter.
                     By-and-by the Captain drove off in the wagon, and old Jim busied himself
                        with Spectator, fitting a mouldy
                        saddle on his back, and getting him ready for action.
                  
                  
                     V.
                     There was a thin cloud, like lace, over the moon that night; just enough to
                        make objects painfully distinct, as Captain Belgrave turned out from
                        Mewker's gate, and took the high road toward home. He jogged along, however,
                        quite comfortably, and had just reached the end of Mewker's fence, when he
                        saw a figure on horseback, emerging from the little lane that ran down,
                        behind the garden, to the pond at the back of the house. The apparition had
                        a sort of red cape around its shoulders; a soldier-cap, with a tall plume
                        (very like the one the Captain used to wear on parade), was upon its head;
                        in its hand was a long, formidable-looking staff; and the horse of the
                        spectre was enveloped in a white saddle-cloth, that hung down almost to the
                        ground. What was remarkable, Old Shatter, as if possessed with the devil,
                        actually drew out of the road toward the stranger, and gave a whinny, which
                        was instantly responded to in the most frightful tones by the horse of the
                        spectre. Almost paralyzed, the Captain suffered the apparition to approach
                        him. What a face it had! Long masses of hair, like tow, waved around
                        features that seemed to have neither shape nor color. Its face seemed like a
                        face of brown paper, so formless and flat was it, with great hideous eyes
                        and a mouth of intolerable width. As it approached, the figure seemed to
                        have a convulsion—it rolled so in the saddle; but, recovering, it drew up
                        beside the shaft, and, whirling its long staff, brought such a whack upon
                        Shatter's flank, that the old horse almost jumped out of his harness. Away
                        went the wagon and the Captain, and away went the spectre close behind;
                        fences, trees, bushes, dust, whirled in and out of sight; bridges, sedges,
                        trout-brooks, mills, willows, copses, plains, in moonlight and shadow,
                        rolled on and on; but not an inch was lost or won; there, behind the wagon,
                        was the goblin with his long plume bending, and waving, and dancing, and his
                        staff whirling with terrible menaces. On, and on, and ever and anon the
                        goblin steed gave one of those frightful whinnies that seemed to tear the
                        very air with its dissonance. On, and on, and on! The Captain drove with his
                        head turned back over his shoulder, but Shat knew the road. On, and on, and
                        on! A thought flashes like
                        inspiration through the mind of the Captain, "The horse-pistol!" It is under
                        the cushions. He seizes it nervously, cocks it, and—bang! goes the plume of
                        the goblin. "By gosh!" said a voice under the soldier-cap, "I didn't
                        cal'late on that;" and then, "I vum ef old Shat hain't run away!" Sure
                        enough, Shatto has run away; the wagon is out of sight in a turn of the
                        road; the next instant, it brings up against a post; off goes Shat, with
                        shafts and dislocated fore-wheels; and old Jim soon after finds the remains
                        of the wagon, and the senseless body of his master, in a ditch, under the
                        moon, and a willow. To take the red blanket from his shoulders, which he had
                        worn like a Mexican poncho by putting his head through a hole in the middle,
                        is done in an instant; and then, with big tears rolling down his cheeks, the
                        old boy brings water from a spring, in the crown of the soldier-cap, to
                        bathe the face of the Captain. The report of the pistol has alarmed a
                        neighbor; and the two, with the assistance of the hind wheels and the body
                        of the wagon, carry poor Belgrave through the moonlit streets of
                        Little-Crampton, to the Oakery.
                     When the Captain opened his eye (for the other was under the tuition of a
                        large patch of brown paper, steeped in vinegar), he found himself safe at
                        home, surrounded and fortified, as usual, by Augusta, Adolphus, Hannah, the
                        help, and Jim, in picturesque attitudes. How he came there, was a mystery.
                        Stay; he begins to take up the thread: Mewkers, fence, the figure, the race
                        for life, and the pistol! What else? Nothing—blank—oblivion. So he falls
                        into a tranquil state of comfort, and feels that he does not care about it.
                        No getting up that steep ladder to-night! Never mind. It is a labor to
                        think, so he relapses into thoughtlessness, and finally falls asleep. There
                        was a stranger in the room behind the bed's head, a tall, astringent-looking
                        man, Dr. Butternuts, by whom the Captain had been let blood. If Belgrave had
                        seen him, he would have fainted. "No injuries of any consequence," says the
                        doctor, departing and waving his brown hand. "Terribly skart, though,"
                        Augusta responds, in a whisper. "Yes, he will get over that; to-morrow he
                        will be better;" and the doctor waves himself out. Adolphus retires, and
                        then Hannah, the help; but Augusta and Jim watch by the bedside until
                        morning. The Captain, every now and then, among the snowy sheets and
                        coverlet, turns up a side of face that looks like a large, purple egg-plant, at which Jim sighs
                        heavily; but Augusta whispers soothingly, "Never mind, Jim, it's for his
                        good; I'm glad you skart him; you skart him a leetle too much this time,
                        that's all; next time you'll be more careful, won't you, and not skear him
                        so bad?"
                     That Captain Belgrave had been thrown from his wagon, and badly hurt, was
                        known all over Little-Crampton, next morning. Some said he had been shot at
                        by a highwayman; some said he had shot a highwayman. The story took a
                        hundred shapes, and finally was rolled up at the door of the Rev. Melchior
                        Spat, who at once took his wagon, and drove off to the Mewkery. There the
                        rumor was unfolded to Mr. Mewker, who, enjoying it immensely, made so many
                        funny remarks thereon, that the Rev. Melchior Spat was convulsed with
                        laughter, and then the two drove down to the Oakery to condole with the
                        sufferer. On the way there, the Rev. Melchior was so wonderfully facetious,
                        that Mewker, who never enjoyed any person's jokes but his own, was actually
                        stimulated into mirth, and had it not been for happily catching a distant
                        sight of the tower, would have so forgotten himself as to drive up to the
                        door with a pleasant expression of countenance. As it was, they both entered
                        grave as owls, and inquired, in faint and broken voices, how the Captain
                        was, and whether he was able to see friends. Augusta, who received them, led
                        them up to the room, where the Captain, with his face like the globe in the
                        equinox, sitting propped up in bed, shook both feebly by the hand, and then
                        the Rev. Melchior proposed prayer, to which Mewker promptly responded by
                        dropping on his knees, and burying his face in the bottom of an easy chair.
                        This was a signal for Adolphus to do likewise; and the Captain, not to be
                        behind, struggling up into a sitting posture, leaned forward in the middle
                        of the coverlet, with his toes and the end of his shirt deployed upon the
                        pillows. Then the Rev. Melchior, in a crying voice, proceeded according to
                        the homœopathic practice—that is, making it short and sweet as
                        possible—touched upon the excellent qualities of the sufferer, the distress
                        of his beloved friends, and especially of the anxiety which would be
                        awakened in the bosom of one now absent, "whose heart was only the heart of
                        a woman, a heart not strong and able to bear up against calamity, but weak,
                        and fragile, and loving, and pitiful, and ten der; a heart that was so weak, and loving,
                        and pitiful, and tender, and fragile, that it could not bear up against
                        calamity; no, it could not; no, it could not; it was weak, it was pitiful,
                        it was loving, it was tender, it was fragile like a flower, and against
                        calamity it could not bear up."
                     So great was the effect of the Rev. Melchior Spat's eloquence, that the
                        Captain fairly cried, so as to leave a round wet spot in the middle of the
                        coverlet, and Mr. Mewker wiped his eyes frequently with his handkerchief, as
                        he rose from the chair. And although the voice of the Reverend Melchior had
                        been heard distinctly, word for word, by Jim, in the far-off stable, yet it
                        sank to the faintest whisper when he proceeded to inquire of the Captain how
                        he felt, and what was this dread ful story. And then the Captain, in a voice
                        still fainter, told how he was attacked by a man of immense size, mounted on
                        a horse of proportionate dimensions, and how he had defended himself, and
                        did battle bravely until, in the fight, "Shatto got skeared, and overset the
                        wagon, and then the man got onto him, and pounded the life out of him, while
                        he was entangled with reins." Then Mr. Mewker and the Rev. Mr. Spat took
                        leave with sorrowful faces, and as they drove home again, renewed the
                        jocularity which had been interrupted somewhat by the visit to the
                        Oakery.
                     To say that Mr. Mewker neglected his friend, the Captain, during his
                        misfortunes, would be doing a great injustice to that excellent man. Every
                        day he was at the Oakery, to inquire after his health; and rarely did he
                        come without some little present, a pot of sweetmeats, a bouquet, or
                        something of the kind, from the lovely Lasciver. How good it was of him to
                        buy jelly at two shillings a pound at the store, and bring it to the
                        Captain, saying, "This little offering is from Harriet, who thought some
                        delicacy of the kind would be good for you." Was it not disinterested?
                        Hiding his own modest virtues in a pot of jelly, and presenting it in the
                        name of another! The truth is, Mewker's superior tactics were too profound
                        for Augusta to contend against; she felt, as it were, the sand sliding from
                        under her feet. Nor was Mewker without a powerful auxiliary in the Reverend
                        Melchior Spat, who, by his prerogative, had free access to the house at all
                        times, and made the most of it, too. Skillfully turning to common topics
                        when Augusta was present, and as skillfully returning to the old subject when she retired, he
                        animated the Captain with such desire for the lovely widow, that, had it not
                        been for his black eye, he would assuredly have gone off and proposed on the
                        spot. This feeling, however, subsided when the Rev. Melchior was gone; the
                        Captain did not think of marrying; he was a true old bachelor, contented
                        with his lot, and not disposed to change it even for a better; besides, he
                        was timid.
                  
                  
                     VI.
                     At last our hero was able once more to go about, and Jim drove him down
                        slowly to the Mewkery. Such a noise as Bose made when he saw the carriage
                        approaching! But there was no present from the hand of his friend this time;
                        so Bose contented himself with growling and snapping angrily at his own
                        tail, which was not longer than half a cucumber. What a blush spread over
                        the face of the Captain when he saw the widow, all dimples and dimity,
                        advancing to meet him in the familiar back-parlor! How the sweet roses
                        breathed through the shaded blinds as he breathed out his thanks to the
                        widow for many precious favors during his confinement. They were alone; the
                        Captain sat beside her on the sofa; one of her round, plump, white, dimpled
                        hands was not far from him, resting upon the black hair-cloth of the sofa
                        bottom. He looked right and left; there was no one near; so he took the hand
                        respectfully, and raised it to his lips, intending to replace it of course.
                        To his dismay, she uttered a tender "O!' and leaned her head upon his
                        shoulder. What to do, he did not know; but he put his arm around her
                        bewitching waist, to support her. Her eyes were closed, and the long,
                        radiant lashes heightened, by contrast, the delicious color that bloomed in
                        her cheeks. The Captain looked right and left again; no one was near; if he
                        could venture to kiss her? He had never kissed a pretty woman in all his
                        life! The desire to do so increased; it seemed to grow upon him; in fact,
                        drawn toward her by an influence he could not resist, he leaned over and
                        touched those beautiful lips, and then—in walked Mr. Mewker.
                     Had Mewker not been a genius, he might have compromised everything by still
                        playing the humble, deferential, conscientious part; but hypocrisy on a low
                        key was not his cue now; he knew his man too well for that, and besides, familiar
                        as this branch of art had been, there was another still more natural to him;
                        he was wonderful in the sycophant, but matchless in the bully! Those little,
                        weak, bladdery eyes seemed almost to distil venom, as, wrapping his knobby
                        arms in a knot, he strode up to the astonished Belgrave, and asked him "how
                        he dared invade the privacy of his house, the home of his wife and children,
                        and the sanctuary of his sister? How he dared trespass upon the hospitality
                        that had been extended toward, nay, that had been lavished upon him? Was not
                        the respectability of the Mewker family, a family related to the wealthy
                        Balgangles of Little-Crampton, and connected by marriage with the
                        Shell-barques of Boston, a sufficient protection against his nefarious
                        designs? And did he undertake, under the mask of friendship," and Mewker
                        drew up his forehead into a complication of lines like an indignant web, "to
                        come, as a hypocrite, a member of the church (O Mewker!) with the covert
                        intention of destroying the peace and happiness of his only sister?"
                     Belgrave was a man who never swore; but on this occasion he uttered an
                        exclamation: "My grief!" said he, "I never had no such idee."
                     "What, then, are your intentions?" said Mewker, fiercely.
                     "T' make it all straight," replied the Captain.
                     "How?"
                     Belgrave paused, and Mewker shuffled rapidly to and fro, muttering to
                        himself. At last he broke out again:
                     "How, I say?"
                     "On that p'int I'm codjitatin'."
                     "Do—you—mean—" said Mewker, with a remarkable smile, placing his hand calmly
                        on the Captain's shoulder, "to—trifle—with—me?"
                     "No," replied poor Belgrave, surrendering up, as it were, what was left of
                        him; "I'm ready to be married, if that will make it all straight, provided,"
                        he added, with natural courtesy, turning to the lovely widow, "provided this
                        lady does not think me unworthy of her."
                     Mewker drew forth a tolerably clean handker chief, and applied it to his
                        eyes: a white handkerchief held to the eyes of a figure in threadbare black
                        is very effective. The lovely Lasciver remained entirely passive; such is
                        discipline.
                     Here, at last, was an opportunity to beat a retreat. The Captain rose, and
                        shaking Mewker's unemployed hand,
                        which, he said afterwards, "felt like a bunch of radishes," left the room
                        without so much as a word to the future Mrs. Belgrave. So soon as the door
                        closed upon him, Mr. Mewker raised his eyes from the handkerchief, and
                        smiled sweetly upon his sister. The thing is accomplished.
                     As some old bear, who had enjoyed freedom from cubhood, feels, at the bottom
                        of a pit dug by the skillful hunter, so feels Captain Belgrave, as he rides
                        home sorrowfully. His citadel, after all, is not a protection. Into its
                        penetralia a subtle spirit has at last found entrance. The air grows closer
                        and heavier around him, the shadows broader, the bridges less secure, the
                        trout-brooks blacker and deeper. How shall he break the matter to Augusta?
                        "No hurry, though; the day hasn't been app'inted yit;" and at
                        this suggestion the clouds begin to break and lighten. Then he sees Mewker,
                        threadbare and vindictive; his sky again is overcast, but filaments of light
                        stream through as he conjures up the image of the lovely widow, the dimpled
                        hand, the closed eyes, the long radiate lashes, cheeks, lips, and the
                        temptation which had so unexpected a conclusion. Home at last; and, with
                        some complaint of fatigue, the Captain retires, to his high tower to
                        ruminate over the past and the future.
                     The future! yes, the future! A long perspective stretched before his eyes;
                        and, at the end of the vista, was a bride in white, and a wedding. It would
                        take some months to gradually break the subject to his sister. Then
                        temperately and moderately, the courtship would go on, year by year, waxing
                        by degrees to the end.
                  
                  
                     VII.
                     Mr. Mewker altered the focus of Belgrave's optics next morning, by a short
                        note, in which he himself fixed the wedding-day at two weeks from the
                        Captain's declarations of intentions. This intelligence confined the Captain
                        two days in the tower, "codjitating," during which time everybody in
                        Little-Crampton was informed that Widow Lasciver and he were engaged to be
                        married. The news came from the best authority—the Rev. Melchior Spat. On
                        the evening of the second day, a pair of lead-colored stockings, a fustian
                        petticoat, a drab short gown, and a bright bunch of keys, descended the steep step-ladder from the trap
                        in the tower, and walked into the room adjoining. Then two hands commenced
                        wringing themselves, by which we may understand that Augusta was in great
                        tribulation. The rumor, rife in Little-Crampton, had reached her ears, and
                        her brother had confirmed its truth. The very means employed to keep him out
                        of danger had only assisted the other party to carry him off. This should be
                        a warning to those who interfere with affairs of the heart. But what was her
                        own future? Certainly her reign was at an end; a new queen-bee was to take
                        possession of the hive; and then—what then? kings and kaisers, even, are not
                        free from the exquisite anguish which, in that hour, oppressed the heart of
                        Augusta Belgrave. It was but a step; but what a step? from mistress to
                        menial, from ruler to subordinate. She knelt down heavily by the bedside,
                        and there prayed; but oh! the goodness of woman's heart!—it was a prayer,
                        earnest, sincere, truthful and humble; not for herself, but for her
                        brothers. Then her heart was lightened and strengthened; and as she rose,
                        she smiled with a bitter sweetness, that, considering everything, was
                        beautiful.
                     Great preparations now in Little-Crampton for the weding. Invitations were
                        out, and needles, scissors, flowers, laces, ribbons, and mantua-makers, at a
                        premium. The Captain took heart of grace, and called upon his lovely bride,
                        but always managed to get past that lane before night-fall.
                        Hood & Wessup the fashionable tailors of Little-Crampton, were suborned
                        to lay themselves out night and day upon his wedding-suit. He had set his
                        heart upon having Adolphus dressed precisely like himself on the occasion.
                        Two brothers dressed alike, groom, and groomsman, look remarkably well at a
                        wedding. But to his surprise, Adolphus refused to be dressed, and would not
                        go to the wedding—"positively." Neither would Augusta. Brother
                        and sister set to work packing up, and when the expected night arrived there
                        was all their little stock and store in two, blue, wooden trunks, locked,
                        and corded, and ready for moving, in the hall of the Oakery.
                  
                  
                     VIII.
                     It was a gloomy night outside and in, for the rain had been falling all day,
                        and a cold rain-storm in summer is dreary enough. But cheerful bars of light streamed across the
                        darkness from the tower windows, lighting up a green strip on a tree here
                        and there, a picket or two in the fence, and banding with an illuminated
                        ribbon the side and roof of the dripping barn. The Captain was making his
                        toilet. White ruffled shirt, with a black mourning pin containing a lock of
                        his mother's hair; white Marseilles waistcoat, set off with an inner vest of
                        blue satin (suggested by Hood & Wessup); trowsers of bright mustard
                        color, fitting as tight as if his legs had been melted and poured into them;
                        blue coat, cut brass buttons, end of handkercher' sticking out of the pocket
                        behind; black silk stockings and pumps; red check-silk neck-cloth, and
                        flying-jib collars. Down he came, and there sat brother and sister on their
                        corded trunks in the hall, portentous as the Egyptian statues that overlook
                        the Nile from their high stone chairs. Not a word was said; but the Captain
                        opened the door and looked out. "Why, it rains like fury. Jim!"
                     Jim, who was unseen in the darkness, and yet within three feet of the door,
                        answered cheerily, "Aye, aye, Sir!"
                     "All ready, Jim?"
                     "All ready, Capt'in."
                     "Wait till I get my cloak;" and as the Captain wrapped himself up, his
                        sister silently and carefully assisted him; not on account of his plumage,
                        but to keep him from catching cold.
                     Off goes Shatter, Jim, and the Captain; off through the whistling rain and
                        the darkness. The mud whirled up from the wheels and covered the cloak of
                        the bridegroom, so he told Jim "to drive keerful, as he wanted to keep
                        nice." It was a long and dreary road, but at last they saw the bright lights
                        from Mewker's windows, and with a palpitating heart the Captain alighted at
                        the porch.
                     Old Bose, who had been scouring the grounds and barking at every guest,
                        started up with a fearful growl, but the Captain threw off his
                        travel-stained cloak, and exhibited himself to the old dog in all his glory.
                        The instant Bose recognized his friend and benefactor he leaped upon him
                        with such a multitude of caresses that the white Marseilles vest and
                        mustard-colored trowsers were covered with proofs of his fidelity and
                        attachment. "Hey, there! hey! down, Bose!" said Mewker at the door: "Why, my
                        dear brother!"
                     The Captain, with great gravity, was snapping with his thumb and finger the
                        superfluous mud with which Bose
                        had embellished his trowsers.
                     "Come in here," said Mewker, chuckling and scratching his chin. "I'll get
                        you a brush. No hurry. Time enough before the ceremony."
                     The Captain walked after him through the hall, and caught a glimpse of the
                        parlors, radiant with wax-lights, and crowded with such a display of company
                        as was rarely seen in Little-Crampton.
                     "Come in here," said Mewker, still chuckling, as he opened the door. "This
                        is your room;" and he winked, and gave the bridegroom such a nudge with his
                        knobby elbow as almost tumbled him over the bed. "Your room—understand?
                           The bridal-chamber! Wait here, now; wait here till I get a
                        brush."
                     The Captain, left alone, surveyed the apartment. The pillow-cases were heavy
                        with lace. Little tasteful vases filled with flowers, made the air drunk
                        with fragrance; a white, worked pin-cushion was on the bureau, before an
                        oval glass, with his own name wrought thereon in pins' heads. The astral
                        lamp on the mantel shed a subdued and chastened light over the whole. Long
                        windows reached to the floor, and opened on the piazza; light Venetian
                        blinds were outside the sashes, without other fastenings than a latch. The
                        Captain tried the windows, and they opened with a touch of his thumb and
                        fore-finger. He had not slept in so insecure a place for more than twenty
                        years. Then he thought of the phantom-horseman, and the deep pond behind the
                        house. He shivered a little, either from cold or timidity. The window was
                        partially raised, so he throws it up softly, touches the latch; the blinds
                        are open; he walks out on the piazza, and then covertly steals around to the
                        front of the house, where he finds Shatter and the wagon, with old Jim
                        peering through the blinds, to see the wedding come off.
                     "Jim," he says, in a hoarse whisper, "take me hum. I ain't a-goin' to sleep
                        in such a room as that, no how."
                     The old boy quietly unbuckled the hitching-strap, and when Mewker got back
                        with the brush, Shatter was flying through the mud toward the Oakery, at a
                        three-minute gait. Two or three quick knocks at his own door, and it is
                        opened by Augusta, who, with her brother, had kept watch and ward on their
                        corded trunks. The Captain took the candle from the table without saying a
                        word, ascended the stairs, passed through scarp, counterscarp, glacis, and ditch, mounted
                        his ladder, drew it up after him, bolted the trap in the floor, and cocked
                        his pistol.
                     "Now," said he, "let'em come on! They ain't got me married this time,
                        anyhow!"
                  
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            J. C. DERBY'S PUBLICATIONS.
            
               THE HIDDEN PATH.
               A NOVEL.
               BY MARION HARLAND.
               AUTHOR OF "ALONE."
               12mo. Price $1 25.
               "High as has been the reputation acquired by the many authoresses of our country,
                  we shall be mistaken if the writer of 'Alone' and of 'The Hidden Path' does not
                  take ere long, place and precedence. She combines as many excellences with as few
                  faults as any one we can at the present writing call to mind. There is an
                  originality in her thinking which strikes one with a peculiar force, and he finds
                  himself often unconsciously recurring to what has had such a powerful effect upon
                  him. She is emphatically as authoress not to be forgotten; her works are no
                  short-lived productions, for they have in them a genius, a power and a
                     purpose."—Boston Evening Gazette.
               
               "It forms a series of delightful home pictures, changing from place to place, but
                  chiefly confined to Virginia, the writer's native State, and she paints its
                  beauties with a master hand. She loves her native State, and has paid it no mean
                  tribute in her book. We congratulate the young and gifted authoress for having
                  produced a work so remarkable for its delicacy, purity and general worth, and
                  prophesy for her a brilliant and successful career in the world of
                     letters."—Old Colony Memorial, Plymouth, Mass.
               
               "It will every way sustain the praise so worthily won by the author's first
                  effort. It exhibits the same healthful sentiment and beautiful feeling, the same
                  truthful simplicity and yet charming elegance, the same just appreciation of
                  different phases of social and domestic life. The tale is one of American life,
                  and is most aptly and gracefully wrought."—N. Y. Courier and
                     Enquirer.
               
               "'The Hidden Path' is a work of originality and genius, full of striking thoughts,
                  beautiful descriptions, and graceful conversation, and just interesting enough as
                  a story to carry the reader through a volume from the perusal of which one rises
                  better at heart and with a more genial, kindly feeling toward humanity in
                     general."—Boston Daily Journal.
               
               We have read 'The Hidden Path' with unmingled pleasure. It is one of the best
                  novels of the day. The promise given by Miss Harland in her 'Alone' has been fully
                  met. She takes rank among the best writers of fiction of this age. The story is
                  interesting; the language pure, often eloquent; the plot natural and interesting;
                  and the mora excellent."—New York Daily News.
               
               "We take the liberty of confidently commending it to our readers as one of those
                  gentle, earnest books which will be found acceptable to all pure hearts, and
                  become, we sincerely trust, an especial favorite with the women readers of
                     America."—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
               
               "Home, sincerity and truth, are invested with most attractive charms, and their
                  value enhanced by painful contrasts. While engaging the imagination by its
                  well-conceived plot, it makes all submit to its moral impression, and enlists the
                  reader's approbation exclusively with the virtuous and true."—New York
                     Evangelist.
               
               "Its great charm, like that of 'Alone,' consists in the sincerity which pervades
                  it, and in the delicate sentiments of love and friendship which, in all their
                  unadulterated sweetness, throw a magic grace over the whole volume."—New
                     York Day Book.
               
            
            
            

               THE LIFE AND SAYINGS OF MRS. PARTINGTON,
               AND OTHERS OF THE FAMILY.
               BY B. P. SHILLABER.
               1 elegant 12mo., 43 Illustrations, Price $1 25.
               "'Hang the books!' said an appreciative examiner, to whom we handed a copy for
                  inspection, 'I can't afford to buy them, but I can't do without this;' and
                  laughing until the tears ran, he drew forth the purchase-money. It is just so,
                  reader; you can't do without this book. It is so full of genial humor and pure
                  human nature that your wife and children must have it, to be able to realize how
                  much enjoyment may be shut up within the lids of a book. It is full of human
                  kindness, rich in humor, alive with wit, mingled here and there with those faint
                  touches of melancholy which oft-times touch Mirth's borders."—Clinton
                     Courant.
               
               "She has caused many a lip to relax from incontinent primness into the broadest
                  kind of a grin—has given to many a mind the material for an odd but not useless
                  revery—has scooped out many a cove on the dry shores of newspaper reading, and
                  invited the mariner reader to tarry and refresh himself. 'Ruth Partington' is a
                  Christian and a patriot. Such a book will go everywhere—be welcomed like a
                  returned exile—do good, and cease not."—Buffalo Express.
               
               "If it is true that one grows fat who laughs, then he who reads this book will fat
                  up, even though he may be one of Pharaoh's 'lean kine.' That it does one good to
                  laugh, nobody doubts. We have shook and shook while running through this charming
                  volume, until it has seemed as though we had increased in weight some fifty
                  gounds, more or less."—Massachusetts Life Boat.
               
               "A regular Yankee institution is Mrs. Partington, and well deserves the compliment
                  of a book devoted to her sayings and doings. She is here brought before the
                  public, which is so greatly indebted to her unique vocabulary for exhaustless
                  stores of fun, in a style worthy of her distinguished character."—N. Y.
                     Tribune.
               
               "There is a world of goodness in her blessed heart, as there is a universe of
                  quiet fun in the book before us. 'A gem of purest ray serene' glitters on almost
                  every page. Everybody should buy the book; everybody, at least, who loves genial,
                  quiet wit, which never wounds, but always heals where it
                     strikes."—Independent Democrat.
               
               "It is crammed full of her choicest sayings, and rings from title page to 'finis'
                  with her unconscious wit. It is just the book for one to read at odd moments—to
                  take on the cars or home of an evening—or to devour in one's office of a rainy
                  day. It is an excellent antidote for the blues."—Oneida Herald.
               
               "Housewives who occasionally get belated about their dinner, should have it lying
                  round. It will prevent a deal of grumbling from their 'lords,' by keeping them so
                  well employed as to make them forget their dinner."—New Hampshire
                     Telegraph.
               
               "Her 'sayings' have gone the world over, and given her an immortality that will
                  glitter and sparkle among the records of genius wherever wit and humor shall be
                     appreciated."—Worcester Palladium.
               
            
            
               ISORA'S CHILD.
               1 large 12mo. volume. Price $1 25.
               "IT IS A LOVE TALE OF THE MOST ENTRANCING KIND." Boston Daily
                     Traveller.
               
               "WHO IS THE AUTHOR? WE GUESS A LADY."—N. Y. Life Illustrated.
               
               "It is one of those few books of its class that we have read quite through—for we
                  found it to have the requisites of a good book, namely, the power of entertaining
                  the reader to the end of the volume. The story is not complex, but is naturally
                  told; the characters are drawn with sharp delineation and the dialogue is
                  spirited. It is something to add, in the present deluge of bad books with pleasant
                  names, both the morals and 'the moral' of the work are unexceptionable. It is
                  understood to be the production of a lady whose name is not unknown to the reading
                  public; and we congratulate her on the increase of reputation which 'ISORA'S
                  CHILD' will bring her when her present incognito shall be
                     removed."—Burlington (Vt.) Sentinel.
               
               "This book starts off with its chapter first, and introduces the reader at once to
                  the heroes and incidents of the really charming story. He will speedily find
                  himself interested as well by the graceful style and the skill with which the
                  different scenes are arranged, as by the beauty of the two principal characters,
                  and the lessons of loving faith, hope, and patience, which will meet him at the
                  turning of almost every leaf. This is one of the best productions of its kind that
                  has been issued this season, and promises to meet with warm approval and abundant
                     success."—Detroit Daily Democrat.
               
               "Another anonymous novel, and a successful one. There is more boldness and
                  originality both in its conception and in its execution than in almost any work of
                  fiction we have lately read. Its characters are few, well delineated, and
                  consistently managed. There is no crowding and consequent confusion among the
                     dramatis personæ. There are two heroines,
                  however, Flora and Cora, both bewitching creatures, and, what is better, noble,
                  true-hearted women, especially the former, Isora's child—the dark-eyed and
                  passionate, but sensitive, tender, and loving daughter of Italy. The work will
                  make its mark. Who is the author? We guess a lady, and that this is her first
                     book."—Weekly Life Illustrated.
               
               "Its incidents are novel and effectively managed; and its style possesses both
                  earnest vigor and depth of pathos, relieved by occasional flashes of a pleasing
                  and genial humor. Among the crowd of trashy publications now issued from the
                  press, a work as true to nature, and as elevated and just in its conceptions of
                  the purposes of life, as this is, is all the more welcome because it is so rare.
                  We have no doubt it will be as popular as it is interesting."—Albany
                     Evening Journal.
               
               "We have seldom perused a work of fiction that gave us more real pleasure than
                  this. From first to last page, it enchains the attention, and carries your
                  sympathies along with the fortunes of the heroine. The descriptive powers of the
                  unknown authoress are of the loftiest order, and cannot fail of placing her in the
                  first ranks of authorship.',—Cincinnati Daily Sun.
               
               "A story which perpetually keeps curiosity on the alert, and as perpetually
                  baffles it till it reaches its dénoûment, is certainly a good one."—Buffalo
                     Commercial Advertiser.
               
            
            
            

               JACK DOWNING'S NEW BOOK!
               WAY DOWN EAST;
               OR, PORTRAITURES OF YANKEE LIFE.
               BY SEBA SMITH, ESQ.
               Illustrated, 12mo. Price $1.
               "We greet the Major, after a long interval, with profound pleasure and respect.
                  Well do we remember how, years ago, we used to pore over his lucubrations on the
                  events of the time—how he enlightened us by his home-views of the Legislature's
                  doings, of the Gineral's intentions, and of the plans of ambitious Uncle Joshua.
                  Here was the 'spot of his origin,' and around us were the materials from which he
                  drew his stores of instructive wit. Therefore we, of all the reading public, do
                  the most heartily greet his reappearance. We find him a little more artistic than
                  of old, more advanced in grammar and orthography, but withal displaying the same
                  intimate knowledge of Down Eastdom, and retaining the same knack of genuine Yankee
                  humor. In fact, taking all things together, no other writer begins to equal him in
                  the delineation of the live Yankee, in the points where that individual differs
                  from all the 'rest of mankind.' This is his great merit as an author, and one
                  which the progress of manners will still further heighten—for it is only in some
                  portions of our own State that the real Yankee can now be found.
               "The present book has sixteen chapters devoted to home-stories. They are racy and
                  humorous to a high degree."—Portland Daily Advertiser.
               
               "It is now generally conceded that Seba Smith is the ablest, and at the same time
                  the most amusing delineator of Yankee life who has hitherto attempted that
                  humorous style of writing—not excepting even Judge Haliburton himself. This is no
                  rash expression, for there is not a passage in 'Sam Slick' so graphic, funny and
                  and comical, but we find equalled if not surpassed in the sensible and
                  philosophic, although ludicrous epistles, of 'Major Jack Downing'—epistles of
                  which we defy the most stupid to glance at a paragraph without reading the
                     whole."—Philadelphia News.
               
               "This is a book of real Yankee life, giving the particulars of character and
                  incidents in New England, from the Pilgrim fathers and their generations,
                  Connecticut Blue Laws, and the civic and religious rules, customs, &c., from
                  the Nutmeg State away down East, as far as Mr. Jones ever thought of going. It is
                  a very laughable affair, and every family in all Yankeedom will enjoy its
                     perusal."—Hingham (Mass.) Journal.
               
               "There are few readers who do not desire to keep up an acquaintance with the
                  original Major Jack Downing, whose peculiar humor, while it is irresistible in its
                  effects, is never made subservient to immorality. But these stories are an
                  improvement on those originally given by the author, as they are illustrative of
                  Yankee life and character in the good old times of the Pilgrim
                     Fathers."—Christian Advocate and Journal.
               
               "The stories are the most humorous in the whole range of Yankee literature, full
                  of genuine wit, rare appreciation of fun, and giving an insight into human motive
                  which shows the close observation and keen relish of life, of a good-humored
                     philosopher."—Saturday Evening Mail.
               
               "A charmingly interesting book, this, for all who hail from Down East, or who like
                  to read good stories of home life among the Yankees."—Salem
                     Register.
               
            
            
               EXTRAORDINARY PUBLICATION!
               MY COURTSHIP AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.
               BY HENRY WIKOFF.
               A true account of the Author's Adventures in England, Switzerland, and Italy, with
                  Miss J. C. Gamble, of Portland Place, London. 1 elegant 12mo. Price, in cloth, $1
                  25.
               The extraordinary sensation produced in literary circles by Mr. Wikoff's charming
                  romance of real life, is exhausting edition after edition of his wonderful book.
                  From lengthy reviews, among several hundred received, we extract the following
                  brief notices of the press:
               "We prefer commending the book as beyond question the most amusing of the season,
                  and we commend it without hesitation, because the moral is an excellent
                     one."—Albion.
               
               "With unparalleled candor he has here unfolded the particulars of the intrigue,
                  taking the whole world into his confidence—'bearing his heart on his sleeve for
                  daws to peck at'—and, in the dearth of public amusements, presenting a piquant
                  nine days' wonder for the recreation of society."—N. Y. Tribune.
               
               "The work is very amusing, and it is written in such a vein that one cannot
                  refrain from frequent bursts of laughter, even when the Chevalier is in positions
                  which might claim one's sympathy."—Boston Evening Gazette.
               
               "A positive autobiography, by a man of acknowledged fashion, and an associate of
                  nobles and princes, telling truly how he courted and was coquetted by an heiress
                  in high life, is likely to be as popular a singularity in the way of literature as
                  could well be thought of."—Home Journal.
               
               "The ladies are sure to devour it. It is better and more exciting than any modern
                  romance, as it is a detail of facts, and every page proves conclusively that the
                  plain, unvarnished tale of truth is often stranger than fiction."—Baltimore
                     Dispatch.
               
               "The book, therefore, has all the attractions of a tilt of knight-errants—with
                  this addition, that one of the combatants is a woman—a species of heart-endowed
                     Amazon."—Newark Daily Mercury.
               
               "If you read the first chapter of the volume, you are in for 'finis,' and can no
                  more stop without the consent of your will than the train of cars can stop without
                  the consent of the engine."—Worcester Palladium.
               
               "Seriously, there is not so original, piquant and singular a book in American
                  literature its author is a sort of cross between Fielding, Chesterfield, and
                     Rochefoucault."—Boston Chronicle.
               
               "With the exception of Rosseau's Confessions, we do not remember ever to have
                  heard of any such self-anatomization of love and the lover."—N. Y.
                     Express.
               
               "The book has cost us a couple of nights' sleep; and we have no doubt it has cost
                  its author and principal subject a good many more."—N. Y. Evening
                     Mirror.
               
               "The work possesses all the charm and fascination of a continuous
                     romance."—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
               
            
            
            

               A LONG LOOK AHEAD;
               OR, THE FIRST STROKE AND THE LAST.
               BY A. S. ROE, AUTHOR OF "JAMES MONTJOY; OR, I'VE BEEN THINKING," "TO
                  LOVE AND BE LOVED," ETS.
               1 vol. 12mo. Price $1 25.
               "The purpose of this book is so manifest to inspire juster estimates of life and
                  character, and its purpose is so well attained, that we improve the occasion of
                  noticing it to add our earnest approval of its lesson and moral, perforce of
                  convictions born of our own observation and experience. We have read the book
                  thoroughly, and like it as thoroughly. It is one of the very best books of its
                  kind, and the author and publisher have both 'done the state service' in placing
                  it before the public."—N. Y. Evening Mirror.
               
               "The story is beautifully told, and the characters are types of moral loveliness.
                  No one can read and ponder it, without the tears starting unbidden to the eye, and
                  sympathising hope irradiating the countenance. Such works do much to counteract
                  the evil tendencies of the mushroom trash that constitutes our bar-room and
                  "sporting" literature, and the thanks of the public are eminently due to both the
                  author and the publisher for this most acceptable counter current to the streams
                  of demoralization which are now sweeping over the land."—Binghampton
                     Republican.
               
               "The lover of the country, who knows its scenes and duties, who can delight in the
                  gambols of the young colt in the meadows, or enjoys the sweet perfume from the
                  haycock the breath of the cud-chewing cow—better still, he who can swing a scythe,
                  a cradle, or turn a smooth furrow, will undoubtedly relish this simple narrative
                  of country life, and the pure, unadulterated native American manners and customs
                  therein described."—Newark Daily Advertiser.
               
               "It has a charming simplicity and purity, and its characters have a freshness and
                  naturalness not often found in works of the kind. The impression of the story is
                  admirable—adapted to inspire the young with sentiments of self-reliance, honor and
                  integrity, and to produce charity and good feeling in all. The religious tone
                  which it exhibits is excellent, and a genial warmth pervades the whole
                     work."—N. Y. Evangelist.
               
               "It is not only far beyond the general run of what are called, by courtesy,
                  American novels, but it is superior to many books that have sold by tens of
                  thousands. It has positive merits of a high order. The dialogue, incidents and
                  characters are natural, and as a whole, it is an impressive production. We commend
                  the novel to our readers, as a pleasant book."—Boston Post.
               
               "Whoever commences reading what he has written, must give up the idea of attending
                  to other business until the story is read through; for there is such an Interest
                  excited in the subject that one is insensibly compelled to read on to the end.
                  There is a good spirit pervading his writings, which insensibly affects the
                     reader."—Boston Evening Telegraph.
               
               "You cannot finish five pages of this work (unless your heart be hard as adamant)
                  without finding all the home feelings stirred within you, and you read on and on,
                  unconscious of aught beside, unwilling to lay it by, until the last line is
                  finished. It opens with all the sweet simplicity of Goldsmith's 'Deserted
                     Village.'"—Albany Spectator
               
            
            
               BELL SMITH ABROAD.
               A Handsome 12mo. volume. Price $1 00. With Illustrations by Healy,
                  Walcutt, and Overarche.
               "Bell's sketches are instinct with life, they sparkle with brilliants, are gemmed
                  with wit, and address themselves to almost every chord of the human
                     heart."—Louisville (Ky.) Bulletin.
               
               "The readers of the Louisville Journal need no introduction from us
                  to Bell Smith. Her own brilliant pen, and her own sparkling, witching and
                  delightful style have so often graced the columns of this paper, and have made so
                  many friends and admirers for her, that we need say but little toward creating a
                  demand for this charming volume. But some tribute is nevertheless due to Bell
                  Smith for the real pleasure she has imparted in every chapter of her book, and
                  that tribute we cheerfully pay. Her admirable powers seem so much at home in every
                  variety and phase of life, that she touches no subject without making it sparkle
                  with the lights of her genius."—Louisville Journal.
               
               "She is ever piquant in her remarks, and keen from observation; and the result is
                  that her 'Abroad' is one of the most interesting collections of incident and
                  comment, fun and pathos, seriousness and gossip, which has ever fallen under our
                     notice."—Boston Evening Traveller.
               
               "It is dashing and vigorous without coarseness—animated with a genial
                  humor—showing acute and delicate perceptions—and sustained by a bracing infusion
                  of common sense."—N. Y. Tribune.
               
               "There are many delicate strokes, and not a little of that vivacity of description
                  which entertains. The author shows her best side when matters of home-feeling and
                  affection engage her pen."—N. Y. Evangelist.
               
               "History, art and personal narrative are alike imprinted in your memory by the
                  associations of anecdote, merry and grave, and you feel that you are listening to
                  the magical voice of 'Bell Smith' at home. Such volumes enrich and
                  honor American literature."—Philadelphia Merchant.
               
               "This is a capital book; full of life, spirit, vivacity and information—thoroughly
                  lady-like, and telling precisely what everybody wants to hear, so far as the
                  author knows."—Salem Gazette.
               
               "Spirited and artistic! Bell Smith sparkles, and dashes on, amusing and
                  interesting. A capital book for a leisure hour or railroad travel, or for those
                  seasons when you want to be pleased without effort."—Cleveland
                     Leader.
               
               "We like Bell Smith and Bell Smith's book. A lively, free, dashing style, she
                  talks on, and nothing is wanting but the merry laugh we know she is owner of to
                  make us think we are listening to a very interesting woman."—Chicago
                     Journal.
               
               "Lively, gossiping, chatting, witty, sparkling Bell Smith, we must confess your
                  book has quite enchanted us."—N. Y. Day Book.
               
               "In freshness, piquancy, and delightful episodes, illustrative of foreign life and
                  manners, they have rarely been equalled."—National Era.
               
            
            
            

               A BOOK OF RARE HUMOR!
               THE WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS
               BY FRANCIS M. WHITCHER.
               WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY ALICE B. NEAL.
               One volume 12mo., with 8 spirited illustrations by Dallas and Orr.
               Price $1 25.
               
                  Extract from a Letter to the Author by the late Joseph C. Neal
               "Our readers talk of nothing else, and almost despise 'Neal' if the 'Widow' be not
                  there. An excellent critic in these matters, said to me the other day, that he
                  regarded them as the best Yankee papers yet written, and such is indeed the
                  general sentiment. I know, for instance of a lady who, for several days after
                  reading one of them, was continually, and often at moments the most inopportune,
                  bursting forth into fits of violent laughter, and, believe me, that you, gifted
                  with such powers, ought not to speak disparagingly of the gift which thus brings
                  wholesome satire home to every reader."
               
                  CONTENTS.
                  Hezekiah Bedott.
                  The Widow Essays Poetry.
                  Widow Jenkins' Animosity.
                  Mr. Crane Walks in.
                  The Widow Discourses of Pumpkins.
                  The Widow Loses her Beau.
                  Mr. Crane about to Propose.
                  Mr. Crane Walks out.
                  The Widow "Sets her Cap."
                  The Widow Resolves to leave Wiggletown.
                  The Widow Trades with a Pedlar.
                  The Widow and Aunt Maguire Discourse on Various Topics.
                  The Widow having Heard that Elder Sniffles is Sick, Writes to him.
                  The Widow Resorts to Elder Sniffles for Religious Instruction.
                  The Widow concludes to Publish.
                  The Widow Prepares to Receive Elder Sniffles on Thanksgiving-Day.
                  The Widow Retires to a Grove in the rear of Elder Sniffles' House.
                  The Widow Writes to her Daughter, Mrs. Jupiter Smith.
                  The Rev. Mrs. Sniffles Abroad.
                  The Rev. Mrs. Sniffles at Home.
                  The Rev. Mrs. Sniffles Expresses her Sentiments in Regard to the
                     Parsonage.
                  Aunt Maguire's Experience.
                  Aunt Maguire's Description of the Donation Party.
                  Aunt Maguire Treats of the Contemplated Sewing Society at Scrabble
                     Hill.
                  Aunt Maguire Continues her Account of the Sewing Society.
                  Aunt Maguire's Visit to Slabtown.
                  Visit to Slabtown Continued.
                  Mrs. Maguire's Account of Deacon Whipple.
                  Mrs. Mudlaw's Recipe for Potatoe Pudding.
                  Morning Calls; or, Every Body's Particular Friend.
               
            
         
      
   
