
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. General Sheridan's Squaw Spy, and Mrs. Clara Blynn's Captivity Among the Wild Indians of the Prairies .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6517
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            General Sheridan's squaw spy, and Mrs. Clara Blynn's captivity among the wild Indians of the prairies
             
                GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY AND MRS. CLARA BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY VAMONG THE WILD INDIANS OF THE PRAIRIES. A THRILLING   NARRATIVE OF THE DARING EXPLOITS AND HAIR-BREADTH ESCAPES OF VIROqt) A, THE BEIROTED B1U DE OF MENOTI, A YOUNG CHIEF OF TE' OSAGE TRIBE OF WILD  INDIANS OF THE PRAIRIES; AND HER VALUABLE SERVICES TO THE WHITES. TO WHICH IS ADDED OF THE CAPTURE    SURFERINGS AND DEATH OF THE LOVELY MRS. CLARA BLYNN AND HER LITTLE BOY WIxTLIK. WHO WERE TAKEN PRISONERS AT SAND CREEK BY THE FEROCIOUS KIOWAH CHEF, SANTANA, AND BRUTALLY MURDERED BY HIM, WITHN SIGHT OF THE DRAGOONS SENT BY GENERAL SHERIDAN TO RESCUE THEM. This Narrative Will Bring Tears to Every Eye. PUBLISHED BY THE CO-OPERATIVE PUBLISHNG HOUSE 224 SOUTH THRD STREET. PHLADELPHA, PA. Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by C. W ALiEX tf i, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court in and for the Eastern Distriditf'" : : Pennsylvania.      GENERAL SIIERIDAN'S QUAW SPY AND            '   MRS. CLARA BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.  INTRODUCTION. Whoever has read the reports of Generals Sherman, Sheidan and Custer, must have been forced to the certain belief of two things:- First, that the Indians have for years been made the victims of political villains, who have cheated them in the most shameful manner; and Second, that notwithstanding this fact-any parleying with the Savages under existing circumnstances is worse than folly. Thie Indians have  only one mode of argument-viz., white people cheat them and all white people are responsible for it. So, instead of seeking to take vengeance upon the really guilty ones, they revenge their wrongs on the first whited i they come across.  This is the Whole secret of the Indian War. The results are horrible  in the extreme; for the Indians are bloodthirsty, and cannot be tamed, nor reasoned with; while the pioneer farmers are brave, determined and  will not retreat. Thus, in the war of races extermination must certainly be the fate of the Indians.  There are a few instances, however, in which individual Indians have never allowed their savage allies to sway their better judgments; and  these have rendered to the whites the most valuable services. Perhaps  no one has attained more distinction in this way than Viroqua, a hand- some young woman of the Osage Tribe of The Prairies. Her affianced lover was M[enoti, a rising young Chief of her tribe. One day he was waylaid and'murdered by Santana, Chief of the Kiowabs, who are the  hereditary enemies of the Osages. Most intense was the grief of Viroqua, and over the dead body of her lover she solemnly vowed, according  the most mysterious rites of the Indian belief, to revenge his 'irdr-      20        .GENEIAL SHSRIDAN'S SQUAW SPY: Taking from his belt the tomahawk and knife he used[ in battle, shhe" mounted his horse, and, dashingt from the village, ro( e to the nearest 'U. S. post which was Fort Cobb. She offtred her services to the whites; and from the: moment of their acceptance this Indian girlJbrave and wary, tracked Santaua like a blood hound. Sulnshire and storm were all one to Viroqt ua; and she, was not contented until she sLaw Santana a 'cap)tive in the hands of Sheridan and ordered for execution. "er attemlpts to rescue Mrs. Blynn and that lady's little boy from the Kiowa-hs were not only most praiseworthy, but daring in the extreme. The following narrative thereof, and also the capture,'sufferings and murder of ,Mrs. Blynn, forim togetlher, a most thrilling and heart reading story. For several days toward the middle of October, General Hazen the Commander of the Military Post of Fort Cobb had been somewhat ex- ercised about the hostile attitude of the Indians around the fort. So alarming did the nlanoevrosa of the savages become at last, that one evening the General called a Council of his officers to. consider what it woul bebest to do under the threatening aspect of affairs. In the midst of their- deliberations fhe orderly in attendance announced a young Indian woman of the Osages. She wished to see the General: As the Osagcs were. known to be friendly, the visitor was admitted. She walked into the rooml without a 'sign of tiraidity, and yet with such unaffected grace and dignitSy as to make a favorable impression at once. "What is your name? and what have you came here for?" asked Hazen pleasantly. My name Viroqua, me daughter of' Big Beaver great Chief of Osages. Menoti dead I! Santana hide oil the path lik;e coward, and kill Menoti t Oh Ime did love Menoti big heap I be his squaw next moon. But now lhe dead! me call in the morning; but he not answer! But the Great Spirit whisper among the trees, andn then me know Menoti gone to happy hunting grounds of his fathers. 'Me was pretty vine on Menoti's breast. He big oak tree, and me wrap mre all around him. But he fall dead and me wither now and die on the prairie with Menotil  * Santana bad Chief! Ugh! he coward I lie squaw he snake in the dark woods 1 lie hate pale face! Me hunt Santana! me lkill him I me 'give him to pale face! Me show ale face how to kill Santana I how to kill all the Kiowahsl how to take all the Kiowal ponies, squaws, papooses and meat! Me love Menoti I this his hatchet! hIis knife! Me  bate Kiowahs I Pale face let me hellp you? My great father has heard me," Her eloquence, and her agony of grief when she mentioned the name   AND .MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.         21 of Menoti, convinced all who heard her that she was telling the truth; and G;ciral Hzen1 was glad to obtain her services. And she took her departure ll happy, in the conllidence. which she saw' was placed in her. Viroqlua t lo i ot a nlo;lent be [ond what was 'actually/nIecessary for 4er preparations for the pperilou lvork she was about to u rdertake. She was fully cquipt:d by General Hazen for her journey; and, e dusk of the next dav w:ts falling she bade Fort Cobb adieu, and roe away im the direction of the Kiowah Camps of Santaua and Lone o W r o At that time thlle camps were situated hot far friom the rashita river tnid slhe was not long in reaching them. HeIr approach to the village of her enemlies was as cautious as that of a Wolf, for she well knew if she Were discovered by any one who could recognize her, death by horrible torture would be her speedy fate. Fortune favored her, however, and {Lknallv kste mingled among the women of the village without attracting finy sulspicio(HS notice. Onc/ in, it did not take her long to ingratiateF hterself in the lodge of 'a warrior who, with ten other men. was away on a war path to tihe Northwardl leaving of course no one-at home but the squaws. Viroqua represented herself as the daughter of Tall Tree an under chief of a band of Cheyenes with whoin the Kiowahs were very friendly. This Chief had been killed in a skirmish solmetime before, a fact of which Viroqua was aware, and took full advantage. There were other lodges. beside the one she had selrcted, into any of which she could just as easily have obtained admittance, but she chose this because it was situated within half an arrow's flight of the lodge of Santana. That celebrated leader was also away at this time, however, on the Warpath against the Whites, though his return was daily looked for. And atmon other women whom the Clieftain's favorite' squaw invited to assist in getting things ready for his reception was Vtirocqua. To have declined so great an honor would have subjected the latter to suspicion; and she, therefore joined in the preparations with seeming gladness though her heart'was overflowing with all the bitterness of which the Indialn's character is capable. She was completely reconciled too, when' she reflected that by this course she would be more likely to accomplisrf successfully her plan.  Four days after her arrival in the, village Santana returned with his warriors and was received with the most extravagant demonstrations of joy. There were several scalps among the party; and according to the savage custom these were danced on the second day. The following arb the details of this ceremonv. First at sun rise the gory trophies were hung up over the entrance of the medicine lodge, and a volley of twelve guns and as many arrows fired above-them to scare away the spirits of the owners from  whose heads they had been cut. Next they were stretched, on the euds, of long red willow-wands and the dance began. A circle of warriors was formed around those who had taken the scalp.     2        aIGENERAL SHEREIDAN'S SQUAW SPY: and the medicine men began a low, solemn cha-t, accompanied byv subdued drumming on gourds cut in half, and covered with the inner skin of a deer. After a certain title, one of the warriors spranr .into the centre of of the circle brandishing the scalps he had taken, and reciting, in a monotonous yet musical tune, his own brave deeds; all the time accom- panying his recitation with dancing- . When he had finished his singing , -though he still kept on dancing-he spradng to his next friend, and jerked him violently into the centre of the circle. This one now com- menced his narrative of heroism and self-laudation, the samne as the first had done. In this manner one was followed by another until all the braves who had taken scalps were dancing and yelping and whooping like demons. Meanwhile the medicine men kept up their chants and drumming, momenta rily growing more furious and louder as the dance ad- vanced. Nowr and then each of the dancing varriors leaped to some friend in the circle of squatting braves, and jerked him forward to join in the ceremony; so that after awhile the whole number were bounding, leaping, bending their bodies in almost impossible attitudes, shouting, groaning, yelling and screeching, and brandishing spears, hatchets and knives like perfect madmen or devils incarnate. Shear exhaustion alone put an end to the ceremony. Santana had brought with him as captives a beautiful white woman the unfortunate Mrs. Blynn-and her little boy Willie Blynn, the latter about two years and six months old. Mrs. Blvynn herself was not over twenty two, and possessed of raire personal beautyl. In truth it was this that had caused Santana to spare her, in order that he might add her to the squaws he already possessed; a- proceeding that not one of the latter dared object to, without the certainty of having her head split open with the Chief's tomahawk. With almost hellish shrewdness too Santana had spared Willie's life, not that he cared for it, but as he said: "If I kill white squaw's boy, she cry and fret, and then she get ugly I Me want to keep her pooty all the time." During the time that Viroqua remained in the village, which was about a week, she made two determined efforts to get Mrs. Blynn away from the place and she was so nearly succeeding the last time that the fugitives bad got half a mile distant and would have got clear away but from the fact that two Kiowah men out hunting came upon them accidentally and they were obliged to go back.     / On the first occasion Mrs. BIynn on account of little Willie being s:ck with dysentery had been driven from the lodge and sat nursing the child Wrapped up in a piece of old buffalo robe. The weather was exceedingly cold and damp, and in her solicitude for the child she put the robe round 'him, leaving herself with nothing but her ordinary clothes, which being torn in many places afforded her but little'protection frara the cold blasts of wind that drove over'the prairie. After awhile Willie fell asleep and   AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.        2' Viroqla seeing no one about went to the mother and said: "Will pale face go way with papoose to Fort Cobb, if Viroqua take you." "Oh! Godl Yes 1" answered Mrs. Blynn, in ecstasy at the mere idea. "I'll do anything for you, Viroqua, if you can only, guide me to some white post where I can get he'p for my sick child I" "Wait lhre till Viroqua go get blanket and meat; then we go way r  Me hate Santanal Me going to help Chief Hazen catch Santana and hang him. Eat this till Viroqua come back." So speaking the Indian girl gave Mrs. Blynn a piece .of dried buffalo meat and a corn cake. Carefully did the loving mother hide away in her clothing the greater part of the food for Willie when he should wake, eating but a small part herself. And then with a throbbing heart she waited the return of her brave friend. Hardly had the latter disappeared, however, when Santana came out of his lodge, and, seizing the little boy Mrs, Blynn. had in her arms, gave. it roughly to one of, his squaws to mind, and just as roughly taking hold of the poor mother he half dragged and half carried her into the lodge. But modesty, and pity for the miserable victim of savage violence forbid further record. Suffice it to say that at day light Mrs. Blynn was thrown into one corner of the lodge almost insensible, and her baby boy given to her again. The child was very fractious and cross, and the distracted mother found that the squaw who had nursed him had given him a deep scratch or cut on the side of the head, causing it to bleed very much. Thus was the- captive not only prevented from making her escape with Viroqua; but reduced to such a terrible condition that she prayed Heaven to kill her and her little boy. Indeed had it not been for her tender solicitude for her child she would have taken her own life. Viroqua found her again during that day, and endeavored to cheer her, assuring her that she would help her away as soon as the first opportuni- ty offered, and giving her food for herself and child, also a little salt. The opportunity came at last on the second day after, just before dawn, the determined Viroqua led Mrs. Blynn out of tae 'village, carrying the baby i for her, and holding a lap of her robe resolutely over his mouth in order that any cries he might utter should not create an alarm. In this way the two had safely gone about half a mile, when who' should spring out directly in their pathway, but two tall Indians, who had been out q:? hunting.                          ' Viroqua endeavored to persuade them to allow her and Mrs. Blynn to go oD, promising much to them provided they would let them go to Fort Cobb!           ,  The warriors replied that under ordinary circumstances they would not have stopped them, but as Santana was soon going bn- another war- path they must force them to go back to the village, becau s-fthey would warn the pale faces at Fort Cobb what the Indians intendedt6 do. Fined- /     24        GENERAL SIIERIDAN'S SQt AW SPY: ing it impossible to succeed, the fugitives returned to tho village, though Viroqua; coaxed the two warriors to say nothing of the- affair. V-IROQUA QOERS TO FORT COBB.   -  Fild(Eling that her efforts in behalf of the unfortunate captire were twice !, u us tlusirated, Viroqua, withh the natural superstition of the Indian uindltt, ltt so that som'c " bld n edici'e"' or spirit preventied, the escape of ' .s qlynlln, and turning her wol01e nlindi uponI her orig inal ob)ject. she set ;)ut for Fort (Cobb to give the valtuablC inforlmation she .had learned: re- !'ardting the intended movements of ilSanttna, Lone Wolf and several ithe:r Chiefs of Chleyenes, Siox and Kiow-ahs. There had been several occdalsions oi whchsh-hl could easily have k illed Santana, but what she most desired was to be able to say that through her the whole tribes had been defeated, and also to see Santana taken by the whites and hung like ' a dog. - F  these reasons did sle refrain from taking the life of her lover's enemy.  Once on the way to the Fort, Viroqua encountered a party of Sioux who chased heirand rould have slucceeded in c-apturing her had she not, turned in the saddlie and shot down the, foremost.1 Amid the con. 'fusion this unexpected event caused, the daring girl finally got away and reached the fort in safety. - There e e was soon closeted with the General eommanding and his offieers, and furnished them with information of the intended opeeations of the hostile chiefs. After she had concluded she said:  "You csatheee Santana? ybu hang himn like ldog'?"  We shall tild't certainly punish him suitably wheoatwe get him," was General Hazetie '.qreply. ' And iot only that, but I shall see that you are well rewarded for your services."  "Me daughter, of great chief! rae no Work fbr money 1 Me hate Santana! Mie- ate Kiowahs 1: . -Alhelp you ta'kel him; aund heaps Kiowah scalps and- pon'ies; 'buimenba waIlt; ' ward! Givoe 'ward to poor Iais4,  me rith . I lbaove gpokln t"  The: ea^Drnesaessf and iunspeakable dignity witth which Viroqua thus re: fasid al, reward forTwhat she- had. done or might do, ent: a thrill of admi:ratidn tihrough every One .of beir auditors. And Genet al Hagen was too thorou}hlSy tdqaainted with the Indias disposition to press the ac- ceptance of reward any more upon his faithful ally. ' "/ow   Pipo a" 'id be, . do: . you kinow the way to Fort Arbuckle "l 'Yes; ifr mWy palo botterwants Yiroqua to go there, she will go:like tln crow flies; straight! qutick!" -She ilhs:tratwtdli:er meaning with gr aseful motions of her hands and arms-'. "YeSe Wtish you to go there -as' faLst as. possible, and :cery7 this * ia/nkng wpeOr' (whait the- Iandiaas call a letter.) to tho General commandig at tlhat            , .   I--  ;-  -- "Uth shes my white suaw.! 8he make me mad I Me kill her and papoose too I [ saId the sar age niert, nerelgy. :' You. infernal red demon! , oxclaimed Genl Sheridan " llm hototT0  laFyUght tomorrow t I' teach you to murder lnocent women aad children t ,I  j     AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.   post. You shall have the fastest horse I have." , "Good!" exclaimed Viroqua, her brilliant black eyes sparkling like diamonds at the idea-of having a fine horse. General Hazeu like the shrewd man he is, instantly took advalntag of  this weak point of his dusky messellner, and added:  Y "Yes, Viroqua, it shall be my own horse, and vou shall keep him  always for yourself'"  "Oh! me glad I good! good!" exclaimed the delighlted Indian girl,. unable to repress her great joy, at being so honored as to receive the great White Chief's war horse as her own "to keep always." By the time General Hazen had concluded writing the despatch, an orderly brought the horse, which in truth was a magnificent anilmal, and within five minutes more Viroqua was speeding away to Fort Arbuckle. , The intentions of Santana and his fellow chiefs were to gather t eor a large number of, their warriors, attack Fort Cobb, massacre the I ole garrison; then attack the next nearest Fort; and serve it in the same way. By this time winter would be set in, and thus prevent any pursuit by the whites. In the meantime, before the grass grew again, they hoped through means of the Indian Commission, to gloss over the mas- sacres, throw the blame on some friendly tribe, and thus induce them to  dig up the hatchet, and help to exterminate all the white settlers and de- stroy the railroad to the Pacific. This was their general plot, the detailed movements of which exhibited remarkable tact, cunning and ferocity, even for Indians.  PREPARATIONS FOR DEFENSE.  The moment General Hazen had despatched Viroqua to Fort Arbuckle  he made preparations to defend his own post, in case he might be attacked  before help could reach him. As hits means for any extended siege were not at all adequate, the terrible nature of his task can only be partially  comprehended.  November had now set in; and sure enough, In atprdance with what  Viroqua had told the General,'the latter one afternoon behelds Santana, Lone Wolf and Tall Timber riding over the hills about half a mile away,  and accompanied by about one hundred warriors. .,ing their men Santana and Lone Wolf came in to the Fort and greetd';Gleneral Hazen in the most friendly manner.  "What are you doing out with your braves?" asked Genera4 Il n of Santana after some ordinary conversation.  "Oh, we out hunting," replied Santana half carelessly.  From his long experience among the savages, and his intimate know- ledge of their habits .and modis of dressing and painting, the General  knew that his ugly visitors were out for war, and be reoined: :      1 How is it vou are out hunting painted and dressed as you are- andi . -  28        GENEiRA, RISlERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY: besides when doul;know there is nuttling to hunt?"' "  Oh! 1wVll," ansvered Santana readily, "sonme of mrny braves going after heap)s of ponies that Osage come and drive away fronu our villages below. How muanv white braves you got here in f rt?" General Iuazen rose fIrom the clhair on whicht ie was sitting, and laying hishlland upon the savage's shoulder, while he fixed his eyes steadily at Satanals said: "Santana has a double tongue and two faces. You say you .are out hunting! .You are not! You say you are the white menl's friend I You mlrc not! I know- all about '.you; and I have enough' white braves here to take all your scalps i And I ihave sent for a great. many more who are now coming here. I do not wislh to hurt you; )but otou must do nothing twrong.  1 have spoken; that is all; and I want you to go away now. Ifi?   1want fight the white nlau is ready, and you will all lose your The Chief, and also Lone Wolf, eyed General Iazecn for full a minute in silence, as though trying to read his thoughts; .bit he kept his fea- tures as stolid as their own.  .  Finlally the two stepped to a corner of' the room and conversed in an undertone. Then Santana replied that he was sorry his white brother had mistaken their inrtentions, and that they were going away with their braves; but woould cotne back agarin soon and show hm they were friend- ly. Int this mood they took their departure; and with their warriors dis- appealred across the adjacent hill. General Hazen, als they left, iemnarked with melaning, emphasis: "You say you will come back and show us your friendship. I shall take care to have many more- of my white braves here to receive you well." It was two'days after this thafl Yirorqua returned, and brought GCeneral Hazen a letter fronm the comllmander at Fort Dodge saying that he would dispatch at least one compan'y of men at once, and' communicate with General SheridanirteZgrd to the emergency, The day following Santana canl e back also biut as Yiroqua wished, if possible, to go back to his village and help Mrs. llAynn to escape, she: kept out of the Chief's sight so that he could not recognize her as having been at the Fort. Santana stalked into the Fort having left his warriors over on the other ti:fi the-hills out of sight. He asked General Hazen if the white braves had come yet. The General replied they had not--a fact Santana could easily see fot himelf--but that he was expecting them every houtr. The Indian smiled grimly, and then inquired of Hazen if he would put -tm some' tobaceo as he had none. It was thought better not to refuse, itw 6: pound was handed over to the savage. The man who gave it to him noticed that he had some in his pouch already; and   AND, MRS. BLYNDNS CAPTIVITY.     "   29 told him of it. Santana made a great fuss instantly, remarking that he had the inclination to tomahawk him for daring to watch a ' big chief' like him.                  .   . Some reply was made when Santana actually dealt the man a heavy back hand blow in the mouth. So incensed was the soldier that he would have killed his assailant on the spot had he not been restrained by an officer present. The Kiowah Chief muttering savagely, left the fort, and was presently out of sight over the hills. But he did not go unf, wed . for his deadly euemy Viroqua, tracked him steadily step for stl yet , so adroitly and cunningly that he was; unaware of the fa$b.. In about two hours she returned and informed General Hazen that Lone Wolf and Tall Timber and some other Chief she did not know were on the other side of the hills; that Santana joined them after he came from the Fort, and that finally after a long and earnest conversa. tion they all shook their tomahawks toward the' Fort. With them there were now at least two hundred men fully armed and painted for war. This information alarmed the little garrison of Fort Cobb, and most earnest were the prayers that were Bent up for the safe and speedy arrival of the reinforcements that were marching to their relief. On the succeeding day Santana with about a dozen bad looking Indians entered the Fort and behaved in a :-.ery impudent way, apparently doing all in his power to provoke some violence on the part of the whites, and thus furnish him with an excuse for commencing the massacre. But mnuch as the General commanding was galled by this, he restrained not only himself but also his men, and so, notwithstandingthe most outrageous in. sults were offered by the Indians no notice was taken of them. Just  before General Custer had his battle on the Washita with Black Kettle's band of Cheyenes, all the Indians suddenly disappeared fromlthe vicinity of Fort Cobb, which led General Hazen to suppose that Santanasa-had changed his plan of action and would now attack one of the other fote. So once more he sent out Viroqua with warning dispatches, and was very much surprised to learn, when she came back, that' the enemy had not gone to any of the other posts. But Viroqua could not easily give up the pursuit of her hated foe; and of her own accord she again mnade off; this time resolved to go to the villages on the Washita.  Reaching the 'latter she found Mrs. Blynan still suffering from the:  brutalities that were daily inflicted on her, but still bouyed up with the ; hope of saving her little boy, Willie, who had got better of his sickness . -though he was ye t very weak. There she found Santaa' also with all his warriors. They having concluded. that their plot of massacre bad been discovered by  the whites, had seemingly given it up . and then retired to this distant and secluded spot, Assured that they :,wuld not be followed through the heavy snows of Winter by tho T. S. troops. hile ia thq village, Ohe again saw poor Mrs;  Blyan who was yet still     30        GENERAL SHERIDAN7S SQUAW SPY:, suffering daily torments at the hands of the savages, and had been so dis. figured by the Squaws as to be scarcely recognizable. iroqua proemised to tell General Hazen and if he could he would send a ransom for her and the child Willie. Viroqua had conceived a brilliant idea; which was nothing more nor less than that she would hasten back to General Hazen and offer to guide his, or Gen'l. Sherida'ns troops to the Villages of the hostile Indians; who, not c:cting any attack could thus be surprised, and receive a lesson whic   a-tlo d cause them to respect the authority of the U. S. Govern ment. The brave, resolute girl spared neither herself nor horse till she reached Fort'Cobb and laid before its commander her plan. The value thereof was instantly seen by G(eneral Hazen, and tie dispatched Viroqua at once with a letter of introduction to General Shaeridan, knowing that dashing, earnest soldier wasjust the man to give the savages what they so much needed,. While the devoted spy is speeding away from FOrt Cobb, let us revert to the story of Mrs. Blynn; who, with her little bojr, Willie, fell a victim to the brutality of the Indians. MRS. BLYNNI'S CAPTIVITY. Mrs. Blynn's maiden name was H'arrington, she being the daughter of W. T. Harrington, Esq., of Franklin County, Kansas. She was married in 1865, at the early age of nineteen, to Mr. R. F. Blynn. She was ex- ceedingly beautiful, and so gentle and amiable in ier disposition that al who knew her loved and respected her. Being w11 to do, and vet of active and ambitious temperaments, the newly wedded couple went away to the Pacific Coast in the belief, or at least the hope, that they could build themselves up a fortune it that land of golden promise. Like many who had precede:d them, however, they found the reality far different from the first appearance; and so, after r'king a strong effort to get along, theygave it up, and determined on returning to Kan- sas. About this time the Indistns were becoming exceedingly trouble- some on the Plains; attacking nearly every wagon train, driving off the stock, burning the wagons, killing the men and Capturing the women. But the train which Mr. and Mrs. Blynn proposed to travel with was a strong one, and all were confident of being able to repel any attack that might be made during the journey. The night before they started, Mrs. Blynn had a strange dream, which so impressed her that she told it to her husband, and remarked she thought it wasa bad omen. This was the dream. She dreamed that the wagon train had halted by a running stream to camp, when suddenly the sky was overcast. Looking up she beheld heavy clouds rolling, but instesad of their natural color they were of a        AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.         33 deep blood red. Just then her baby which was asleep in her lap screamed and she saw a copper colored hand bave bold of him dragging himl out of her arms, thhough she could not see the Indian's body. All of a sudden she beheld her husband fall dead, and at the same moment some one seized her and was carrying her away as she woke up. Mr. Blynn only laughed at her for her superstition, telling her that she had had the dreamL because of having talked so much about the Indians the day before. Still, even after they had started on their return to Kan- sas the vision continued to make a deep impression on the. mind of tie wife. We do not pretend to assert that the strange dream was or wams not what the fated woman claimed it to ,be-au omen; but there, is no denyingz the fact that there have been warning visions occur to people from the tinme of Adam down to the present day, explain them away as we will. The train had not been out many days before it encountered the In. dians. Fifty or sixty Sioux warriors were seen on a distant roll of land, who, on the approach of the party galloped away, but presently rec- appaefed on the South side and a little in the rear of the whites, The latter believing that an attack was about to be made, at once placed all the loose animals and wagons containing the women and children be. tween the large wagons which were arranged in an oblong shape. Seeing this precaution, and most likely  fearing a desperate resistance, the savages, after circling round the column at the distance of a quarter of a mile or so, andr firing a few shoto went off with yells of rage and dis appointment. Several times within the succeeding two days did the travelers see Indians; but none of them came close enough to make any trouble. This inspired the whites with a vast amount of confidence. in t'Beir power to frighten away red skins, and the men began to boast of their prowess. But the great catastrophe had only been delayed.     v The column had reached Sand Creek, and was just in the act of cross. ing when suddenly the wild yells of Indians fell upon their ears. They looked toward the sounds, and there they beheld a band of strange In- dians, Cheyenes, charging down upon them. Two wagons had already got into the stream; and instead of hastening'the rest across, and thus putting the creek between themselves and their pursuers, the, whites drove the two back out of the water, got them entangled among tihe others, and'in a moment had everything in confusion. Confusion is ex- actly what the Indians like, and the Cheyenes now began shouting, whooping and firing their guns'furiously in order to cause a stampede of the live stock. This was speedily accomplished, and in five minutes all the animals except those which were too well secured to the wagons, were dashing away over the Prairie. -2      34        GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQTlAW SPY: The Indians being, well aware that they could secure the horses at thcir ownl conlvenience now, ilcrel]y sent two young ncen to keep thorn it ,;ihllt. uindl lelt turned their full attention to the tlian of wagons. Il their ui-,al manner thev began to circle round these aind at short inter- v ils to talsh in at any exposed point and fire a voliley of arrows and Mi1. IBlynn was killed at the second fire, while standing before the wago"l ill which were his wife a;nd child.  "God help them!" was all hle said, as, firing his rifle at the Indians for t'C.\ last tinme he sank down dead. For awhile longer the mnen stood and returned the fire of the savages, but when the latter charged the fiflh time the whites Iled like a plack of cowards, leaving their wounded, all their wagons, and the women and children in the hands of the victors.  Sat tana-for it was he who led the band, which was Imade up of C eyenes proper and his own Kiowahs-sprang in first, and was followed by his braves, to whom fie issued orders to let the, cowardly pale faccslrun away without pursuit.                    i It did not take many minutes for the savages to ep:amine the wagons and their contents, and to scalp the dead and w'ounded. d  There were seven women and three children in the centre wagons. Two of the children were girls; one about twelve years old and the other about fourteen. They were named  l[ary and Sarah BroNwn. These poor children were at once seized by the Indians, strippedi and horribly vioe. lated by at least a dozen of the red ruffians. And more horrible yet to relate, as each brute sated his passions, he would( draw his knife and cut a deep score on the quivering body of the victim. Alas! no helping hand was near; and these helpless children were actnally dead before the last savage sunk his tomiahawk into their brains. T1he grown women, with the exception of Mrs. Blynn, were also ravished, each by several of the band. And Mrs. Blynn would have met with a I ke fate, but for the reason that, attracted by her great beauty, Santana to k her for his own special prize as is elsewhere narrated in this book. Immediately after the perpetration of these hellish satrocities; and having secured all the plunder that they thought worth carrying away with them, the savages set fire to .evry wagon, and with' te horses they had taken from the traces, set out in the direction of their villages. Shortly after they started they were joined by the others who had gone after the stampeded aninmals. These had succeeded in regaining them all, and the whole party now moved forward in baste, fearing the runaway whites would get to a fort and have the U. S. troops after them before they could reach a place of safety. Jrrs. Blynn's child, Willie, :wo yeaas old, cried very much, rwhbich so angered Santana, that once he wzed him by the heels and was on the point of dashing his brains out -   AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.         35 qrhe mother in agony sprang forward and caught the child, and tussled so bravely with the intende1d mnurderer that e laughbed and said: "U. Jl!  U!h ! You cry so you be ugly! No! Santana not kill papoose; then vou not fret! not git ugly I Take .papoose I not kill him." With these words the Chief gave Willie to his mother again, and mounted her upon a pony behind his own horse. Finding thathy keeping pleasant she pleased her savage captor, Mrs. Blynn endeavored, nofto dwell upon her own horrible situation and the awful life in store -for her; but to sacrifice all in the hope that some event would occurby: w-hich she tumight be rescued and restored to her friends with her child. It was-for him, the jewel of her heart, that she made and adhered tO this resolution. The frienthip of Santana was fortunate in one respect, which was that it saved Mrs. Blynt from rudeness and insult by the other Indians. Wthen her captors approached the Washita, group after group dropped away froll the thain column, taking with them the women whom they had prisoners, until, on the arrival at Santana's village, Mrs. Blvnu was left al-,I of all the seven. Now it was that her hardships began in reality. For a day or two Santana fed her well; but after that she had to get all that she ate from the squaws in the same lodge with her, and as these bags of women. were terribly jealous of her, they refused to give her anything either for herself or Willie, and took delight in cuffing and kicking her whenever they had an opportunity. It was about this time that Viroqua came to the village first, and the noble and daring efforts of that brave girl made in the prisoner's behalf are already known to the reader. Shortly after the second attempt was made to escape, Santana with his men went otii:- again to attack a train, leaving the squaws at home with Mrs, B1ynIn. This was a chance the wretches had earnestly looked for, and the Chief had not gone two miles from the village when they got together and made up a plot to torture the forlorn captive, who was now entirely in their power. The details were quickly arranged and ready to put ina exe cution. At a signal from the Chief's hitherto favorite squaw-but who -had been neglected since Mrs. Blynn had been in the lodge-a dozen squaws seized the victim, and, with her child, Willie, hurried her to a clumup of woods in the midst of which was a small clearing. One. of them drove a short wooden stake into the ground, while another fastened one end of, a raw-hide rope, some ten feet in length, about the waist of Mrs. Blynn; the other extremity being tied to the stake. The captive was thea nearly stripped, and the squaws, forming a regular circle around her, made her run round- as fast as she could, each giving her a hard cut with a tough switch or strip of raw hide. Her shoes were next pulled off, and .the squaws lighting sticks, touched her bare feet with them, and told her to ,* ;.          s      36       GasEN RAL SEtERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY: dance, When she was too much exhausted to ma)e any violent motions, these? she ficuds took thin, sharp Splinters of resinous wood, and, thrusting thern into the tenderest portions of Mrs. Blynn's bodyv, set them -on fire, thus inflicting on her the most excrutiating torture. Finally the favorite squaw spoken of before, in a fury of passion, took a sharp edged shell she wore as an ornament, and cut a deep gash in each oi hervietim's cheeks. The others following suit, inflicted awful wounlds up6p poor Mrs. ' Blynn; till at last her face, breasts and limbs were ore mass of wounds, blood and blisters. Gunpowder, was now rubbed ov r the quivering body ^ of the victim ; and. when, in her agony she screamed, dirt and filth were stuffed into her mouth. While all this frightful barbarity was going on, a hideous squaw held little Willie in full view of his mother, and when -the poor child screamed and. struggled to get to her, she would lift him clear t off the ground by the hair of his head and cut him with a stick exclaiming: "Dam white puppy! me makee good I See!"  There is no doubt but that the savage fiends would have tortuid both mother and child to death, and then told Santana that she had escaped. But .at this juncture an old man passing by, beard thb cries and'screams, land entering the woods, beheld what was going on. Ite at once stopped it, not that he cared for, or had a spark of pity for Ithe victims them. selves; but he knew that Santana would be exceedingly angry at losing his prize. So be threatened to tell the Chief, which the squaws fearing he would do, begged him not to, and promised him ma y presents in case he complied'. They took their victim back to the village and set about healing up her wounds; which they did within a few days by the ap. plication of some particular herbs, known only to the wild Indians of the plains. Previous to this awful ordeal 1Mrs. Blynn had written to the General Commanding the Department; Whoever he might be.!The paper she got from some that hnadbeen brought from the wagons to the village, and she had a piece of led pencil about an inch long. Viroqus took this letter for her and we insert it in this connection. .No, eye can read its heart- touching lines without growing dim with tears. Saturday, November 7, 1868,  iowah Village on Washita River. KIND FRIEND:   Whoever you may. be,:if you will only buy .us from the Indians with ponies or anything, and let me come and stay with you until I can get word to my friends, they will pay yVo  well; and I will work for you also; and do all I cain for you. If it is not too far to this village, and you are not afraid to come, I pray you Fill try. The In- dians tell me as nearly as I can understand, they expect traders to come to whom thiey will sejl us. Can iyou find out by the bearer and let me know if it is white nmen. If it is :Mexicas, I am afraid they will sell us into slavery in Mexico. If you con do' nothing for Ee, write for God's -!..   AND 'MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.        3 ske, to W. T. IIarrington, Ottawa, Franklin County, Kansas-my father. Tell him we are with the Kiowahs or Cheyenes, and they say when the white amen make peace we can tgo home. Tell him to write to the Govern- ment of Kausas about it, and for them to make peace. Send this to hiL please. We wore taken on October 9th, on the Arkansas below Fort Lyon. My name is Mrs. Clara Blynn. My little boy, Willie Blynn, is two years old., Do all you can for mue; write to the Peace Commissioners to make peace this Fall. For our sake do all you can, and God will bless you. If you can let me hear from you, let me know what ycu think about it. Write to my father; send him this. Good bye!  MRS. R. F. BLYNN. P. S I am as well as can be expected, but Ily baby-my darling, darling little Willie is very weak. Oh! God help him! Save him, kind friend--even if you cannot save me. Again; good bye." Santana did not return until a few days previous to the attack made upon his and Black Kettle villages, by General Custer. He had succeeded well, bringing with him a number of ponies and much plunder, including a whole mail that had been captured from the carriers on the Plains. The -scalps of the unfortunate nlen also hung at his spear's shaft. 'The first day was spent in revelry and drunkenness, -and again was Mrs. Blynn subjected to the most horrible abuse by Santana. After the debauch was over, and Santana found out how his squaws had 'mal. treated and disfigured bis'captive, be flew into a great rage, and seizing the cone who was nearest to him, he plunged his knife repeatedly into her breast, cursing het bitterly at each blow. The others fled and thus saved themselves from his vengeance. After the dded was done, remorse took the place of anger, and Santana moaned over the dead body of his sq uaaw as tenderly. as though she had been killed by some one else than himself. But after this event he no longer cared for Mrs. Blynn; and in- fonned her that as :she had made all this trouble in his lodge. she must work now and do all the drudgery. ftI the poor, miserable captive had it hard before, her future fate was ten times harder;, for, no longer having the Chief's favor, she became the object of the most- terrible brutality,' even the girls' add boys being allowed to kick and abuse her as they pleased. Once in the desperation of despair, Mrs..Blynn, holding her little boy. close to her bosori, ran out of the village, resolved to escape somewhere ;' or at least to make her tormentors kill her and Willie.- But, with the shrewd refinement of cruelty, those who pursued her, hissed the dogs on ber and allowed the brutes to bite her terribly before they called them off. The poor captive now believed herself deserted by Heaven, and sank into a semi-4dioti condition, sitting icontinaallyvin one Spot in the vifage holding Willie in her lap. Many of the Indians thought that he had gone crazy, and refrained from hurting or tormenting her. Nb'o would a.      38        GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY: they allow those who did not think her mad to harm her. tThe Indians never injure an idiot or 1maLd person, as they religiously believe that the Great Spirit'has thus afflicted thel for some good pur. pose. Editor.] Santana did not think Mrs. Blynn was imad; b-I)t, even Chief as he was, he dared not question the superstition of his people. Thus did Mrs. Blynn pass her time from that day up to the morning J of the battle, whcen General Sheridan's gallant soldiers, under the imme- diate command of the intrepid General Custer, came charging with loud huzzas upon the village. Black Kettle's camp was the first attacked, though all the village was of course aroused. It was just breaking day, and Mrs. Blynn hearing the yells, lhuzzas, and firing, sprang out, her heart beating wildly with mingled hope and dread. Through the cold grey libht she peered, and 'suddenly there came dashing forward a column of U. S. Dragoons guided by Viroqua; who, pistol in hand, fought like an Amazon. The ' thought of being at last saved, completely unnerved, the poor nliorher; and, bursting into tears, she was compelled to sit down, sobbing in tremb- ling, happy tones: "Oh Willie I Willie! Mammaa and Willie's saved at last I Don't be afraid darling; mamma will hold you safe!" The words 'were yet on her lips, when, like a wild beast, Santana sprang behind her, and buried his tomahawk in her head. He also fired two shots into the qilivering body of his victim as she sank back dying. Another instant and little Willie' was in the monster's grasp, his head dashed against a tree, and then, lifeless and limp, the dead baby boy was thrown like a doog upon his mother's breast.. Most touching scene of all the mother, even in the agonies nf death, retained the idea of saving her child, and unconsciously from the moment of receiving her death blow, she had been reaching forth her wasted arms as thlough groping for him in the dark., And now as his body was flung down up her bosom, the same arms instinctively, spasmodically clasped him atyi:' never more to let him go-for "in this way were the corpses found by General Sheridan and his staff, when searching for ithe bodies of Major Elliott- and his comrades. Mrs. Blynq and Willie, with the bodies of the white soldiers, were carried tienderly to Fort Cobb, and there in one grave, just outside the stockade, mother and child lie sleeping peacefully enough after ther terrible captivity and sufferings. VIROQUA ON SANTANA'S TRACK. Night and day did Viroqua ride, never halting more tha an an hour or two at a time to take necessary rest, until she arrived at General Sheri- dan's headquarters; when she at once demanded an audience with the - 'a'   *    f.   AND MRS. BLY2N;S53 CAPTIVITY.       39 Commander of the Department, and presented him with her letter of introduction. The General, while reading the dispatch smiled to himself and said: "Well, well, that is exactly nly own plan. 1 had determined on it .a month ago." Then addressing the Indian maiden, he inquired of her if she could and would guide the troops directly to the Kiowah villages on the Washita.  riroqua of course as;,ur'el himl in the affirmative,and detailed to him her previous .history exactly as she hfd lone to General Hazen. General Sheridan is all old and experienced Indian lighlter, and he felt certain that in Viroqua he had a most valuahle assistant. "Well," rejoined he, when the Indian girl had done, " you shall stay here with me, Viroqua, until tomorrow afternoon, when I will send you with one of my soldiers to General Custer. It is his column you will guide to Santana', village, and if I can only catch Santana and Lone 'Wolf I will see tlWat both are hung or punished in some way for the horrible atrocities they have co mmitted'" On the succeeding afternoon Viroqua remounted her horse and set forth in' company with Conrad AT'eiler, the soldier to whom General Sheridan had referred, for General Custer's camp in the field. This Conrad Weiler was an eccentric fellow. Tall, with a Herculean and yet shapely firame, he was physically a splended man. IIiS history was a mysterious one. He had lived in Gernany, France and Canada, and could talk the peculiar languages of each country with grace and ease. Ie had served in both the German and French armies, and' after leavingr Canada, struck into the Plains, where he lived by he led nting and trapping. He was as brave as a lion, as gentle as a young girl, and yet as astute and shrewd as a diplomatist. Added to this he was as true as steel, and could be defended on as surely as the needle points to the pole.  Taking quite a fancy to the brave, bluff Sheridan, he asked and obtained permission to serve him. This was the more readily- granted Conrad's services were highly valuable to the military operations. The soldiers used to call him "Little Phil's Pet," and he was liked by every one of them.           ;  In this eccentric man Viroqua had an excellent protector, if the term might be used in regard to her, who had gone through so many dangers and accomplished so many daring deeds alone and unaided, amidat roving linds of savage enemies in the pathless wilderness. But t'hey were well mnatched, and enjoyed each other's .company exceedingly, aa each knew sufficient of the others language to well understand every- thing. General Sheridan did not send his "Pet" with Viroqua -for pro. tection, however, but merely because he wished him to take s8me dis- patches to General Custer. I due time the two arrived in General Custer's camp, and within     40        GENERAL SHERIDAN'S QUAW SPY: half an fcof'i after that, the troops were delighted to see unmistakable- signs of ac:tivity. resentldy it was announced that the column waa: about to mlnove forward in searchl of the hostile Indians. The men were highly elated at the prospect of a brush with the savages and could hardly be restrained from continual cheering. Mules were hitclied, horses saddled, pieces looked after, and wagons arranged. .Finally all being ready, the "Forward" wa' sounded and the march be l'azif Viroqua riding well ahead mounted on the splendid horse - General Hazen hbad given her. As she rode and managed her steed, most beautifully she was the object of many an econium. Aod she was indeed a proud and lovely woman to look at. General Custer, himself (who if he has one weakness it is in regard to horses and horsemanship) did not cease to admire his dusky and determined guide. Hle rode much-beside her, and while so doing conversed gaily with her. "f Viroqgua,. said he, after listening to her history of herself and the murder of her lover, "I know what reward would please you best; and if I can I will fgratify you. You shall have Santana's scalp!" "Ugh! Uh !" exclaimed Viroqua, "No I me no want scalp of a squaw Chieffl a snake in the woods! Santana coward-l he old wonan I he dog! IUgh! no! Me help catch Santana; and then you hang him like doFg and the buzzards get his scalp!" "mWell, so far as I am, or General Sheridan is, conc rned, your wish shall be gratified, and Sanshall hall be hung like a dog as he richly -deserves to be," replied Custer.        I "Good I Oh, me glad I for then Menoti be revenged, land Viroqua will go to the spirit land. And her people will call her in 'the morning and at sun down, and they will hear the Grea, Spirit whisper in the long grass of the Prairie, and tell themn: Viroqua gone away to Menoti in the Spirit land! Oh I me love Menotil"       I After this the Indian girl remained silent, but steadily rode on, leading the avenging column behind her to the defeat of her hated foe Salntana^, When the march first began the weather was comparatively mild; buti- within a few hours, the wind rose and blew a perfect gule, bringing withi it a heavy fall of snow, Which beat into the faces of the ladvancing troops and almost blinded them. Yet stern I and determined, like a marble statute, wrapped in her buffalo robe, sat Viroqua in her saddle, -and forced her steed forward through the driving tempest. tHer example bad a wonderful effect on the men, for when they beheld the endurance and bravery of this Indian girl they could not but tramp resolutely after her. As e column began to come within the region of the villages of the foe, great caution was exercised to prevent any alarm being conveyed to the latier. Flankers and out-riders were sent well ahead and on the flanks, with orders to capture or kill every wandering or lurking Indian -    1;i ,   4ND MRS. BLYNNS8 CAPTIVITY.         41 they should fall i with. 'Strangely enough, after the eccentric Conrad eiler, the most reliable scouts and trailers were a- party of friendly Indians belonging to the Osage tribe. Thus, with these sharp-sighted wary men thrown out, General Custer's column moved forward through the wildernesslike a great centipede feeling cautiously for the unseen enemy it had doomed for its prey. When the column had crossed the Canadian river, Viroqua informed the General that it would be safe now to throw out at least one flying detachment in a certain direction she named, and then to move the main columtn down stream five miles, and await the return of the scouts. This was done, Major Joel H Elliott being detailed on the important duty. Hardly had General Custer gained his camp before courriers and scouts camne galloping in with word that a fresh trail of a returning war partvygoing in the direction of the village had been crossed. At this in- telligence Viroqua became almost wild with excitement. Springing upon her horse at a single bound she exclaimed: "Let the pale face braves fly after Santana like the war 'agle of the mountains, or the Kiowahs tell hima we coming and he run away." Five minutes later and the bugle sounded "Forward," and the columa marched gaily to the conflict. At the- same time the storm which had lulled, recommenced with fury; but heedless of its peltings, Viroqua rodel onward iering through the gloomy expanse before her for the first glimpse of Santana's lodges, toward which she was guiding the column straight, unerring as the hawk flies. 'In order to expidate matters General Custer bhad only taken three days rations with 'him, leaving the train under a guard of ninety men under Lieutenant Mathey. Thus he moved very fast, and going across country, struck Major Elliott's column. The whole command now pushed onward with the utmost speed. Expectation and excitement pervaded every man from General Custet down to the humblest soldier. The Osages, trailers and scouts with Viroqua at their head; took the lead. Night came on; but their was no halting yet. The foe was known to be near, and forward moved the column. Viroqua and her Osages' now rodeompletelv out of sight, but presently galloped back and the command came suddenly to a halt, i K. iowahs 1 heaps lodges1 Cheyenesl heaps lodges I heaps sqtuawslI heaps ponies!" exclaimed Viroqua; in bated breath to General Custer. This was sufficient, and, leaving thecolum ththe gallant Commander rode away with the Indian scouts to reconnoiter the position of the enemy's village, and decide on a plan of attack. Viroqua led the way to the top of a ridge, and pointing down into the valley below, at a mass of dark objects, while her black eyes fairly flashed with hate and joy, she whispered:  "There!"  Then followed a dead slence for several minutes; during which Genersa     "        GENERAL $SIA-RIDAN'S SQUAW SPY: Custer examined the distant objects through his field glass. But the in.. spection did not satisfy himil exactly. "I think that is a herd of buttaloes!' said he. The artist never lived that could have. properly painted the expression that flashed upon the face of Viroqua at these-to her--appalling words, She stared at Custer almost irvacailtly for a minlute, in' the dim moon, light. Like a flash of lighltningr, however, intense satisfaction then il- luminated her expressive features, as jerkilng up her finger in a warning position, bending her head forward in the direction of the villages, and still keeping her eyes fastened upon Custer, she said: "Hark! buffalo no wear bell!" Custer listened intently, and aisure enough, up through the cold gloom of the valley, came the tinkling of a bell, evidently about the neck otSa horse or cow. "That's enough!" said Custer. "You're right; buffaloes dou't sport bells." Then he took another survey of the doomced village; and satisfying himself as to the proper node of attack, he innmmediately returned in company with his scouts to the anxious soldiers who; awaited tim with impatience. To make sure of halvingl no mistakes, lie rode back to the ridge, taking with hiin the offiicer's to whom he iw s going to intrust the various converging columns, and (xplained hiis Ialns, and all details to them thoroughly.        .        j The village lay in a line along the South b)ank of thne Washita in the following order; first, the rralipahoes, next the Kiowahs and Cheycnes, and last the Sioux. Evervthing, being undetrstood, tre officers soon re- :oined the troops, which were divided inlto four separato commands as follows- Righl t Coluimn, Comganices 1). & F., under lIrevet Lieut. Col. Thompson. Right Centre Colu nrei, iBrevet Linut. Col. Myers, command. ing,. Centre Column, Comllpaytv A. 1). C. and K., under IBrevet Major General G. Ai Custer in person. Left Column, Comnpanies G. H. nlld M., undcr Major Joel H. Elliott. With the Centre Column were lhe sharp shooters, under Brevet Lieut. Col. Cook. The signal for the attack was to be the dawn of d4', or the firing of a. gun. Between the completion of theoso arrangemlents and the battle, the time was fully occupied getting thte Vlrrious coninanltds into proper position. It was now dawning day, the Centre ColuHni1 was given the word, and, with Custer in front, went dashing at the villane. Th1 gallopinrg o the horses in thei still air, conld easily ble hoard!by the other columins, Awhich were instantly plunging forward at a charle. Black Kettle, a noted Chief ef the Ohevenes, was the first to be arouscd by the noise; and bounding out fi'o)l his lodge, he fired his gun and uttered ai;ild yell of alarim. Instantly the hostile Indians Twe:e all out, and the. battle began at once, with unexaimpled fury. Yells, whoops,   Conrad Weiler, the eccentric hunter and trapper; dre ed in the uniform he used to wear in the Arnmy in Algiers. He il descend- ant of old Conrad Weiler, the celebrated German Pioneer to America :- . ; ---=sc- L ant of old Conrad Weiler, the  c e  lebrtedGera Pine o mrc      AND MRS. BLYNNZS CAPTIVITY.         43 "oans and huzzas, mingled with the rattling of rifles the " ching-iug" of I,.ils, .and the whilzzing of arrows. )leiic of the dragoons--lnot tthe column, however, which Viroqua was -vit-li-saw Mrs. BBvnn with her child, Willie, tryinl to make her escape to the whites; and they worked their way throughl] the cormbat towards her. It was at this moment she wras discovered by her captor, Santana, who, seeing her object, determined to kill her within full view of her in- tended rescue'rs; and accordingly did so in the brutal way already riarra- ted in the previous pages. A volley of balls was fired at the fiend, but he remained unharmed, and, running amon.. some of the lodges was lost to view. Tiroquw fought beside Conrad&sWeiler and performed prodigies of valor, until finally she was badly woYwutfed in the side, and fell from her horse. Conrad took her up tenderly and carried her out of the battle, which continued with the utmost ar1qi:thntil at last Santana's warriors broke and ran away down the river.. 'iThe 6iCheycnesand Sioux, seeing the fall of Black Kettle and several?ather distinguished Chiefs, also fled, and victory crowned the banlnerS Irof the whites; who, with ringing buzzas and cheers, took possession of the whole village, all the squaws and stock, and in fact capturing everything. But, notwithstanding his complete triumph, General Custer knew the Indians were too numerous to allow the hazzard of pursuing them, when they might make a circuit, overwhelm, Lieutenant Mathey, burn tip his provision train, and thus leave the whole command to starve to death in the prairics. So, bastily destroying the village and killing eight hundred horses to prevent them falling again into the hands of the savages, he gathered the squaws and their children together tnder guard, and set out with haste to get back to his wagon train. This he found all safe; and according to orders, he started at once for Fort Cobb, General Sheridan himself shortlyjoining the column. It was a fortunate thing that the Commanderlwent with his men to that post, as will be seen from the following account of the movements of the savages subsequent to the battle.     '  Santana, as soon as possible after his defeat, re ganized his vanquished warriors, and, in a speech of persuasive eloquence, induced them to at- tempt to revenge themselves for their late terrible losses and discomfiture. And hardly had Custer commenced his retrograde ere Santana and Lone Wolf were moving on Fort Cobb, with the .full intention of mas, sacreing the whole garrison and burning down the post. Marching as fast as they'!could, the savages reached the Fort a little sooner than Sheridan and Custer. At the moment of their arrival General Hazen, with another officer, was riding out, and Santana instantly took both prisoners, and told them they would be killed the same night. And 4ere is no doubt the threat would have been executed, but just at' this     "       GENERAL SIIIERDAN/'S SQUAW' SPY: juncture wlompany, that had bucee sent from Fort Arbuckle, appeared coming over the hills. Santana now released Gene'rall lHazen,. but re- tained the other prisoner as a hostage. Theln with a troop of his warriors he galloped away to meet the company, ordered them' in the most im- perious 'manner to halt, and turn back, or he would not spare a man of them. To this the Captain of the comnpany replied, that his orders were to go to Fort Cobb, and he was goinrg there. If the Indians wanted a fight theyv could have a hot one in double quick time. "Very well," said Santana, "you can go into the Fort; then we kill all you pale faces tomorrow!" With this threat the savages :moved off and disappeared. Knowing that General Sheridan was within at least a day's march of the post, General Hazen sent a cou-rrier to apprize him of what had occurred, arid also the intended attack. The next morning the Indians reappeared, the main body remaining on the crests of the distant hills, wrllile Santana and Lone Wolf came boldly into the Fort. A parley was at once begun in order to prolong the time, and in the iuidst of it the bugle notes of Sheridan's army came thrilling across the prairies like the voices, of giants rushing to the rescue. For a moment Santana was non-plussecd; but instantly recovering himself he assunmed a bold, defiant air, and instead of retreating to his warriors, ho merely paced up and down, and, after awhile, actually rode out to meet the advancing column. When General Custer came up he offered him his hand; but Custer re- fused to take it, at which Santana drew back with theutmost anger. But the General was not to be deceived, and gave- the savage such a lecture that he " drew  in his horns," as the soldiers remarked, and, and after some parley, he and Lone Wolf and a  Coumanche Chief called Bright Knife, went with General Custer toward the Fort. At this juncture the wagons containing the dead came up; and the first taken out were SIrs. Blynna a nd Willie. As the bodies were laid down-the child lying as though asleep in his mother's arms-Santana looked at them, and a hideous grin of satisfaction played on his features. General Sheridan was passing also on the instant and seeing it stopped and inquired: Who did this horrid deed?" fixing his eyes on Santana as he asked the question. "' Ugh!" ejculated the Chief, drawing himself tip scowling, fiercely at Sheridan, and slapping himself pompously on the breast, " she my white squaw!   She make me mad, and me kill her and papoose toof Me big Chief!" "You infernal red devil!" exclaimed- Sheridan, whil e his eyes almost sbot fire, "I'll hang you at daylight tomorrow morning I I'll teach you   i           AND. IRS. BLYNN'S CAPTI'ITY.        47  to murder innocent women and children!" Santana said no nmoe, but turned away. Shortly after this the wily savage, watching his opportunity, put spurs to his horse, and dashed away, with the intention of escaping and rejoining his warriors. But, with all his celerity, he was not quick enough ; and ere he had gone a I Quarter of a mile, Surbgeon Morris J. Asch, and Lieut. Col's. McGonigle and Cook overtook him, and with leveled revolvers .brought him to a stop, and then marched him back to the Fort, where he was at once put under guard of asfile of soldiers, who had orders to shoot him or Lone Wolf down the instant either attempted. to escape. The savage captives began to think they had somebody to deal with who would not trifle with them; and presently, after some conversation among themselves they proposed to have a "big talk" with General Sheridan. But they received the reply that the!' Big Chief" would not talk with them; that he wished nothing to do with them, as he had made up his mind to punish them in such a way as would be an example to all the rest of the Indians. Their savage pride broke down completely with this answer;.and SPitana on behalf of himself and companions, begged abje'ctly for mercy, promlising that if they were spared, they would send word to all their various bands to conime in, give up their arntl and make peace. This proposition was made known to General Custer, and after a con- sultation between General Sheridan and him about it, it was decided to take advantage of the offer, and thus save many lives that must be lost in a further prosecution of hostilities. So Santana was informed that he anfd his companions would be spared on the conditions that he had named. But they would be held as hostages for the faithful performance of the prdhiisc; and should there be the slightest appearance of deception or " two facing and tonguing," they would all be hung up instantly. There was no misunderstanding  this decision; and the consequence was that, within forty eight hours, large numbers of Indians began to come in to, the Fort. So, in his short but determined Winter campaign, General Sheridan actually saved'a vast effusion of bloodshed, outlay of public money,.and did more than all the Peace Commissions that were ever held-to insure, at least the safety of thousands of helpless women and children  on the frontiers. And we firmly believe that if the whole Indian business. were placed in the hands of Lieut. General Sherman and Major General Sheridan, we should have no more trouble with the savages. For these. distinguished soldiers are too high toned and honest to defraud the Indians, as the political agents do, of what the Government intends to give'them, and they are' too brave, and too e'x- perienced in Indian character and traits, not to inspire the savages with a wholesome dread of their ability and resolution to inflict prompt and terrible punishment for all outrages.     43,        OGENERAL S;lIERIDAN'S SQTTAW SPY: iajor Elliott and his gallant soldiers-who, having b)een cut off from the naina column'in the battle of'the Washhita, were butchered by their savage foes, and mutilatedin the most horrible manner-were buried with, all military honors shy, th6ir surviving comnrades, in the little cemne- tery at Fort Cobb. Their bodies were frighltfully mrutilated, feet and hands being cut off, throats cut, ears and noses slashed off, and from ten to thirty bullet and arrow holes, in each corIpse. From some of them thd head had b4een completely cut off and taken away. Besides the soldiers graves, another grave 'was dug, and in this one were laid the remains of the unfortunate M5s. Blynn and her darling little Willie. Little wrecked they, of the horror .and hardships they had gone through;- and there now, in the silence of the bouodless wilderness, mother and child, parted not in life nor death, sleep as peace. fully as they would in the village churc'hyard at home. And though loving friends cannot drop tears nor strew flowers on their grave, yet each returning Springtime will plant it with fragrant blossoms and green grass, while the wild songsters of the Prairies will sing sweet carols above the slumberers. As for Viroqua she recovered speedily from her wound, and like' the Genius of Yengence awaits the execution of punishment upon Say'zaa the murdet:r of her betrothed husband.  jr '                     ' /   --   G4 AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.         49 rHE BODIES OF THE MASSACRED BROUGHT IN. The batt!e that General Custer fought with the Savages on the Waas- hita, had been over for more than a week Still, however, no tidings had been heard cf the gallant Major Elliott and his comrades. All that was known of them was that they had bean seen charging down the river after a party of fugitive Cheyenes. In order that the terrible mys- tery migtht be solved General Custer determined to make a flying visit to the late battleficld. General'Sheridaln, being at that timein Custer's camlp, he too resolved to go in person to the scene of the late conflict. As there was some peril likely to be encountered from roaming bands of the savages, the exploring party were duely made ready for any emer- gency which might arise. These preparations required a whole day and the next nmorning about seven o'clock the buglers sounded the advance. By nine the'column reached the ridge from which, on the night previous the battle, Viroqua had pointed out to Custer the villages of the Indiana half hidden in the gloom of the valley below. So still and solemn was the scene now that General Sheridan involuntari- ly halted to conte mplate it. As. far as the 'eye could reach the whole face of the c,*untry includin^g the scanty, leafless trees, and withered grass, and herbs was completely covered with a heavy coat of frost, which being agitated by the winid, resembled in the clear sun light an undulating ocean of diamonds and all kinds of precious stones. Yct the solitude was act- ually awful; for not an animal, not a bird, could be seen, though as soon as the party descended into tlce valley io the immediate vicinity of the battlefield the place seemed alive with beasts and birds of prey that had been attracted thither by the bodies of the slain. Here horror and desolation met the view at every step. Every!ldge with all its contents had been burned to the ground; while here and there in spits, were consumed pile of dried meat, buffalo robes, camp kettles, blankets, wood, portions of dress, weapons, and every conceivable article of use about an Indian village. As the column advanced, General Custer pointed out the places where the troops had performed certain movemenut, and explained the particulars of each part of the terrible conflict to Gen- eral Sher;dan, all of which he pronounced perfectly correct; and he com- plimented nijs subordinate very highly for the nianner in which he had conducted the battle.  tavinig examined the immediate locality of the combat the party. now advanced down stream in the direction in which Major Elliot and his gal- lant troopers had been last seen during the battle charging after a mass of fugitive savages. The opinion was that somewhere below they had   3 -     50        GENERAL SUEIIDAN'S SQUAW SPY. been met and completely over;whelmed by a large detachmentof Indians - as tihe lattfer were advtancing to assist the villaget which had already been attackedi lby Custer. The sequel shbowed this to be correct. A silhr!, ride of nearly a quarter of a mile brought Sheridan and his escort t., a sliot over which the crows ntld buzzards were circling and where with- i: a. radiu. of' a few y3ards lay the lan-gled bodies of the once gallant Maj- or Elliot fand his filtel conilrades. Genleral Sheridan, accustomed as he w;.1s t(o s,'elnes of blood and carnagre, coul( not repress the execrations that liurst firolll his lips as he gazed down upon the horribly mutilated corpses ol' h. faithful soldiers. In order, hlowever, tihat the reader may judge t- Ir himself, or Herself, as to tihc malwkish sympathy that a few ,ood but inexperienced and illy-informed peIrsons have raised about the ' poor Indians, " we copy enlltire an account of the wounds and mutilations on each body which -was sent by the N. f:l. lieralh's special corlespendent. Privious to burial Dir. Henry Lipplileott, Assistant, Surgeon, United States Army, nmade a minute examinlftion of-all the bodies and the extent of their mutilation. The following is from his official statement : Major Joel II. Elliott--Onc bullet hole in left check, two bullets in head, throat cut, right fo(ot cut off, left foot almost cut off, calves of legs very mnuch cut, groin ripped open an(d otherwise mutilated. Walter Kenned}y, Sergeant -Major-Bullet hole in right temple, head. partly cut off, seventeen bullet holes in back and two in legs. HaIrry Mercer, Corporal Company E-Bullet hole in. right axilla, one in region of hieart, tlrcee in back, eiglht arrow wounds- in back, right ear cut off, head s calped and scull frlactured, deep gashes in both legs and throat cut. Thomas Christie, Company E--Bullet hole in head,. right foot cut off, bullet hole in abdomen and throtat cut. William Carrick, Corporal Company II-BI ullet hole in right parietal !one, both feet cut off, throat cut, left arnle broken and otherwise mutila- ted. Eugene Clover, Company H-- Head cut off, arrow wound in right side both legs terribly mutilated. William Mulligan, Company H--Bullet hole in left side e of heafdeep gashes in right leg, left arm deeply g ished, head scalped, thlroat cut and otherwise mutilated. James F. Williams, Corporal Company HBullet hole in back, head and both arms cut off; many and deep cuts in back and otherwise mutil- ated. Thomas Downer, Company H-Arrow hole in region ofstomach, thorax  cut open, head cut off and right shoulder cut by a tomahawk. Thomas Fitzpatrick, farrier, CPmtpany M-Scalped, two arrow and. several bullet holes in back, throat cut. '   M--Bullet hole in right parietal bone,   AND MRtS. BLYNN' S CAPTIVITY-       51 Johlln Mayors, Conlany M--Several bullet holes in head, scalped, skull extensively fractured, several arrow and bullet holes in back, deep gashes in face and throoat cut. Carson D. J. Mayers, Company M--Several bullet holes in head, scalp- I cd; nineteen bullet .holes in, body, throat cut and otherwise mutilated. Hal Sblarp, Company M--Two bullet holes in left side, throat cut, one bullet h1ole in left side of bead, one arrow hole in left side, left arm brokel i  and otherwise mutilated. , Unknown-head cut off, body probably devoured by wolves. Unknown  Head and right hand cut off, three bullet and nine arrow holes in back, and otherwise mutilated. Unknown-- Salped, skull fractured, six bullet and thirteen arrow holes in back and three bullet holes in chest. Wagons were at once detailed; and the corpses brought in and buried as been narrated. Mrs Blynn's and Willie's were among the number. Im- mediately after the battle of the Washita a document purporting to bd froum friendly Indians of the Cbeokce, 'Creek Choctaw tribes was sent to the coummissionner of Indian affairs 9ti Wasnhigton demanding an inves- tigation into the battle and asserting that the Indians w*ho had been at- tacked wire friendly to the whites. But the document was so evidently from the pens of certain white men, that we have our doubts whether it was ever nearer the plains that some Bureau at Washinuton. Hlowever its whole statement wasoverthown byv Gcncral Sheridan's plain soldierlike letter regarding the matter. We insert this letter. HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE MSSOURI, IN THE FIELD DEPOT ON THE NORTH CANADIAN, AT THE JUNCTION OF BEAVER CREEK. Dec. 3, 1868. Brevet Major GeneralW. A. NICtroLS, Assistant Adjutant General, Di- vision of the Missouri, St. Louis, Missouri :-  GENERAL--I had an entervicwr to-lay through the interpreter, Mr. Cur- tis, yvith the sister of Black Kettle, fronm whom I learn as follows, and which seems to be, lfter close questioning, a correct statement of the In- dians who were located in the vicinity of where Custer had his fight oa the 27th ult:, on the Washita river, about seventy-five or eighty .miles s outhwest of Fort Cobb and immediately south of the Antelope Hills. The Indians there wherb encamped on the Washita as follows :- First, Black Kettle and other chiefs of the Cheyeries and a stnmall party of Sioux, in all numbering fifty-one lodges. Eight miles down the streara were all the Arapahocs and seventy additional lodges of Cheyenes ;,. also the Kiowas, then the Apaches and Comanches. While thus encamped three war parties were sent out north ;. one composed of Cheyenes, Kio- was and Arapahoes, went north in the direction of Larned, anid the trail of which we crossed in coming down ; it was still out. Another party, composed of Chcyenes and Arapahoes, which party returned, and the     52        GENERAL SUIERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY trail of which led Generai Custer into Black Kettle's village. This party brought back three scalps, one- of which was the expresmnani's killed and horribly mutilated ju-st before I left Fort Dodge. The mail on his person was found in Black Kecttle's capliD. The other party was a mixed partv and went out- on foot in the direction of Lyon, and still out. About the time the first of these parties left, Black Kettle and a repre- sentation of one sub-chief from each of the bands visited Fort Cobb, and all brought back provisions from General IIazen or some one else there, and. while they were gone, or about the time of their return, the last war party was sent out, which is the one first alluded to as going in the direc- tion of Fort Larned, and whose trail we crossed. The women are of tlhe. opinion that they will all sue for peace at Foilt Cobb, since the blow received by them on the 27th. They would have colme' here had the opening there not been held out to then.   ^ I will start for Fort Scott as soon as the trains from Fort Dodge arrive. If it had not been for the misfortune to 'the Kansas regiment, of getting lost from the trail while enz route from the Little Arkansas to this place, and the heavy snow storlnm which reduced and jaded their horses so as to render them on arrival unfit for duty, we should have closed up this job before this time. As it is, I think the fight is pretty well knocked out of the Cheyenes.  Thirteen Chcyenes, two Sioux and one Arapahoe chief were killed, making sixteen in all. The government makes a great mistake in. giving these Ilndians any considerable amount of food under the supposition of necessity. The whole country is literally covered with game, and there are more buffaloes than will last the Indians for twenty years, and the turkeys are so numerous that flocks as large as from one to two thousand have been seen, and the country is full of grQusce, quails and rabbits. - Herds of antelope and deer are seen everywhere, and even ran through the wagon trains of General Custer on his imarch. I The buffaloes hero are a separate hand from those ranging during the    :Fall, north of the Union Pacific Railroad, where I have seen myself not less than 200,000 in one day.     .  The reservation laid offfor the Arapaboes and .Cheyenes, by the treaty of 1867, is full of game, and the most luxuriant natural grasses, as repor- ted by Colonel Crawford, of the nineteenth Kansas, who has just passed through this reservation reports the same. Black Kettle!s sister reports three white women in the lodges below, lBlack Kettle's camp. Very respectfully yours,        . P. 1I. SHERIDAN, Major General United. States Army. The whole matter of the trouble with- the Indians is so little understood that not one in ten thousand can really form a correct opinion in regard   AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.          5 to them. We therefore in this connection insert the full report of Lieuten-  at General W. T Sherman, aud cotummend it for its straight-forward stvle. It puts the saddle on the right horse without fear or favor. I   'HEADQU-ARTERS MLITARY DIVISION MxLIsoUm,   ST. Louis, -Mo., Nov. 1, 1868.         Brevet Major General E. D. TowNSEND, Assistant Adjutant -General,  ;        Washington, D. C :- Gr,NE A  H- The Military Division of the AMissouri is still composed of !  the departments of Missouri, Platte and Dacottah, embracing substantiaul W the countrly west of the Misslssipi river to the, Roclky Mountains, inclu- I   - ding New ;Mexico, Utah and Montana. These departments are comn- manded byv Gelcer ls Sheridan, Anugur and Terry, whose annual reports are transmitted herewith, and to them I refer you for more detailed state- ments of the progress mlalde-and of the events of the past year. You will observe tli while the country generally lihas been at peace the people on i.  the plains Znd the troops of mly colmmtand have been constantly at war, gjt  enduring all its dalngels and hardships, with none of its honors or rewards. I I former rcports I cndcavoled to describe the reasons and causes which made a state of war the normal condition of things on the plains, and bave Since studied to lind some lasting remedy, but thus far without suc- cess. Our people continue, as heretofore, to settle on the exposed points of the frontier, to travel without the precaution thich at well known dan- ger would suggest, and to run after every wild report of the discovery of gold or other- precious metal, thus coming into daily contact and necessa- ry conflit with discontented and hostile Indians. The co-ordinate depart- muents of our government likewise continue to extend'the surveys of pu b lic land westward and grant patents to occulpants to locate and build railroads, to etablish mail routes, with the necessary stations and relays of horses, as though that region of countryp were in profound peace and all - danger of occupation and transit had passed away. Over all these mat- ters the military authorities have no control. Yet their public nature in}- plies public protection, and we are daily and hourly called on for guards and escorts, and are left in the breach to catch all the kicks and- cuffs of a war of races without the privilege of advising or being consulted before hand. The reports of Generals Sheridan, Auger and Terry contain abun- dant evidence on these points; and I refer to'them here merely to demon- strate the fact that as long as these 'things continue, from necessity and public policy we cannot reduce our military forces on the frontier and should not even allow their strength to fall away by the rapid ,causes of death, discharge and desertion, but should keep ranks continually replen-- isded with fresh recruits. At the time of my last annual report, October 1, 1861, I was a member of the Peace Com mission, on which the Cong rress of the United States had devolved the whole Indian question fora practical, and if possible, a peac-. ful solution. At the same tilmeby an executive order it was made my     54         GENERAL SIIF RIDAN'S SQI'AW SPY military duty to subordinate the acts of all the troops subject to my com. mand to whatever plan of action the Peace Commission might adopt. The Conmmission, in its annual report last Decemelir to the President of the United States, bears full testimony ohl this point to the effect that all ths officers of the army and all the troops' with whom they ca1me in contact had fully and cheerfully co-operatcd with thecp in their efforts to brilg, this difficult lbusiness'to a peaceful conclusion. I need not here refer to the deliberations and actrs of that coammissionifurther thlan to state that its. members were unanimlous in the conclusion that to maintain a pernmanent peace with the Indians east of the Rocky AMountains thley should all, at the earliest possible moment, be collected on reservations as far removed as possible from the white settlements and. lines of travel, and that there they should be maintained at the cost of the United States until they could  Iwholly or partially provide for themselves. The two principal reserva- tions indicated by the conmmission wreo north of the State of Nebraska and west of the Missouri river, and southl of the Stateof Kan sas and westof- Arkansas. These districts are the only parts of our vast national domain at'alladapted to the purpose not already appropriated. Tho Comminission further recolmisended that for each ,of these reservations a sort of govern. nient should be provided by law, looking to a tinmein the future when all the Indians Nvould be reduced to the peaciefll condition of shlepperds, her- ders and fairmers. ThIis general plan was justified by the then state of facts, and its wiisdonm has been demonstlated by more recent events. A sense of national justice dictates that in taking fronm these savagres-the lands whoso Wvild game has hitherto fed, clothed and sheltered them we should. in restricting thell to the exclusive use ofa par-t, nlake tihem a compensation of soein sort for the remainder, and if possible procure their consent In. luencced-by this consideration the Peace Commission, during the fill and Wrinter of 1867 and the spring and sumlnnerl of 1868, held counDcils with all, or nearly all, the trilbes and parts of trilies east of the Rocky Mountains, m Jaking liberal provisions for all thec appointedl places of couneil, accor:.;ng' to the forms and ceremonies to which they were long accustomled. For. r all written treaties wer naie made with each separate tribe, signed with al l : the formality and transmitted to the Senate of the United States for rati, fication. The treaties with the Cheyenes, Arapahoes, Kiowas, Comrman- chcs, Navajocs and Crows were duly confimed, but those with the various bands of Sioux, Snakes, &c., were not confirmed, simply, it is infered, be- cause they were not complete when the Senate adjourned. 1But for some reason Congress did not take any action on the chief proposition of the Peace Commission, which was embraced in their report of last December --viz., that which related to the setting apart of the two reservations hereinbefore, referred to and providing governments therefor, which was designed to precede the confirmation of any of the treaties, and was the only vital principle of them all. ][ felt compelled to refer to this fact be- cause many persons attribute to it the reason why we failed to'secure a \-    I  55          AND M IIS. Br YNN'S CAPTIVITY with four of the principal tribes with which we had to dlcal-viz , the Chev- enes, Arapahoes, Kiowas and Colmanches. It habs always been most dif- ficult to discoverx thht extst truth coLncerningr the cause of rupture with anov Inldians. They lnever give notice beforehand of a varlike intention, and the iirst notice cones nafter their riflesl and ances h11ao one much bloody work. All intercourse theln Ilecessarily cea1ses, and the original cause soon becomes, buried in after events. Thel'll preset Indian war in General She- s  . ridan's /dlepartment is no exeption, and as nearlv as I can llgather it the truth is about this:-  Last vealr, in the sevcralcouncils held at North Platte and FIort Lara- rl mie by the P'eace Commission with fralgmenltary bands of Sioux, the In- dians asserted that they were then end had been alwavs anxions to live atl i w  peacC e it thheir whitne netighbors, provided we kept fa ithl with. thenh . 4 .  Thev claimed that the building of the Powder river road, and establishl- ment of military posts along it drove away the i gto from the only -bunt ing grounds tlhey had left after. our occupationl of Montana andn1 Nebraska; i that this road had beenr built in the face of their protest, and in violation of some old treatv which guarantced themi that country forevcr that road anLd the military posts along it had been constrctedl in 18G5 and 18;66 for the bonefit of the people of Montana, but bad almlost ceased to be of nly practical use to theim Ly reason of the builcinl of the Union Pacific R ailroad, whose terminus west of the Blackl; Hills mnade it easier for the wagons to travel by an older arnd better road e:ist of the Imountains. For this reason and becauso the further extensipn of the. railroadl under rapid prog ress would each year made the Pondor river road less and less ust, the C'oinissioners yiesledf't tOthe ries t let cnet of tlo Sioux, and rccoim- mended the albtandonient for the til!e of the road. On the 3d day of last Iarch General Grant gave the necessaryy orders for breakirir up the posts of Fort Rieno, Pbilip Kearny and O F. Snith but it was weth towardhs August before the stores and material could all be hauled awav. As we had reason to approedend some of the Sioux, attributing our action to fear, follo:wed up our witldrawal by raids to the lilne of the :ancific Road aind to tihe south of it inton Coloradeo Others of thenm, doubtless, reached the canmlps of the Arapahoes, on Beaver creek, and the CheaeSno camps on Pawnee Fork, near lFort Lanedl, ad toll tlhemi what hatd occurred, and ade theni telieve by war or threat s of ar the, too, t ould( compel us 'io abandon the Stsoky a-ill line, which paLsss thlrough the y heat of t buffalo region, the best thunting grounro pds of Atirica. Ablout this tieil viz., Angust 3 or 4h a party of indians, composed of 200 Cheycnes, four Arapahoes and twenty Sioux, arses known to have stalrted from theil candp on Pawnee Fork on a war exipedition, bonoinaltly to fight the Pawnees. On    th thy p ppeaald oil the Saline, north of Fort Harke, Pwhelc -  the settlers recseied them kindlv. Thevy were given food and rcoffee, but pretenin to be offended because it was in tin cups they th rew it back     GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY          56 in the faces of the women, and began at at once to break up furniture and  fire into the houses. They seized the women and ravished them, perpetra- ting atrocities which could only have been the result of premeditated crime. Here they killed two men; thence they crossed over tothe settlements on the Solonion, where they continued to destroy the houses and proper- ty, to ravish all females, and-killed thirteen men. Going on the Republican they killed two more men and conmmitted other acts of similar brutal atro- city. As soon as intelligence of this could be carried to Fort Harker troops were sclt in pursuit, who succeeded in driving them away, rescuing some captive children atnd killing but few Indians by reason of their fast ponies and familiarity with the country. I recite these fiacts with some precision because they are proven beyond dispute, and up to the very momnent of their departure from Pa'wnee Fork no Indian alleges any but the kindest treatment on the part of the agents of the general government, of our soldiers or of the frontier people, with one exception, Agent Leavenworth. The soldiers, not only from a no tural aversionjto an Indian war, which is all work and no glory, but under posjyfvo orders from mel, had borne with all manner of insult and provocation in hopes that very soon the Peace Conmmission would culmi- nate in the withdrawal of the savages from the neighborhood( of ourposts, roads and settlements and thereby end all further trouble. I was present at Fort Leavenworth whlen General Sheridan received notice of the attacks on the settlers of the Saline, Solomon and Republican. He started at once up the road, made every inquiry, and was satisfied our people bad given no provocation at all for those wanton acts of barbarity which were in flagrant violation of their recent treaties. Yet he delayed striking their camps till he had made a formal demand through the agent, according to the terms of the treaty, for the actual perpetrators of these very acts. Col- onel Wynkoop, agent of the Cheyenes and Arapahoes, sent a messenger out and made every exertion to procure their surrender, but utterly failed of success ; for it seems the older and more cautious chiefs, though claim- ing to desire peace, could not give up so considerable a body of their best young warriors, and of course they all became responsible. All of the C(eyenes at once began a general war along the Slloky Hill and Arkan- sas roads, simultaneously attacking every party of white men who had not received a notice of the change of their peaceful relations and who were therefore unprepared for attack. The aggregate murders amounted to seventy-nine in August and September. General Sheridan, seeing that war with the Cheyenes was inevitable, then endeavored to keep the Arapahoes out of it. This tribe had been camped for the sumlner on Beaver creeki and he invited their chiefs into Fort Dodge, where, on the 3d of Septemper, he met Little Beaver, Spotted Wolf, Bull Bear and other Arapaho, chiefs well known to our officers, and in fill, council these agreed to keep out of the war and to nmovb down to the reservation below the Kansas line, to which they had assented at the Medicine Lodge council.   AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.        57 When the time Appointed by themselves to come in and to start for Fort Cobb had transpired they not only did not come in, but were known to be at open war all the way from Fort Wallace to Denver, in Colorado, the very opposite direction. In like manner General W B. Hazen, whomi I had appointed to take charge of the lower or southern reservation, met the Kiowas and Comanches at Fort Zarah on the 22d of September and agreed to feed and maintain them en route and after they had reached their reservation near Fort Cobb. But when the time came for them to move they did not go, but were also known to be engaged with the Chey- enes and Arapahoes in the common war. Nevertheless, by my orders, General Hazen has gone to Fort Cobb to fulfil our treaty stipulations with them, and I can imagine no other reason for this conduct than their sup- posed belief that by war they can force us to abandon their favorite baffalo range, as we have already abandoned to the Sioux the Powder river country. To show the concurrence of action and simultaneity of hostile acts on the part of these tribes of Indians, in addition to the reports of Generals Sheridan and Augur, I herewith transcribe in this report extracts of t legraphic'messages from the Governors of Colorado and Kansas. Acting Governor Hall telegraphed me from Denver, under date of August 27 :-"We are completely surrounded by hostile Indians, extending from Cheyene Wellsand South Park south to Julcsburg north, estimated at six hundred warriors. From reliable information twelve people have been killed thus far." On the 4th of September Governor Hunt telegraphed me from Denver :--"Just returned. Fearful condition of things here. Nine persons murdered by Indians yesterday within a radius of sixty miles," &c. And the.24th of September Acting Governor Hall again telegraphed from Denver :-"The Indians have again attacked our settlements in strong force, obtaining possession of the country to within twelve miles of Denver. They are more bold, fierce and desperate in their assaults than ever before. It is impossible to drive them out and protect the, families- at the same time, for they are better armed, mounted, disciplined, and bet- ter officered than our men. Each hour brings intelligence of fresh barbar. ities and more extensive robberies," &c. On the 4th of September Governor Crawford, of Kansas, telegraphed 'from Topeka :-"IIave just received a despatch from Hays ptating that the Indians attacked, captured and burned a train at Pawnee Fork, and killed, scalped and burned sixteen men; also attacked another train at Cimarron crossing which wasdefended until the ammunition was exhausted, when the men abandoned the train, saving what stock they could. Simi ilar attacks are of almost daily occurrence. These things must cease. I cannot disregard constant and persistent appeals for help, I can furnish you all the troops necessary. I cannot sit idly by and see our people butchered, but as a last resort'will be obliged to call upon the State force, take the field and end these outrages. I will'at once organize two cavai.     wlY -SiY.          a           AND MRS ILYNN'S CAPTIVI )r volunteer. servie. Wil  . vigor enough to ngive any hope that the plans eridant in. person was labor.-"t in in personwas laborcommission will' be carried out. Even then ther ;-e all possible protection to      I   I possile protection tthemselves will make the necessary personal antr y from. Kansas to Co.. fear that they will at last fall back upon Our lar ;sity of guarding interests sitre eofgua troops to eo in   jpaupers. I aml fully aware that many of ou1 ie enoug troops to goinfrotm contact with these Indians, and dwelling, On Ihis requisition I applied phlast events, such are described to have occi lis orders seven companies and.1 at the Chivington mnassacre of ].864, bcli' 1re collected frian Virginia, to ansas. On a further   ways in the wrong, and that the Indians have 1 to Kansas. On a furthe '  6th of October auor wr in self-defence by actual want or by reaso a s volu njteers for nmore than convinced that such is not the cas 'F Kansas volunteers for six and I hope I have made it plain. I further be reil in,' but General Sheri- saving any part of theseIndians from utter a ember. With these troops prompnt execution ofthe scheme suggested by tU stile Indialis in his depart- can alone be done by Congress with the c, and sucth as arcnIot killed thermselves. Even elied it will require much s arndl be nade to relllain  the part of the officers who execute the plan, cxpcitions tat have I sume myself or impose on other army officer, Gncrlral Shelritdan's; rep ort.  . only hope to find any end of this eternal Indij i1 somhewrlhpat unsatisfactory  the entire business to the War Department an I)g ns thl;e i oniles canla, get ' laws and provide the necessary money at least compels the(,m1 to collect te- to 'be expended. This is especially necessary i :la'iSl troops will DC abDe tuo cause the Missouri river is only navigable 'ir ic. It is .idle for us iongrr t i dl for us loer that in the annual appropriation bill approved vi th tlhese In1dianXs,l f1 tthe did .not become' public till the Cheyenes had itlh frllm;-s like Missosultri and path, viz., August 3), there was a clause givin ot (ouI p (nDle thlelr 1e arlc mf- i under my direction, as a member of the Peace c 1ic amdl lhorses, lwhihel tCIllDt the treaty stipulations, making and. preparinl t lie' want of'iis accut o,.ncd ions, tools and farming utensils and furnishing ( to steal hie will not liesi- d ians with which treaties had been made and thait disttrict of tihe coiuntry flraying the expenses of the commission in maki ;s;ing inlterlests, is a suiplle ingr their provisions into effect. As soon as I Vlioe y(\ac c"OiH1iissi1D il I]1 AnAgust 10, I issued my General Order No. 4, 4 ftill tir enclosed, in hopcs/tAhat by its provisions I co p)rlomLisedt food while t licy already begun in Kansas from spreading to t tribe of Sioux at the north. This clause in ti :c Militates  with all thce, the. no change whatever in the general managem )e usedzt1 to iiccoi!")lisli tills treaties had been made and confirmed, which crti Primiisso  at its hicgrol  with the Interior Department. Upon applic isLcrihed haldl occuiru-dl ndll' Sanborn, the melther of the Peace Commission asion that the managenllen t ' -;ion that the anagng agent, I received a list of the outstanding he \War iepart ment, where    xfission, amounting to about $150,000. I the 'our governlmelnt is the on ly - money, and have disbursed thereof the sum rcundlocnution now necessa-   hands at this date a balance of $8,249 applifc n act with promptness and   vigor enough to give any hope that the plans and purposes of the peace colImmission will bo carried out. Even then there is doubt that the Indians themselves will make the necessary personal efforts to succeed ; and I fear that they will at last fall back upon our hands a mere mass of helpless paupers. I am fully aware that many of our good people, far removed from contact with these Indians, and dwelling with a painfll interest on plast events, such are described to have occurred in Minnesota in 1863 and at the Chivington massacre of 1.864, believe that the whites are al- ways in the wrong, and that the Indians have been forced to resort'to the war in self-defence by actual want or by reason of our selfishness. I am more than convinced that such is not the case in the present instance, and I hope I have made it plain. I further believe that the only hope of saving any part of these Indians from utter annihilation is by a fair and pronipt execution ofthe scheme suggested by the Peace commission, which can alone be done by Congress with the -concurrence of the Indians themselves. Even tlen it will require much patience and hard labor on the part of the officers who execute the plan, which I do not wish to as- sume myself or impose on other army officers; but it is certain that the only hope to find any end of this eternal Indian war is in the transfer of the entire business to the War Department and for Congress to enact the laws and provide the necessary money at least a year before it is required to be expended. This is especially necessary in the case of the Sioux, be- cause the Missouri river is only navigable in early summer. It is true that in the annual appropriation bill approved July 27, 1868 (and which did not become public till the Cheyenes had actually started on the war path, viz., August 3), there was a clause giving $500,000 to be disbursed under my direction, as a member of the Peace commission, for carrying out the treaty stipulations, making and preparing homes, furnishing pr'-is- ions, tools and farming utensils and furnishing food for such bands of In. .dians with which treaties had been made and not yet ratified, and in de- fraying the expenses of the commission in making such treaties and darry- ing their provisions into effect. As soon as I got a copy of this bill-viz., August 10, I issued my General Order No. 4, a copy of which is herewith enclosed, in hopes that by its provisions I could prevent the difficulties already begun in Kansas from spreading to the powerful and dangerous tribe of Sioux at the north. This clause in the Appropriation bill made no change whatever in the general management of Indians with wvhon treaties had been made and confirmed, which as before, remained wholly with the Interior Department. Upon application to General John B. Sanborn, the member of the Peace Commission who had been its disburs- ing agent, I received a list of the outstanding accouuts against that coil- irssion, amounting to about $150,000. I therefore retained that sum of money, and have disbursed thereof' the sum of $141,750, leaving in my hands at this date a balance of $8,249 applicable to the few items of ao     60       GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY counts still outstanding. The balance of appropriation, viz., $350,000, was distributed as follows:-'To General W. S. Harney, for the Sioux, $200,000; to General NV. 13. IItzen, for the Chevenes, &c., $50,000 ; to General C. C. Augur, for the S'nakes, &c., $50,000, and to -Major RI. S. Lamotte, for the Crows, $50,000. Total, $350,000.. That the Indians will receive the benefit of every cent of this money I know, and the high character of these officcrs amd" their peculiar fitness to the trust named will, I feel assured, carry conviction to all that the disbursement of this money will be in full harmony with the designs and purposes of the Peace commission and of Congress. In the same Appropriation bill were two other items of expenditures entrusted to my official supervision, viz ,-$200, 000 for seed, farming and ilmplements, work cattle and other stock pro- vided in article seven of the treaty with the Navajo Indians of New Mex- ico; $12,00 for constructing .a warehouse, agtency building, blacksmith and carpenter shops and school house for the same tribe (Navajo.) The whole of this appropriation, viz., $212,500, has been transferred to Gene- ral George W. -Getty, commanding in New Mexico, Wtho will see that it is troperly applied. t'rhere was another item of appropriation in the same bill, viz., $159,000, for .the removal of the Navajoes from their old reser. vation at Bosque IRendondo to their present reservation near Old Fort Defiance, which was subject to the control of the Interior Department, ;but before the Appropriation bill passed these Indians had actually been removel by my military orders given on the spot, at a cost to the army of less than $50,000, and I am mnow; at a loss to know if this money can be refunded to the armly out of the appropriation refirred to. I expect to : eceive from the several officers nIamed in my General Ord . No. 4, and to lay before the War Department by'thel close of this year, a full census of all the Indians for whom they are required to provide, with carefully prepared estimates of funds needed to perfect the system thus begun by theln, after which they can be; transferred back to their civil agents or retained, according to whatever action Cbngress may take this winter on the several recommendations of the Indian Peace Commission. Butknow- ing the pressing necessities of some of these Indians at this moment, I would ask an early appropriation of $300,000 for General Harney and $200,000 for General Hazen. I deem these sums indispensable to provide for the peaceful Indians this Nwinter and to enable them to make a fair beginning, neCt spring in their farming cperations on the reservations to which they have been or may be removed.         t In conclusion, I Wvill remark that I propose to continue, as now, to have Generals Perry and Au gur protect the Missouri river trafic and the TUnion Pacific road with jealous care, and so gather in all the marauqding bands of Sioux to the reservation north of Nebraska, Wlere General W. S. H'ar- tey is prepared to feed and protect them to the extent of the means sub- ject to my control, to destroy or punish the hostile Indians of his depart-       AND AIRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY. ment till they of their own volition will go to Fort Cobb and remain there on the reservation assigned them under the care of General W. B. Hazen, who is also prepared, to ,a limited extent, to provide for their necessities. This double process of peace .within their reservations and war without must soon bring this matter to some conclusion. With great respect, your obedient, VI. T. SHERMAN, Lieutenant General. A STOIC LADY. On thcesecond day of November Lieutenant Colonel Benteen of the Seventh Cayalry and Lieutenant Volkmar of the Fifth Cavalry, were or- dtered to take a detachment of recruits together with a large drove of horses t: the Seventh Cavalry which was then operating against the savages. With the column were Lieutenant Martin, of the Third Infan- try, and his wife. Both were on their way to Fort Dodge to which post the Lieutenant had -been ordered to report. A large wagon train was at the last moment added to the other cares thrown upon the commander: About forty miles from the starting point the rear guard of the col- umn was detached and sent back to bring alon~ several horses which had strayed away. As they rode back this rear guard was attacked by over fifty well mounted savages. A fight was at once the result; but the Indians apparently not having completed the details of their attack, quickly retreated, and made a com- plete detour of the whole column. No nore savages were seen after this until the sixth day, when, as the soldiers were about to go into camp near Big Coon Creek the advance guard encountered nearly a hundred of the red skins hidden in a ravine and watching an opportunity to make a dash at the train. The advance was -under the command of Sergaant Ayan, and in an instant he had his men dismounted and sent a volley of balls in among the crouching savages. Thus the latter were themselves rather surpr'ed; but charging out with wild yells, they began, according to the Indian tac. tics, to circle round the column in hopes of stampeding the animals. But Lieutenant Volkmar hastily formed the wagons of the train in a hollow square with the horses secured on the inner sides thus making it imposibh for.tbem to ran away. This done Colonel Benteen, with twenty brave fellows, well imountd, galloped off for a close handed fight with the savages. While this was ;be- ing done Lieutenant Volkmar with the utmost coolness moved forward-O' the spot which had been selected for the night's camp.    "        GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY Mrs Martin, the accomplished wife of Lieutenant Martin rode in an am- bulance; and when the attack commenced she took her husband's two re- volvers and pl tced herself in such a position as to help in the general de- fence the -nonment the Indians should comne near enough. She would not hear of such w thing as her husband remaining to defend her; but bade him take his rifle and go out on the skirmish liee which he did promptly, as a braver officer cannot be found in the army. Never for a moment did Mrs Martin flinch during all the heavy firing ; but with a smiling countenance she kept her trusty weapons ready, one in each hiandl; and it is certain she would not Iave met the fate of poor Mrs Blynn. During the whole night the savages kept up a continual firing round the camp ; but seemingly fearfill of a defeat; or else waiting for reinforce- ments they did not attack. All the next day they hovered about harrassing the column but before sunset disappeared and were seen no more. Mrs Martin's heroic conduct was the subject of the sincerest praise, and Lieutenant Martin was universally complimented upon having a " real soldier's wife. " WHAT SETTLERS HAVE TO SUFFER. We insert a few out of large number of letters which settlers on our frontiers have sent to the military authorities. We think they speak for themselves and require no comment. We are indebted for these letters to the correspondent of the N. Y. Herald. PILOT POINT, Denton county, Texas, April 1, 1868. Colonel LEAVENWORTH :- DEAR SIR-I thought I would write you a few lines concerning a child I had captured by the Indians. The particulars of the case are these :- On the evening, of the 5th of January a party of Indians; supposed to be 100 in number, dame down Clear creek, in Cook county, and killed several persons and captured several. They came to my house and killed my father he was near seventy years old--captured my sister and her child and t little daughters of mine, one six an(d the other eight years old. The youngest as found dead on the trail. It turned very cold that night and I suppose a youngest froze to death. The next morning my sister made her escape. That night they killed her child, about three milea from  where they captured it. They also took a negro boy with the bal- ance on the same raid. There was one other found dead on the trail. The other) we have no accourt of. I think in all probability they all froze; but:it is/probable that some one of them got through, and if any. one it might b mine. I  have heard the report all froze; but it 'may be they   AND MRS. BLYNNIS CAPTIVITY.         67 want some pay for them if they have any, and if they have got mine and will bring it in I will pay them until they are satisfied; if I have property enough to satisfy them. Colonel, I would give a world if I had it for my dear children back again. Their poor hearthroken mother is grieving herself to death for them. It is a hard trial; it looks like it is more than we can bear, but we have no way to help ourselves. Colonel, if you will do what vou can for us I will be under obligations to you all the remain-* der of my life, and will pay you liberally for all your trouble. My child is eight years old, fair complexion, light hair and blue eyes. Colonel, please make an effort, and if you can get her I will pay all damages. If you get any information that would do us any good please write to me, at Gaines- ville, Texas, and send word to William Foresher, at Elm Springs. It is hard-if we have to live thus in suspense, notkhowing whether she is dead or alive. I will close by begging you most earnestly to do- what you can to get our child. Your friend as ever, -DANIEL G. MENASEO. Official-WILLIAM B. HAZEN, Brevet Major General. The following document exhibits the interest taken by- the Interior De. partment in the raid alluded to in the above letter, the facts evidently having been previously reported directly to the authorities in Washing- ton :-- DEPARTMENTOF, THEI INTERIOR,  OFFmICE OF INDIAN .AFFAIRS, March 6, 1868. SIR-I enclose herein a copy of letter from Mr. Waide, a citizen of ,Denton county, Texas, dated 10th of January, reporting that on the 5th of that month a raid Was made by about one hundred Indians uponthhe citizens of that section of Texas, in which they killed eight-persons,.took captive two women and eight children and carried off a large number of horses. You are directed to make a prompt investigation of this matter and to report the facts to this office without delay. It is suspeted, that !  the Indians guilty of the outrages stated by Mr. Waide belong to the- tribes under your charge. I If it be so you will take steps to procure bthe release of the captives whose names are given in Mr. Waide's letter,:and to cause the stolen horses to be given up. In this connection I will state that a letter will be addressed to you shortly upon the subject of raids and de- predations by, as alleged, Kiowas and Comanches upon Chickasaw set- tlements lately complained of by authorities of the Chickasaw natiQou, Very respectfully, your obedient servant, W. G. TAYOR. To J. I, LEAVENWORTH, United States Indian Agent, care of R Mead9 Towonda, Kansas. The above explains itself. TSie head of Indian-. affairs in v casual mans ner advikses that measures be taken to Effect the release of,$be-;captives and the return of the stolen horses. The lives of the victims of thebobr-                            -     68 -       GENERAL SHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY. -  rible atrocities attendant uponl death at the hands of a savage do not setlem to t!ke any part in the little concern manifested by the head of In- ,dian alffirs. No allusion is made to secure the punishment of the offend- in:g balnd. The Indians engaged, instead of being, " as alleged, Kiowas and Comunlllhes," were in fact noI other tribes, and the department admits its own inefficiency and ignorance not to know this. It is also known that the sanme parties were at thif treaty of iMedicine Lodge creek. If these atrocities are looked upon in such a disinterested manner it is not at all Ftirpril sing that the Indians prefer to be managed, as is asserted, by the I uteriDr Department.  - 'lThe following is the second letter, and, apparently, is not worth the no- tice of the. representatives of the, Indian Department :-- MASON, Mason County, Texas, June 12, 1868. Colonel LEAKENWORTH :--. DEAR SIR--After a long silence I again implore you in regard to my lost child. Have yon learned anything noree definite about her? There is a report that she has been seen near Fort Leavenworth and that you do i ot purchase her because it will encourage them to steal more. I have always felt safe in you, that you would do right, and still do; but you can- not imagine how these reports hurt me. To hear of my dear child being alive and suffering among such people-if it is right to call them people. Please do not-delay one day when you get this to write and let me know the worst. God is just, and in Him I trust. Your humble grief-stricken servant.  G. W. TODD. Oficial-WlLIAM B. HAZEN', Brevet Major General. The followingis a copy of the statement of Philip SMcCusker, .United States interpreter:--  *.. FORT COsB, I. T., Dec. 22; 1868. Major General W. B. IAIAZrN, Commanding Southern Indian District. SIR.--It would be impossible, for me or any one else to give you any- thing like a correct account of the number of raids that have been made into Texas by the Kiowas and Comanches since the treaty at Medicine Lodge creek. Since the time that council broke up all the young men of the Comanches who were able to go have been raiding into Texas, except some of the Yappffreckos and the principal part-of the Peneteghkos. Dur- ing the past summer the Kiowas and Yappareckos have been 'up on the Arkansas sd have not done much raiding, but since their return a large party of Kiowas have been to Texas. The Comanches whd were camped here during the spring, summer and fall made a great many raids into Texas, the young men vieiug with each other as to who would make the lmost trips, The number of horses and mules that have been brought from TeX-es^ by the Comanches duringi the past year is almost incredible. You ! an have some idea when you know that in going to Texas they split into   AND MRS BLYNN S CAPTIVITY.          69 parties of two and three and generally stay there until they mnakea good haul. When they 'reach camp ,with their horses they seldom stay-more than one or two nights, when they go again. Now, suppose we let all the available you'ng men of the Kiowas and Comtanches keep this thing up for a year, an'd you can form some idea of the amount of stock driven off, to say nothing about the number of lives they take. It as been suchh a common occurence for them to go to Texas that no notice -was taken of it unless. they returned to this place with scalps. At bne time they brought in one, and on another occasion seven scalps. During the month :of Ju- uary the Kiowas made a raid into Texas, where they killed several:families and took seven children prisoners, who all froze to death. In the month of February they made another raid, when they killed several persos s, drove off large numbers-ofstock, and took five children prisonersi two oL whom were given 'up to Colonel Leaven worth, and three'taken to Arkan- s s, where they were giiven up. The principal-leaders in these raids were "Heap of Bears ". (since killed), Big Bow," "ILittle 1e10rt,l' "Loae 'Wolf, " "Timbered Moutain, " and Papachitka, or "the Sealps, "Black Eagle " made one or two raids against the Navaes, but I don't think he has raised his hand against the white man since the treaty. During -the month of May a party of Comanche Warriors of the. Yapparickoes, Tech- atzkenna and Oua-ahade bands made a raid on Texas calling on Mr, Shir- ley, the trader at this place as they passed, and pluoderd his, store of a valuable lot of Indian goods. On their return they burned a building that Agent Shanklin had erected and in which were stored a lot of agricultural implements and tools, which were all burned. It is generally believedl that this burning was done by an Oua-ahade, by the name of "Etsea. "  They also burned Shirley's new trading house. Another raid was mau'e by the Noconees and Teanitna during the latter part of the month of Au- gust into Texas, when they killed eight persons, three of Whom were boy8 Nind the other five men and women. They also drove ^ff about three hundred head of animals. This party was lead by Preannimma, a iNeeo- nee and one of the worst men on the prairie. i-endoes notRdeny that bqe killed several persons on this raid. IManvy other ra4ids were maide during the summer and fall by the Buffalo Eaters, Oua aihades, Teanemmat, Teachatzkenna, Noconee, and Yapparickoes drove a lot of stook out of the Chickasaw Nation quite lately. There were some Kiowas. with the party; one of them was killed by the Seminoles and one of the Seminoles killed by a Yapparickoe. This -party was led by Queen-ahboico, and tho Seminole was killed by a son of Iron- Mountain I Twelveof the,Npeonaecs of Horseback's band are now: absent in Texas., y The namesoftheb mean who have been constantly getting up thegs parties and making war on Texas are of the Noconees :--Tea-ah-nimme, Peah-.FrothhjC ,JEs^a- 'ho-cone, Ouas-ah (Tummu) Seeth-tah dorseback'sgoa) : Ofthe Tea^ nimmas-Iron Jaclket's son and his nephew. Of the Peaeteglb!as-Tak4-     To         GENERAL SHERIDAN^S SQUAW, SPY wappab-            tie, 'm-w sy-mn, Pea-ar-sca. Of the Yapparickoes ---Que^ka-.vie, Hoc-weas-tamomy. Queet-a-nAr-oy-yel, Mura-pay,' Pah-wak and Irobn Mounitahinf7 son8s.- Of tfh Teachbatzkennas-Tar-bay-nan-na -kay. This is one of the leading men amiong the Conmanches, and from all I can lear-n took a very prominent part in the late fight with the troops near Antelope lIills, the Cheyenes'saying that he distinguished himself above all others by his bravery during the fight. This, however, is Indian talk, but I think it is reliable. He has always been opposed to the white men coming into this country, and he has frequently told me that any attempt to establish military posts in this country would be followed by war. There are a great mnany other bad men among the Cochetakoes and Oua- ahnades, who have beenl^guilty o gf a great many crimes, but I aml not ac- quainted with the partiiulars. I am, General, very respectfully your obea dient-servant, PHLIP McCTUSKER, United States. Interpreter. Official--WILLIAM 1B. HAZEN, Brevet Major General.      i The following is Mr. S. T. Wakley's statement:-- KIOWA AND COMANCHE AGENCY, Dec,. 23, 1868. Brevet Major General W. B HAZ:EN :- GENERAL-In compliance with your. wish in reference to the Indian raids in Texas I, compile the following :-The raid in June was made by the'Cochetakoies, memberslof the Cochena and Ada-hab-teet's and in that raid the three McElroy children were captured and one young man killed, uncle to the children. The raid in Grayson' county, in July was made by the Noconees, led by Silver Shirt; Horseback's sor was along. They killed an entire fa- mily of four persons on the Brazos. The .raid near Spanish Forkl, made about the 1st of September, 1868, was started -by To-sa-wis' son-i-llaw. He offered the pipe to the Caddoes, who refused to join him. He next offered it to Horseback's son, who took it and smoked, therO by- accepting the challenge. -It was next offered to the affiliated tribes, and quite a number agreed to go. Before this party started it numbered- fifty-four warriors, having been joined br a party of Yapparickoes. On their way to Texas they came across Cochen-a-co-che-' tekah, who went out from the agency on a hunt. He asked the party to stop and stay with him. I have learned that he talked to them strong in trying to dissuade themo from going to Texas. Some of the party came back from Cochena's camp, but thilrty-four went on. They were ten No. conees, led by Horseback's son ; four Peneteghkoes, To-sa-wis' son-in-law leading the party : one Wasbita, three Keichies, two Kiowas, two Coche. ' .oes and twelve Yapprickoes. On their return, September 2, 1868. 1 t'y brught-feight scalpst and a large number of horses abd mules. The 'party who returned to this, neal the agency," held a scalp dance at the Noconee and Peneteghkoe, camps. I will. give their own account of the   fi    '    ;*' .   'l AND MRS BLYNNS CAPTIVI'TY          'I raid. They satilthey canme in sight of a fine home, put out their sentinels and recounnitd:;' IIce said that the windows had curtains, which were put bick-nreach side. He saw a woman through thhe window, sitting in a rocking chair. He signalled to his comrades that all was right, and thirteen ehtered the house with a whoop, some through the windows and some through the doors. The wonman was afraid, and fell on the floor. The thirteen ravished her, To-sa-wis' son-in-la'wi being the first,' aid Horse- back'S, Son the last, who killed her 'by sficl;itg his tomiihaWk intoher head. To-sA-wis' son-in-law then scalped her; they killed thieeo br four of her children: The party then started up the river, killing and stealing' a they went. ] They also say thlat they had two white squaws, Whom they ravished as much as thhey Wanted and then thiiew t hem awy.' Oa Septermxlber 20 thirtcen Washitas--I mean belonging to the affiliatcd tiibee. --brought in tlhree horses, which tlheir chiefS took fioim theim and sent to Fort Arbuckle. Towakehna Jim c'an tell all about it, as ha 'tok the horses to Brbuckle. The Caddoes have not been exempt from making raids into Texas. There are somne four or fivc, led byv Pole Cat, who hav'e been down several times to steal horses and mules. They have never killed any one, as I can learn. I think you. car find out the names of those who have been engaged in the raids by 'a little careful inquiry. The chiefs of the different tribes and bands know the men belouging to their bands who have committed any depredations. Very respectfully, your obedient servrant.' ' S T. WALKL04Y. Official--WILLIAM B. HAZEN, Brevet kajor General. This is but a small portion ef the daily occurrences between the so-call- ed friendly tribes and the unfortunaute frontier settlers. Did the-white men ever encroach upon the legal reservations of the Indians there might be some palliation of'the offence. But long marches are made by the offending savages Within the country legally occupled by the whites for no other purpose than to murder and to destroy. Yet these vagabond tribes are shieldedby thevery arm of the government entrusted with the admin istration of law for the 'control of the angry brute passions of the savages, and the protection of peaceable and industrious settlers, useful to the, nation by developing its resources. The affair mentionned by Wakley did not even attract the notice of the Interior Department until after the arrival of some of the military authorllties at this point in Novetmber, apparently Whren there was no more possibility of suppressing the exposure of the affair. This state of things, it is stated in official circles, has existed for twenty years, with fulli op. portunities of knowledge to the Indian Bureau. Such inaction on the part ofthe Indian administration Would suggest the approval of ftiese crimes. If not so, then the impotence of the Indian i Buieau deniands a! change to secure unoffending settlers and lkeep the 1awless 1bands in proper subjection.     72       GENERAL SHRIDAN'S SQUAW SPY GENERAL SLiLY'S GREAT MARCH. It is not likely that the hostile savages of the Plains will ever forget the memorable march of General Sully. The whole ,movement was in pursuance of a grand experiment that General Sheridan had determined -to try; namely; a Winter Campaign against the Indians. Hitherto the lahter in spring and summer' after getting food and arms from the United States government would commit the most atrocious outrages upon the white settlers and then breaking up into small squads scatter all over the prairies so that it was imposible for our troops -to pursue and punish the wrongdoers. Then when winter came these marauders would select some place far distant from the Army Posts and were thus safe from pur- suit, as the frozen plains across which swept the icy gale, bore not a blade of grass, and cavalry could not therefore subsist on them. General Sheri- dan resolved to stop this, and strike a blow that would teach the savages they could no longer keep on practicing these tricks of cowardly warfare. This was the object of General Sully's and General Custer's operations; and experience will prove that General Sheridan's plan was not only the best for the protection of the whites; but also the most merciful to the Indians themselves. General Sully's command left Fort Dodge on the 12th or 13th of No. vember 1868 marched down the northern bank of the Arkansas river a distance of perhaps twelve miles and there went into camp. On the next morning at day break the column was again in motion and crossed the river to the opposite bank. The crossing was very bad as the bed of, the river is principally soft and shifting sands. And even when over, matters did not improve; for, from the water up to a ridge about a mile distant there was nothing but sand hills across which a strong gale blew filling the eyes and mouth, and stinging the face with sharp dry particles of sand. After descending on the other side of this ridge, however, the country assumed a somewhat better aspect; being a rolling plain of boffalo grass with no trees, and but few bushes. It was found to be much broken up by deep ravines. The column, following a buffalo trail, crossed a creek, called Mulberrv Creek, and went into camp. 'There the men found a scanty supply of rather poor timber, which afforded them means to cook their ra- tions. Much trouble was experienced in getting over, as the banks of the stream were very high and almost perpendicular. The next morning just as a start was being effected some accident oc- curred, and at once the animalb, with'the column, stampeded and went   AND ,MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.        t3 scouring, away over the plain in all directions, snorting and bellowing frightfully. The ground fairly trembled with the tramping of their hoofs. There was a dilemma that none but a plains nman can really comprehend. Suppose yourself, in company with a hundred friends, on a lonesome island, to which you have come from the main land several miles distant. The evening is coming on: leaving the woods, you all go toward the shore to get into the boats in which you have conic, to return home. Sud- denly, while you are looking, a s(piall eomles up, and every boat is torn from its moorings and driven away across the stormy: water, leaving you. all to get back as well as you can. This is about the condition of the traveller in the Western Prairies when his animals " stampede " or run away. They must be caught 'gain or he cannot go on. Details of men had to be made ; and fully three hours elapsed before the runaways were broughlt in by their captors, and the column moved again. The next stop.,was mnade at Bluff Creek, which being crossed with niuch difficulty camp was again made rather earlier than usual in order to rest the jaded aninmals and repair the wagons, these latter being badly used up by reason of the rough surface of the country. During this halt the buulc ers went out, and after a short ride succeded in killing several- fine buffa loes which gladdened the hearts of the soldiers who much prefered the jui- cy bison meat to their regular salt pork raiion and bard tack. It was while the hunt was at its most exciting stage that an incident occurred which might have proved fatal in its character, but for the cool- ness and bravery of Uncle John Smith an experienced hunter and trap. per who has passed all his life time nearly on the'prairies, and who gener- ally headed all the " hunts.". Two of the men had chased up a fine cow and wounded her but not mortally. They made a second fire and brought her down ; but still had not struck her in a vital part. So dismounting, both drew their knives and approached the cow, for the purpose of dispatching her. At this in- stant a huge bbull discovering her, made a furious charge directly at her enemies. And the two men were so intent upon their gaume that they did not notice the danger by which they themselves were now threatened. To shout to them would be useless, as they would not notice it; and so "IUncle John, " who had discovered the imminent peril to which his coni- rades were exposed, *heeled his horse and dashetrd at headlong speed toward the bull and his intended victims; calling them by name, how. ever, to look out. At last they heard him, and turned just in'time to beh hold the fiery monster close upon them. Comprehending all at a single glance, the hunters bepgan to manceuvre, but being already well nigh eCx- hausted, they found it exceedingly difficult to avoid their dreadful foe, who though appearcrntly so unweildy moved about like lightning. 'Uncle John fired his rifle; but it it only snapped cap. Without an instint's hesitation the gallant fellow drew his heavy revolver and then     t4        GENERAL S]HERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY charged his horse directly on the bull in such a manner as to strike him full upon the shoulder. An instant after the terrible collision both horse and buffalo were rollinr over each other on the prairie. But the wary hunter had nimbly bounded from his saddle just as the collision took place ; and now as the bull was scrambling to his feet, Uncle John coolly placed the pistol just behind lis shoulder and sent two bullets directly througlh his heart. "Boys," said he, with the utmost sangfroid, as he jumped back to avoid the dead )uftho falling upon him, *' next(timle you go a huntin' jest keep ycr wits about yer, an' don't go an' git excited, so as yer don't know what ver about. Yep I whoa, Bob I yer wrastled that ol' bull a heap! yer did I " These last words were addrefsed to his horse who seemed uninjured by his frightful tumble, and gathered -himself on his feet ready for his mias ter, wlo sprang into the saddle and rode off without saying anything more. A late start was made the next morning and only twelve miles accom- plishe1d, as the face of the country was exceedingly rougL, and cut up with ravines and wet patches of sand, nearly as bad as quick sands. High ridges, with intervening stretches of broken bottoms, ravines and difficult streams of water were the general features of the country. One day more and the column reached Bear Creek, along whose bank several miles were marched. At this point a terrific gale set in, which, in the words of Uncle John, was hard enough to blow " the horns off a buf'le. These high winds, sweeping over the prairies, are most fearfully;old; and will often freeze a horse to death in an hour or two. From here to the Cinaron river was a hard march, and the men were very glad to go into camp on the other side of the river. But by the succeeding dawn they were again on the tramp, as they were now in the heart of the Indian country, and in momentary expectation of an encounter with the sfvages. Twenty six miles of heavy marching across sand hills and through deep ravines brought the command to Beavcr Creek vbere campv was again made. It was seven 'o'clock the following morning when the troops broke camp and marched eastward down the north bank of Beaver Creek to find if possible a good crossing. But the farther they went the vorse ithecameI; and when a mile had been gone over the General in comrr and orderod4e cross. ing to be nmade. The whole bed of the creek-nce rly oinc hundred feet-. was only wet sand into w"ich the .agon wheels ank bu. decp at every rvolution.       .  TWhe men bad become so accustomed to these ba cro sings and this rough traveling, that when at last they came to Clear Creek-a fine, clear running stream of about sixteen inches depth, with an excellent crossing, they were as much delighted as astonished. Twenty miles brought the column to the south bank of Beaver Creek which made a wide detour,   AND MRS. BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.         T5 and stopped for the night. The next morning's march of fourteen miles took the command to Wolf Creek, and three miles beyond it, was struck the trail of a war party of Indians going north. Uncle John examined it closely and gave as his opinion that the trail was two days old, and had been made by about eighty or ninety men. Reconnoitering parties were immediatly sent out in all directions; but returned without seing a single Indian. G- eneral Sully having rleached a point at which General Sheridan bad or- dered him to examine the country as to whether an elligille spot could be found for the cstablishement of a supply camp, halted his command hero, and, in company with Uncle John Smith, thoroughly inspected the entire region. "Y Wa'al Gin'ral " said Uncle John after a hard day's ride as the two, came into camp together, "I 've had a heap uv trampin' hyar an' its my opine thet you're jest in the spot o' country to set yer traps an' go to house keepin'. " "What makes you like this place better than the one we were looking at down below there?" asked the General.          { -  Wa'al I'll tell yer quick, Gin'ral. This is higher thab ta yit it's mnore sheltered at the same time from .the wind. This .nolEfley too, is allers full o'grass, which is the biggest thing arter-all's said an' done,; fur, besides a feedin' yer own stock, it draws a good many bufflers to it an' so brings heaps o'meat right to yer. An' thar's wood handier then down thar. " i I believe you are right, Uncle Jobn, " said the General, "I believe "you are right. I will stop here. " "Then bully fur you, Gin'ral. I aint tramped these hyar starlpin'  grounds fur all my life an' not know all the good spots in it ; you bet 1 " The next day a hundred sturdy wood choppers were- at work levelling the huge cottonwood trees and lopping off theirbranches, while theteams.. ters, with lively songs and characteristic cries, hauled the logs to the site which had been selected for the erection of a fort or block-house, where other strong arms were already digging pits and trenches. In an exceed. ingly short time there sprang up quite a village, apparently, the portable saw mills completing the picture by their sharp, rasping songs, as, with swiftly revolving teeth, they gnawed inmmense ,logs and sticks of timber into planks, boards and joists. This- place was most appropriately named Camp Supply ; and as a base of operations-against the hostile savages for future operations is most valuable. ,t     7s6       GENEIAL SBIIRIDAN'S SQUAW SPY. UNCLE JOHN SMTH. ' This old and experienced hunter and trapper has become, like Kit Car. -son, one of the historic institutions of the Far West. Ife was/born in Frankfort, Kentucky; and lived in that locality until be was-twenty one years of age. He was of a roving, adventurous disyosition.; and conse- quently, upon thus reaching his majority he determined to go to the wild- erness of. the then unknown, unexplored West. With his knapsack and rifle he set out boldy, and finally, after innumerable dangers and hardships, he stood upon the beach of the Pacific Ocelan, being we believe the first pioneer who' had crossed the continent to that mighty sea. During six years that he passed upon the Pacific slope of the Rocky , mountains, Uncle John was often in peril of his life either from the wild beasts or still wilder savages. And he can entertain a conmpany for hours at a time by simply narra ting the principal events of certain lportions of his Wilderness Adventures. ,. One of these was indeed niost extraordinary and Nwe insert it that the reader may see llow comparatively easy the set- tler of the present day has it to what the old pioneer of fifty years ago had it. One day, Nwhile tracking a grizzly bear, Uncle John, in his ardor, fobrgot his usual caution, and, as a consequence, suddenly found himself a pris. oner among a band of twenty-five or thirty Indians who had been lying in ambush for him. To retreat was impossible; so he was obliged to submit with the best grace he could under the circumstallces. The cap- tors bound their prisoner with hide ropes, draiving them so tight as to make thenm cut deeply into his flesh. He understood- their language well, and told them  if they would loose hinm he would not attempt to escape. At this they unbound him; and, true to his Nword, Uncle John walked along in their midst, and finally, with the utmost coolness, lit his pipe, and commenced to smoke as thoug'h he were sitting safely in his cabjin. Upon arriving at the village of his captors the latter held a council, and after much talking and many speeches-for the savages were divided in their opiinions-it was decided that Uncle John should' be burned at the stake, This was anythinig but a pleasant prospect for the prisoner; but, being as calm as he was brave, the trapper showed not the slighltest trace of fear uupon his features but resolved to escape if the slightest opportu- nity was offered. But the Indians--unlike civilized nations allow but little time to elapse. between condemnation and execution. Uncle John's doom was announced about noon, and at sun set he was bound to the stake, the fagots pileefround him, and the torch applied.   AND MRS BLYNN'S CAPTIVITY.    ::     t The brave fellow had now given up all hope and with a stolid deter. ' mination, begotten of his despair, stood ready to meet his awful fate. But, as though by a special dispensation, Providence interfered in his behalf. All day the weather had been beautifully clear; but towards evening heavy clouds came rolling up from theeast, and now just as the -flames ' got under way and began to be uncomfortably hot, the rain poured down in such torrents as to extinguish every vestige of the fire. Instantly all the savages, with looks of fright, cringed down upon the earth, raising their hands above them, uttered prayers to the Great Spirit. Their superstitions induced them tothink that the Manitou was very angry with them for having attempted to kill the Pale PFace warrior; and they at once undid the thongs from his limbs, and took him back to their village. There his wounds were dressed bythe medicine men with heal- ing, fragrant herbs, and he was feasted with all the delicacies of an Indian larded. When he was completely well, his weapons were returned to him and he was told to go free. Of course he needed no secondbidding; but went, as be afterwards re- i marked, " like a stampeded bufler. " Uncle John did not remain long on the Western slope of the Rocky Mountains, but came to the East side where he has spent the rest of his eventful life on the vast plains, that stretch like a mighty ocean of prairie betwen the Western States and the Rocky Mountains. It was- here that he first fell in love with and married his wife, by whom he has had several children, all of whom he sent to the States to obtain an education which would fit them to conduct what will some day be an estate of immenase value. For the old hunter owns great tracts of land, selected by himself in'the richest portion of Colorado Territory; besides other broad acres in equally promising localities. Uncle John, though not an educated man--for his very manner of life debarred him from any extensive scholastic acquirement-thoroughly com- prehends the value of education, as he has shown in the matter of his child- ren. He has often remarked that the first need of the Great West was "School Houses an' plenty of 'em." The trappers and hunters of the plains have a romantic story of why Uncle John went roving to the wilderness. Whether it is true or not we do not know. ,       . When he was about seventeen they say, he made the acquaintance of a brilliant and beautiful girl,.the daughter of an aristocratic planter. The acquaintance in a short time grew into ardent love ; and both looked for- ward to the day when they should be married and settle down in life. But the young lady's parents and brothers desiret r to marry another man who was like Uncle John desperately in loveifth her. But though this gentleman was young, of good moral, chaiacter, and equally good personal appearance; still Charlotte-the young lady's name-did not en-     78     ^   GENERAL StHERIDAN'S SQUAW SPY tertain his suit for a moment. Why Lottie, dear "urged her father, mother and brothers, "Mr Har- rison is a prize which the proudest girl in the country would be glad to win for a husband." "I cannot help that, " answered Charlotte. "I like him well enough as a friend of the family; but I could never love him as a husband. " "But think of it for a moment, Lottie; he is so wealthy, and John Smith is so poor. Why, instead of his supporting you, you would have to support hiim. ' " Oh, I have no fear of that, " she answered, "John is strong and willI ing; and every body likes him. Never you fear ; he will get work, But, even if he is poor, and should get poorer yet, I will work along with him.  Her relatives laughed at her and said: ' All very romantic but you arcinexperienced, Lottie, and know not what you say- -" "Well, Whether I do not, I am going to marry John and no other man. So, that is decided once for all." The conversation up to this point had been of a friendly character; but' finding their persuations uiseless, Charlotte's family at once altered their manuner to one almost of feiocity. Said the father S ' Miss, I will let you see who you are to matry. My will, and not yours shall be obeyed. I say you shall wed Mr Harrison. Your mother and we all desire it. I have already forbidden your favored lover to cross my threshold, and if he disobeys, I and your brothers here will teach him a lesson he will not readily forget.  ' Charlotte was astonished at this sudden change'; but did not allow her anger to master the filial respect and love she had for her father: but when words of threatening and fierceness were added by both mother and brothers, her temper bounded past control; and a teriible scene was the result. Shortly after this, one evening while she was walking in the street with her betrothed, her father and brothers attacked the latter, and after a severe struggle in which, they were nearly worsted, however, they dragged her away, and it was .said the next day she had been forced into a convent. Five months after this she was brought hcme dead ; her poor loving heart having been broken. with grief. One evening at sunset;, a man, whomn all said was her intended husband, was seen sitting by her grave pluck- ing flowers and placing them between some leaves of paper. The next day he was missed from the city, and has never bcen seen there since. This is the story:^the trappers and hunters narrate it. THE END   Mrs. Blynn; from a little lead pencil sketch, made by an artist who was traveling oler the prairie in the same wagon train as the unfortunate la dy. This is the only likeness 'there is of her.     
         
      
   
