
    ----CITATION----
        Frothingham, Washington, (b. 1822). Once more .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6490
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Once more
             
                ONCE MORE: A STORY OF NEW YORK. BY WASHNGTON FROTHNGHAM. YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOIATION, OF THE CITY OF ALBANY. *-  - NEW YORK: SIIELDON & 00 1875.   f r l     Entered according to act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, BY SHELDON & CO., In the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. ,   * * . CHARLES VAN BENTHUYSEN & SONS,  PRINTERS, STEREOTYERS AND BINDERS,  ALBANY, NEW YORK.    INSCRIBED TO THE MEMORY OF EDWARD    FROTHNGHAM, U S.N., ONE OF THE VICTIMS OF THE DISASTER     TO THE U. S. SLOOP OF WAR, ONEIDA, WHO ENCOURAGED THE WRITER TO PUBLISH THESE EXPERIENCES OF NEW YORK LIFE.     PREFACOE.  OF the defects of this book no one can be more co 1- scious than the author; but for its religious character he offers no apology. If it should be asked why the date is set back (as will be noticed by the reader), the reply is found in the neces- sity of avoiding complaint on the score of peronaity, since it cannot be denied that the characters are true to New York and its surroundings at the present day. The story is strictly founded on fact, its chief features being drawn either from the author's experience or from careful observation. The recovery of an estate, under just such an attempt at fraud as is herein described, came under his personal notice. He does not claim that the lessons which he offers are essentially new, but rather seeks to furnish a fresh view of what must be familiar, in some degree at least, to all who have had a thorough experience in tis city-thus giving, "ONCE MORE, A STORY OF NEW YORK."   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I.          PAGE. THE WRECK-A SHOCK OF TERRIFIC POWER ................. 1 CHAPTER II. ONE MAY FALL INTO BAD COMPANY WITHOUT KNOWING IT ....  3 CHAPTER III. SCENES IN CITY LIFE, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF A BENEVOLENT CHARACTER .....................................10 CHAPTER IV. MR. FLINK DESIRES TO OBTAIN AN ADVANTAGE OVER HS CLERK, AND COMES SHORT OF IT ....... .... .  ........... 18 CHAPTER V. THE LAST HOURS OF THE COUNTERFEITER ................... .. 26 CHAPTER VI. MR. FLINK CALLS IN THE AID OF A FRIEND .... .........34 CHAPTER VII. ELLIOTT BRAND BECOMES ACQUAINTED WITH THE MEDICAL PRO- FESSION . ....4 2. e. e.... ... . a....... ......... .. 42 CHAPTER VIII. A NEW EXPERIENCE IN HUMAN NATURE......................  49 CHAPTER IX. THE DOCTOR'S FAMLY ...... ......  .... .,.. , .............. 57     vi           CONTENlTS                 F CHAPTER X.           PAGE, CONCERNING TWO MEDICAL YOUNG GENTLEMEN  ALSO STATING  HOW FREDERICK CLAMPER CAME TO BE ONE OF THEM.....  64 CHAPTER XI. EARLY DISCUSSIONS CONCERNING DEEP THNGS ......................... 75 CHAPTER XII. THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO A FASHONABLE CLERGYMAN. . 90 - CHAPTER XIII. WORK AMONG THE POOR................ .... .... ........ ..... . .. *  102 CHAPTER XIV. IN WHCH THE YOUNG CLERK MAKES A STRANGE DISCOVERY. *... . 113 CHAPTER XV. WHCH THE READER MAY SKIP IF HE BE NOT IN A THOUGHTFUL FRAME...  O, a...  ..so*fee 090  g o.  . ....  .....***..*** *** * * *** 122 CHAPTER XVI. SOME CHANGES IN THE LIFE OF ADA BRAYTON, . a............ .... 131 CHAPTER XVII. WHCH REVEALS A VARIETY OF STRANGE TRANSACTIONS ......... 143 CHAPTER XVIII. SOME SCENES IN DOCTOR TENDERBLARE'S STUDY ................ 152 CHAPTER XIX. IN WHCH A NUMBER OF EVENTS ARE RECORDED .. ........  ...:.. 160 9 X CHAPTER XX.  FAMLY CONVERSATIONS AT THE WARBURTONS' ...... ........ ..... 168 CHAPTER XXI. BEING THE SHORTEST IN THE BOOK, AND ONLY PRESENTING A  SCENE IN DOYER STREET .............1 .. ........ .... . 176  CHAPTER XXII. AN ANONYMOUS LETTER, AND ITS RESULTS ..... ...  ..  178  CHAPTER XXIII.  MAUD WARBURTON TO NATHANIEL DUDLEY.... .   ......  . .. ... 186 s ",.W ". .,   CONTENTS.            vii CHAPTER XXIV.           . THE BOARDING HOUSE      ....................   .....,..**...*,*.,, ..** 192 CHAPTER XXV. FURTHER SCENES IN ADA S HSTORY .......... .  ... ..199 CHAPTER XXVI. THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO A FORTUNE TELLER ............. 205 X CHAPTER XXVII. THE CLAMPERS PLAN A RECEPTION, AND ELLIOTT APPEARS IN A BAD  PLIGHT ......e O  *o  *0  g*00000000*00 1 BAD PITGHT ..................... ................ ...... ... 213 CHAPTER XXVIII. 1HiE LUNATIC ASYUM.         *0*0,0000   s e oo 226 THE LUNATC ASYUM........ ...... ...... .. -.............. 226 CHAPTER XXIX. AN EXPLANATION OF THE FOREGOING      .  ....... . ... 231 CHAPTER   XXX. SHOWING HOW A POOR GIRL FACES WANT...... ........... 235 CHAPTER XXXI. WHCH GIVES A FURTHER ACCOUNT OF A YOUNG PRISONER ........ 246  CHAPTER   XXXII.  MORE ABOUT A POOR GIRL. ..,..*** **O& go* *0 O   6,60 259 MOR ABUT POR IRL........................ .......... 259g CHAPTER   XXXIII. DANGERS STILL THREATENING ADA......... . ... .    264 CHAPTER  XXXIV. A NIGHT SCENE IN BROADWAY .  .  .  O a.... . . .. ..... ....  2" CHAPTER   XXXV. DETAILS OF MSFORTUNE.... . 0000 -0 O 0  ** * ,0. O2" DETAILSOF MSORTUXE................ ................. 2" CHAPTER  XXXVI.  ADA AND THE MYSTERIOUS PATIENT. ,  ...... ..     281 CHAPTER  XXXVII. THE MYSTERY EXPLAINED..... ....... 289 ' , . /     Vlll         k ly -A/^v 1. W, CHAPTER XXXVIII.       PAGE. FESTIVE SCENES AT THE CLAMPERS' ................ * * 295. CHAPTER XXXIX. ADA BRAYTON TO AURA WERNER................. ............300 CHAPTER XL. THE GRAND PARTY ... .... ... .........305 CHAPTER XLI. "ESSONS TAUGHT AT THE THORNTONS' ..............*........ 315 )    CHAPTER XLII. MYSTERIES PERTAINING TO REAL ESTATE ..... ..... 319 CHAPTER XLIII. CLOSING SCENES AT THE CLAMPERS' ..... .............. ... 325 CHAPTER XLIV. EVEHARD WYNDHAM TO WALTER THORNTON ..... .......... 328 CHAPTER XLV. "GHT BREAXS ON ADA'S PATH ............... . . . . .* * 331 CHAPTER XLVI. CONCLUSION ., ...  ........ ......      334 h( S' h S1 . * .....*-* ,           - cl '-           .        iL   "ONCE MORE." CHAPTER I. THE WRECK-A SHOCK OF TERRIFIC POWER. Then - darkness and cries for help-the hurried tread f heavy footsteps above, and, below, the rush of-an npetuous crowd seeking escape. Water is welling in through opened seams, and the thin is soon flooded. Some perish in their berths; others grope amid float  Ig furnitur  e to the companionway and are saved. Screans, darkness, horror and sudden death-the most instantaneous result of an irretrievable blunder. It will be long before the survivors forget the evening, April 7th, 1845. Among the last mentioned was a youth, who at the ty moment of the catastrophe was thinking of home, d had almost regretted his departure from so lear a i t, shadowed though it were by severe poverty. Like multitudes of other boys, both before and since, was cheered by golden hopes, which were cast into den confusion by the disaster. In the bewildering os of the moment he had sufficient presence of mind ,                *     2          ONCE MORE. to seize his satchel and rush toward the companionway, or stair, which led to the deck. All around him was mysterious horror, Some cried that they had run foul of a heavy craft; others, that the boiler had exploded. But neither was correct. The Swallow had, through the carelessness .of the pilot, veered from the customary channel, and struck upon, one of those enormous rocks which rise suddenly out of the depths of the Hudson. Here she hung, the bow resting upon the granite peak, the stern sunk in deep water. Such of the officers as had sufficient presence of mind were passing with lanterns to the scenes of greatest danger, endeavoring to rescue the sufferers; and in a few min- utes boats from neighboring vessels arrived at the spot. In this manner all possible effort was made in behalf of those who are now remembered as "the victims of the Swallow." As soon as prospect of escape appeared, the excitement abated ; the noise and confusion, however, were sufficient to try the strongest nerve. The lad followed closely a stout limbed stranger, but the pressure was so great that his luggage was dislodged from his grasp. This was  \ more than he could afford to lose, and precious as time might be on such an occasion, he stopped and groped for it amid the crowd. In a few moments it was recov- '; ered, and that he made his final escape from the wreck and reached his destination, will be understood from the  next chapter.   A STORY O -NEW YOR:.        3 , CHAPTER II. ONE MAY FALL INTO BAD COMPANY WITHOUT NOWING IT. "Is Mr. Flink in?" "That is my name, sir." "You advertised for a clerk, and I have come to apply for the place." "Your name?" "Elliott Brand.." "Your age-your home-your parents-all these things I want to know." The youth gave his age-seventee--and the other facts thus required. "We can  get New York boys enough," said Mr. Flink, , but they are good for ot g; spoiled y city habits. I give preference to one firom the country. We shan't object to you if you wish the place." "What are the wages?" "Two dollars per week." "And found, I suppose?" "I don't know what you mean," said. Mr. Flink, snnp. pishly. "We don't use suchlanguagehere. Thesalary -not wages-is two   dollars per weeks of cour, y must be supported-you have friends in the country' " "None to advance money." ,'     4         ONCE MORE. "I am sorry for it; your looks I like; can get hun- dreds at that price-" The brow of the youth became cloluded and his heat; sunk.  Two dollars per week lI what a prospect; iUt it wats his ollly chance, and he must accept it or albandon his pulwhose. Hence he calme to terlul, and -a baruaill was collnludled at once. Elliott Brand may therefore now be fould in Flink's falncy store, lumber 391 Broadway. of s leepinuo  ill the store, a id He is to have, the pLivil of st a smlall recess under the counter has beenll filled by a m;attress loaned by the employe The country lad was ertile ill expedients to acconoite hinsauelf to heis site- tio Oe thin   aS celtaill, he 2St billg exeses tihens chisDeocoae, cHe therefore determined to set 1yp witoin his resources            Ofhingll. a pivate boarculslnl house, alld for thr e beplleefit . o  th persons who may be i aZsimilar situation we describe perlslethos adoptedi A large vacalt drawer wis turned into a Iniizrture itchen ; it contained a saucepll, heated with an alcohol lamp7 and a few other utensils. Bread, cheese, chocolate, ooffee, eggs and even potatoes were b,ght ill a et iht,  adcl cooked for the Rext asy. I this male  a substaetiafl ciet was obtainec, which by close economy he embracec withid the outlay of eighty cents per weelk-just one-qualter the pLrice, rn Vi at cle'ks boarding houses. Other little items ran the amoullt to one, dollar, and thus aIlother dollar was saved to meet the cost of clothig hi         The One circuinstamce, however, -peplexed him.  T satchel which he hacl picked up oln the oSw'ltow t his owin. IJstead of coarse buckskin it was xade of   j    A STORY OF NEW  YORK.       5 morocco, while inside he found to his surprise nothing but a few law papers, a minaiature of a lady, and a gold ring covered with glistening points, and which he little thought to be diamonds. These interesting and valuable articles dlid not make up for the loss of a part of his little wardrobe, especially as it was inconsistent with the strict honesty in which he had been reared to turn them to his own use. His chest, however, had beens found and restored, only damaged by water, and thus his loss was but a par- tial one. Of the life which the young clerk now commenced we may say, that lie that of many other of the same class,  it was an experience of long and tedious labor, only on" v r  trasted by dreary solitude. He rose at five, and had his breakfast eaten and cleared away before six, at which time the store must be opened and all things prepared for the business of the day. At eight, Mr. Pluff the head clerk came in1, aand about that time petty custo erls beganll  to appeai.  Mr Pluiff was the main man in the store, for MrI. Flink made his appearance only occasionally. During the morning ladies dropped in to look at vari- ous little articles, and on a fair day the sales would be brisk. At noon the new clerk had a rlespite from toil of about fifteen minutes, and as the store was fl ush with the street he found no place of retirement for dinner except to recline upon his mattresss; and in this primitive and classic style he ate his noontday ration. -  His indoor duties were varied by the nanifold errands which grow out of a retail trade, nd thus his wey feet ;swhich gyrow o-ut of a retail trade, and thus his weary feet a,  4L                    Y     6          ONCE MORE. day after day, traced their way through the laybrinth of streets. Even the shadows of night brought him no im- mediate relief. The store was kept open until nine, and then after putting up the shutters and locking the door, the worn-out lad threw himself upon his pallet and dreamed of home. How did those dreams throw a cheer over his darkened and often dispirited soul? There was the mother, strug- gling with her daily burden, amid sorrow and heavy trial, yet still cheerful and full of hope; there, too, were the brothers and sisters, for each of whom he had so many plans. Next to mother, dear, there was little Tint, the youngest of; all-that golden-haired, blue-eyed little girl, who dwelt' so strongly in his memory-just as he saw her toddlin out to bid him good-bye in the broken language of inf9 y   All these flitted before him in the magic color of [reamland. What cheer was there in visions such aq there? Day, too, occasionally had its dreams; why should it not for one so srong in heart as he? Hope pointed to the brighter hqttrs which the future held before his advancing path., These family misfortunes would yet be conquered. The poor boy would be a rich man yet, and ' those whose ills lay so heavily upon him should then share the joys of his prosperity. Thoughts like these cheered him during weariness and depression, and, as his face was eloquent with indwelling character, Mr. Flink saw that his clerk was worthy of full confidence; for, like all knaves, he felt the value of honesty. Beside the ordinary run of retail trade, there was a i i' -    A STORY OF NEW YORK.         7 class of loungers who hung around the store, and spent long seasons in low tolled conversation with Mr. Pluff. The latter gentleman appeared to be decidedly of a lit- erary turn, if the young clerk could judge by his society. There was Mr. Grimples, a seedy, half-shaved individual, who assumed to be " on the Herald," but was in reality a discharged type-setter; and there was Hosier, also, who had some connection with the engraver's profession, being a copper-plate printer, and varying his enlploylllent by writing advertisements and such other incidental jobs as might offer. "I say, Hosier," said Grimples one evening, as they were sitting around the desk, " did you see my article on the fine arts? I add this to the commercial line-pep- per, salt and dried. apples, with Raphael, Laocoon and the Torso ; first-class artists, every one of them. Eh?" Mr. Hosier nodded by way of reply. "What did you get for that advertisement on Juni. per's hat establishment--pretty good; but I could have done better?" "You done better! You never had brains to get up a thing like that; there's the allusion to the beaver fromn the Iliad, and that quotation from Faust. What do you know of these things?  Advertising, sir, is ahead of the fine arts." "Johnson, sir, wrote advertisements for Thrale's mu- seum.'" "Brewery, you mean." "Well, I don't care which, sir ; but I know he made a fortune for his patron, as I intend doing for mine. To     8          ONCE MORE. write an advertisement, sir, say for a new pill, for in stance, it tries a man's genius." "Not as much as shoving the queer." "No, but less risk." The new clerk was by this time sound asleep ; and as soon as this was ascertained the group drew closer together, and a conversation took place in lower tone, and with more expressive countenances. iHave you seen Wipers lately?" "He was on his beat yesterday."' "And this morning appeared against Bervin at the Tombs ; that was hard."' "( Some one had to go," replied Hosier, " and he was the greenest." "And you or me next," said Grimples, "mark that." The boy continued to slumber on his chair, while the group drew closer, as though still fearful of his presence, and a few parcels were exchanged. "A new plate," said Grimples, " and filled up by a crack hand. Jim gets a quarter for each signature, and the bank can't tell the difference. Ah, he's the lucky fellow-makes the cash, and no risk neither."' The conversation, as it had turned from other topics to that which now interested them, became more absorbing until their features glowed with intensity of excitement. 4' The cheap grocer in Division street is the wideawake fellow; he works off a pile every day; some over the counter, some down town, and some on the avenue, and- can stave off any man that comes back on him. I supply him every Sunday with a fresh batch."   A STOR Y OF NE W YORK.        9 "You're doing well,7' replied Grimples, "I'm onlyv in with the eating-house man in Ann street; but I'm to have a pal that's worth sonmething--the clerk of a big hotel-- who will t:ake fifty dollars a week. None of these coun- try fellows come back agtain." "And what could you do without me, boys," said Pluff; "I find the engraver and keep the plates hid; so, boys, I have my shalre if I don't shove as much as yo0u." "Can't you do something in that line?" said Grimples. "Yes, and have it come back, as it has done; I'm sus- pected already." "By whom?" "By Flink." "He's all he can do to keep himself straight. I know enough to take care of him any day," replied Grimples. How much this conversation might have been pro- longed we cannot imagine; but it was suddenly termi- nated by the waking of the boy, and, after a few words on other topics, the parties left the store. From their appearance they might have been taken for members of some respectable craft; blut their countenance bore the mark of dissipation, and they were of that large class who are driven by viciouls habits into evil colrses, and who, from its ease and convenience, connect themselves with the issue of fraudulent currency.     10         ONCE .MORE. CHAPTER III SCENES IN CITY LIFE WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF A BENEVO- "ENT CHARACTER. "Good morning, Aura ; how is your patient to-day?  "A little better, father, but I don't think there's much hope-he is a complete wreck, body and soul." This inquiry was made by a middle aged man of plain and quiet features, who was sitting in the front room-- second story-of an old fashioned house situated in one of the most populous wards in the city of New York. It had once been the homestead of a large and opulent family, but had changed its occupants, and now was let to different tenants, all of whom might be termed of respectable character. The enormous increase in rents has long since made this subdivision of dwellings a neces- sity, while the increasing pressure of population has called into existence the present objectionable system of tene- ment houses. It will be a happy day for New York and other Ameri- can cities when the plan now prevalent in Glasgow and Edinburgh shall be adopted. We refer to the construc. tion of houses for the poor, with flats convenient for sepa- rate families in which decency and comfort may be malin. tained by this class.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         " The speaker, with whose words this chapter opens, was one of that humble class of clergymen known as city missionaries; men who, while receiving light compensa- tion, labor arduously among those abodes of wretched- ness which are found in all large cities, and whose duties, to say nothing of their privations, are often vastly greater than those of the titled and more noted clergy. ",I am now going out, Aura," said the missionary, "but I leave with you an order for what the man needs -you may take it over and then come home and rest." He knew that these errands of mercy, in which his daughter was so often engaged, were of an exhausting nature, and hence he uttered this paternal injunction. Th'at daughter had early learned from her, father the blessedness of doing good, and as the present was a sea- son of general illness, her ministrations might easily exceed the ability of a frame naturally delicate. The girl put on her hat, and having adjusted her dress, descended to the street, walked a few blocks, and then turn ig into a narrow alley, began the ascent of a flight of stairs. The building which she had entered was pecu- liar in its shape and character. It was of large size, but had no yard except the alley referred to in which a num- ber of dirty and noisy children were alternately playing and fighting. Discordant voices could be heard from the various- rooms, whose windows were opened to admit what little fresh air might be in motion. Some of these were loud and angry, while others were merely turbulent, but all were indicative of low life. From these circumstances the reader will recognize     12         ONCE MORE.  the building as one of those monstrosities of modern    civilization, a tenement house. These edifices are con- 8 structed with a view of obtaining as many rooms as pos- 9 sible from a given space, and are subdivided into suites ; of apartments, each consisting of kitchen, bed room and I pantry, and intended for the occupancy of a family, whatever be its numbers. In this manner from two hun- dred to three hundred persons are frequently crammed ! into a space not sufficient for the healthful habitation of one tithe of that number, and thus, amid poverty and disease, thousands pass their lives. The history of the tenement house system, were it written, would be one darkened by horrors; but they will never be known, since few penetrate these labyrinths of misery, and these few led by the grace of Christ to deeds of philanthropy, know how vain is the appeal to human selfishnes. The girl continued to ascend until she reached the highest story where she tapped at a door and received an immediate reply. "So soon back, Miss Werner?" Thiq was uttered by a tall womanly girl who might have been called handsome had her countenance not been shadowed by untimely sorrow. Her eyes, which were large and brilliant, were swollen with weeping, and her voice had that subdued tone which so quickly tells of indwelling woe. "Yes," was the reply, "I returned to give you this order, supposing you might need it immediately. Your father will waken soon and will need nourishment."  A rustling was heard at the bed in the corner of the 3                 r:,   A STORY OF NYEW YORK.       13 room, and the missionary's daughter perceived that her allusion to the father had attracted his attention. "Yes! yes!" exclaimed a weak and hollow voice, "you have money now, Ada-get it, I say, and see that they give you good measure-the best, remember--ah, fifty cents for a mere drop of gin, curse 'em!" "Father," was the reply, " it is not money-only an order, and we can't get liquor for it." "An order-an order, eh-why don't they bring money if they want to help-bring an order! curse 'em-let 'em take the order to--no, no. I think now--get the things and then trade them off for gin, ha! ha! that's benevo- lence that suits me." The form that spoke lay helpless on the bed, but weak as that voice was, it was full of malignant, though impo- tent wrath. "Father," replied the gill, "I cannot--you must not expect any more-0- , 'tis not too late to recover-to change-to be what you once were-don't ask for more of that dreadful poison-anything but that." "Dry up, hussy," said the invalid in as loud a whisper as he could utter amid which the departing footsteps of the girl were heard on the stair. "Just like her, mother," he continued in muttered soliloquly, ' always talking about what I was. Who cares what I was? I am what I am -mustn't a man drink because he's poor?" The sick man turned his head as though'in agony, and gazed around the room, whose inventory of furniture was limited to a table, three chairs, the bed on which he lay, and a small stove. l     "        ONCE MORE.              ! "And this is all," he continued, talking still to him- self-" all that is left of the old homestead. Rum did it-I know that; but what of it? It's too late now, and no use whimpering, I am here, and must bear it, I sup- pose, hard though it is to be looked on as a pauper, and be visited by a canting priest and his affected daughter, because 1I am one of the poor." The girl soon returnied from her errand, and found that during her absence the soliloquy, of which she heard the first words, had worked into delirium. "Drink, Kuypers, drink," exclaimed the fever-brained wretch; " only two o'clock, and three bottles left-gin, gin, quick, I'm thirsty as -! There, throw again, and I have lost I Those dice are loaded, and I'll have your blood yet. You say you did those plates-you lie I Necker did the whole of them, printing and all-gone to Sing Sing, too-police! police! police!--no, don't touch me! I always worked at honest work; can prove it in any court under heaven." The force of the delirium passed away, and the sick man sunk into a restless slumber; but these last mut- terings had confirmed the girl, who watched by the bed, in the fears which had long haunted her. Her father's dissolute habits, which had grown rapidly upon him, were not a greater source of sorrow than his connexion with men who lived by crime, and who had made him their dupe and victim. Luther Brayton was a man of no ordinary gifts, and his life had opened with promise. He had been well educated, and had obtained by marriage a valuable prop- 'ff   O A STORY OF NEW YORK.        15 erty in the upper part of the city. His natural turn was for mechanics, and having also a taste for the fine arts, he had become a skillful engraver. Unfortunately, how- ever, he had early in life been mastered by the love of strong drink, and the appetite had grown with indulgence until it destroyed his domestic life. His violence and abuse had. broken the heart of his wife, and she had found rest in the grave. Her children, with but one exception, had preceded her, and as that sole survivor closed the mother's eyes, she felt the last hope depart, and only longed to share her rest. And yet she did not cease to be a faithful daughter, speaking kindly to a ruined father, and keeping a home for him until he be- came a broken down inebriate, and now was wasting with fever. The old homestead had been sold years ago, and their condition gradually sallk, until now all that was left was the miserable scene before her. More than this could be said of the effect of intemper- ance. Unsteadiness of habits had driven Luther Brayton from his position as one of a leading firm, and he sought employment as a journeyman ; but it was found that no reliance could be placed upon his attendance, and this engagement was likewise lost. At this juncture he was approached by a class of men who are ever on the lookout for victims. They knew their hour, and in its exigencies they were only too suc- cessful. From that time, Brayton kept his business secret from his daughter, but there was a mystery in his move- ments which aroused her suspicion.  He was frequently absent from home for successive days and nights, without i'      16         ONCE MORE.             : a satisfactory reason, and was occasionally visited by per- sons who did not enter, but held parley at the door, and whose countenances, when caught in glimpses, were shad- owed with the aspect of fraud. Such was the condition of the Braytons at the time to which we refer. The sick man having fallen asleep, the daughter left his bed, and was engaged in her domestic duties, when a gentle tap was heard. She opened the door with a "hush!" at the same time recognizing a form above all all others unwelcome. "Mr. Grimples," said she in a low but determined tone, "you cannot enter," and, pushing him gently into the hall, she followed and closed the door. "I came to see how he was, and to leave you some help." "You might better say you have come to see your work. Yes, Mr. Grimples, but for you he might have been an honest maln--drunkard, though he was." "Well, there's no danger," said the man, "he's not suspected."                      r "Wretch, he's more than suspected; he's known- his conscience knows him--God knows him. Begone, sir, you shall not see your dying victim!" "I brought help, I say, young woman ; I reckond he might need it. We'll take care of him, and see he don't suffer." i' You not see him suffer? You, who have caused his! ruin-begone, I say!" "He don't feel like peaching, I hope," said the man. No use peaching; it won't help any; but here's the cash-all good; no queer in that."   OVCE MORE.           17 As he said this he displayed a roll of bank notes. t4 Away with your money," was the reply, "it is the price of blood!" "There, take it," said the man, at the same time toss- ing it at her feet, and departing down stairs. The girl picked up the roll, and, without looking at its value, tore it into shreds and threw it after its donor. The frag- ments fell upon the steps and met his view, while, at the same time, he heard a voice of scorn uttering its indig- nant reply- "I will starve first!" 2     18         ONCE MORE. CHAPTER IV. MR. FLINK DESIRES TO OBTAIN AN ADVANTAGE OVER HS CLERK, AND COMES SHORT OF IT, There is a homelessness in city life, and a solitude amid its crowds, which, to a sensitive mind, is appalling. One passes thousands, pressing upon him in incessant throng, and yet, amid them all, no friendly glance may meet his eye. Each one seems wrapped inll his own selfishness, and, no doubt, considers all others equally absorbed. Where all appear destitute of sympathy, one neither asks nor expects any, and is inclined to extend none to others. In that great artery of life, Broadway, all classes jostle in strange confusion. The rich and the poor, the beauteous and the deformed, are there; and they pass and re-pass, hour after hour, each only anxious to make his onward way, and accomplish his own selfish ends. The country lad, who had now become a Broadway clerk, gazed upon the view of life which passed the en- trance of the fancy store, ebbing and flowing according to the pressure of the hour, and sometimes he wondered if it would never cease. But cease it did not; and though it slackened as midnight drew near, yet still it had no end; and even after the clock had struck the solemn hour of twelve, the pattering of footsteps was   I        A STORr OF NEw YORK.        19  heard, and, whenever the sleeper awakened, his ear was I greeted by those restless feet. They were suggestive of the houseless ones who walk because motion is preferable to the desolation of quietude, while others moved on with more active stride as though conscience forbade the ap- proach of slumber. Patter! patter! tramp! tramp! all night the wanderers were heard; and when the sun once more lit up the street new comers gave fresh power to the scene, and soon the heavy throng jostled together as it had the day before, and the same river of life was there, hasting to and fro, but finding no rest. Amid all this throng the lad found nothing but soli- tude, and it ovelcame him with its pressure; the only I ray which cheered his path was the thought of the dear little circle at home, and the occasional letters which he received, and the hopes that the former would at last ! share the prosperity which he felt sure would crown his labors. Those precious letters came like messengers of love to tell him that, though alone in the great tumult of the city, there were those who cherished his image in their hearts. One day, on applying at the post-office, his eyes were gladdened by one of these missives. He opened it and eagerly glanced over its contents until he came to a sen- i: tence which made him shudder. Tint was dead-dear little Tint, who came out with rosy cheeks, blue eyes, I and golden hair, to bid him good-bye only a few weeks before, when he departed to try his fortune in the great city. Dear little Tint was dead; so the sorrow-laden ! mother said inll this mournful message. It was a hard     20         ONCE MORE. blow-the first the youth had received. Poverty he could endure if it were sweetened by the affections. Solitude, too, he might bear, since it was cheered by the hope of reunion with the beloved ones at home; but to think of this dearest-so it seeined-of all the household treasures, hidden forever in the grave- The clerk placed the letter in his cap and returned with tearful countenance to the store. It was Saturday lnight, and, though fatigued with the week's labor, he lay upon his pallet sobbinlg still, and still too full of busy thoughts to sleep, until nature conquered the wakefulness of agolly. The next morning was Sabbath, and the tolling of the bells awoke a new feeling in his soul; never before had there appeared such pathos in their deep and solemn knell. Then he took his accustomed place in the church gcallery, and listened to the soft and moving tones of the organ, on whose breathings the sacred songs floated to heaven. They spoke a sacred peace to his soul, and brought thoughts of that better world whither Tint had gone, and where all sorrow, and pain, and death are done away. The next day the clerk resurmied his duties, but wher. ever he went the presence of Tint seemed to follow him; and then, when night came, her form was hovering near- so it appeared-and sometimes he thought he could see that golden hair, and those soft blue eyes looking down upon him. How it consoled him to think that Tint had gone home to God, and had escaped those troubles which all must meet, but which so few are able to bear. How could he have endured to see her suffer as others suffered i .    A STORY OF NEW YORK.                21 Iaround him?   But now she was where sorrow is un- known. Happy, happy child! that never knew sin or death, but went up as a babe, to be with him who took little children in his arms and blessed them!  Thenceforth his life became more earnest, a loved one was calling him from the skies, while the grave seemed also to utter its voice: "That's hallowed ground, where, mourned and missed, The lips repose our love has kissed; But where's the spirit's mansion-is't Yon churchyard towers? -No, in our souls themselves exist, A part of ours." Several weeks quietly elapsed, and Elliott became better acquainted with the business. With that acquaintance his satisfaction diminished. It did not offer that promise which he looked for, while, judging firom  the light amount of sales, it was doubtful whether it was profitable. It was evident, as business was so light, that Mr. Flink must have some other resources; and this might be ar- gued from the fact that he was so seldom at the store.  While there, he was often occupied by a class of ill  looking persons who hung around him, but purchased nothing. I:  During Flink's absence things did not seem to mend.  Mr. Pluff was not only visited by the two men to whom  reference has been made, but others of no better appear- ance frequented the store, from whom the clerk shrunk as by a natural aversion. The latter therefore determined to find another situation as soon as possible, and, for that I purpose, spent every spare moment, when -absent from     22         ONCE MORE. the store, in the search. He could, it is true, have obtained better pay by accepting employment in a cor- ner grocery, but this business repelled him; and he cherished hopes of soon obtaining a place in a first-class wholesale establishment. There was another subject that distressed him-the possession of the satchel found on the Swallow. He had no friend with whom to confer on this subject, neither had he any money to employ in advertising, and hence he was without the means of discovering its owner, even supposing that the latter had escaped during that night of peril. The papers might be of importance, but of this he was no judge: what seemed of real value was that glittering ring and the interesting miniature. One day, while gazing upon the former during a mo- ment of leisure, he heard a step by his side, and looking up noticed his employer, who had stealthily entered. Mr. Flink appeared startled at beholding such valuables in the hands of a poor clerk. "And where did you get those things, young man, and why do you not let me see them? It's strange (with an oath) that a poor boy like you should have a diamond ring." II I got it in the satchel on the Swallow," was the reply, "And no owner for it? Then you had better put it in my hands; I can take better care of it than you." Elliott had seen enough of his employer to doubt him thoroughly, and he hesitated to part with the articles referred to. "What are you waiting for, sir?" exclaimed Mr. Flink; I am your employer, sir." And then changing   A STORY OF NEW   YORac.     23 his tone he added, in a persuasive voice, "Let me look $ at them for a few moments." !?  The sinister expression which his face had so recently worn, was sufficient to increase the youth's suspicions, !', and hence he was still less inclined to gratify his em- 1I. ployer, and became firmer in his refisal. i So you doubt me, you scoundrel, do you-you green- horn whelp, to whom I give work? Out of my store! I discharge you this moment.":  "All right," responded the youth; "I have been de- sirous of going for some time past. A week's pay is due me; I will take it and go." "Go I go where? where can you, but to the station. house?" "I had rather lodge in the station-house than remain f here with a bad man." "Villain!" replied Mr. Frink; but suddenly cooling down he added, in a milder tone, "You shall not go, young man; I spoke too hastily; we will arrange this i matter between ourselves. Meanwhile let no'body see it- no, not even your best friend; it may make trouble. I1  You and I will yet make something out of that." isl Mr. Flink having thus moderated in his dealings with the clerk, took his hat and walked out of the store, while Elliott, deeply excited by the conversation, locked the satchel in his chest. In about a half hour Mr. Flink returned. His coun-, tenance was flushed and his eye was eager, but his man- ner was calm, as though subdued by an effort. "Young man," said he, " would you like to have plenty t    ,.     24         ONCE MORE. of money; fifty dollars is a good deal; many a man has got rich by working up from fifty dollars to a hundred, and so on. You understand?" The clerk did not understand the speaker's drift, and his countenance showed it. "I mean," said Mr. Flink, "that you shall take fifty dollars for your own use, and let me take charge of the satchel and what's in it. The owner, no doubt. is dead, and if so, I can find sale for it. If a man is at the bot- tom of the Hudson, he will never come asking for a ring. Fifty dollars is a bigger share than most get." "(I can't sell other people's property," replied the clerk; " that would not be honest." "Honest? ah, its all right to be honest; every clerk should be honest and not rob his employers; but this is a different affair. The first owner is dead; who, are the owners now? Beside that, boy, it's all in the providence of God, as the priests say. God put it in your hands for your own benefit." "But it is no benefit to Se to steal," replied Elliott. "Steal? no, of course not. I don't want anybody to steal around me; but can't you understand? there is no stealing about it; the ring is lawfully ours, and we need the money; you need it, boy, starving yourself when you might live like a king. Now's your chance to make a neat strike, and when the fifty dollar's gone, why I'll put you in a way to make more just as easy." A suspicion of shocking character flitted across Elli- ott's mind as these words were uttered. His heart seemed to shrink, and a cold shudder passed over his frame.   AS        A STORT OF NEW YORK.        25 Mr. Flink noticed the emotion, and appeared to sur- "  ise its unfavorable nature; for, without continuing the conversation, he turned to some other employment and  then in a short time left the store. That night Elliott felt a double need of prayer. The character of his employer had now been unveiled, and his recent conduct threw light upon many previous cir- cumstances of a suspicious nature. What conversations might those have been, which oc- curred so often at the store between Flink andnza class of men who neither brought anything for sale nor-made any purchases, and yet who came and went from timeeto = time with perfect liberty of the premises? Possessing now an article of value which his employer j  was aiming to obtain, he determined to leave at once, gi even if he had to go to the street. With such important ! thoughts resting on his mind, the youth sighed himself !' to sleep, and then dreamed of home; home, with all its i; rich affections; of the mother, struggling under her bur- dens, yet still cheerful and  patient; of the brothers, ?  looking to him for aid, while little Tint was gathering flowers or playing with her kitten. Such visions seemed ? sent by guardian angels to cheer the drooping heart; I: and when he awoke to the reality of life he could thank   God for a happy dream. i            ;\     26         OINC0E: MORE. CHAPTER V. THE LAST HOURS OF THE COUNTERFEITER. To those acquainted with the pressure of poverty upon the masses, as it is seen in large cities, the strong and incessant claim which is there made on philanthropy is nothing new; but it is a sad thought that this very claim should, from its frequency, often lose its power. The hand of benevolence sometimes becomes weary of the labor which each successive daly imposes; and even the most earnest in the work often look forward to a time when toil and self-denial shall have respite. But this time comes not. The cry of misery goes up, freshly uttered each day, and thus the Christian is taught the full truth of those impressive words of our Saviour: "The poor ye have always with you." But does he not also learn that every kindly act brings its reward in the blessing enjoyed by the soul, so that while each day has its labor, it also has its rich compensation? Thank God, there is a few, out of the mass of so-called Christians in every large city, who have correct views of life, and who, while the multitude presses on in its greed, are content to labor in patient self-denial. To such, the words of the apostle are full of rich encouragement: "1 Be not weary   ! A STORY OFrNEW YORK.       27 in well doing, for in due time ye shall reap, if ye faint : GIa nIot.7 Such excellent persons may be found in every ward, of that city where the scene of this history is laid, exert- ing themselves to relieve the misery which crime and intemperance are creating; and though its amount be enough to often stagger the strongest heart, yet they feel that to do even a little good is better than to leave it undone.  Such was the sentiment of John Newton. "I see," said he, "two heaps in the world-the one of good, the other of evil; now if I can take from the one and add to the other, even though it be but a little, yet it is worth doing." Among the institutions sustained by this class, that which is known as the l' City Mission" stands prominent. This is shown by the fact that this effort, which began in New York, has been adopted in many other American cities. It was planned and set in operation by a Christian merchant, distinguished for his benevolence and philan- thropy, and who has been connected with it from   its beginning. Its method is to place a missionary in each ward, whose duty shall be the visitation of the sick, the distribution of tracts, and the superintendence of a Sab- bath school; in addition to which he is to maintain a preaching service on the Sabbath. Another benevolent effort co-operates with the Mission the society for the relief of the poor-which adminis- ters to the wants of the body as the former does to those of the soul, and which offers assistance to such as are bat-     28          ONCF7O MORR. tfling with cold, and hunger, and disease. By a judicious arrangement the missionary of each ward has control of this ministration, assisted by a committee of visitors ; for all which service, both spiritual and secular, he receives less compensation than a first class mechanic. These men bear the burden and heat of the day, enduring the heaviest cross of their profession, while others so often receive its honors. For them, no university offers its degree or title, for D D. is never conferred on such hum- ble names. Their footsteps fall on no Turkey carpets; their ears are never greeted by the flattery of fashionable auditors; and, indeed, they seldom enter the avenues sacred to worldly grandeur.  On the contrary, their home is "a set of apartmentsj" their associations are among the poor and even the vile, and they stand on the forefitont of the conflict between virtue and vice, decency and shame.  On every side they are called to contend with those evil forces with which sin assaults mankind, chief of which are licentiousness and intemperance, the two scourges of cities, both followed-by disease and pov- erty in their direst forms. Here nothing but the grace of Christ can avail, and here it has been known to work its greatest triumphs. Not least amid this band of, city missionaries was Her- bert Werner. He had entered the ministry with a cor- rect view of its character as a life of self-denying labor, and the spirit in which he accepted his office was ex- pressed in a remark which he made when turning from a path which might have led to distinction : "Let others take the honors, if I am permitted to do the work." He   IA! 4A STORY OF NEW YORK.               29   was thoroughly impressed with the truth of those words ' by which the Master has so often encouraged his serv-   lants: "He that is faithful in that which is least, is ;g faithful also in that which is greatest;" and thus, while :: many would have shrunk from the position of a mere city missionary, he accepted it with pleasure.   At the time of which we are writing, he had been :" laboring in this field for several years, and had acquired the confidence of a large number of benevolent capital- ists, who fiequently made him their almoner, and who  also remembered him with many tokens of their regard. ]Mr. Musgrave, the Front street merchant, sent him a ? stock of coal as the winter set in, while Mrs. Musgrave ?/! ;paid Aura's music bills. The opulent importer Wardlow gave him anll order on his tailor for a new suit at Christ- mas,while some unknown fiiend ordered the daily paper ?! to be left at his door. Indeed, had it not been for such 1.. assistance, the sum of eight hundred dollars (one-qularter of which went for rent) would not have met his expenses,  even with that rigid economy which he observed. But his life was one of faith in the promises of God, and he loved to apply that scripture to his own case: i Trust in the Lord and do good, so shalt thou dwell in the land, ai and verily thou shalt be fed." In this laborious life Mr. Werner found much consola- tion in the little circle which formed his home, and which for several years consisted of his wife and Aura, their only child. The former of these had been reared in the country, and oftenl, when suffering privation from the accustomed fiuits and flowers of her early days, she pined     30         ONCE MORE. for a return to rural life; but she was cheered with the thought that, notwithstanding all its delights, the coun- try could not afford so rich a field of usefulness as was found in the crowded city. This gave her contentment, and she had beenp a true helpmeet to her husband until called away to a better world. Aura Werner (her first name being an abbreviation of Aurora), on the other hand, was city born and reared. She had never seen country life, except during occasional visits to her cousins among the hills of the Delaware. Her youth had been spent amid the tumult of the metropolis, and the endless utterance of its sorrows had given a tenderness to her character. Since her mother's death she had been of much assistance to her father in visiting such of the poor as she might safely mingle with; and she ministered to the sick and to the aged with a quiet sympathy which told of the hidden work of piety. While on this duty she had met Ada Brayton--met her in the midst of that extreme misery to which her father's crimes had reduced his family; and she had discerned, even beneath that misery, some gleams of a high-toned character thus crushed by misfortune. A friendship had gradually grown up between them, not- withstanding differences of opinion on religious subjects; and hence there was a double motive which led her to the abode of the degraded artist. Let not the reader contemn the thought of friendship awakened by the forlorn maiden of the tenement house. Contrary as it may seem to the heartless practice of the world, which often spurns the poor as though they were   7       -  A STORPY OF NEW YORK.        31 deficient in affections, as well as in gold, that there are to be found among this class, notwithstanding its degrada- tion, occasional instances of true character. The missionary's daughter took a small dish of jelly and some choice tea, with a few wine biscuit, and made her way to the wretched abode of the Braytons. As she approached the door she heard strange voices-not loud, but determined-- mingled with the deep sobs of the -- daughter and the raving whispers of the invalid. Aura's gentle knock was unheeded; and, after waiting a few momenllts, during which she could not but hear more of the angry conversation, she entered. The spectacle which met her view was of a most pain- ful nature. Ada sat weeping, though her tears soon gave place to the fever of agony. The room was in confusion, and gave evidence of having been recently searched,-the work of two policemen who were still present. "Found nothing yet," said the sick man in a whisper of bitter sarcasm. The policemen made no reply, and Aura saw, from  a warrant which lay upon the table, that their business was not limited to a search. As the visitor entered, Brayton, who had been sitting up, sank backward in exhaustion, and closed his eyes as though gathering strength.: His countenance was pale and shrunken, and seemed to bear the stamp of approaching death.  In a moment, how- ever, he revived and began to speak: "A warrant, eh l to arrest a sick man! you can't prove it neither; Grim- ples' work, I suppose, to sacrifice me and save himself;     32         ONCE NMORE. let him do his worst; I'm a sick man, and no use to him any longer-curse him!" The policemen appeared to have finished the search, and, having tried the floor in several places to discover loose boards, were about to depart. "Satisfied now, I hope, villains I " said Brayton, at the same time glaring as fiercely as disease would permit. "Yes!-no, no I We haven't looked at the bed on your account; but if you are strong enough to talk, you may be strong enough to walk, or sit up at least. We must search that bed!" "The bed! no! you can't do that; I'm a sick man; don't touch me; let me alone, I say!" "We thought so at first; but who knows how far you are shamming. Sit up, sir, and take a chair!" No! not I. I've some strength left. Ada, help!" The policemen approached the bed, and as they did so the sick man turned over, appearing at the same time to grasp something which lay beneath the pillow. "Hands off, you vampyres!" he half shrieked, half whispered, as the men came nearer. "Grimples has them plates; go to him-go to that Pluff in the fancy store-go to them-go to them-not me, a dying mailln " With another convulsive effort Brayton raised himself to a sitting posture, still clutching the parcel; he gazed around the room  with a look of mingled agony and hatred, and exclaimed, "Ada, help I don't sit whimpering there with that pale-faced fool-help, I say I Will you let your father be treated thus? Help, I say! Good God,     i \I u-      .   3J A STORY OF NEW YORK.            33 what is the matter with me? I faint-give me a drink of gin-Acla, I say, do you see me-I'm dying!  The invalid fell back upon the pillow, and the flush of recent excitement gave way to a pallor still more I death-like than the first. One of the policemen stretched I  out his armll to break the fall, and, catching him about the shouldlers, lay him gently on the pillow. The reac- tion of the excitement was fearful. Ada sprang to the , Hbedl, and kneeling by its side bathed the temples, and H watched each heave of the chest, as the pulse seemed to -grow weakerl, while Aura gazed in agony on a scene : which she could not relieve. t  "Dying," whispered the prostrate form-, dying-  while others live; curse it-that's my fate-dyig! No, XI wollnt-I can't-I mustn't die. Can't anlly one help me H -quiclk-Ada-- with a convulsive effort the dying manll half raised in bed, and fastened a wild, despairing gaze 4 on his daughter. The whisper sank to a hiss, the eyes  glazed, and he fell back. ,  As the last breath was drlawn the dead man's grasp 1relaxed, and in a few moments the solemn silence was bloken by the slharp ring of metal falling upon the floor.  The ptarcel had slipped down the side of the bed and  dropped, and as the policemen picked it up they recog- nized it ag the object of their search-the counterfeit iDtes. 8     34         ONCE iMORE. CHAPTER VI. MR. FLINK CALLS IN THE AID OF A FRIEND. It was a bright September morning, and the sun shone right cheerily on the shop fronts of Broa-dway and upon the crowds that passed to and fro along the great avenue of fashion. It was the sun of former days, but bright as it appeared to the young clerk, he could not but think how much lovelier it seemed when lighting up his native fields and calling the world of nature inlto life. He had opened the store and swept the floor and sidewalk, but it was after the manner of habit, for his heart was no longer there. He had made constant efforts to obtain employ- ment, and these failing, he had determined at all hazards to leave the store that dclay and to trust God for the future. Mr. Pluff did not make his appearance that morning, but about nine Flink entered. It was a little earlier than his usual hour, and being the day after his attempt to get possession of the contents of the satchef, the youth drew no good conclusions firom this circumstance. A few steps behind him came another man, who resembled those broken-down clerks or mechanics who are so numerous in all large cities. "Boy," said Mr. Flink, as the last mentioned person   II      A STORY OF NEW YORK.        35 ,H entered, "here's Mr. Cully, the man that owns them thini(gs. If you are as honest as you pretend to be, you *:H will of course like to return it to the right owner. It's e curious how I come to- find him out, but he turned up t :when I didn't expect. Talking over the thing at the 'C Pewter Mug, Mr. Cully happened to be there, and he claims it because he lost it on the Swallow." "Y'es," added Mr. Cully, " and I think I see this very [young man there, wearing the same suit of clothles he's lgot oin now. Don't you remember of seeing me, boy? I twore an overcoat and new hat, an had that sanme satchel ', il my hand." W: "Where?" inquired the clerk. ;  ;'X"Why, on the steamboat." "On what part of it?" "What part of it? why, all over. It was rather risky : to stop in one place. You must have seen me there, lly friend." "I do not remember you," replied the youth; "but you may have been there for all that." "Of course," said Mr. Cully. "And if it be yours," added the clerk, "you can de- scribe it and all the things in it." "A ring," said Mr. Cully. "And other things," rejoined the clerk. "Other things!" said Mr. Cully; " what other things?" and then correcting himself, he added, " of course, other things, but not of great account; I never took much notice of them, any way; a few things I suppose my wife threw in when I left home; but the rinag, that I know;     36         ONCE MORE. it was an heir-loom, and can't be parted with, any way. We would not part with it for millions." Mr. Cully uttered this with an air of uncommon satis- filction, as though his argument was conclusive, and he was quite taken aback with the clerk's reply: "I shall keep it until the claimant gives a clear de- scription." "You don't want to keep a man out of his property, do you?" asked Mr. Cully in a tone of nminlgledl fierce- ness and disappointment. "H claim thlat ring. I'll be qualified it's mine; yes, boy, I can swear to it on a pile of bibles--and my wife would cry her eyes out to have it lost; so hand over!" Elliott's courage had been increasing during the whole dialogue, and now looking the stranger coolly in the face, he replied: "I shall not hand it over, to you or any other man, without proof of property, and that ends it." I No, it don't end it, boy, by no means. 'We have a way of doing things that you country people don't know much about. We have a police here, and a jail for that matter. You are guilty of larceny, boy, and can. be sent up." ': Not as guilty, though," replied Elliott, " as I should be if I yielded to your threat. Furthermore, Mr. Flink, I now leave your store. I have seen enough to know that it is not the place for me." "Leave I " exclaimed Flink; "no, we did not mean that." L "Mr. Flink," was the reply, "I intend to become a iJ   A1 STORY O  N'Ew YORK.       37- business man, and not a thief; and you, if you live, may yet see me one of the first merchants in this city. Yes, I leave you, sir, and that immediately; my chest and imy wages I will call for in a short time." Both Flink and Cully looked on with surprise; it was evident that they did not often meet with such detelmi- nation as this, especially in. one so young, while they felt in a new degree their own baseness, as contrasted with L the innocence and manly dignity of the youth. While j; they were gazing upon him in astonishment, Elliott put i. on his hat, took the disputed satchel from his chest, and :  -walked into the street. "Gone, now!" exclaimed Cully, as the clerk disap- peared in the crowd, " and the swag's gone with him; better took it when he was asleep." "I did not know it till yesterday." "Better sent him off on errands and then picked his chest lock." "I thought," replied Flink, "a good game of bluff would fetch it, but he has too much nerve. Good pluck, that."  "Yes," said Cully, "if you could only rope him in,  P i he'd make a fine swell-such an air. I think he spots ? you; keen for a country boy." "I mean to keep track of him," said Flink; "he might do mischief." "And if he blows. agin you, how could you get rid of him?" "Lay him foul on that very satchel. If I could find the owner, I might lay in to have the boy cribbed for     38         ONVCE MORE. it; but I don't want to give up hope of getting that some way--worth five hundred dollars, at least." "We may get him yet," replied Cully; " keep watch where his things go, and we will see if we can't pull some wires around him." Such was the convelrstion between these two worthies after they had recovered from their surprise. The reader will have observed that it indicated thorough practice in crime. Deeply convinced of this, Elliott rejoiced to be free from such influence, even though now wandering a stranger in that homeless city. He felt thankful that he had been enabled to resist temptation as well as to refuse a dishonest demand, and he rememlbered the word of the scripture, "Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not into the way of evil men ; avoid it, pass not by it, turn friom it, and pass away." * Having in this summary manner severed his connexion with the fancy store, Elliott walked slowly down Br1oad- way with new and stral lnge emotions. He was not only destitute of a home and of employment, b)ut his fundld were reduced to just six cents. A week's salary, however, was due him at Flink's, and this, when collected, would give him a fresh start. He had a stout heart, and confi- dence in God, and therefore did not yield to despondency. It was now dinner time, and having purchased some rolls, he made his midday meal while thus sauntering down Broadwcay. At the corner of Duane street his attention was arrested by a group of rough and noisy * Proverbs, 4:14.   A STORY OF NEW  YORK.       39 from one to another, and this .was followed' by rapid blows, until a steel blade glistened for a moment in the bright sunlight, and then one of them  cried, "I am stabbed!" and sunk to the ground. 'I,? A crowd gathered around the wounded man ; his coat was torn off; his breast laid bare, and the wound staunched; while a physician, who happened to be dclriv- ing through the street, was called to attend the case. All efforts, however, were unavailing, and the unfortu- ate man, who had been borne into an adjacent house, soon expired. The corpse was immediately removed to the hospital, which then stood at the corner of Duane and Church streets, and as an inquest was to be held that afternoon, Elliott was notified to appear. The spectacle, on this occasion, was the most repulsive 'the youth had ever beheld. The dead body lay upon a table, partially covered with a sheet, while near by sat a jury, before whom the coroqer was examining his wit- nesses. The first of these gave the name of the deceased, and identified the remains. It was that of a young man recently firom the country, who had fallen into the dissi- pations of the city, until he had thus perished in a street brawl. The next was Elliott, who in a straightforward manner described the assault and the few previous words of provocation. The physician then detailed, in scientific and. technical terms, the nature of the wound; after which the coroner gave a brief charge in that hurried manner which indicated the pressure of his duties, and the jury immediately rendered their verdict.     40         ONCE MORE. The friends of the deceased were about to remove the body, and as the whole gathering was breaking up, Elliott also prepared to depart, when he felt a touch on his shoulder, and turning around recognized the coullte- nance of the physician who had so recently been a fellow witlness. It was a face which indicated largeness of heart, fiull of kindness combined with quiet dignity; and as the clerk had adlmired him at the first glance, he was now ready to receive his advances. "I noticed you," said the doctor, (" when on the stand, and mIarked your statelment that you had been but a few weeks in the city. New York is a hard place for the young.*" "I know it is," said the youth, " particularly when one has neither money, friends, nor employment." "If that be your case, you are truly to be pitied. What do you purpose doing?" Finding a place to rest my head at night; daytimes I can eat crackers. They say you can get lodgings in Green street at a dollar a week. A pound of crackers will last a day, and I have a dollar and a half due me." "What do you intend doing eventually?" inquired the doctor. "I want to get a situation in a store, sir." "Not easy got, I am afraid." "I know that, but I shall try." "Young man," said the doctor, " you seem to be of too good material to be tossed upon this ocean of life, and perhaps shipwrecked. I can make some use of a person like you, and will give you a home-for a time   A STORY OF NEW YORK. .       41 at least. You shall have your board, and perhaps a trifle I  more, and in the meantime you can look up something I  better." ? Elliott was overwhelmed with surprise. An offer so '; opportune as this was like streams opening in the desert. : With a grSatetul heart he accepted it, and that evening beheld him an inmate of Dr. Warburtoi's  household, in : University place, where he found the first expression of ,: . true kindness which he had met since his arrival in the (; city. ' .t "     42         ONCE MORE.             : CHAPTER VII. ELLIOTT BRAND BECOMES ACQUAINTED WITH THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. Dr. Warburton was a physician of acknowledged skill, and had at an early period in life reached a first-class position. He had educated himself at g-yreat expense, both of time and money, in addition to which he had ac- quired, by reading and travel, a stock of general informa- tion which rendered him easy and elegant in conversa- tion. But an attainment far greater than these accomplish- ments could be claimed for him. He was an earnest and decided Christian. His views upon this subject were based upon a consciousness of human depravity, and of the utter inability of man to work out his own elevation, and he saw that the only hope of the race lay in the ex- piatory work of Christ. These views had been gradually deepened by experi- ence and observation. His practice lay among the richer class, and here he discerned, amid opulence and splendor, those secret sorrows so little dreamed of by the worl!d, which tell of the effect of sin. Beneath the glittering parade of fashion he found many a domestic ulcer devouring family peace, and thus he had   I         A STORY OoF NEW YORK.       43 I  fullf opportunity to mark what is so properly termed the :I "( splendid misery " of the rich. If any time could be spared from other engagemllents, it was spent among the poor, a class with which he held deep sympathy, but from which he could expect no pecuniary return. Here he found the same cause of woe at work, and the rich and the poor had this point in common. They were alike sufferers from sin, and equally dependent for restoration on the grace of Christ. Every morning, as soon as breakfast was had, prayers concluded and letters read, a reception of patients took place, after which the gig was ordered and the Doctor commenced his visits to the abodes of the sick. "Come," said he one morning to Elliott, who often accompanied him in his drives, "order up the horse, and we will make our calls." The gig was soon in readiness, and the physician threaded his route through the maze of streets, stopping at some houses for a few moments, and at others for a longer time, until his circle was completed and he was about to return, when he bethought himself and ex- claimed, "Stop, there is one more call before I finish the morning's work, and as you cannot generally accompany me in my visits, I will now give you a chance to see a : little of in-door life, such as is too common in New York." As Dr. Warburton made this remark, he drew up in I^ fi'ont of a tenement house, and giving his horse in charge !g of a boy, ascended the stair, with Elliott by his side, until having passed several flights they reached a half- opened door. From within there issued those solemn i      "        ONCE MORE. tones which indicate the most impressive of all cere- monies. It was the reading of the scriptures in the ser- vice of burial. "He is gone, poor fellow!" said the doctor; " but we will go inlland remain a few moments." As they entered, they beheld a pine coffin, resting upon a couple of chairs, and surrounded by a few ill-clad people, in the midst of whom stood a clergyman with his opened Bible. The doctor moved toward a maiden, who was sitting at the head of the coffin, and pressed her hand, at the same time looking earnestly and tenderly on her up- turned countenance. The girl responded by a momentary expression of agony, and then hid her face in her hand- kerchief. "Remain here," said the doctor to Elliott, " you may be of some service; I will go home alone." The youth had never attended a funeral where death appeared with such surroundings of misery. The rude coffin and the pinched features of the dead were not so suggestive of woe as the wan countenance of the chief mourner and the blank dreariness of the room, which showed how poverty had at last mastered its inmates. The service went on, and in half an hour was concluded. It consisted of the reading of the scriptures and brief ex- hortation, followed by prayer. The latter bore reference to the daughter, who was now to be thrown as an orphan upon the world, and the response was heard in a loud, hysterical sobbing, while only the kind arms of a girl by her side kept the solitary mourner from sifnking to the floor.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        45 The service was finished. "All what wants to look at the corpse can do so now," said a rough-looking man, who, during the ceremony, had been cleaning his nails. The little gathering, one by one, took a farewell glance--all but the weeping girl, who lifted not her head, but only sobbed with greater violence as the screws were driven. Several of the attendants now i removed the coffin, and it was found that Elliott's'assist- ance was needed to convey it down to the door.  , "CHe was my father," sobbed out the mourner, as they t left the room with the corpse, " whatever he was, and he 3  had his good things, too. He would never have come to H: this if they had left him alone." The only persons who heard this were the missionary '% and his daughter, who had remained behind to comfort H the newly-mlade olphan. .:i. "'Yes," continued she, her tones mingling with the j  occasional thump of the coffin against the wall, "Yes, XI and now I am left alone, and here I may starve-no, not here-the rent is due and I must go to-day, to the street, or to the station-house. O, why could'nt I go with him to the Potters' -field." ' "Ada," said the missionary's daughter, "God will pro- vide." "Yes," was the reply, uttered in a tone of deep bitter- ness, ( I know how he provides. He has provided suffer- ing for me all my life-He does provide, and there is something left yet. There's laudanum, and there's the dock; one plunge, and all over. They won't miss me i, the crowd."     "        ONCE MORE. "Ada," continued the first speaker, "God is good, and you will yet see it; don't speak that way, child!" "God is good to some," replied Ada; " to the rich, that grind the poor. He is good to the rumsellers, that ruined my father and live in splendor-but what has God done for me? He created me, I suppose you will say, but did I ask to be created--to be created to suffer and perish T " "No, no, Ada, not to perish. He gave you a Saviour." "O yes, I've heard of that often ; that is very well for the rich, who can dress and go to church. They may have a Saviour, for they have everythingl; but what's a Saviour to me? Who cares for me?" "God does," said Aura. "God is a great way off," was the reply. "God is here," said Aura, " and he does care for you- for he hears the ravens when they cry, and perhaps this very trouble which he has sent may yet prove that he cares for you. God's people care for you, too; father cares for you, and you know I do." So saying, the girl imprinted a kiss on the orphan's cheek. "You have been indeed kind," replied Ada. "Come, children, come; it is time to go home," said the missionary, and you, Ada, are to go with us.." "Go with you!" "Yes, Ada," rejoined the daughter, "that has allbeen planned, and surely you won't refuse. We can't go with- out you; indeed we can't." "You are very kind, and I love you for it--but there's   A STORY OF NVEW YORK.       47 a separation between us. You know I don't think as you do." K "Don't speak of that," replied Aura, "you know we are fiiends ; come,s at least to rest yourlpoor body. I did d not wonder to hear you talk so when I thought how you had suffered. Can you walk?" s "I think I can," said Ada, " and yet really I must not; but O! you are too kind, and I must go-or die. God help me!" The last exclamation mi-ght have been uttered from that habit which so commonly appeals to the Almighty, but Aura was glad to hear it, for she thought it indicated a tenderness of heart which had escaped the hardening effect of sorrow. 'Come, child," said she. ?:-/:H The orphan slowly obeyed. She glanced around the room, but there was nothing worthy of removal. The furniture was worthless, and her wardrobe, with but few exceptions, was on her back. What she did not wear was contained in a bandbox, which the missionary's daughter took in her hand. The group made its way down stairs. At the street door they met the house agent, who had been waiting till the funeral should be past, in order to set the furniture on the sidewalk. The coffin was out of sight, and a few children gazed upon the group with the interest of those who had not become hardened to scenes of woe. But the din of the tenement house, which had been checked during the brief time of the funeral, was now renewed, and another filmily of the poor soon occupied that recent chamber of death.     48           ONCE MORE. That evening a young but anxious watcher bent over a form that lay upon a couch in a darkenel room. "You are better now, are you not?" was askled in a gentle voice. "O yes! I shall soon be strong again.'  Poor girl! it was fatigue and the agonizing excitement of the last week that had thus prostrated her. A May I read a little to you?" was another gentle in- quiry. "No, not read-but you may sing." a plaintive and tender melody was soon heard.    It filled the apartment, throwing its silver current through the house, and was taken up by a manly voice in the ad- joining room.  It was a hymn from Bowring : "God is love; his mercy brightens All the path in which we rove; Bliss he wakes and woe he lightens; God is wisdom, God is love. Time and change are busy ever; Man decays, and ages move; But his mercy waneth never, God is wisdom, God is love. Ev'n the hour that darkest seemeth, Will his changeless goodness prove; From the gloom his blrightness streameth, God is wisdom, God is love. He, with earthly cares, entwineth Hope and comfort from above; Everywhere his glory shineth, God is wisdom, God is love."   XI     *A STORY OF NEw YORK.        49 II      CHAPTER VIII. 1 2   A NEW EXPERIENCE IN HUMAN NATURE. While at Dr. Warburton's, Elliott was introduced to a ;new phase of city life. During his brief clerkship in - Broadway his observation had been limited to the out- side; now he occasionally saw the interior. The doctor's - family, in addition to himself, consisted of Mrs. Warbur- ton and four children, two servanlts, Noah the stable boy, - and the country youth. The latter assisted in the morn- X ings by attending the door and admitting patients during the hour of reception, after which he generally accom- panied the doctor in his professional drive. On one of these occasions the gig halted before a build- i ing of shabby appearance, and the doctor invited the -%. youth to accompany him. The apartment which they en-  tered was dark, and the air was close and unwholesome. H The furniture was scanty and of a cheap character, being composed of a table, a few chairs, a bed with filthy sheets in much disorder, and a clock which had run down. t Several defaced engravings of race-horses and prize- fighters hung on the wall, and were in keeping with the AJ general aspect of combined vice and misery. Upon the bed lay a man of middle age, whose countenance had evidently been ravaged by disease, and bore the appear- 4     50         ONCE MORE. ance of an inebriate. "You are alone this mornin-g, Count Chamberlain-how is that?" exclaimed the doc- tor. i' Where is the nurse I sent you last week?" "That fellow?" said the sick man, in a half whimper- ing tone, " why I was afraid of him; doctor, he would have killed me; beside that, a dollar and a half a day fol nursing! I could not afford that. Why, doctor, I could get an old woman for half." "You can afford it better than you can afford to die; beside that, I wish to know why all the windows are down. I ordered continued ventilation. Is this more of your murderous economy?" "Why, doctor, I was afraid of catching cold. You know the danger of colds, and so I put them down-- no harm, I hope." "No harm, except that you are suffocating yourself in your filth. I say this to you, Count Chamberlain, you will provide yourself with another medical attendance. I now decline your case, as my instructions have received no attention." The doctor left the room, and when the couple entered the gig the former remarked that, among the untortunate classes of mankind, few are more pitiable than the chil- dren of the rich. "I have often thouoht," said he, " that a society for the benefit of rich men's sons would be among the good things of the. day. That fellow whose case I have just abandoned has worn out my patience by his parsimony and his vices." "Who is he?" inquired Elliott.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         51 "A son of the late Peter Chamberlain, one of the most -covetous, grasping and hardhearted men this city ever produced. The old man left him his fortune, and the son having never been brought under good influences, @: quickly gave way to those which are evil. He became a hard drinker, a gamester, and in all respects 'a man about , town,' by which term I mean a man who has nothing to do but mischief. He went to Europe, anld, to gratify his vanity, he obtained one of those cheap German titles of nobility which are there for sale, and came back a Count. Of this title he became afterward ashamed, but it has stuck to him until the present time.  He formed the worst female associations, and spent the larger part of his fortune in dissipation, but, while thus indulging in ex- travagance, it was only upon himself and his vices. Nothing could be got from him in the way of sympathy and benevolence, and his penury increased with other evil habits." "Has he much left of his estate? inquired Elliott. "About forty thousand dollars," said the doctor, hbut notwithstanding this, his parsimony has increased to so great a tlegree that he is now suffering for the want of necessaries.  In his folly he is hoping to economize, so that, with returning health, he may have greater facilities for pursuing pleasure. I sent him a nurse, and he dis- charged him on this account. This, too, is the reason why he keeps his windows closed. He is suffocating him- self in order -to economize warmth, and he is secretly pleased that I have abandoned his case, because it will save something on his medical bill."     52         ONCE MORE. "Will he recover?" was the lad's inquiry. "No ; I consider his case hopeless. I have told him so, but he does not believe me. He will not believe it until the clutch of death is on his throat." In a week from that day the clay rattled upon Count Chamberlaiin's coffin. On one occasion the doctor was summoned to attend a patient who was supposed to be dying, and whose history we thus sketch to the reader in andvance: Robert Warriston was a young merchant who had suc- ceeded to his father's business, and was the heir of vast wealth. He was bred in the evangelical habits of his father, but had been led away from them by evil influences. The chief of these was his wife. He had married a woman of beauty and accomplishment, but a follower of Romish superstition and a slavish subservient of the priest- hood. In obedience to her confessor, she had exerted every means to lead her husband to embrace Popery, and hlad succeeded so far as to induce him to abandon the faith of his ancestors. Instead of becoming a Romanist, however, he only became an infidel. '"With this change had come another of equally painful character. -He had grown intemperate and thorotlghly dissolute in his habits, and after traveling this fatal road for a number of years his career was arrested by a disease which brought him under the care of Dry Warburton. The gig drove up to a stately mansion on Fifth avenue, and on entering, the eye was greeted by every indication of wealth and. finished taste. The furniture of the parlors, the curtains and the statuary were of the highest order, while a few   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        53 master pieces of modern art adorned the walls. The patient lay in a spacious apartment, and not far from his bed was a table covered with drinking cups and wine bottles, which had been drained in the debauch of the pre- ceding night. The wretched man had previously been improving, until he was able to leave his room and take occasional walks. On one of these occasions he had met some of his old companions and invited them to his house, -- where they had passed the preceding night in revelry, which had brought a relapse. Warriston sat up in bed, awake, but in a fearful de- lirium. The fever was burning his cheek and giving his - eye a bright but terrible lustre, and he stared into vacancy ask as though gazing at some imaginary scene. I won't give a cent; not one; not a penny. Away, ye begging wretches I my father did enough to building your churches. I am an infidel! yes, I am; you under- stand what that means, eh? ' The sick man turned his eye around, and seemed at last to comprehend the scene before hin. There was his wife, pale with weeping, and by her side stood a Romish  priest reading prayers in the Latin tongue. It was the !f moffice for the sick, which was uttered in the ear of a -- frenzied man who, until this moment, heard not a :i- word. A!  '"Deus qui per reszurectionem Filii tui Domini nostre." While the priest was the piest as thus reading, reason for a mo- !!8 ment returned to the maniac. "Silence, wretch!" he exclaimed, "away with your mummery.  Enough for you to delude that foolish ISeee              ia       i     54         ONCE MOR E. woman!  Away, or I will kick you out of the house, even if I die in the attempt." The priest shrunk at the fiery glance, and his voice trembled to silence, while the woman wrung her hands with increased anguish. "Robert, my dear!" she exclaimed. "And you too, false one," was the reply. "You de- coyed me from the faith of my fathers, and here I alm, an infidel! My father died a Christian, and H-I- die as I am, in spite of that infernal priest. Doctor, how long have I to live?'t "Not twenty-four hours, I fear, sir." "Twenty-four hours! then give me another glass! Another glass, I say! We had a time last night. The boys were here, glorious fellows, every one; and now I go-I go--I go--where?"  he exclaimed, ill a tone which approached a shriek; " where? after death the judgment! Yes, yes; after death the judglent!" The unfortunate, wretch was beyond medical aid, and there, among the splendor which luxury and art could minister to wealth, misery appeared in all its horrors, and that day death closed the scene. "These things are not uncommon," said Doctor Tar- burton, as Elliott expressed his surprise at what they had' just witnessed. "I presume there are fifty similar cases occurring in different parts of the city this very night. We come, professionally called, just in time to see the end." "What a life thrown away!" "Yes ; that very mana, whose father died triumphantly,   !A STORY OF NEW YORKI.        55 miglht have been such a philanthropist as Anson G. Phelps, or the Wetmores and the Lenoxes of this city, but he ifQ abandoned himself to his passions, and dies at the age of  thirty a hopeless wreck. Such is the fool's course in all   ages." "It is my first meeting with a Catholic priest," said i! Elliott. ffi  "You mean a Roman Catholic, I suppose, for the term Catholic applies to all Christians, the original word mean- ing universal. I prefer to use the word Romnish, as more appropriate,'7 replied the doctor. -7i- "A great detal has been said' of the charities of that ) church, and when I have heard it spoken against I re- membered what I have read of its hospitals and asylums." j   "I do not dely," replied the doctor, " that the Romish church has done something toward the amelioration of :;: human woe, although, when one considers its wealth and i) its power, it is but very little; but, admitting its gifts, let us see, on the contrary, what it withholds. Roman- ism ought to do much for the body when it robs the "': . SOU]. "Rob the soul of what?" exclaimed Elliott. "A justifying righteousness," was the reply. "Roman- :;'! ism gives its votaries, hospitals and asylums, as well as splendid churches, but she takes away the most precious feature in Christianity, the doctrine of justification by faith. What should we think of that man who should rob a prince of a kingdom and then try to amuse him with, baubles? Such is Romanism; it has the form, the pomp, the show of piety, without its life."     56         O0NCE MORE. "Why, then, does that church spread so rapidly?" i "Simply because its doctrines are congenial to the un- converted man. True piety must spring from a change of heart, and this the Romish church does not require. Our Saviour said a man must be born again before he can enter the Kingdom of God. The Romish church, on the other hland, demands no such conditions. Its adher- ents are chiefly born within its limits, and none are ex- communicated except for one offence." "What is that?" "Embracing the Protestant church. For accepting the proposition that 'the just shall live by faith,' the heaviest sentence is pronounced." %    A STORY OP NEW YORK.        57            CHAPTER IX. THE DOCTOR'S FAMLY. Notwithstandhig the pleasing nature of his arrange- ment with Dr. Warburton, the youth did not fail to keep a diligent lookout for some permanent engagement in the mercantile line, a branch to which he gave preference. He had now obtained a temporary home, but, being des- titute of money, he called on Flink for the purpose of collecting the week's salary which was due him. His late employer happened to be at the store, and the follow- ing conversation took place: "There is a dollar and a half due me, Mr. Flink-the last week stands unpaid." "Young man, do you remember the window glass you broke?  It was broken, sir, taking down the shutter-the shutter slips-it's not my fault. I don't consider myself to blame." "No time to talk, boy. I've seen enough of you, and   want no words. All I've got to say is, the light cost one  9 dollar and a half. We are square, sir, and I guess we'll keep so. You need not call again." Elliott turned away, sick at heart-not because he was hdestitute, though at that time he had not enough to pay     58         ONCE MORE. postage on a letter home-but at the view of sullch utter and unmitigated baseness.  He did not know  then, although he afterward learned, that such acts of fraud are common in New York, and that clerks, sewing girls, and others of this helpless class are often denied their earn ings-the former on similar groundls, the latter for de fects in their work, and thus when expecting their pittance they are met by likeen disappointment. It was a new experience in human nature, and the lesson was one which made him shudder. ' There is no excuse," said he to himself, as he thought the matter over. "Flilnk knows that I am poor a poverty can be; there is no mitigating circumstance; it is robbery, before God." His indignation obtained a slight relief in the few burnm- ing tears which rolled ldown his Cheeks, but its calmer utterance was found in penning a letter to Flink, in which he expressed his contempt for the latter's baseness. Having dispatched this note, the writer exhibited a copy of it to the doctor, who was moved with indigna- tion. "Here, my lad," said he, (I is the money. You shall not lose it. I give you this for wlaiting that manly letter. As for that miscreant, the vilest epithet our language affords is too mild to apply to him. But let him alone; justice cannot but overtake him at last." "I have seen a great deal of this in my day," contin- ued the doctor, walking up and down the apartment under the excitement of his feelings, 1, but in due time retribution has followed, and I have seen it winding up the wrong-doer in its fearful embrace. The man that   A STORY OF NEW YOR.        59 dares defraud the weak and the friendless is a bold man indeed, since he opens a contest with God." It was evident that the doctor had taken a deep inter- est in the youth. Any one who observed his half-paternal way would be convinced of it, and he no doubt read Elliott's character, as it looked out of his clear, open coullntellance. $-   The lattelr became a favorite with the children also. He had anl inexhaustible fund of stories, which enchained them in their most troublesome hours; and then he carried Aubrey on his back, and drove the s(wing for Maucl and sang for the little ones, until he had won their t hearts. ,  Mrs. Warburton could not but like the new comer. He had learned the family ways so readily, and was so much to be depended on. He was so trusty with the chil- dren, and then was an object of pity also. How good to be able to give a home for such a lad in his distress! I: f Mrs. Warburton was a true mother, and hence felt deep sympathy with the young.   Who knows, indeed," she often said when speaking on this subject, " but what my h   Ownll children may yet be wandering in need of help?" X   Reader, let us thank God for those mothers' hearts which so often gladden this sorrowful world- hearts A   which yearn over the young because of those dangers which they must meet as life opens upon them I Yes, there are those whose souls are expanded instead of being contracted by the birth of children, and who find that / their offspring has awakened in their hearts a synipathy for all who seek that protection so necessary to youth I     60         ONCE MORE. Elliott remarked with pleasure Mrs. Warburton's method with her children. A matter of first importance was their physical culture, by the use of the cold bath, and then the spacious upper floor was devoted to their i! rojmping sports whenever the weather kept them from the use of the yard, and beside this, they had their time for i driving the hoop in Washincgton square. As for educa- tion, that was made pleasant by home influence; their  lessons were looked over by the mother, who had once  ' been a teacher, and who now saw the benefit of her early I experience as she watched this group of domestic pupils. :i Her discipline was strict with regard to study, and nlthing i - but illness was allowed to interfere with it. Occasionally some unusual effort was required of the youthful mind, !:I and this was always assisted by an incentive as well as by- a penalty. One of these tasks was the multiplication table, and - the result of this two-fold prospect was seen in Aubrey's unusual application;  he was found conning  his task 1 daily, and often could be heard repeating it aloud in the i: play room.  Day after day he came to report progress. "Mother, I've got up to five times "-then it was eight ;: times. "Keep on, my   child," said Mrs. Warburton, : "you will soon be through, and will win your prize." A  few days afterward Aubrey came down stairs in great  excitement, exclaiming I I've got up to twelve times; now hear me, mother," and the little student danced with  glee as he went through that arduous task. Thus Aubrey fought his first arithmetical battle, and the trophy soon  appeared with its magic of highly-colored illustrations.   A STORY O2F NEW YORK. "       61 As confidence in his patron increased, Ellibtt improved the first opportunity to exhibit the satchel and its con. tents, and to ask his advice in so important an affair. 4 It is a very strange thing," said the doctor, as he gazed upon the mysterious articles. "It is now several months since the Swallow  disaster, and they have not been advertised. At least, I may say that I look over the advertising columns with that interest which all active men take in public matters, and if it had appeared I should have noticed it. The ring," continued the doctor, " is of great value, and the miniature, though of no pecuniary importance,' must be precious to its owner. These papers, too, may have a bearing on some estate. You have a trust of serious character, and its disposition is not a little perplexing." "I want to restore it to the owner," said Elliott. "I wish I could aid you in doing so," replied the doc- tor, " but it may be difficult to find him-perhaps, in- deed, there may be more than one claimant. Has any one beside yourself seen these things?" Elliott narrated the affair which occurred at Flink's. "Were it not for that," said the doctor, "I would say advertise it at once; but it is now evident that these fellows are bent on making something out of it, and having already seen it, Flinki might manufacture a claim as he tried to do before, and so force it away through legal process.  If there be no owner, then it. remains in your hands-but there must be parties somewhere who have rights in the matter, and in due time they will appear." "Iow?" inquired Elliott.     62         ONCE MORE. "4 Through the press," replied the doctor, "the only way of reaching the public with one's claims or inquiries, and an effectual one also. A slip inserted in the adver- tising columns of one of our leading journals will be read  by thousands in a single day. It would have been well  X had you advertised it at first." ( I had not a peilny to spare," replied Elliott, " nor in- deed a friend to advise until now-and beside this, I  ?- have- had as much as I could do to keep afloat."r "That is enough for any one to'do," said the doctor, ; with emphasis; "New York is a vast slough, in which   i thousands sink hopelessly. A few find foothold on some rock, where they cling until pushed off by those who are i of stronger nerve. And these few are the successful ones. Even in my own case, well established as I am in :: my profession, life is a struggle."          :I:e. The doctor paused, like one absorbed in thought; it is was evident that he had been led by this allusion to New  York into a reverie on his early life and its scenes of trial,  which was soon disturbed by the voice of the youth.   i "You were never poor like me, were you?" "Yes, as poor as you are, and, like you, ambitious. I  have fought a hard battle with poverty and waded    ' through debt, and by God's help I am what I am; but yet, though many think my position easy, still the   j struggle continues."                   I '( When do you expect to live easy?" inquired Elliott.  "Never, my lad, if ease means inactivity. Life is meant  to be a time of labor, and I shall continue to work as  long as I have the power."               i   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         63 "If you were worth a million, would you work?" , Yes, and make the million work, too." "But some men live easy." "d Yes," said the doctor, his eye kindling with scorn as he spoke, "there are drones in life- deadeadads, they may fitly be called: men who skulk in the battle. These men may be rich enough, as in some cases, to live without work, and yet are burdens still. No man is to be excused from active life because he is rich; he should still be en- ga,ed in something for the benefit of mankind. How strangely God has connected activity with pleasure. The idler is vastly a greater sufferer than the working- man. God has so constituted us that no one can be happy except when active, either in body or mind. Hence did I not labor from a sense of duty, or from ne- cessity I should be driven to it in sheer self-defence. Never forget, my lad, that life is short, and that we have much to do, and the man who shirks his duty will yet have a sad account to render. Did you ever read of such an instance in the Bible?" ( I don't remember," replied the youth. "You will find it in the history of one who was cursed because in the day of battle he came not uup." Elliott had read sufficient to recall the words and scene as given in the sacred volume.     Uv-;     ONCE MORE Il CHAPTER X. CONCERNING TWO MEDICAL YOUNG GENTLEMEN; ALSO, STATING HOW FREDERICK CLAMPER CAME TO BE ONE   g OF THEM. "Woodcock for supper last night-that's better than blue pills or calomel. Let me see-I've got through twenty pages on blistering, then I shall take fever, and finish the week with lung diseases. Let me see again-- two hundred books to read, three courses of lectures, E walking the hospital, and all that, and then be called on by some Irish woman to cure her baby of chicken-pox, C and be discharged before I'm done. Who wouldn't be a i doctor? I wonder if my respected father thinks I'll make one?"                     i Such was the soliloquy of Mr. Frederick Clamper, as he sat in Dr. Warburton's office with a book in his lap  and a penknife in his hand, with which he was im-  i- proving the appearance of his finger nails.  "No more woodcock for a week," continued the so- liloquy: " then Dick treats, and then comes my turn  again. Expensive business, but must be met, or lose  society: so call on the old man for books. Doctors'  books cost a heap, he says, and so they do, when bought. Well, I may just as well take a little good of the money   A STORY OF NEW YORIL.       65 now, as to wailt till one's old and can't take tlhe good of it. The old folks are dreadful ambitious, and want to see the shingle up.    Dr. Clamper; or, Frederick Clamper, M.D., vwhichever would look best ? " " I think I should prefer tlhe latter," replied an unex- pected voice. Mr. Clanmper looked up with surprise, alnd then re- ulmarkel, 'Ah, Gurry, so early down; I thought you welre at the partyt last night." Mr. Gurry looked a negative. "I expected a ticket," said he, "and gave Bargo a present last month to put me onl his winter list; but the fellow is so run down- that he forgets half his patrons. I hear that the Jarlingtons in Sixteenth street are to have a reception soonl  and if Bargo don't put ime in, I'll show him- who I alm." It was evident thalt Mr. Gurry    did not know      tlhe burden which rested onl that person, whom  thle fashion- able public employed to get up their parties, and, in some cases, to provide guests as well as to superintend enltertainment, or he would iiot have spolken of him  so lightly.  "Hard   to come dovwn from    music and the ladies, oyster parties and champagne wine, to fever sore atnd liver complaint; eh ?," "Pshaw, who cares-wriggle through thle course, then marry rich and kick pills andl plasters out of doors-tlhat's better even than. Frederick Clamper, M.D." Mr. Gurry     lit a cigar and sat down.    "Now for study," he remarked, as he elevated his feet on a stool,    "         ONCE M ORE. . with an open volume inverted in his lap, while his eyes  followed the upward curling smoke. "Clamper, I say, let's improve each other by scientific ! inquily. Did you ever, in your studies, come across the i funny bone?"              - "I have, sir."                    "And what is it called?"    - "The os humerus."e:s                p "I ta! i ha! pretty good for Frederick Clamper, M D. I think I shall elmploy you to amputate both my legos ! when I am   through with them. But here's another.: ! Which is the best instrument for performing a capital ! operation?"                     ! "Capital, from caput the head-1 should say the guil- : lotine, sir."            -s "Well, you'll pass, Dr. Clamper ; I wish I were equally i advlanced." "You are ahead of me in one branch of the profession," 8 replied Clamper.                    ( "And what is that, doctor?"  "You can bleed a tailor in better style."      i "Sharp, very," said Mr. Gurry ; " progressive charac- ter yours ; no wonder Doctor Warburton is so proud of you."                         ,  This display of wit was interrupted by a ring at the door, and in a  few momnents a poverty-stricken woman was ushered in, exclaiming,  O doctlhur, come an' help; himsel's dyin' wid delirium trimnins!" "Doctor's not at home, ma'am," was Mr. Clamper's reeply.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         67 "Then come yer sell, good gintlemnan; yez can do suthin' for the poor iman that has no fiault but love o' drinkin.'  "Go pacify her," said Gurry. "Well, I don't mind a walk, even :though I lose such good company as youls."  So saying, he assumed his hat and followed the wonman, who led the -way downl seve-ral 6 squares, and then passing into a narrow alley, entered one of those abodes of poverty to which reference has previ- ously been made. Mr. Clanmper ascended the stairs, and entered the room with a reluctant step. It was the first time that he had stood in a tenenment house, and here he beheld a man tossing upon the bbd in agony. his vision filled, as is usual in such cases, with objects of horror. "No snakes here, Paddyl r darlint," said the woman, "only a docthur has come to see yez. Yes, Patsey, the docthur.  I couldn't get the preast, bekase yez wasn't confessed Christmas, and so he would'nt come-no more he would, and so I brought the docthur, Patsey asthore, and there's not a divil a snake here. Ochone!" Mr. Clamper had never before witnessed a scene of such extreme misery.  The frenzied drunkard, paying no attention to the words of his wife, still poured forth utterances of fear and horror, while several famished and raugged children, who had crouched in the corner, seemed prematurely old with squalor.  Mr. Clamper's heart was touched. "I will go," said he, ' and look up what's to be done for this case, and then come back. Have those children had any food this morninlg?"     Q8          ONCE MORE.  "Divil a bit; the last cint went on chewscay to pay  the rint, so it I did."  Mr.1. Clampelr felt in his pocket ; there was a suml there  set apalt for the theatre that night. The conflict was   brief, but selfishness was not overthrown without a stluo,- '- gle. The young manlls better nature triunlphel.   He  drew the money from his pocket, and, laying it upon the  table, departel, nlot stoppillng to listen to the gratefull uttelrances which followed his gift.  "No Hamlet to-nioht,7 sighedl Mr. Clamper, as he    1! emerged firom the house of misery; but then a new joy    began to diffuse itself through the soul. It was a pleas- t ure which the theatre hadl never imparted. How strange   was this! M1r. Clamper felt happy ; it was a new thing,  aild very stralige indeedl. He walked rapidly to the office, - opened a volume which treated of the disease, returnel d to the place of suffering, adminllistelredl the relnedy, wavttched ; awhile by the bed, and saw the children eat. What  eaters they were! Never had he seen gourmnands while devouring oyster patties at midiighlt parties iin the Fifth I avenue, show the gusto with which these children dis- patched their honmely meal. As Mr. Clamper beheld tliis, and realized how much had been accomplishedl by a tlrifling outlay, he felt that pleasant excitement pervade his frame with renewied power. "I have read,7 said he to himself, " of the luxury of doing good ; call this be it?" And his consciouslness replied that it was. Frederick Clamper was the son of a rich imerchant,   A STORY OF NEW YORK.          69 and had been raised in self-indulgence. His parents were as proud, worldly and selfish as anlly of the aspirants of fashion. To one who has not moved in such a circle it would be difficult to form a correct idea of that artificial style of life which crushes or banishes all the better feel- inlgs. Under its illfluences family affections dwindle or die out, childlren glrow up premature nmen and wonlen of the world, and society, in their case, exhibits only one phase of human nature, gilded though it be-heartless- ness. Mr. Clamper, senior, was not considered a fashionable man, though he desilred to be one, and hence he fol- lowed the falshions as a ldo follows his master. He had commenced his business career as a green grocer, and had risen "radually by adroit management to the position of a wholesalle merchant, with the reputation of large wealth, but his family felt lno sympathy with that class from which theyr splrungT- His elevation hlIad beell in palrt accolmplished by crushing the interests of others, and in- this way he still sought to advance. M1rs. Clamper, thouighl like lher husband, essentially vulgar in sentiment and manners; and like him wretclhlelly igLLnoran1t, imagrinedl herself to be vastly his superior in the ways of fashionable life. In her mind, fashion reigned paramount, and inasimuch as Mr. Clanlper could not escape the conflict between the expense of fashion and the greel of gain, she of course had gre'atly the advantage. She had Byron's poemrs on the table-they were fashioAble ; she7attendel Dr. Tendlerllare's church-7he was fashion- able , her son Frelerick she could speak of as a fashionllable - f .      70         ONCE MORE. young man, while, as for her two claughters, Evangeline Maria and Amelia Clara, they were pre-eminently fash- ionable girls. But to do good ; to contemplate the higher  ends of our existence, to look seriously upon the great s questions of life, these thoughts as seldom occurred to 3 this family as they do to others of the fashionable world.  It is true Mrs. Clamper was charitable in her way;  2 that is, in the fashionable way. Her name appeared on a list of manaogl ers of an uptown benevolent society, this  list being limited to a showy class of rich people who  wished to be considered aristocratic, and with few excep-  tions attended Doctor Tendcrblarc's church. This reverend % gentleman often made allusions  in his discourses to the self-denying efforts of his hearers; so much so that Mrs. Clamper said " it almost brought tears to her eyes to think b:, how much good they were doing o" But to be personally . interested in the claims of humanity, to have anything " to do with the poor individually, who would think of  that?                          , Poor people were so thoroughly vulgar!         As her son grew up, and approached the time when young nmen select their future occupation, the suitable profession for Frederick became a frequent matter of  discussion in the family circle. "Freddy, my son," said i Mrs. Clamper on one of these occasions, " you must really  decide. Your pa and I think it's high time, and we often talk what it will be ; would you like pa to put you in a bank?" !"No!" replied the youth, " they keep a fellow there all the year round, with only a month in August to go to   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        71 the country, and there you stand under the skylight cyphering all the time. Nothing but figures, and no fun going on, nor nothing." "Ah, but you may get to be a cashier, Freddy." , Yes, but the cashier has to work hard, and talk about loans and discounts and all such things," said the youth, adding, as an afterthought, " though I'dcl like to drive off in the afternoon and smoke, like Mr. Clarkson and some other cashiers." "O Freddy," said the mother, "I hope you don't smoke." Mrs. Clamper might have said more, but she remembered that smoking was fashionable with first-class young men, and hence she reverted to the first subject. What do you sa to yo say to ein a lawyer?" "Lawyer!" exclaimed Frederick, " who wants to be a lawyer, and read those musty old books and study and write all the time ; no, I won't be a lawyer!" "Why, Freddy," interposed Amelia, "you must do something to keep the family up." "A minister, then," suggested Mrs. Clampe1r. "Me -a minister!" said Frederick, with a look of surprise. "Yes, child, of course; you know you must be good,- and go to heaven--and some ministers have easy times, and get large salaries. There's Doctor Tenderblare, only see what presents he gets, and you know he wants us all to join the church when the Parkers and Johnsons come forward.7' "I don't like that," replied this candidate for pro- fessions; "I knlmow ministers have it easy, but then see     72         ONCE MORE.            ! what you can't do. You can't go to balls, nor races, nor ! blow-outs, nor theatres."  "O yes,"' said Amelia, "Doctor Tenderblare says we can go to the theatre."                - "' Well, you might go once il awhile-but then every  day you've got ta be just soy particular, and wear a white ,  choker, and be solemn, and talk about death, and go to  funerals."      ;         -:f "Why, Freddy," exclaimed Amelia, Doctor Tender-   S blare don't talk about death, and as for funerals, he runs j: through them so nicely. I wish you were a preacher   ^- like Doctor Tenderblare."  "Then, Freddy, what will you be?  inquired the mother. "Well, if I've got to besoomething, I'll be a doctor; I ; know some fellows in doctorsr offices that have a gay  i. time."                         :t: "Fie, Freddy," said Mrs. Clamper, " you should study and get a fashionable practice, and be a great physician ! like Dr. Warburton." "Yes," replied the youth, "I'll be a faslionable doctor, and begin with the fashionable family of the Clampers, 4 and attend the head of the house. I think I could put a $ blister onl his pocket that would draw; ha! ha" p   ! This conversation, which we need not further quote,   will explain Mr. Clamper's appearance as a student in Doctor Warburton's office, where, as we have seen, he got his first experience in the sorrows of the poor. For, though the Clampers had lived many years in a city so rife with suffering as New York, they had succeeded in * 5   *      i   A STORY OF NEW YORIK.        73 keeping this class at such distance as to be secure even against the knowledge of its wants. And yet there was a poverty which had fallen on the Clampers more fearful than that from which they so care- filly shrulnk-a poverty of the affections--a starving of the heart-a faminine of all that should minister to culture of the soul. It may seem strange, but it was strictly natural, that in all their domestic intercourse in which this son bore so important a part, it never occurred to his mother that he had a heart. Being. personally deficient, she could not ilmaine that any one might be more endowed than her own vacant self ; and yet there dwelt within that headstrong and unpromising youth a nature calpable of lofty elevation, and a soul rich with sympathies and emotions of which none dreamed. There they lay, like instruments of music silent and neglected, waiting to be awatkened by the touch of some master hand. Such instances are not uncommon in daily experience. Noble traits of character are often buried under conven- tional forms; and powers, that might accomplish lofty ends, are often frittered away in the absorbing nothings of a fashionable life. A very striking illustration of this truth is found in the history of the distinguished philanthropist Wilberforce, who, had he not been removed at an early age from the influence of a fashion-worshiping mother, mighlt have become a literary Beau Brummell instead of the philan- thropist and christian orator of the British parliament. Ah, may we not earnestly inquire, will not a similar Providence interfere in behalf of Frederick Clamper?     74           ONCE MORE. And the voice of hope responds in thoughts such as inspires Scott's noble lines-  "Sound, sound the clarion, fill the fife,      ! Before the sensual world proclaim;         N One crowded hour of glorious life Is worth an age without a name."    .'   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        75 CHAPTER XI. EARLY DISCUSSIONS CONCERNING DEEP THNGS. "I don7t know how to express my rnind clearly. It is sometinmes hard to tell one's thoughts just as we think them," said Ada Brayton to Aura Werner, as they sat together in their little parlor one Sabbath afternoon. "It may be wrong in me, I dare say it is, and yet I can't see as you do. You are my best friends ; the best I ever had, and, in fact, the only olnes since my poor mother died, and what you believe ought to be true, but these doctrines seem very hard." "Ada, I know that some doctrines look hard.". "Then why should we believe them?" "The best reason is because we find them in the Bible; and then as to rejecting them because they are hard, if we believed only those things that don't seem hard we should believe very little. As for nyself, I find difficulties meeting me at every turn of thought; but you, Ada, have had enough trouble to throw a shadow over your mind, and I wonder that you are not soured." "I am  soured enough," replied Ada. "If you only saw my heart you would call it sour." "Rebellious, I might say, Ada; but, after all, you are not the only person in the world that dislikes God's mode of governing it."     76         ONCE MORE. "I dol't deny those feelings," s'aid Acda, "and whena  you lay so mnch stress on believing, and I, on the other ; hanld, feel that I can't believe, then I get cross-grained and l bitter. If your views are the true ones, why is it that I :,3 callnot see them as clearly as you? What need is there  of any darkness on the mind?  What need is there, indeed, of sin and of suffering, and why, too, must we be  thrust into unasked existence iand have life imposed upon i us? And why, to continue the question, was such a one ?3 as I born, to be like the rubble in a stone wall, only to ! fill up? Now, Aura, you have asked me, and I have told  i you my thoughts; but, indeed, I see life a burdenl on  ^: mally besides myself, and I find that these questions   i trouble others more learned than I."           -: "And I have sometimes been inclined to ask just such i:: questions also," replied Aura. "You do not take me for !; an idle looker-on in this world of sorrow. I, too, have  had my doubts when I saw so much about me that was  dark and mysterious-doubts even of God's goodness. i:? But I have at last learned to be a little child anid to leave these hard things in God's hands, ald you can't think how ; much happier this has made me."  "You are indeed happy, Aura, if you can become a little child ; but, unf{ortunately, I am so constituted that I cannot adopt your experience. I must continue to doubt, and, as long as I do so, I must suffer."  "Ada, tell me your particular difficulties; perhaps I dol't understand your case, though I don't pretend I canJ relieve it, if I did.'  "I can't say that I fully understand it myself," said :   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         " Aca;  " one's thoughts are one's greatest mysteries; but, as near as I can express myself, it is this: I have always tried to think of God as a beillg of perfect excellen',e, and, consequently, as one who desired the happiness of all his creatures. That is the character ascribed to Him by preachers, but I find that the happiness of mankind is1 a Very small part of the state of things. On the other hand, mankind is generally very miserable. It is the victim of all mianner of calainities and disease. Misfor- tune and deatth are filling the world with misery. Now, can that be a God of love that creates such a state of thillos? I used to sometimes get in such distress that it seelmed to me that some monstrous demon ruled the wolrld." "But I hope you don't think so now," remarked the missionary, who entered the room just in time to catch the last words. "No, sir, not as bad as that now ; but O, Mr. Werner, don't pay alny attention to my notions. Aura and I were having a little talk on deep things."  "And you won't, I hope, deny me the benefit of it," said the missionary. '"No, of course not," replied Ada, with a smile. "But, fathler," said Alra, can't you throw light upon Ada's pathl?  You know you did on mine, and her difficulties, I think, are mine over again." "I have no doubt of it," replied Mr. Werner, "for such thoughts are common, and have been so since the first record. We are surrounded by mystery, involving the most trifling circumstances of life. How, then, can     78         ONCE MORE. we grasp the deep things of God? Let us take two of the llost collmmon things, electricity and fire. Will you  explain their nature?" "O, Mr. Werner, why do you ask me that? said Ada. "Because I wish to show you that it is more easy to ask questions than to answer them, and because the    i questions which embarrass you are equally incapable of  ? solution. To pursue the thought, I will add this inquiry : : do we not perceive that water, fire and electricity (the i latter in a less degree), may be destructive as well as  g beneficial, and that what is good of these elements at one  time, is evil at another? Well, then, I would say, that  by a similar law God has mllingled ihn the moral worldll forces which we term good and evil,' and yet the worst  of them may be found eventually beneficial."  : "But I don't see why there should be anly evil at all."  "Nor do I either, except that God permits it, and    g therefore, as I conclude, has a purpose in its existence."  "And do you make God the author of evil?"       ; "Not the author of sin, for that were blasphemy. Evil is in the world with God's permission, ' and yet why it is ; permitted is a mystery which no mortal has penetrated.   You have often noticed the apothecaries' bottles marked poison?" "Often." "Alml the druggist, understanding their properties, uses them as medicine?"                   "Yes."                          i "Well, just as this man employs a poison to do you good, so may not God likewise employ evil for the benefit   At STORY OF NEW YOSK.        79 of mankind?  And that he does use it for this purpose, overruling it so that while the glory shall be his, the sin shall be man's, is one of the leading doctrines of the scriptures." ( "What a wonderful thought!" exclaimed both of the girls at once. i "Yes, this is one of those perplexing questions which learned men have studied until they were lost in the increasing mystery which surrounded them. There have been many books written upon this subject, but I know of but one that handles it with success." "I should like very much to read that book," said Ada. "Since you are of an inquirinl mind, I am glad to be of assistance to you," replied the missionary, taking down a well-used quarto; " here is the volume, and you will find it in the book of Job." "Why-the Bible?" exclaimed Ada. "Yes--and the book of Job; as it is the first of all books in point of date, so I thinlk it will be found the only one which throws any light upon the question. It is quite remarkable that the earliest of all writings should grapple with that question and still be the chief refuge for tried and afflicted faidth." "Do go on, Mr. Werner," said Ada, as the missionary paused for a moment. A"I am interested in your views. What light does that book throw on the origin of evil?" "It informs us that it is the work of an adversary, and that God uses it for the discipline and benefit of his people. This is enoulgh to know, but we may look at the train of reasonillng. Was Job a gainer by his long and terrible     80         ONC'E MORE. series of disasters? If so, why may not manllkind be in the aggregate the gainer by its woes? A(gain, was Job, when under trial, a lproper jud-ge of his own case? If  not, are we, with our present limited capacities, to be the  judges of God's great plan? You perceive that it is by just such reasoning and by such questions that God  showed Job his folly, when he answered him out of the uwhirlwhld and s;id, ' where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?, '  - The girls sat listeningl attentively, and Mr. Werner g continued :;i "Were you or I, children, to create a world, do you ; think we would have it contain such evils as war, or  poverty, or death?"                   "Of course not," was the united reply. "But God has created such a world, and will not be   I called to give an apology for it, especially by him who, as he says, is ' born like a wild ass' colt.' -" "You say that trouble works good," remarked Ada,   ? "L but my troubles have made me feel sour and hateful,  and bring up  thoughts that seem  almost devilish. I sometimes feel as though I hated God for creating me, only to suffer. I read a few lines in one of Byron's poems, lately, that seemed to speak the voice of my heart. It was the  language of Cain, but it sounded like my own '  thoughts."  "I know what you refer to," replied Mr. Werner. "It is very natural both on your part and also on that of the' poet, but none the less wicked. Job uttered sentiments of a  similar character, though, as you will admit, with *        .    SZ   A STORYu OF NEW   YOR.       81 much better cause than eitheryou or Byron. But, even if this be the result of yourl misfortunes, still the sin of a rebellious spirit must lay at your door." "Why?" exclaimed Ada. "Because," replied Mr. Werner, " in other instances just such troubles render people more tender, obedient,e/ loving, and even thankful.  Beside this, Ada, you are" not yet through with your experience, and you do not know what good results God may bring out of the sorrows of your early life. You may yet realize that saying, Isaiah xxix, 34, ' They also that erred in spirit shall come to understandblilg, and they that murmured  shall learn doctrine.' The future is to tell the story, and we must wait its revelation." "I am, I hope, becoming more willing to wait for that revelation7,'  replied Ada. "It is well for you that you are," said Mr. Werner, "and I pray it may be a history of grace and patience, for it would be a pity that so many trials as you have had should be thrown away." "You have referred to Byron's views,"-continued the missionary, " and I will read them in contrast with those of a more correct though less gifted author." As he said this he opened Byron, and read from "Cain, a Mystery." "And this is Life! Toil! And wherefore should I toil?-because My father could not keep his?lace in Eden; What had I done in this? I was unborn. I sought not to be born, nor love the state To which that birth has brought me. Why did he 6     82          ONCE IMORE. Yield to the serpent and the woman? Or, Yielding, why suffer? -They have but  One answer to all questions: 'twas his will,' And he is good. How know I that? Because He is all powefulf; must all good, too, follow? I judge but by the fruits, and they are bitter."   X "Contrast the dark and harrowimg reellion of such a spirit, which was no doubt a picture of the author's heart, with the simple utterance, a Christian's faiths vic  i I quote from Beattie:                   A "One part, one little part we dimly scan       i Throngh the dalrk medium of life's feverish dream,a Yet dare arraign the whole stupendous plan  If but that little part incongruous seem g Nor is that part pelrhaps what mortals deem;      i Oft from apparent ill our blessings rise;* O, then, renounce that impious self-esteem, That aims to tlrace the seclrets of the skies, For thou art but of dust. Behumble and be wise." Ada listened with callm   but ealnest attelltioll, and the !1 speaker continued: "Your   youth has been  blighted  and your heart wounded by many sorrows; must these all be lost?" "I hope not," said Ada. "I "You   ay find one recorded il the Bible as havig    I been at an ealrly age overwhelmed with   affliction all persecution, and who found in due time their eefit. Call  you tell to whom  I refer?" "Joseph," was the reply of both. "Al ilnocelt person held in pison for at least tirteen  years, and God both witnessing alnd permitting it. What   A STORY OF NEW   YORK.        83 a strange tlhought, that if an angel should have been senllt to Egypt to select the chief object of God's love, it wouldl halve been found in prison and unlder an infamous tacctusa- tion! All this violence to the cause of purity and justice veas permitted in orlder that a correspondingr increase of benefit fight be gained by the sufferer.7 Such was one of those conversations which the Welrners employed as a mleans of instructing one, of whonm Tenny- son mlliglht have written these impressive lines: "Full oft the riddle of the painful earth Flashed through her as she sat alone." That Ada Braytonl was a person of deep thoullght and of high tone, may the readily undlerstood by the reader, anlld it will not be slurlprisfing that such a one should rebel at her bitter portion. Nor wMas her portion the less bitter firom its being so common in the history of mankind. Easy it is for those who are far removed from want to speak of such things in a tone of sympathy by still easier is it, (and perhaps more natural, to  banish them with a sneer-but to feel them--to feel the pressure of poverty -to realize that nothing but a week's earlnings    stanlds "A life of self-indulgerce is for us, A life of self-denial is for them; For us the streets, broad built and populous, For them unhealthy corners, garrets dim, Or cellars where the water-rat may swim; For us green paths, refreshed by frequent rain, For them dark alleys, where the dust lies grim!  Not doomed by us to this appointed pain- God made us rich and poor-of what do these complain?" -Mrs. Norton.     84         ONCE MORE. between you and want-to look forward to a life of precarious and ill-paid toil with no point of rest to relieve  the darkened sky-to be shorn of the gratification of elevating tastes, and to be but an instrument by melans of  which others attain wealth--ill these, wnll  ground into the soul by the bitter experiences of each recurring cay, d form a burden felt by many a high-toned girl while    battlilng, like Ada Brayton, with social and pecuniary   difficulties. Ada saw that there was a class, before which was openedl  every avenue to those pleasures which her tastes rendered i her capable of enjoying, and which her nature so earnestly i craved. Books, pictures, music, conversation and society i were flung before the rich, while she, though fully capable of appreciating them, was utterly barred out. To her it was given     to drudge from da to day, and to contend with proverty, sharpened by pride, to say nothing of that  inner conflict in which the soul and intellect bore a part. Such was her portion, and before the reader mnay condemn  her for rebelling against it, let him take her place and enter into her feelings. She gazed around, and saw no chance of reaching that position for which she seemed to have been formed.  On the other hand, she could only fall in with the vast aggregate of humanity. To be one of the masses--one of those who are of no account save as their toil may subserve the capitalist-this was Ada Blayton's lot. "Why, then, did God give her tastes and desires and  f capacities for something better?  If she was to be a mere ! atom in the serfdom  of a great city, why was she not   A STOR Y OF- NEW YORK.        85 fitted for that place, like the ox, that knows nothing better than his yoke?" These were the thoughts that rose in her breast as she walked to her work at the printing house, and caught a brief glance at Broadway-its sheen of fashion-the glory of its wealth, and the queenly ladies charioted through the street. Can we wonder that this spectacle, so brilliant and imposing, wrought deep upheaval in the maiden's breast? Who could enjoy these things more than she or use them more for the benefit of the world? She who had such a passion for art-such hungfering for intellectual cul- ture. "Why are these beautiful books in the windows?" she would say to herself. "Will I ever read them? and these splendid dresses--will I ever wear one?" Yes, there are those who seem to have a world made for their enjoyment, while others are chained to the wheel of necessity. This was the common current of Ada Bray- ton's feelings. The girls at the printing house were of a different stamp. They, at least, were often merry, and seemed to enjoy their life. Quite a contrast was found in Ada, who, while working at her case, calm and cheerful in v6ice and manmers, was evidently troubled in soul. Her associates seemed to understand that there was a deep current ebbing and flowing there, and this thought commanded their respect, while the foreman, Mr. Seymour, treated her with marked kindness. Printing was more congenial to Ada than the use of the needle, because there is an atmosphere of intelligence     86         ONCE0C MORE. R in a printing office. Beside this, she often saw literary gentlemen there, and hea1 theirremarks. Puttingthese with her early educatiouwhich had been attended to luring her father's better days, she found herself improv- ilg inl culture. The quiet, thoughtful author whose book she was at work upon flequently went through the room,  id often conversed briefly with her. She had also hopes of becoming a proof-reader on common copy, a labor. which women sometimes perfolrm. Wllhen the day's work was over she could borrow a  Dook to take home, and here, as she found Aura ready toS  welcome her with the tea table prepared and the rood  snugly arranged, and Mr. Werner ready for conversation, she beoan to feel that her lot was not as hard as it might have been. There was a peace and a contentment about that house which for a time hushed the conflict, and she found rest in its soothing influence. "Ah, Aura," said she one day as they were walking Broadway and had just entered a gallery of pictures.  "why do you not repine as I do-you love the beautiful, and you also are cut off from it. Your higher nature,  like mine, is denied its development. Look at that   ' sunset; how it fills the soul, and yet will probably be  purchased by some one who will never value it. But can you or I ever own one of these pictures? No, though I crave its beauty and long for its possession." "I would like a picture as well as yourself," was the reply, " but it would be very foolish to repine because I  can't own it. There are a great many things one can't own. I enjoy a fine sunset in nature, but what a foolish    A STORY OF NEW YORK.        87 thing you would call me if I complained because I could not possess it. A spectator, at least, has a transitory ownership in all he sees ; as they say," he takes the good of it." So I take the good of these pictures, and there are always galleries open. I have a way of calling these galleries mine-since I have the use of them whenever I desire it. Now, I say to myself, I shall sell this out soon; and then fill up with some other gems, and then as I study each picture I drink in its beauty and so pass on to the next. That is the way to own a gallery." ' The girls generally spent a part of each Saturday looking at the sights in Broadway, and its numerous galleries always attracted their attention. "But I would like to own them, to have them at my house--yes, to have a gallery like this," said Ada. "And still be dissatisfied? Ada, I fear you do not know your own heart. I would also like such a gallery, but then I should want to add to it the National gallery at London and others which I have read of. There are some gems at Dresden I should want; and then there is Guido's Sybil and his Cenci, which I should also want-- and then a few of Claude's best landscapes, and then-- well, then I should certainly ask for 'he Transfigura- tion, and after/that I know I should want something more." "Aura, I see you drift; but don't the sight of these things awaken a consciousness that you were born for something better than poverty? Think of books and of education. O, what a longing I have to know some- thing-I mean, to know things which I hear people     88      OiSONCE MNORE. speak of and cannot understand. I should like to have the chance at school which some of these rich girls have." I "And I, too," replied Aura. "I know but little, and so must make the most of it. Knowledge is best of all ! things, next to piety, and yet think a moment. Would  a lifetime devoted to reading satisfy an ardent student such as perhaps you would be? After you had passed your whole life among books there would still be worlds of knowledge remainilg to be mastered, and how painful would be the consciousness that you had not learned everything!"  "  Why, here's Doctor m'arburton! Good morning, doctor-do you love pictures?"  II stop for a moment," said the doctor, shaking hands with the girls, " when passing to refresh my mind with a glimpse of the beautiful. I am always the better for  it ." "And. doctor," said Aura, in a familiar way, " don't i you wan't to own this gallery?" ' ,Yes," replied the doctor, "and what is more, to tell the truth, I want to own everything I see that is, there .X is a something in the heart that demands it."  "Don't you think it would make you happy?"  "No; on the other hand, I fear that it would tend to making me discontented." "Why so?" interposed Ada. "One reason is, I find that those of my acquaintance who have the most are the most dissatisfied, and another is drawn from my own experience. When I was a poor student I thought I should be happy if I should own a   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        89 house and be established in business, and now that I have done this, I find my heart is still craving for more." "And pray, doctor, what does that heart want?" asked Aura. "It craves," said the doctor, "all the riches and glory of this world. It asks the wealth of the Rothschilds and Astors, and would be poor with ten times that amount. It craves the famne of Homer, Shakespeare, Napoleon and Raffaelle, and would then be jealous of the first man that should attain distinction. It craves all that is beautiful to the eye or pleasing to the taste, and, when these have been obtained, it still keeps on craving." "I understand that you are speaking of the natural heart, untouched by grace?" said Aura. "Yes; for when the heart is changed, it is turned to that only object which can satisfy it." "And what!s that?" inquired Ada. GOD! is the reply, uttered as the doctor arose to depart, and as he left the place he was heard to repeat in  a low tone, as though speaking to himself, the striking utterance of Augustine, "Lord thou hast formed us for thyself, and we are disquieted till we come to thee."     90         OXCE AORE. CHAPTER XII. THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO A FASHONABLE CLERGYMAN.           !- "I think I have found a situation," exclaimed Elliott i to the doctor one day as he entered the office, fresh from I a ramble among business men. "I have," said he, " been going through Front street, inquiring from store to store  if a clerk was needed, and at last found one concern that  did want one, and so struck a bargain."        i "What is the firm?"               ]I "Clamper, Kill & Co." "Oh, I know them," said the doctor. , Reuben Clam- per is one of iyy families-you and I have been at his house." "What! is he father to our Mr. Clamper?" "Certainly; what salary do you get?"       i "Two hundred and fifty dollars a year."      i "And where will you board?"  I shall do as I did on Broadway-sleep in the store i and board myself."  "No, my   lad, that will not answer. You are now growing rapidly and need better food than you would probably provide. So you shall stay with us: that is, take your meals at our table-for awhile, at least." This proposition was in accordance with the whole li   A S'TORY OF NVEW YonRi.       91 tenor of Doctor Warburton's character, and he thus in- creased that burden of gratitude which was accumulating upon the befr'iended youth. Elliott's change of employment brought him into new and interesting scenes. Front street was the centre of a heavy trade, and he soon formed some idea of the extent aidc importance of the commercial world. Clamper, Kin & Co. were large wholesale dealers, and Reuben Clamper was pleased to find his new clerk so apt and ready for his duties. lThose duties were the receiving  and delivering of goods, as they were purchased or sold, together with their weights and quantities--a task which one   may readily judge to be very arduous, since the daily amount of teas, sugars, flour, coffee, and other commodities thus handled, was very large.  Although aided by a porter, who labored incessantly, Elliott had a heavy task, but his ambition sustained him during the long days of toil. He was, as he supposed, in a place where he could learn business, and the hope of future success led him to every possible effort to acquire knowledge. Hence his progress 'Vas such as to surprise Mr. Clamper, who spoke of him as "t one of the stnartest clerks in the street." At the same time Mr. Kin, the junior partner,  who was also called " very smart," seemed quite interested in the new comer.  One reason was that this gentleman found it very convenient to use him  as a messenlger among the different young ladies whom he honored with his attentions, and to perform such other errands as are necessary to gentlemen of his standing.  This addition to his regular duty the clerk would have declined had he     O NCE MORE. not been conscious of the necessity of making sacrifices, and hence he yielded compliance. In addition to this, another burden, to which he was fireqlently subjected, was the carrying of articles to Mr. Clamper's house, where he was detained from legitimate duties, fol whose neglect he was liable to censure. Miss Evaneline Maril and Miss Amelia Clara were both very fond of the new clerk, and hence drew him into conver- sations for which he had no taste.  A few searching glances convinced him that his am- ployer's family was not the abode of happiness, and he shrunk from its empty splendor. ow dlifferent did it appear from the solid comfort that prevailed at the Warburton's, where elegance was combined with those domestic graces which constitulte a true home? On the one hand there were the cold artificialites of fashion, and  on the other the warm and genial glow of a happy family. The one idea of the Clampers-fashionpredominated in all their conversation. Of this, however, the fatherl heard comparatively little, being absent, except at meals and a short time in the evenings; but Elliott, in his  occasional errands, learned enough to show its absorbing nature.                       , The  doctor," as Frederick was called, was also absent most of the time, and hence the gils found an unwilling listener in the clerk. He was questioned concerning the, Warburtons with all that minuteness which marks vulgar curiosity. " How old he thought Mrs. Warburton was?" "Did he ever hear the doctor talk about his property?"   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        93 'Did Mrs. Warburton attend to kitchen matters?" 'Did they always have dessert after dinner? "Did lot Mrs. Warburton sometimes answer the door-bell?" "What a pretty talking young fellow," said Amelia )ne day, after Elliott had left: I wish pa wquld let him 3ome and board with us. I do like to have soahiody to talk to, and Fred won't talk to us as he does to other girls; O it's so dull here."      j "You must read your book more, child," was Mrs. Clamper's reply, " and prepare for being useful: there's Doctor Tenderblare, you know. May be he don't call here for nothing." "La, mother, what makes you talk so-you know I can't bear him: and there--now he comes, his very self, across the street." In a few moments there was a ring heard at the street door. "Girls, go down stairs, and come when you are called," was the mother's hurried command. "Ah, Doctor Tenderblare, how do you do?-looking after the lost sheep I suppose." "Yes, ma'am, but not here: these, I hope, are all in the fold." As he said this the clergyman smiled in a very angelic manner, but not more so than he should have done, con- sidering that he had practised it before- a looking-glass fiequently that very day. "You look delicate, Doctor Tenderblare : may be you study too hard." "True, madam, I must admit that; but nothing with-     "         ONCE MORE. out labor. How can one hope to feed so large a floclk without it? Some clergymen may do so-but my people cannot live on husks. Yes, Mrs. Clamper, whatever others do, I muslt work; the candle only gives light  I while it is burninhg.  ' Then your pastoral labors too; senrching,4 out the oor  proldigals-by the way haven't you called lately at the Malrkingtonls .?"I Dr. Tenderblare nodded assent.1 "They say they have a new medalllion carlpet."  $ "Not equal to this,' replied the fashionable divine, glanllcitg on the floor.  ( This is really superb. You knllow I always admired your furniture.7' "Well, I amn glad to hear you say so, it is not every clergyilan that is a judge. OLr carlpet, as you know,  was ordered on purpose, of the samne pattern used by the Garvers, of Boston.  Old Garver had thalt pattelrn got up for himself, but he let Clamper in-it cost a pile, too."                          S - IMs. Clamper paused in order that the clerical col- l noisseur might take a full view of the article in question. "Did you hear how   the Jobbersons party went ofi? - We   were at MansoI1nS that night and had to send regrets -they say that the table was poor, andcl the liquors a great  deal worse."                      y "I  fear that was the case," replied the divine.  "Well, that comes of the poor trying to keep up with the rich; Jolbberson is hard up; so Clamper says, alnd can't get his paper done at our bank-but he had to give    A STORY OF NEW YORK.         95 a party, I suppose, for Eveline's salke. By the way, ho does that girl get along with her music?" tc O, dolln't ask mne ; you liknow what a piano that is?" Well, the piano is as good as the hanlld that plays it, poor as it is. Her father has spent a good thousand on that girl- money that he'll want to meet his paper with, so Clamper says. The fact is, Doctor Tendclerblare, girls must have sometlhilg to workl oi o r they'll never amount to anything-to be sure there's my girls-" "Your girls!" interposel the reverend visitor, resum- ing the angelic smile. "Your girls are decidedly supe. rior ; see what natlure has clone for them." "Well, doctor, 'tis true, nature has dlone sosmething for them ; but theln how they've been improved. The money has rull like water, Claplelr alndl I were countilg it U1p t'other day." ("And in this way you have made them  daughters to be proud of," exclaimed the possessor of the angelic smile. ' Look at their acquaintance with Belles Lettres." "Bel Letters? I think I've heard themn speak of that girl. But they don't care for society.  Their onlly thought, doctor, is to be useful; to do a little good, as you say il your sernlons. Now there's Amelia, she sings, it is true, but her taste is for sacred music; that girl, doctor, is illncliled to be pious. I thinki she'll come for- ward when the Porters do. You know she would not go forward with every one?"  Doctor Tenderblare's only reply was a repetition of the smile. "Those girls," continued Mrs. Clamper, " are very ar-     96         ONCE MORE.              ticular; it's no common man ll that they'll fancy. Not on  account of money ; tlhat they have enough of-for Amy's  to have the bank stock, andc Eva the mortgages ; bt for  intellect-they are thirsting for knowledge-divine and  saclred knowledge."  As Mrs. Clamper said this, she gave a slight stamlp  with her foot, whLich might hatve been taken for emphasis. j However, in a few moments Amuelia made her appear-  ance, with a Bible encyclopedia in her halnd, cand was g followed by Evangeline, who was just taking her eye off  a tract.         '  Why, airls, exclaimed the mother, " don't you see  g Doctor Tenlderblare-aland la, Amelia, why do you lug  that big book around ; it seemns as though you can't be a  minute without it?"  "O Doctor Tenderblare, who would have thouglht you  , were here," said the former of these promising youncg   ladies. ' We were just coming in, Eva and I, to talk  1 over our Bible lesson. I thougTht your discourse last Sun-1  day threw light upon it."  "Yes," interposed Mrs. Clamper, I I wtis struck with  it; and that text, too ; how very meltin'. It wasinPaul's  epistle to the Phillistines, wasn't it, Amy dear?"  "The Phillipians is a treasure of truth," replied the  doctor, in his best effort at an ajfectuoso mallnner. u I  have heard several allude to that sermnon, the Kidwells, for illstance." "Yes, Julia Kidwell told me that they all lilked it very much-and she said the people talked of raising the salary."                            A STORY OF NEW YORK.         97 "; Or sending our pastor abroad for his health, they say he studies lhardlc," interposed Evalngeline. "Our girls think some of coin g for ward"l again re- larked Mrs. Claimper, in a suggestive tone. Yes, doctor," added Amelia, I think one more dlis- course like that will do it. I was so melted down. You do have such taste in poetry, doctor, and poetry always does one so much good." "Our girls love to hear you quote Longfeller," said Mrs. Clamper, " ad tlen your knack at illustration, and that anecdote. Amnelia, dear, who was it that the doctor melitiolled. You know we spoke of it coming home. Magna Charta, wasn't it?"i "No, ma, not him ; may be it was Gerty or Shakes- peare." "La. child, what am I thinking of; it was Sir Philip Kidley." But doctor, do tell me, is those Jarfords going to have a seat on the floor or in the gallery?" continued Mrs. Clamper.  t I think it's too bad to let such folks in.; it will break down the church." Dr. Telnterblare replied by suggesting the diffioulty of keeping them out. Raise the prices,"' said Mrs. Clamper. "But Jarfords is iln funds just now-has sold his stand for twenty thousand dollars. You know what he says-he will come." "Theln I hope he won't stick himself near our pew. I saw that Sarah Jarfords in church t'other day, and it took away all the good of the discourse." 7     ONCE MORE. "It is difficult to keep these people in their place," replied Doctor Tenderblare. "All, you don't know a 'pstor's trouble-'but I never call oil them." Then you do your part," said Mrs. Clamper, "anld if Clamper knew wlhat seat they were aftel, he would buy it tp. He wants to keep it a first-class church. No low people wanted-and then those Jarfords IDidyou ever  hear, doctor, how old Jarfords began to nmke money? "A clam wagon," replied the clergymal, "anti madam, here is where I makle the difference between filthy lucre, and that which is not filthy: the Bible con- demns none but the first." "To be sure, doctor, the Bible speaks of the rich and the poor. So they are two difflrent classes," ellarke Amelia, "and somewhere in the Psalms it speaks of a christian young lady that was clothed in wrought gold." rich, exclaimed Mrs. Clampe.  "The same family,  though the name is spelled different, I 'spose. Don't you think so, doctor?"             :* How the reverend  entlema wold  ave succeede in harmonizing these names, is a puzzlig question, but he was relieved from his embarrasstent by the entrajice of a character no less than Reuben Clamper himself, who appeared in an unusual flow of spirits. "Well, doctor Tenderblare! You are around, like me, watching the customers; that is, I mean yours has  to go rounltd to see whether they live up to the sermons   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        99 or no. That's the way I keep track to see if my custom- crs is attending to business-nothin' like it, doctor." "Our attendance is quite good just now," remarked the clergyman. "Yes," replied Mr. Clamper, "going to church is my forte. I imbibed that habit at an early age-then it's so still after the organ is done, that one can sit and think all through the preachinl'." "Some people1 sleep," replied Doctor Tenderblare, meekly seeking a compliment. I'm not one of that kind," said Mr. Clamper. "I like to think, and if Eve made a mistake during the week, it'll come to my mindl. "Will it?" inquired the doctor, drawing some favora- ble inference from the remalk. "Yes, yes. In a large business like ours, things will go wrong sometimes, and then in church one has time to think it all over and get it fixed right. I'm trying to fill the church up; I tell 'enm it pays to go." Mr. Clamper delivered this in an air so consequential, that he did not notice the clergyman's pique. "Why, la! what is that pa's got in his hand? a picture of himself, I vow!" This exclamation, which proceeded from Amelia, was inspired by a sheet which Mr. Clamper had been rather carelessly displaying. It was a Sunday paper, whose front page was decorated with a full-faced cut, beneath which was the following in capitals: OUR DISTIN- GUISHED   FELLOW-CITIZEN, REUBEN     CLAM- PER, ESQUIRE, MERCHANT."     J VV        ONMCE MORE. Doctor Tenderblare, out of politeness, took the papeier all sclutinized the picture, of which he spoke as favolrably a3s possible. * You like it thenl, doctor; well, I think mlyself it's a i ice thing. You knllow, doctor, when a mall comes lip ill the world they will get his picture in the papers unbe- known to him.  They're cunnin' fellows, them litelraly  men. How they do find out all about a feller alndcl put it ioht in black anld white!  I never tlhought anybody  knowed so much about Rube Clamper, but here they've  i got it all down, andcl put in what a big thing I done in pork the year of the cholery. I tell you tlere's no  I keeping thigs secret from  these literalry men. Ef I'd leen eddicated I might have beeu olle on 'em, and wrote a book, or might have been a  preacher, ad took the -orldl easy." Mr. Clamper, ini his elation, again failed to notice the dissatisfaction of the clergyman at the ullintentional flinr S which closed his remarlis. Neither did he read the exprlession of contempt which the latter could not conceal. Doctor Tenderblare knew that the wThole thing was all attempt at what is popularly called " humbug," and that ' the picture and its accompanying sketch were a sacrifice 1 of avarice to self-conceit. Mr. Clamper, indeed, had that dlay paid fifty dollars to the printer, and as he was deter-  mined to have the worth of his money, he had ordered a large number of extra copies.  "I'll send you a  hundred to distribute amonu our  colng egation, said he to the clergyman; n they"   ty like to have a picter of a leading man in the flock."  31 I   A STORY 0F NEW YORK.        101 Doctor Tenderblare assented, with a silent determina- tion to burn them up as soon as received. I'm going to make my nmark in that church," con- tinued Mr. Clamper; " there's a dozen rich families coming up town next spring, and I'll get 'em all in. I can run that church as easy as I can run the store, and the more's the people the more's the money, and ef yours play yer cards right the salary 'll come up too-I want that church so that it 'll give a mall credit to belong to it:. Mr. Clamper suddenly recollected that he had let out a, secret. It was true that he wished to aid his own credit by a conllnectiona with a wealthy church, but he did not intend to make that motive public, and a slight embar- rassment was threatened when Mrs. Clamper moved the previous question by saying to Eva, "do get Doctor Tenderblare to explain that passage." The clergynian, however, plead some pressing engage- ments, and thus brought to a close his visit at the Clam- pers. This, indeed, might be considered a. very fair sample of much of his parochial work, except that its termination left more than usual unpleasantness on both sides. , ,     102         ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XIII.  WORK AMONG THE POOER. ;i Mr. Werner's labors crowded so incessantly upon each other that it was, as Aura thought, a wonder how he held out. In the forenoon he had a brief time for study; then, came letter-writing and similar exercise of the pen, which was done at the mission rooms in the Tract house, and noon found him at the daily prayer meeting, which is   1 held daily in that institution.  After that came the  I visitation of the sick and the general assistance of such  cases -of distress as might need immediate attention. This brought him to the dinner hour, which was usually late, and after that, a short and pleasant season of conversation was indulged in. Other dtties filled up the time till tea,  and then there were prayer meetings to be attended, or those of Sabbath-school teachers or of tract distributorls, while on the Sabbath two Sundav-schools and as many   ! preaching services were to be sustained. The only varia.- tion of this routine was found in occasional funerals andcl in the monthly meeting of the missionaries, when each  handed in his report.                  ! In this unbrokeni tour of duty Mr. Werner had passed  several years, and though he was often made to feel his i i secondary position in the ministry, yet he had sufficient ' N ':;   A STORY' OF NEW YORK.        103 grace to realize that in the Master's view his work was not less important than that of better paid and more prominenlt clergymen. He was conscious of the possession of powers such as would have been felt and recognized in a first-class pulpit, and sometimes when he sav inferior men hoisted into distinction, and decoratel with a fulsome title, he may have felt that such could have been his position had he desired it. Natural pride, added to the thought of his daughter, may occasionally have caused .1 momentary throb as he saw how little his labors were valued by some, but then he remembered that such was the Master's work-to seek and to save that which was lost-to go into the highways and hedges and conpel them to colie in, and, with this consciousness, he would not have exchanged with any of the so-called fashionable clerloy. Mr. Werner had much  comfort in the fact that his daughter fully appreciated his position and shared his feelings.  Aura was, as has been stated, an only child, and as her mother died when the daughter was young, the latter had been for several years her father's sole compaiion.   Parent and child had been shut up to each other-for Aura had heard but little of what is called "society "-until they had reached a strong assimilation. A few standard authors were their literary resources in addition to the weekly religious sheet, and an occa- sional volume drawn from public libraries.  By super- intending  her course of reading, and by a system  of instructive conversation, Mr. Werner had so improved his daughter's  mind that she might coimpare favorably     -  V1CE M ORE.            . with manly who had' enjoyed far greater advantages. The only article in the il possession which applroached the name of luxury wats a piano, on which Aura plalyed with ttaste anld with considerable skill, and the sinlple melocies with which she cheeredl the hollse were alon I her filther's higrhest delights. But his chief joy was htI his daughter had become an heilr of eternal life, and this n- strenllgthellned the bondl of their ulnion. They were oe ill purpose, and both were devoted to that ev angelical- work 9 which claimed theilr mutual sacrifices. Since the reception of Ada Blrtyton into their circle S its character haclad beell modifiedl in a slig ht degree, rled  their convesation was of a nature to instruct that child of misfortune.  Both perceived her mental activity andI penetration, as well as the general correctnLess of her t judglmelnt and  thLe toLne of her nambition, and both re- spected  that differenlce of view which they lamented. I8 But as God only call openl the eyes of the blind, alnd as 1 it was only through his mercy that their own pelrceptions ' were accurate, they could only hope that similar grace mighlt  reach their guest. "Sin," as Mr. WeNler re- marked, with respect to this matter, " is blindnleess, and  ollly when sill is pardoned and guilt removed is the tlrue  light received into the soul."              The retular missionLL  prayer meeting was held on8 Wednesday evening, and on these occasions many of the  I worshipers offered remarks as well as prayers. Ada at first attended out of regard for the Werlers, but she soon became so interested that her presence was a matter I of choice. They were the first prayer meetings she1 Ylibi- IhrymrmurtRErnmliglb. ' l I .   A S'TORY OF -NEW TORLK.      15 ever attended, and the air of sincerity which pervaded them impressedl her deeply. The exercises were imper- fet in style, were frequently rude and ungrammatical, ,ut they indicated lhumility, conviction, faith and love, i emotions which could not but reach a person of Adl's depth. On these occasions some eccentricities of character were exhibited. Anmong  the regular attendants were deaf John, a porter in a wholesale dry goods lhouse on Broadway; Mr. Pugsley, who had charge of a storage concern; Mr. Brownson, who kept a boardinfg house; Mr. Jones, a clerk, who had hope of becoming a preacher; Mr. Arthur, a bricklayer, and another person, who was liknown as "the Weakmlllinded Mall," a nalme which he seemed to have assumed firom a sense of its fitess. There was also a Mr. Darling, wio stood every fair nlighlt on Broadway with his telescope, which Igave a view of several of the planets, and which, at sixpence a sigrht, affordcled himn a living. Speakling from his own ex- pelrience, he could refer to "the telescope of faith." There was also to be seen, occasionally, Father Jenkins, as he was called, a manl of deep piety, who made a slender living by peddling tea; andcl Mr. Sandcls, a mem- her of a heavy concern, who loved God so well that he could steal away from business during its most pressing season to attend prayer meeting. In addition to these tlhere was a miscellaneous gathering drawn from the neighborhood,  few of which could have attended ally other place of worshp. As Acla from time to time mingled in this grouD she     l ul         OISNCE MORE.      -       g could not but feel that there was a  power and a beauty   l in piety, of which she haLd never been conscious.  She   ft was often cldeeply affected by the remarks of Father Jen-  kills, who generally unfoldedl lessons of deep experience.  i He hadcl once been rich, but having been brought to pov-   Is erty, was now living a. life of faitl, andcl thus was preparilln; for that worldcl where faith shall be lost in sight.  There was aln unction in the word's of this hoary     S headed christian, poor, yet happy, and rejoicing evell in deep affliction, that all her reasoningy could not lresist. "My troubles," said she to herself, " have made me harcl- heartedl anlld rebellious, -while his have rendered him  I tendler and patient, and yet how  lmuch gLreater hlave they been than  mine?" and  she was still more touched by  ' those words of Madame Guyon, which he sometimes re-     f peated :  "By thy command, where'er I stray,; Sorrow attends me all the way,          I; A never failing friend;             1^ And if my suffelrings may augment- Thy praise, behold me well content;r  Let sorrow still attend!" "Sorrow and Love go side by side;I Nor height nor depth can e'er divide Their heaven appointed bands 5 Those dear associates still are one,  Nor till the race of life is run,         l Disjoin their wedded hands."           I As   these thoughts ran through Ada's soul, and as she felt that they were not in harmnony with her frame, she    A   A STORY OF NEW YORI.         107 could only look upwalrd and breathe a silellt prayer, "would God that I felt so too? ' The missioln meeting thencefortlh became a source of enjoyment, and here tlhat proud heart which could so sullenly endure hardships, and at the same time so bitterly rebel a*alinst Providence, was humblled and mnelted in tlhis atmosphere of love. All present on these occasions, seemed to have been subjects of the same discipline, and by tlhis mlleanlls hlald been brought nearer to God. The Stlabbath sclhool was anotherl place of increasing interest. Here Mr. Werner and a group of faithful teachers met more than two hundred scholars, chiefly gatlhered fromn the poorest families. These pitiable crea- tures often came in rags, andcl seemed glad to find friends and shelter, even for a little time, and to thus enjoy an exemption from the equal miseries of home or the street. Adal hald been a Slabbath school scho-lar in her early cdays, before her fatherl's evil habits had separated the falnily from sacrel influences, alld now, although matlking no prlofession of religion, she accepted, at Mr. Wernler's request, a class of small children. She soon learllned to love these poor things who came every Sabbath   with such earnest and yet playful faces. The misery of their home life had lot as yet crushed the beauty of childhood, and innocence still lingererd oon the threshold of coming sorrows. Ah, ye children of the- poor! Who can gaze upon your coulltellnances so eloquent, with the appeal for aid and consolation, without that responsive yearnlling breathed by true sympatlhy?     108         ONCE fMORE.  Yes, these chilaren of the poor! What tears are shed over them by the plilantlropist, as they are seen driftingl to their sad destiny, amid drunkenness, violence, filsehood a:nd lechery; tempted on every side, while hunger land  distress arm each temptation with fearful power. Who can wonder that in view of this single aspect of humanl woe, the angel of the earth is represented as always weeping? As a teacher, it was Ada's duty to visit her scholars. Once more she entered tenement houses such as that in l which she formerly lived, and thus the degradation of  her previous life was brought vividly before er. Here, amid rags, squalor and vice, she could recall the power of such associations upon the soul, and this remenbrance awoke a deeper sympathy for the children of misfortune. Anld will God bring good out of all this?" she in- quired within herself, and while she sighed at the scene, she took courage from Mr. Werner's words, and added, if this be so, then what a wonderful God?" Come, girls," said the missionary, as Sabbath was - closing, to-day we must call on old Mrs. Candlish--she will no doubt be expecting us." Neither Ada nor Aura needed any further invitation, for the latter had long loved the work, while the former had learned by expe-  rience what a sustaining power there is in the presence t of the good, and she also remembered the time when Aura Werner called at her father's miserable abode with similar ministrations. A short walk brought the group to an old and tot-  tering edifice, one of that class commonly known as Y known asT   A STORY OF NEW YORxK.      109 "rookeries," whose creakiing stair they ascended until they reached an apartment, the neatness of whose interior was much in contrast with its outside. A boy was sitting by a bed in the corner of the room, on which was seen the recumbent form of ,an aged woman, while on a table near by were a few bottles of medicine and an opened Bible. "Mr. Werner, grandma!" said the boy, announcing the visitors. "Mr. Werner! Oh, how good! I've longed to see you this day, and so God has sent you here. Raise me up, Hatrry." The lad obeyed, and after a short attack of coughing the old woman continued: "I wanted to talk with you, Mr. Werner, about God's dealings with me: The Bible says, 'thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God hath led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to prove thee, and to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep His commandments or no." It is just a year to lay since I broke my leg and got bed- ridden-just a year since I have been out of this room." "What a year it has been," said Mr. Werner. "Yes, a strange year. How little I thought that, poor as I was, God would make me still poorer by taking away what little I had. I often think of that apple- stand and the :;pennies it brought in. I used to thank God for that apple-stand, but now I thank Him that He can support me without it." Ada felt the old woman's words of faith and patience reach her heart.     "(         ONCE MORE.             I "How strange thlat when I fell Harry shoulcl be homle, and that good doctor should be so near by and comel when Hatlry called him and set the bone, and nlext week get Harrly a place as messellnelr. Harry nevei would  l have been miessenger if I had not blroke my leo-alld soon, he says, he'll be operator, too."  "Alld youl have greater mlercies thlan these, iy good woma1," reimallrked Mr. Wernlelr.    ,  "Yes; for though I've suffered so much and been so t much alone, yet I have seen nlore and more of the zood- ness of God.  He has said, ' He will make all His bed in sickness,' and so He has: it has been a bed of palin anlldl  a bed of peace, sir."                    - "Let me talk," continued the old woman, for she saw i , an expression  on 'fr. Welrner's face of fear that the effort should weaken her. "Old people lilke to tallk. I ' sometimes thi'. when   so much expeliellnce has been bottled up in one's heart that it must lbe uncorkel, or it i will brllst. O, Mr. Werner, I sometilles wish I wa  preacher-I'd like to pour out what God does for me:   $ but, then, you must do the preaching. I often thilk of  the times when I  was hearing of it-never, nlever again: E  but, oh, its all right." ' It is comnlin  to see God's people suffer and tlriumph that helps me preach," said Mr. Werer. "I  alwatys get a  sernon when I come to see you-so you do preach,- after all."  "Well, if I don't preach, I feel: yes, I can say I feel the power of the world to comlle. Helre I am, a mniser-  able sufferer, old anld helpless, and yet God loves me.   A STORY OF NEW YORIK.       11l Can. you explain that?  How wonderfull! how  won- derful! In a little while this old shell must be taken down!L!  Yes, granidma, so I heard the grocer say-next spring," interposecd Harry. "Oh, poor child-he's much to learn. No, deary, it's the old granny tlhat's to be taklen down. They mray turn the rookery intoralrmifble palace, but tlhis body is to be raised up in glory. A little while, Mr. Werner, and all this suffering will be swallowed up in a falr more exceed- ing and eternal weight of glory. Yes, so it must be. Grace below ; g;lory above!" "No one in the roomn felt like replying, and the old womnan continued : "'Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.' I have been tfhinking of that all day, alnd the more I thinkli of it the Imore wondclerful it appearls. What g a thought-to see God! As I've heard you explain it, to see God iin Christ, who is tlhei brighthess of His glory and the express image of His person-our covenant God. And who are the pure in heart? Those who arthe cleansed by Jesus' blood. O, Mr. Wernller, you are a preacher ownied of God, and oftirmes I've been blessed under your words, but you- haven't told the half. You don't know what a workli is cx mitted to your hands. You love it, I know, andcl value it; but you can never know its full value till you linlow the worth of the soul. TWhen you come to the brilnk of the grave, where I amn you'll not egret being a preacher, for tlhen you'll see something of the wolrth of your wolrk.     "2         ONCE MORE.  "Let me give you some drops, Mammy Candlish,"    said Aura, " you look suffering."'  "I suffer all the time," replied the old woman, " and , suffering makes me talk, because it works on the soul; ;! there's no getting on without it. 'Through much tribu- lation ye shall enter the kingdom of heaven.7 Yes, much tribulation!" "You're not alone now when Harry's away?" asked  H Aura.  c"I can touch the bell when I want help, and the col- ored woman next door comes in ; and then the 'Weak- ' Wa minded' man calls oftimes to read the Bible and pray, -!! and Harry always runs in if his errands are near. But if j Iam alone I am busy all the time, as I tell Harry, tele- l gl'apting to heaven, and the answers come right back. ! So the time flies, and soon the end will come. I say, .  girls, meet me there."                 I The old woman pointed her finger upward, and then i sunk back upon the pillow, uttering feebly as she didc so,  "Pray.'  They kneeled around the bed, and the mis-  iz sionary led their devotions, during which the invalid's  strength returned, and when they rose she exclaimed,  I: "Tell them at the meeting that my word to them is this: i ' At the eveninog time it shall be light.'"       I   A STOY OF NNEW YORK.        113 CHAPTER XIV. IN WHCH THE YOUNG CLERK MAKES A STRANGE DISCOVERY. A spirited trade was driven in that Front' street ware- house over which hung the sign of CLAMPER, KIN & CO., even while other firms complained of slackness. Reuben Clamper was a shrewd and adroit business man, who combined two features not commonly found together -boldness and cunning, though the former may have been largely due to his success. He handled goods with great breadth and independence, and was considered one of the best Poperyat  in the street. Having this reputa- tion, he was generally followed by a class of dealers who were on the lookout for bargains, for it was considered that whatever Clamper bought must be cheap ; hence he had a constant run of business. One of the leading features in his trade was damaged goods. These were generally sold under the hammer at the great auction mart, foot of Wall street, and hence when the red flag was up Clamper was to be seen boldest among the crowd of competitors. 'Large quantities of tea, coffee, sugar, and similar merchandise were sold in this waty on the score of damage, and Mr. Clamper was generally found to be the most constant purchaser. These goods the new clerk was required to store in the most I      Q8     "4         ONCE MOKRE.  fitting place and to take accouLnt of the weights and report 9 deficiencies. In addition to this he was allowed to exer.  cise his abilities as a salesnlall, a circumstance which  explains Mr. Clamper's instructions.  "You need not wrarrant anything," said he, w hen thus .  promoting his clerk; -' my word to these fellows that come to look at goods is, ' your eyes is your chap.' Our f business is to sell the goods, and no afterelaps."  Elliott found, however, that occasiollnally there were ^ t afterclaps." Complaints were firequently made and  purchasers were sometimes driveni away by the persistenlt dishonesty which lulrked in many  transactions; while others were only retained by the allowance of deductiollns unltil the term " deduction " became a household word in ; the parlance of the concern. Mr. Clamlper was peculiarly  given to its use whenever it might apply the right way, H that is, on a purchase, and hence when a bill had to be, settled he had it at his tongue's end. On these occasions II he either begged or bullied an allowance on the scolre of imagginary deficiencies, anld the facility with which these deficiencies were got up at leiigth established the fact that  he was a   reckless liar; a relJputation which Mr. Kin  shared.                        tA' It was a  painful discovery to a youth like Elliott Brand S to thus find himself linked with a mall whose habits of fraud and falsehood were notorious, but it was hardly less  painful to observe that this appeared to make no difference  with his stancling among merchants. He bought heavily,  and "made a   good note," as the term went, and these 1 facts served to whitewash his base transactions. The H   A STORY OF NWF    YORK.     115 clerk did not know, however, that there was a class of truly hollorable business men who kept aloof from so inveterate a knave, and that there was, after all, a line of clemarkation which separated Clamper, Kill & Co. from that hollorable list. Elliott also discovered that his employer was as super. stitious as he was false. Having abanlldoned religious principles, he became, like all such men, the slave of the most contemptible fears. He was, for want of any other deity, a devout believer in what is vulgarly called "Iuck," and this imaginary idea was enshrined in his heart and claimed his worship.  Carying out this super- Stition, many things of the most trifling character were forbidden. The brushing down of a cob-web, and the wrong way of sweeping the floor, were offenLces prlohibted by one who did not scruple at the daily repetition of fiaud. On one occasion, indeed, Clamper was onl the point of discharging a man 'for the above-mentioned misconduct, and thus one who had thrown off the fear of God became the victim  of another fear-that "luck" might forsake him, and loss might follow. As to the fraud practiced in the business of this knavish concern, we will not detail its ramifications, and will merely allude to its leading features.  If teas were sold, the allowance of tare was diminished. If a cask of sugar were purchased by a person who had no scales to test its weight, it was marked up a hundred pounds. In the sale of mackerel and other salt fish, the bottom head was opened and a quantity taken out, and the space filled with salt and the head replaced. A large  part of their business     "6         ONCE MORE.              was with German grocers, whose ignorance made them   ! easy victinls. Mr. Clamper would set these men up in trade and take a chattel mortgage for security. As lono- aIs the customer proved profitable he would be' kept up  but as soon as things took a bad turn he would be at once sold out by his former patron. These men retailed larce quantities of liquor, on which the firm made enormous  profits. This department was under the special care of : Mr. Kin, and its mlysteries were kept by hinm secure from all penetration. But when the clerk saw different brands of gin, such as "the Swan," "the Anchor," and   "the Grape," as well as brandies of various popular names, and all kinds of wine  proceeding from  a loft into which nothing entered but *pure spirit and liquor coloring, he felt assured that Mr. Kin's power of transmutation must be of an order almost approaching magic. From   all these circumstanllces he regretted his engagement with a house of such a character, and determined, in obedience to that principle in which he had been bred, to avoid any act which might savor of fraud. Mr. Reuben Clamper was not only thoroughly dishonest and so abandoned that he shrank from  nothing nwhich did not render him liable to the law, but was at the same tinme  extremely ignorant, and could hardly venture off the subject of business or of horses-the latter being his favorite theme-without committing  the most absurd *Pure spirit is whisky filtered through charcoal; this process I removes its-harsh, unpleasant flavor, and therefore makes it of use I in the tricks of the liquor trade. The frauds previously alluded to  are common features in the trade of New York.  e   Y    I         A STORY OF NEW YORK.        117 blunders. But Air. Clamper was rich, and therefore the world overlooked both his vices and his defects, and spread over them that charitable mantle created by a reputation for wTealth. He lived in his own house, which was an elegant brown-stone front of latest style. He also kept a carriage, was president of a bank, and was supposed to have, in addition to these, a large capital in his business. "As we have stated, Mr. Clamper had a desire to be considered a fashionable man ; nlot, indeed, in the sense of a leader, but in that of one -whose family was of the num- I;  her included in that popular term.  Personally con- sidered, he was too uncouth in shape to illustrate those graces which are so important in the fashionable world, ;  but the Broadway artist who threw the charm of broad- t cloth over his clumsy form, was quite successful, and what was lacking in the father's display, was made up by the daughters. Among other. attainments of Mr. Clamper's ambition, was the record of his name amongr the pillars of Doctor Tenderblare's church, where the rich had their sils for- given once a week, amid fhe trills of opera music and the eloquence of the doctor's diamond ring, magic neck-tie, and mellifluous discourses. Frederick Clamper seldom saw his father, as the de- mands of business kept the latter from his family during the greater part of the day, and hence he knew little of his true character; but there was no attraction in his limited acquaintance with his parents, and he was often forced to perceive a marked difference between them. In this conclusion, Frederick was correct, and had there     "8         ONCE M ORE.            I not been a distinction between himself and the rest bf the I family, he would have been utterly ruined by the pride,   envy and selfishness which influenced its daily life.  A Next to Reuben Clamper in that great house which he  : founded (for it must be understood that the term "( Com-  pany" was a convenient fiction), was Amos Kin. He    i had been brought up as a clerk by the former, and had   learned all of his employer's tricks, beside inventing some i of equal cunning, of which the firin now derived full i benefit. He was a man of coarse tongue, and yet was considered a good salesman, and prided himself on the mode by which he could " talk goods into people; " his plan being in full accordance with the custom of that   model concern to sell at prices to suit customers, and  i then to make up the difference by cheating in quantity. Mr. Kin was doing well as a partner, but had an intense eagerness to become "rich," and hence, as Clamper sus- pected, was engaged in secret speculations. He also had an eye to achieving a match with some heiress, and there- fore made himself as agreeable to that class of society to which he found entrance, as his coarse features and vulgar habits could permit. Mr. Kin called frequently at the Clampers, but care- fully avoided any strict attentions, as he knew that his partner's wealth was not as great as was generally esti- mated. He knew that the fine house was mortgaged to a man in New Haven, who had agreed, under certain other security, to omit recording the mortgage; and he also knew that most of the bank stock was pledged at the ' bank for loans, and that Clamper had been made presi-   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        119 dent by a board of directors as a tool by means of which they controlled the institution. With this knowledge, the attraction was too small for a man of Mr. Kin's ambition, and he was looking for those higher figures which mlight satisfy i The atmosphere of selfishness and greed which pre- vailed in Clamper, Kill & Company's counting house, ill accorded with the views il which Elliott had been reared. Poverty was in the eyes of these men worse than crime, and a poor man, at the very best, was an object of con- tempt. Old Fobbers, the book-keeper, who had been a mer- chant, but had failed, thought differently, and he and Elliott often exchanged opinions on this subject. It was i obbers' conviction that, good as money was, character was better. "Look at me," said he, " poor as I am, my word will go where I am known. Can Reuben Clamper ! say that? No! he dare not go on the stand as a witness, for fear of being impeached. I believe what the Bible says," continued Fobbers, ' a poor man as better than a liar.' I have children as well as Clamper. They don't dress as fine, but still they contrive to appear decently in the house of God. They work hard and live plain, but they are not ashamed of their father, if he is only a book- keeper. I have an old christian mother, too," said he, pausing to take breath, " that lives with me, and take it altogether-poverty and religion-I believe the Bible to be true-' he that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack.' I believe I shall fetch up equal with him on the long run, and perhaps ",!     120         ONCE MORE. come out ahead. ' The little that a righteous man hath is  better than the riches of many wicked;' but there comes Clamper, and I mustn't be talking.' "Fobbers, charge Smlith & Barker with five chests of Young Hyson tea, at sixty-five cents. Elliott, have it right down and weighed." So spoke Mr. Clamper, adding in a low tone, when   I they were out of hearing, for he had followed his clerk, "You will marle that tea up-those fellows are retailers, and don't weigh it over. Let me see; three pounds on a  chest will answer."  "I cannot do it," was the prompt reply.  "My clerks always do what they are bid." "I cannot do it, sir; it is not honest.' "Honest? You need not preach at me ; beside, what's done here is done by the, firm; no risk on your head." Elliott looked steadfastly on his employer's face, but said nothing. aI tell you, young man," continued the latter, I these things are in the trade, and have got to be done or give the trade up. Everybody knows that." "It does not make any difference what other people do, sir," replied the clerk, "4 Ican't do it; but one thing I call do, I can leave the store. I can drive a cart, or do something else for a living." Mr. Clamper's language suddenly changed, and it ap- peared that a new idea had occurred to him. "O no, young man," said he,- ( you need not leave the store; Mr. Kin will attend to the tea. I see you don't understand our ways ; but I will find work enough to do."   I             l' ?k A STORY or NEW YORK.121 The idea which had thus entered Mr. Clalmper's head was the value of honesty. He had long felt the need of some one on whom he could rely, and he knew that Mr. Iiin was far from being such a man. He had taught him so many tricks, that he was suspicious lest these be turned against himself. It was possible that Mr. Kin might rob the firm of large suns. Such thingls had been done, and here before him stood a bright and efficient clerk, who would not cheat even to keep his place. He at once saw in this clerk a useful spy, who might in a silent manner watch all of Mr. Kin's movements. "Your wages are to be raised next month," was his &i. remark to Elliott that afternoon, as he drove off in his carriage, which occasionally called for him, in order to let the street know what kind of an establishment he kept. I  As the clerk saw him thus charioted along, he could not but think how small was the difference between the animals which drew him and their master, unless it were in favor of the former. n f I'. I S' . Is                    * J** t X     122        ONCE MOR E.; CHAPTER XV. WHCH THE READER MAY SKIP IF HE BE NOT IN A THOUGHTFUL FRAME. In a city like New York, there were, at the date of this history, few places to attract the lovers of nature, or even to afford the simple pleasure of a rural walk. One of these was Trinity Church yard, which now is the only memorial of New York in the olden time. The monu- ments which are here found, tell of ancient families, long since passed away, and also of the sorrows and bereave- ments which are now lost in oblivion. The tender and soothing influence springing from the graves of the holy dead, is one of the most grateful balms to the wayworn in life's journey. On this account, Mr. Werner and the girls frequently wandered there of a Sabbath afternoon, when the setting sun was throwing his farewell beams across the broad expanse -of the Hudson. They spoke together in this sacred spot concerning spiritual things, with a deeper and more confident tone, for it seemed as though the very graves yielded a solemn response. Beside this, amid all the turmoil of earthly conflict, in which even the christian finds himself too often weary, there is a spiritual repose suggested by the presence of Death, the messenger which relieves the tempest-tossed   :I      A STOR Y ON NEW   YORK.       128 I  c-lt, and bids it enter into eternal rest. This is the idea suggested by that verse which Gray rejected from his legy, and which so many have desired to restore: "Hark, how the holy calm that breathes around Bids every fierce, tumultuous passion cease; In still, small accents whispering from the ground A grateful earnest of eternal peace." "It is a very noticeable as well as a very beautiful eature, in both Gray and Goldsmith," remarked Mr. Werner, as he and the two girls were on one occasion eading the epitaphs in the old burying ground, "that while most of the poets of that day were eulogizing the rich and the great, these two, on the other hand, con- templated and honored humble life.   Goldsmith sought no great man's patronage in his ' Deserted Village,' and Gray was among the first to sing 'the short and simple annals of the poor.'"  "His elegy I learned by heart out of an old school book," replied Ada, "and I often find delight in repeat- ing'it. It seems so different from  death in a crowded city-and when I walk here I think perhaps that this very spot once might have been a country church yard." "It was, almost," replied the missionary; " although that was many years ago, and there is a rural simplicity in many of the old epitaphs which recalls one verse of the elegy: "The name, the age, spelled by the unlettered muse The place of fame and eulogy supply; While many a holy text around she strews That teach the rustic moralist to die."     124         ONCE MORE.  ' What do you think of that word moralst 2" inquired Aura. "I should have been better pleased," said Mr. Wernere, "if C0t'stican could have been written there; and though poetic measure forbade this, yet some term more appro- priate to victory over Death might have been substituted; but it may sound in bad taste for me to criticise the ! most finished poem   in the world, and hence I will cease." The little group passed on, drinking in the beauty of the scene, while the sun lit up the altar window with the fullness of his glory, and the Sabbath quiet of Broadway seemed to suggest the solemn hush of death.      9 "These epitaphs," said the missionary, who was the first to speak, I' illustrate the primitive character of this city when it might not have contained more than five thousand inhabitants, adcl when epitaphs were affectionate rather than grammatical.." "How odd it looks," said Ada, "to see the 'y' used for ' th."' "That character," replied  Mr. Werner, "was not merely ' y,' for it was sometimes written ' h.' It is now obsolete, but when in use'was called ' thorn,' and corres- ponds to the Greek character TBeta." "How   could a letter 'y' be called thorn " asked Aura. "Just as 'H' is called 'aitch,"' replied her father, adding, as he stopped before an antique headstone, , here is one which combines a number of quaint expressions." The epitaph, which he read, aloud, was this: s   *   R   fI          R S'YA S'TOBY OF NEW YORK.      125 /i;I    "iHere Lyes Interred ye Body Of Benjamin Thomas Who Departed this lief Augt ye 1st Zfe is(tti1744. As you ayer now so So once Was I In health and Strength thoe here I lye and as I am now so you V      n must be Prepair for Death and follow me." "There is a deeply suggestive expression of sad expe- rienlce in this rude inscription," said Mr. Werner, as the group paused before another stone, and he read as fol- lows: "While in this World I did Remain My Life Was all as Grief and pain At Length ye Lord he Thought it best In A Desart place to Take me to a place of Rest. GEORGE CARPENTER AGED 65 YEARS DEC'D MARCH YE 14 1730." "I think this," said Mr. Werner, as they approached a small and half-effaced headstone, " in many points the most peculiar, and I may 'say impressive, of all the re- ligious epitaphs found here.  Unpolished though it be, it indicates a triumphant faith and a spirit of praise which might make a heaven on earth: "Sarah Naler died Nov 25 1766 Aged 46    Let no One Mourn The Reason Why Her Soul Ascended '\t71; %        To God On High There With Angels and Arch Angels for To Dwell Hallelujah Hallelujah To God On High. Made by herself 6 days before death." ,i "     126         ONCE MORE.           - The sun was near setting, and, as it soon would be time I to depart, it was proposed, as a closing exercise, that each  should select and copy the most appropriate epitaph  I which could be found. They were familiar with the grounds, and turned rapidly to places which had previ- ously attracted them. These were not the historical monuments, such as that of Lord Sterling, or even of the a great Hamilton, but those that chronlicled elements of true piety, such as fitith and suffelring. In a short time ? the trio met near the grave of Captain Lawrence, whose i imposing monument seelms almost guarded by those trophy cannon which stand on either side. "A hero in battle," exclaimed Mr. Werner, "but war, with all its glories, is but the devil's work. His dying  words, "Don't give up the shp," show the power of a ruling passion. They have stirred many a heart fice with encouragement. What a pity that such a man should be, with thousands of others, the victims of a dispute between two Christian nations!" "And so young," added Ada, glancing at the epitaph -only thirty-two!" "Brainerd, the missionary, was two years younger when he finished his wonderful ministry," said Mr. Werner, " and, strong as is my admiration for the naval i- hero, I felt when I stood by Brainerd's grave in North- ampton, the conception of a higher degree of great- ness."                         - "And what did it principally consist in?" asked Ada.  "Self-sacrifice in the extreme, untempered by ambi- tion," was the reply. "He was a lonely invalid, whose y   I         A STORY OF NEW YORK.        127 Ig. sole stimulus was a desire to serve his Master, and who loved his work because he had received it of Jesus." K    En WWas not his life a hard one?" I    "It was'" replied Mr. Werner; '"but, notwithstanding his natural melancholy, which gives his memoirs a sombre cast, Brainerd was happy, although his life was passed in intense suffering. Yot have both no doubt learned that happiness abides in the soul, and is not to be measured by outward things."          , The quiet beauty of the scene, and the solemn train of thought which it occasioned, in colmection with the lessons of the moment forbade any reply, and Mr. Werner :! continued:        ' - "t We are, by nature, destitute of the power of making ourselves happy. Indeed, we seem like those cast upon a desert island and are compelled to cruise to other shores, whence we may return bearing cheer for our desolate abodes. He who carries to the hearts of others the richest 9:: freight will return with the greatest reward. It is thus :i  that the scripture is fulfilled, "the merciful man doeth good to his own soul." This truth selfishness conceals from mankind, and hence we have such a miserable world-selfish, and, of course, unhappy." 1-:"But, now for the epitaphs, and then for a walk home," ,  he continued, ,and you shall be the first," turning to Ada. The girl had a small piece of paper in her hand, from which she read the following, prefitcing it, however, with this remark : "I lost a brother many years ago; he was a dear little fellow, and ever since then I have loved to     128          ONCE MORE.               thinlk on the little ones who have escaped this world of   . sorrow.  Here is a simple inscription, but it seems neat and touching: : "JULIET, DAUGHTER OF SAMUEL AND CATHARINE LOCKMAN, DIED FEB. ", 1804, AGED SIX MONTHS. Parents, weep not, though earth enclose My mortal part beneath the sod; Know, such as I on high compose The kingdom of my Saviour, God." "Mine," said Aura, " is like yours, though, instead of being an address to parents, it is a farewell from a son to his mother. I often think of my own mother, and if she had survived me I should have wished some expression of my love to her placed on my grave.  Rude as this mar be, it suggests undying affection : "N MEMORY OF MATHEW MYGATT, WHO DIED JANUARY 9, 1820. Farewell, dear mother, for my time is past, I loved thee while my breath did last; Don't mourn for me, nor sorrow take, But love thy God for Jesus' sake." "And now for yours, father," continued Aura, while Ada's countenance kindled with interest and expectation. 1 My attention, said Mr. Werner, " is chiefly attracted  i by suffering, and even ill this place, where all is peace, I cannuot but notice the bold relief in which this feature is occasionally exhibited. Suffering is one of God's greatest instrumnents in subduillng the corrupt and rebellious nature  of man, and there are impressive examples afforded by the inscriptions found here. Just think what a history of   A STORY OF NEW   YORK.       129 bereavement is given in the tablet which marks the rest-  ing place of the Thodey family."  The group walked to the southwest comer of the church, where the missionary pointed out the inscription, Irt  which reads thus: "TO THE MEMORY OP MCHAEL AND ELIZABETH THODEY. William Thodey, died 22d July, 1720; aged 15 days. Michael Thodey, died 37th December, 1725; aged 2 years. Catharine Thodey, died 29th September, 1727; aged 14 months Jane Thodey, died 2d October, 1728; aged 4 years. EdmuJohn Thodey, died February, 1737. Mary Thodey, died 9th September, 1744; aged 23 years. Catharine Thodey, died 6th June, 1757; aged 20 years. Michael Thodey, the father of ye above children, died August 10, 1745$ aged 53 years. Elizabeth, mother of ye above children, died January 27, 1767; aged 62 years." - Having followed her husband and eight children to the grave, Elizabetlh Thodey was lidcl by their sicle-remind- ing me of the words, ' last of all the woman died also.' It is a wonder that she endured so long, but this shows  what call be borne by those on whom God lays such a it  burden of woe." Et As these words were uttered, the hour for closing the gates arrived, and the party started for home, to prepare I   for the services of the evelning. As they passed out of this place of holy meditation, Mr. Werner spoke-again: ,.^ .                ... -* %0    *The name of Michael Thodey appears in the colonial papers in the State Library as a captain under the command of Sir William Johnson.     130          ONCE MORE.              I "Byron has written of ' the dead but sceptered mon. archs of the world, that rule us from their urns,' but his sentiment is only partially true. I prefer to think of the dead as only powerful through the piety which they cherished, and this thought gives me strength: When Faith grows dim and Hope seems gone, The DEAD IN CHRIST shall cheer ye on." ;eSt.- *I    '::t      A STORY OF NEw YORK.        131 CHAPTER XVI. SOME CHANGES IN THE LIFE OF ADA BRAYTON. - The acquaintance which Doctor Warburton had formed  with Ada during her father's last illness, though brief, was sufficient to impress him with respect, and their recent interview in the picture gallery brought her freshly to his mind. These circumstances will explain the following conversation:  I think, doctor, we should have some one in the house to take care of the children, and help along with little things. I wish I could get just the right person, such an- one as Jenny is at the Carters." "Well, my dear, you have often said that; now why don't you get just such an one?* " "For the only reason, that I don't know where one is ; to be had." "Advertise,"  said the doctor. "And be run down by a host of applicants, of whom you know nothing; trust one's children in the hands of such people?" "I have seen a girl that might suit-the printer whose father I attended in his last illness-the one that boards at Mr. Werner's." The doctor was in haste, and only added as he left the room, " do go and see her," a request which must have     132         ONCE MORE. been soon obeyed, for within a week anl important chanlge  took place in Ada's position. She was domesticated in the Warburton fanlily, with the care of its most precious Jewels; a position of such trust and importance that it could only have been obtained through the recommlenda- tion afforded by Mr. Werner. Mrs. Warburton was not a little impressed with the dignity andc decision of the new governess, and little Maud was quickly won to the latter by her attractive smile. The up-stairs play-room was now, for a part of  the day, used as a study, and here Ada and the childrenI pursued their early tasks. Itow good it was that the former had had an opportunity of learning the solid branches before her father's misfortunes began; for, as Mrs. Warburton perceived her skill with the children, she allowed her more scope for her efforts, and slates, and maps, and diagrams had their place as well as the spell- ing book. What a new field for Ada Brayrton, and how vastly more congenial than the printing house; and as she left the Werners with a grateful heart, she could not but re- flect on the mercies which she had received. But a year ago she was in the tenement house, surrounded by misery, and with no hope of escape; now she was a favored inmate of a gentleman's family. It cost a pang to leave the society of Aura and to bid farewell to the little chamber where she had first -learned to pray, as well as to lose the example and instructions of Mr. Werner; but she had the consolation that they could, occasionally meet and rejoice in each other's welfare.   A STORY OF NEw YORK.        133 One of the greatest advantages which Ada now en- joyed was a brief season for reading, for which, amid her many duties, she still found time, though often taking it from hours of repose. The doctor's library, if not large, was well selected and contained many authors adapted to Ada's mind. Among the poets were Gold- smith, Johnson, Milton and Byron, with a few of the Lake school. Prose authorship was illustrated by his- toly, biography and fiction, while religion threw over all the sacred atmosphere emanating from  Edwards, Brainerd, Chalmers and their compeers in sacred author- ship. To the privilege of reading was added the delight of hearing the doctor's coiversations at the table and during his brief periods of leisure, when he threw off such thoughts as spring naturally from a well-stored and a reflective mind. Ada now found her whole being expanding under this genial influence, and she could not but perceive the rapid improvement which she made in both intellectual and moral culture. The care of children was agreeable, and their instruction brought her mind into pleasant exer- cise, while she found in Mrs. Warburton a kind and judicious firiend. She also enjoyed a pastoral influence which compensated for the loss of Mr. Werner's minis- trations. As a member of Doctor Warburton's family, she had a seat in his pew in Mr. Ormond's church, which slhe attended regularly. The preacher was a man of middle age and was dis- tinguished not more for his learning and literary attain- ments than for his piety. His discourses exhibited a     134  .      ONCE MORE. studied simplicity, and were so devoid of all show that a strlnger listening to them would hardly believe that he was one of the finest scholars in America. He -was acquainted with the ramifications of metaphysics and of the transcendental philosophy of the German schools; was at home in history; was master of the classics ; had  gone through literature and criticism, and had acquired l several modern languages, as well as Greek, Latin and Hebrew. He had refused from conscience the title of "doctor of divinity," and was chiefly known as a plain and unpretending minister of the gospel. His learning had carried him beyond pedantry and humbled him by revealing the extent of that which he did not know, while his piety forbade anything which might detract from his message by exalting himself. Hence, although Mr. Ormond's discourses were singularly elegant, they were so simple that the most illiterate could under- stand. Ada was surprised to find that her new pastor preached the same gospel that she had heard at the mission rooms. The surroundings were different, but the lesson was un- changed. T/here the gospel was given to the poor: here to the rich, but both classes were addressed as sinners, equally needing the work of Christ. Ada noticed marks of emotion among the hearers, and she was soon con- vinced from its general aspect that the congregation con- tained many persons of deep piety. In former days she had been prejudiced against the rich, but in the labors of Mr. Ormond and in the charities of the church she saw that piety, since it is the work of God, could flourish   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        135 in an atmosphere of wealth as truly as in that impover- islhed class among which she first felt its power. The beauty and order of Mr. Ormond's services were much in contrast with those of many other wealthy    churches. All attempts of a mere artistic or sensational character were avoided. The singing, which was led by a precentor, was congregational, while a fine organ sus- tained the whole, and filled the church with deep-toned melody. The tunes in prevalent use were of an old- fashioned stamp, and amon'g them were the pathetic swell of Mear, and the soft notes of Billerma, while Boylston, Ortonville, Dundee and Old Hundred were often heard in the solemn chorus of a great congregation. Then came the sermon, uttered with the unction cf overflowing piety, and the tenderness of paternal love, rich in conso- lation, and laden with the balm which Christ offers to wounded souls.             I Such was the effect of this sacred combination, that Ada often felt the tears coursein down her cheeks, and her heart was melted before she was aware. She could not tell how it was, but she did not feel that antagonism toward God's ways that once filled her with bitterness. On the contrary, she was humbled by a sense of her own guilt, and could see that great as had been her misfor- tunes, they were still less than a sinner might expect. At the same time that view of a suffering Messiah which had been opened before her at the mission, increased in power, until she saw clearly in Him the great sacrifice which ex- piateed human guilt-or, in the words of the scripture, "the lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world."     136         ONCE MORE. Instead of repining at her lot, as once she was inclined to do, she now learned that suffering is the common ex. perience of a sinful race, and that the rich, whom she had once looked on as generally exempt firom evil, and whom she hated for that very exemption, were subject to afflic- tions often greater than her's. Sill had, as she now perceived, embraced all in its curse, and hence, wherever sill mighlt he founld, suffering must follow. Whenl conteniplating this awtful shadowr which rests upon lmankind, the circumstances of life lost what once was their vast importance, andcl the great ques- tion came in all its maflgnitudle--how to escape that con- demnation which overhung the race? In the course of Aclda's reading, her attention was arrested by that class of writers who, from their associa- tion with the lakes of Westmoreland, are called "the Lake school." Worlsworth's minor poelms awoke a love of nature which was a world alnlost u-nknown to one bred amid the dust and smoke of New York. Coleridge opened a deep inine of poetic thought, but Shelley touched the chords of the heart with greatest power, by the combined sweetnless and majesty of some of his effusions. "Are you not afraid to have Shelley around?" asked Mrs. Warburton of her husband, in a playful tone. "I saw Miss Brayton reading it the other day-and Shelley, you know, was .an infidel.- "One of the worst kind," replied the doctor, "but mine is a copy of the expurgated edition. I cannot re- ject Shelley, for he was the loftiest minded man of hLis   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        137 day. I mean by this, that his soul seemed less held by material things than others, while his perceptions of the beautiful add an exquisite gentleness to the grandeur of his mUSe." "How strange that such a man slhould be an enemy to Christianity!" said Mrs. Warburton. ( An' enemy of what bore the name of christianity, but lacked its heart. Could he have only understood the spirit of Christianity as it is unfoldcldcl in the gospel, he would have discrilllinated between that and the dead form which he hated. We must remlember that Shelley had no religious education. He was poisoned by readcling Hume's essays, and no healing truth was ever applied to remove their effect. - He was ruinel by his error, and like many an ancient ruin, he is full of sad and touching beauty." ("How much he seemed actuatecld by a desire to reform the world," remarkledl Ada. "Yes," replied the doctor-" and is the leader of that class of reformers who expect to elevate malnkind without Christianity. The scripture says, and my own experience confirms the truth, that no maZ  Can11 be made really better except by beginning  at the heart, and this workli is only done through regeneration. The heart nzmust be changed. "Shelley's schemes of reform, like those of Fourier, Owen, and others of this class, only contemplatel an amelioration of physical woe. They lost sight of the greater claims of the soul, its demands for food, consola- tion and happiness. We need not be surprised at this,     138        ONCE  . MORE.            ] for how could they, in their blindness, grope beyond the narrow circle of bodily wants?" "What do infidel writers say about the soul?" inquired Ada. "I have read many of these authors,' replied the doctor, "but should hardly have learned from any of their books that man had a soul. They are too busy assaulting the outer works of Christianity to say much about the inner life. Infidelity, as a matter of necessity, deals only il negatives. It can utter no positive truth, and the smallest member of Christ's family can speak on  questions of eternal moment with a confidence that might i astonish a Hume or a Voltaire. What infidel has ever been able to say, ' I know whom I have believed? ' and yet a babe in Christ may say that."           ! "Yes," replied Mrs. Warburton, " there I feel that I stand as strong as Paul. One cannot know all things, but the Christian can be sure that there is no mistake- .! no doubt in God's words."  "Modern infidelity," said the doctor, "is behind even  the condition of the heathen world, and although it is painful to think of the darkness of the latter, yet it is not so deep a midnight as that of Hume or of Goethe. There is one beautifiul allusion to the future life showing the hope which still dwelt in the heathen mind, though it had no true foundation." "Do read it," said Mrs. Warburton. The doctor took from the shelf a copy of Tacitus, and turning to the eulogy on Agricola, read as follows: "Truly thou wert happy, Agricola, not only in the   A STORY OF NE w YORK.       139 glory of thy life, but likewise in the seasonableness of thy death. Willingly and with firmness thou didst await thy fate. If there be an abidingplcacefor the shades of the virtu- ous; if, as sages pretend, the souls of the great are not de- stroyed with their bodies, mayest thou rest in peace, and call us from weak regrets to the contemplation of thy virtues." "Here you perceive," said the doctor, as he closed the book, s a clearer allusion to a future existence, indistinct though it be, than anything in an entire library of modern infidelity." The conversation, which Ada thought very interesting, was interrupted by a ring at the door with a message for the doctor. It was brought by a youth, whose counte- nance was the picture of sorrow. "Doctor," said he; "t Mrs. Warnsford is sinking. She wishes to see you and all the family-to bid you farewell -the children too." "I feared she would not live long," said the doctor, as the youth departed, I but I did not suppose the end would come so soon.  Poor woman, she loved me as her physi- cian--but she had one still dearer to her." With saddened hearts they prepared to obey the request, andc as Aubrey and Maud were to be of the party, Ada accompanied them.   It was but a short walk to the house, which, in a few moments, they entered. The servant stood ready to open the muffled door, and all inside was silent. The spacious parlor was darkened, but Ada could notice amid the gloom the forms of statuary and other indications of wealth and refined taste--now doubly shadowed by the dark wing of death.     "O        ONCE MORE.  Ascending a single fligrht of stairs, the visitors were ushered into a large charmber, upon whose bed reclined a female form, watched by the anxious and affectionate countenances of surrounding friendcls, among whom Acla noticed the reverend form of Mr. Ormond. Dr. War- burton's family was welcomed by a slighlt bow anlld plressing  the hand of one whom Aclda supposed to be' the husband. The doctor passed to the headcl of the bed.  The patient appeared to be young, and although disease  had wasted her features, it had not obliterated their beauty. Her eyes were closed, but in a few moments the lids were raised, and revealed a pair of pielrcig and brilliant orbs. She smiled withl a sweet and affectionate -lance on the new comers, and, in obelience to a sign, was raisedt up and supported with pillows. ( I have sent for you, doctor," said she, in a faint voice, "to bid you farewell; you havte been a kind friend -and a sylupathizing christian, as well as our beloved physician. I have sent for my pastor and for you, as those that were nearer to me on earth than all else but one." Ada observed the gentleman bow his head and strive to hide his agonyy at this word. "4We part, doctor, only to meet again, where the inhabitant shall no more say I am sick. I have a few memlorials to leave with these true and tried clfriends. O, to thank God for such friends as you have been-bring them," she added. anlld ill a moment the waiting maid placed before her a casket of jewels. "Mr. Ormond," said the invalid, " you have been to me what Mr. Greatheart was to the Pilgrims. We have   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       141 come together to the river of ldelth, anld I am crossing first; take this to remember one of your flock, who will think of you in heaven." The wasted fingers moved amollng the jewels until a selection was made, which she placed in the hand of the pastor, whose eyes were still fixed on the countenance of thaLt one whom he had prepared for glory. Turning to the phlysician, the patient spoke again. "Dr. Warburton, you do not knowV how plreciots you have been to me, in health as well as in the hour of sickness. You are loing the work of Christ, and He will give you a rich reward. Take this to remlember one who will soon be perfectly whole," and she placed in his trelmbling hand a gold seal, which he accepted with a tearful countenanllce. Each one in the room received a gift, and then the dying one spoke again : "Mr. Ormlond, what is left, give to our mission fund. You know I nlever cared for these tlings. I was born rich and have lived rich, but my onlly pleasure in bavingT wealth has been to do good with it. These jewels came, unsolicited, tfrom my friends; I never delightel in wear- ing them, andcl I hope they will soon serve ta better pur- pose thanll lying in this casket.'? After a moments pause she continued, in a still weaker - oice: "I have taken farewell of Aurelian and have given him to God. We have lived happily, and when I am gone I hope that he Will remember our greatest delight was in doing good."     "2        ONCE MORE. The bowed form seemed rent to still deeper agony. "Some of you, dear friends, will soon follow. The time is short. And you, Doctor Warburton-I seem to see heaven written on your countenance. What, if you should be the first to greet me above! But all will come-one after the other, in God's time. Yes, earth is too small a place for love. It only buds below to bloom eternally above-beginning here and continuing forever in the presence of the Lord." The dying woman had just strength remaining to re- ceive a parting kiss from Mrs. Warburton and a few of her most special friends, when her exhaustion forbade further effort, and the scene was brought to a close.   A STORY OF NEW  YORK.      143 CHAPTER XVII. WHCH REVEALS A VARIETY OF STIANGE TRANSACTIONS. The position of Elliott Brand was much improved since the last conversation between himself and his em- ployer. His salary had been increased, in addition to which the sales of samples and the profits of petty trade gave a fund for current expenses, so that he was now saving the full amount of his pay. The plan of his operations was to make calls on the retail grocers after business hours and offer teas and some other goods by sample,'and in this way he built up a small but encouraging trade. It was a means of giving him self-reliance, inasmuch as it proved that he could transact business on his own account. He now felt assured that he might behold the fulfillment d that prophecy which he once uttered to Flink-"That he would yet stand among the first merchants of New York." One person, however, did not seem to be pleased with Elliott's success. This was Mr. Amos Kin, whose natural jealousy was aggravated by several circumstances. There was a striking difference between the path which each had trodden, and Mr. Kin was opposed to the idea of any one traveling faster than himself. To explain, we     "4         ONICE MORE.              may say that he had commenced youllng, and crept up, not by dint of ability, but by his faithfulness in carryilng out Clamper's schemes. He had been picked out of the stlreets, where he followel a huckster's cart. He had risen slowly firom one trick to another, and hence could not be expected to possess the tone and enterprlise of a merchant. Cunning was the leading feature in his char- acter, and llcunnin  is seldom coupled with the lofty charlaceteristics of true manhood. Mr. IKin, therefore, felt his dignity aggrieved when he saw this new comer makling anl advance so much more rapid than his own, and he felt it to be his duty to snub him at every oppor- tunity. In addition to this Mr. IKin hllad become sus- picious that his palrtlner might employ Elliott to look after his movements. He had previously found - Clamper watching him, and hence he determined to drive the obnoxious clerk awtay by a series of petty persecutions, or else to crush him by more violent means. "Young man, clic Mr1. Clamper tell you to put them teas ill the fourth loft?" "He told me to put them where they would store best." ' Well, I tell you to lower 'em down to the second floor." "We want to put coffee there to-mnorrow-two hun- dred bags." "Never mind talking, young mtan; you needll't have so mluch to say. I 'spose I've something to do with this here concern, or else I'd better take nly name off the sign. Get them teas down, I say ; and if you hain't got   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         145 room enough for the coffees to-morry, then you can hyst 'ellm up ag'in.' Elliott obeyed the command, but as he did so, he understood at once the spirit which prompted it. He saw that in Mr. Kill he had a tyrant and enemy, but he saidl nothing, for there was no one to interpose be- tween him and the junior partner. "What a situatioll, as he said to himself in silent thought, for a beginei ; " serving in a firm made up of concentrated fraud and tyranny ; the senior knave watch- ing the junior, and the jlunior cheating the senior." This Elliott knew from several things which he had observed, for, without doing violeiice to his sense of honor, he had in some degree exercised that espionage which Clanmper had committed to him. Indeed it was easily seen that there was a mystery attending Mr. Kin's movements, and the frequent reception of carefully sealed letters, as well as the occasional calls of strangers, indi- catecd anl undercurrent whose tendency no one could  imagvine. M1r. IKin was of a nature equally suspicious with that of his senior partner, and he could not but perceive that the eye of the clerlk was fixed upon him during these inexplicable occasions, and it was evident to the latter that a decided effort would be made to oust him from his place. "Kin means to net rid of you," said Fobbers to Elliott, as the latter was relating some of the petty perse- cutions to which he had been subjected. ( You are in his way, that I can see. He is speculating in an under- 10     "6         ONCE MO-BE. hand manner, I reckon, or perhaps doing worse, and don't want any body aroundcl that can spot him. I don't like the loolks of things in this concern. They do a big business, but I'm afraid there's a plank rotten at the bottom. I keep myself ready for a blow up anly day." This conversation was terminated by the voice of Mr. Kin, calling for the clerk, who at once responded in person. ( Young man," said Mr. Kin, "there's a bag of tow and old papers lying roind up stairs; wlhat's that left folr?" ' I have nothing to do with it." replied the clerk. "No, nor nothing else you can shirk," said Mr. Kin. "Well, to-night, when yer go peddllin', yer call take it to Madgers, the junk man, in James street-never mind about collectin' on't. We'll settle that some other day." The clerk did as he was ordered, and at night appeared at the above mentioned place with his bag on his shoulder. It was a low, dark, and unwholesome basement, appar- ently filled with piles of old rope, paper, rags, scrap iron, and all that variety of rubbish which makes up the junk shop. Over the door was rudely lettered on a orusty tin sign, "Martin Madgers, licensed dealer in second- hand goods," and at the entrance stood a man with griz- zled locks and huge spectacles, dressed in rough and shabby apparel, and of a general appearance which was anything but attractive. "Is this M1r. Madgers?" inquired the youth. "I'll answer for him," said the rough-looking man. "I have brought a bag of tow, sent here by Mr. IKin-   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       147 you can settle with him for it." As he saidthis he drop- ped the-bag upon the sidewalk and was about to leave, when he heard a voice from below, exclaiming -: - Tow! I'll take charge of that." Looking down into the basement he noticed a small closet, made of rough boards, in which a desk stood on a barrel, giving it the semblance of anl office. From this place a man wars seen to emerge, on whom Elliott gazed with astonishnlent. It was the form of Mr. Flinlk. "Ah!" exclaimed the unexpected person, 1( you're the boy that worked for me in Broaldway. You and I had some words. We7'll let that pass. I'm just helping this old fellow along; I don't b'long here. Ally old traps you have, he'll buy 'em andll pay what it's worth." Elliott had so profound a contempt for the fellow that he made no reply, but turned in silence to depart. In a moment he heard the voice agoain. "I say, boy, have ycou got those things yet?" These words failed -equaliy to bring a response, ana as the clerk turned the corler he heard the voice -again, is You and I will have an account to square one of these days; you'll not be so independellt then, I guess." Elliott still passed on in silence, but the unexpected rencontre caused his heart to flutter and filled his brain with conjecture. What could Flink be doing in that junk shop, when the Broaldway store was still in opera- tion? What did he mean by that threat? Embarrassing thoughts were these, alndl they continued to occupy his mind until he reached home. He was also surprised next     "8         ONCE MORE. morning to observe that his linen coat was considerably powdered by dust of indigo, which, as he could not but notice, had little to do with a sack of tow. Another circumstance which also surprised him was the remarkable interest which Mr. Gurry, the student, had taken in his affairs. Mr. Gurry's friendship, indeed, was manifested in so appaitrent a nlanner that there wavs no denying him to be the most generous of mortals. He had presents to make, anecdotes to tell whenever Elliott had  leisure to hear them, and invitations to proffer to his father's place up town. But did all this arise from generosity, or could it be that, as Frederlick Clamper had become of late more retiring, and even repelling, Mr. Gulrry was in need of society? or could it, indeed, arise frolm some other motive? "I say, my boy," exclaimed Mr. Gurry, in his patron- izing way, I come up to the old place some Sunday and fetch a friend along. We always have a chair or two to spare, and the old man keeps a little I old Tom ' on hanld." Elliott had no occasion to make such visits. - Boating, driving, and elljoying the beauties of nature and studying the philosophy of the universe," continued Mr. Gurry.  It was evident that if he had made ally progress in this branch of philosophy, it was more than he had done in the study of medicine. Mr. Gurry's blandishments were plied on every occa- sio0 without awakening the expected response, until at last the former seemed to find relief in a question which he boldly propounded: "Well, friend, ain't you ever going to do anything   A STORY OF NYEW YORK.      149 with that satchel and the things you found in it? You may get yourself in trouble yet." Elliott was so startled by this question that for several moments he could not reply. He had spoken on that subject to no one in the house but Dr. Warburton. "The satchel, I mean, that you got on the Swallow," continued Mr. Gurry. "No one knows how you got it; may be it's all right, and I suppose, of course, it is; but it's against ally man to have such a thing and to get it at such a time. I think I could, as a friend, help you to findl an owner, and then you rwould be through with all trouble with it." Elliott felt still more embarrassed as Mr. Gurry pro- ceeded, and all that he could say was, " let the owner come for it." "And may be he will come for it sooner than you think," replied Mr. Gurry, speaking in a tone that might intimate that he knew who that owner was. "I have no desire to withhold it from ally one," said Elliott. "But you have never advertised it," said Mr. Gurry, in a friendly maller. "I say this confidentially. Don't place too much dependence on the doctor. He is a good enough man in his way, but he has his failings. Don't place too much reliance on Clamper, that is, the young man. He is a fellow student, and I suppose I oughlt not to say anything about him if I can't speak well. I'd rather not give my opinion, but I never took much stock in him, ally way. You know enough to understand me, eh?"     150        ONCE MORE. Elliott thought that he caught the meaning of this very unpleasant lalnguage. Ax Don't misunderstand me," said Gurry. ' I may have spoken too plain, and I may have not. If I have, my erTor lies ill feeling too deep a sympathy with a youth who is far from his fiiends, and is unused to the ways of this wicked city." I That youth may yet make capital against me with my own words. No, no! others may be guilty of such baseness, but not he! You will not make this conversa- tion public, will you, Mr. Brandc?" There was a pause after this dramatic utterance, which the speaker took for a satisfactory reply. "The fact is, young man, I must confess a deep in- terest in your welfare. I took a great deal of stock in you firolm the very first. I can't explain it, but your appearance, so to speak, and -all that; has won mly heart. You see what risky things I am saying, all on your account. You won't betray me! No, I have too mluch faith in human nature! Of course not." The student paused and rolled his eyes upward in a theatrical manner, which was meant to be impressive. "Then let me say to you, Mr. Brand," continued he, ,I don't like the looks of the thing. You are young and inexperienced. You have come into possession of valuable property-not yours, let me say, but belonging to some other party. That property is still in your hands, under advice of Doctor Warburton. The ques- tion now is, which of the two is your true friend-the doctor, or I, even if I do talk plain? My candid opinion   A STORY OF NEW YORN.       151 is that the doctor's wife is at the bottom of all this, and that the jewelry will be hers within three months." The clerk felt his indignation rise at this insinuation, but he said nothing, being rather willing that Mr. Gurry should relieve his mind. "Then, those papers," said the latter; " did you ever take a thorough look at them?" "I have,' replied Elliott. '   "'Suppose we look them  over together," said Mr. Gurry- " it will take but a moment."    "( They are under lock in the doctor!s safe." E And there he will keep them; but, let me see- what did you say they were?" inquired Mr. Gurry, at the same time taking out his pencil. "A deed conveying lalnd to Allnna Graydon." Land! Where?" eagerly asked Mr. Gurry. "Land in the city of New York, in what was the Fifteenth ward, a part of the plot once owned by Her. man. Drinker."'  - "Yes!-and the picture and jewels?" "There was a miniature, and also a ring, set with diamonds," said Elliott, now doubly embarrassed by the consciousness of having made some injudicious state- mellts, and seeing Mr. Gurry so carefully note them down. "I must go, now," he exclaimed, and left the room, in no little perplexity and distress.     152        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XVIII. SOME SCENES IN DOCTOR TENDERBLARE S STUDY. On a clear autumnal morning New York exhibits its finest aspect. At such a time the genial rays of the sun fill one with good cheer, while the bracing atmosphere restores the vigor lost during the summer's heat. Beside this, the hum of a mighty population and the din of a vast comlmerce animate the soul. On every side scenes of wealth expand before the eye of ambition, until one confesses the power of an intense excitement; and hence toobe great among the magnates of a mighty city is not an uncommon aspiration with those who tread its streets. On a morning such as this the rays of the sun streamed mildly into a spacious and elegant chamber in Unions square, where a young man in fashionable dishabille was reclining on a sofa, in the enjoyment of a Turkish pipe of costly and luxurious proportions. The room was fur- nished in an expensive manner, with a taste which indi- cated no little esthetic culture. Every article had been selected with a fastidious eye. The floor was covered with Wilton carpet, whose rich colors glowed still deeper as the sunlight, mellowed by the curtains, lit up its gor- geous figures. The furniture was rosewood, and the sofa and chairs were upholstered with damask to correspond with the heavy curtains which overhung each window.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       153 Near the door stood a Parian statuette, while a few pic- tures which relieved the uniformity of the walls indicated the connoisseur. After maintaining this position for a half-hour, with downcast eyes, as though in deep reverie, while the fra- grant fumes curled gracefully about his smolking cap, the  occupant arose, developing the full length proportions of the Reverend Doctor Tenderblare. - The fashionable divine took a turn up and down the room, with a pro- longed yawn, and then opened a portfolio which lay upon the center table and commenced looking over a list of names, on which a lrunnling comment was uttered in a half audible tone. ( There's old Barton's daughter Susan: property esti- mated at two hundredL thousand; five children to share it. That might answer, but they s:lay the old man has been in stocks and lost heavily. So there's doubt there; good-bye, Susan!" I    ( Alice Vane ; lives with her mother in Twelfth street; a house and ten thousand at interest. Too small, although Alice is a pretty thing.' i  "Snoop's girls - they smack of the still, it is true-but then, Snoop made a fortune. Sally and Polly, ,as the old worm calls them. Snoop owns fifty lots at Harlem, three stores, and blank stock. Say, in all, a half million. One-of them might answer if they weren't so ignorant. One would be ashamed of chat; but it will do to think about. Jerwall married a fool, but got a fortune, and now seems as happy as though he had a Minerva-laughs at her blunders, and spends 'the money. So I might do     154         ONCE MORE. with one of these whisky girls. Give up preachinrg, kick the sermons out of sight, buy a fast team, and enjoy life in spite of my stupid colijux." ( Anna Vinton; orphan, with twenty thousand-playi and sings. All well, but not enough of the solid attraGo tion - twenty thousand don't answer now-a-days." "Old Clamper's girls; distressedly vnlgoar, but only three, including Fred, to divide a half million. Let me see, Clamper is still in business, and trade is risky, they say; might get in a bad spec and lose it all. I must look a little further before I decide who will be the future Mrs. Reverend Doctor Tenderblare. As he reached this conclusion, a rap was heard at the door, which being opened, admitted an individual in seedy dress, and with a roll of papers in his hand. "I Well, Surface, what have you done? ' said the doc- tor, as the new comer took his seat. "Not anything to brag about," was the reply. "They all have some hitch against their property. It's hard to find any fortunes clear, and what few you do find are dreadfully run after." It was evident that Doctor Tenderblare was disap- pointed by this repott, for his brow became sadly clouded as it was delivered. "How are the Snoops getting oni?" he inquired. "I They say that Poll is going to have Sam Brinks, son * of rich Brinks the livery man, and as for the other, I heard that old Snoops brought Twyler, the contractor, to teat'other night. He says his girls shan't marry poor, or he'll cut 'em off and found an orphan asylum."   A STORY O -NEW YORK.       155 Doctor Tenderblare evidently liked this reply as little as he had the first, but he controlled his feelings, anld, instead of ally words of impatience, he inquired, " did you search against Dobby?" "And found two mortgages-but the property is good above that."  "And against Garfield?" "There's a life settlement there for the mother." "Doctor Tenderblare could not conceal his annoyance, but still went on in this matter of matrimonial importance. "What do they say about Reuben Clamper?" "Clamper stands very well with some-I may say with most-but then others think there's some risk, after all. You know that merchants are not as solid as real estate folks." The reverend gentleman made no reply, reserving the expression of his impatience till he should be alone. It would not do to let this tool feel too clearly the impor- tance of his business. ( There," said he, handing a paper to the latter, " find out what you can about these names. Search the records against Jonathan Gordon and Marcus Plummer.   They say they have lands above the reservoir." [ The agent took his leave, while the fortune-hunting divine strutted up and down the room, glancing at the mirror as he passed it, and then broke out into the follow- ing soliloquy:  "Hyperion Tenderblare, D D., and  five thousand a year. That might do for some, but what is it to my ambition?  Williams, who chummed with me, is rising     156        ONCE MORE. as a lawyer, and has already laid the foundation of a fortune. In ten years he will have a country seat. Mervin, of the same class, is in with Barker Brothers, and will of  course get rich. But I am shelved. I can't make money as they do. No; I must marry rich or remain all my life a mere sermonizer; to dance attendance on the humors of an empty-headed congregation and play into the fancies of these fashion-worshipers." Do they think they deceive me? Religion to such a class! who only go to church as they go to the opera, and I a Sunday play-actor, to keep up the entertainment, while they gaze upon their own display, and are con- scious of no feeling but pride or envy! But I must bear it all 'till I can do better.' As he said this, Doctor Tenderblare poured out a glass of wine, and then opening a gilt-edged Bible, ran his eye over its contents, and his soliloquy continued : "Habak- kuk! what a name. I never could take a text there; nor in Hosea, nor Joel; they sound too Yankeefied. Isaiah does better, on account of what Pope did for him. This would come good in a discourse: 'The seas shall waste, the skies to smoke decay, Rocks fall to dust and mountains melt away.' But Browning and Tennyson are more fashionable, and Moore is very fine. It is a pity he is worn threadbare, or I would use him every Sabbath." These profound meditations were terminated by a signal at the door, on opening which Doctor Tenderblare found himself face to face with a man whom he recog-   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       157 nized, although he had no personal acquaintance with him. "Doctor Warburton, the fashionable physician," he I  remarked with a smile. "You are Hyperion Tender- blare, I presume," replied the visitor, in that calm and fieezing manner which he knew h w to assume, at the same time declining the proffered hand. "I came here not to bandy compliments," said the doctor, "but to deliver a message, and to add to it my opinion." "Your name is Tenderblare, is it not?" "Doctor Tenderblare," replied the clergyman, assum- ing an air of dignity. ," Well, doctor, then; a title which once conferred honor. We know how they are got now-a-days. You value yours, for I presume you paid for it; but that is not to the point. You are, no doubt, aware, sir, that one of your flock, whom I attend, has been ill for a year, while you, a professed pastor, who have pledged your- self to this duty, have never entered the door of his sick- room. I refer to the Marstons; had it not, indeed, been for such a man as Mr. Werner, John Marston might have died without a pastoral visit." "The Marstons, sir," replied Doctor Tenderblare, "are, not among my flock, that is as I view it. They were in the society before it moved up town, but have since been dropped. You have, no doubt, heard that the character of: our church has changed since our removal. I prefer to leave all this class of people in Mr. Werner's hands; that is what he is called to do-to labor among     158        ONCE MORE. the lower classes. You cannot expect a first rate man to go among the dregs; this is Werner's wolrk." "Yes," replied Doctor Warburton, with that earnest- ness which marked his character, ,it is his work, and was his Master's work before him, and would be your work, also, if you had the heart of a true minister. Mr. Werlner, sir, though he never sought a D D. of a mer- cenary or a fawninog college, is a man whose shoe-latchet you are unworthy to loose. He is doing Christ's work among the poor, while you are shamming among the rich." "Do you call me a sham?" exclaimed the clergy- man, coloring deeply. "Sir," replied Doctor Warburton, " do not think you deceive me; physicians are too much about the world for that. I know your whole course of life. I read your plans and schemes, though I recoil from them as I do from all evil. I know them to be selfish, worldly and base, and in all points worthy of yourself. You are, no doubt, well varnished by self-love, but when you ask if I call you a sham, I reply yes-a sham and a hypocrite; and, sir, though you now hold a place in a fashionable church, and are smoothing the way to perdition for your- self and others, yet your time is coming, in this world, too. Yes, sir, you will yet be pelted with the scorn of those whom you now devour-a wolf in sheep's clothing." Doctor Tenderblare was not accustomed to such plain language, and he who had been so often fed on flatteryr, could ill receive stern reproof. "I have but a little time to deal with you, young man.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       159 Your chief account is with God. It may be well for you to understand, however, that you are known to be a pro- fessed fortune hunter in clerical garb. You will need money to settle that breach of promise suit, which will soon call you to court. You might have marrlied a noble girl, but, discovering that she was not rich, you broke your faith. Her friends have taken the matter up, though, in obedience to her own delicacy, she would prefer to remain in silence. Sir, do you remember Ruth Glelln?  The clergyman, who had been increasing in pallor as these words were uttered, sank into a chair at the men- tion of the last namne,-and Doctor Walrburton turned upon him a glance of withering scorn, anld then departed. '             '  I  [     160        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XIX. IN WHCH A NUMB  R OF EVENTS ARE RECORDED. Doctor Warburton saw but little of his students. The office, with its professional library, was at their service, in the rear of which was his consultation room, where he received his patients. When an operation was performed the students were called to assist, and they also had what- ever oral information they desired. In his conversation with them, however, the doctor was influenced by the different points of character which they exhibited, and which, on the one hand, attracted, and, on the other, repelled him. There was Frederick Clamper, the only son of a rich man, who, although he appeared at first little better than an idler, had of late applied himself closely, and beside pursuing his studies, had attended the poor with his best ability. On the other hand, there was Simon Gurry, of whom he found it very hard to form a favorable opinion. Mr. Gurry's parents were not rich. It was true they moved in a circle which contained some wealthy families, yet it was only by careful management that they main- tained their position. Still heavier was the burden of supporting the son during his education, but it was endured by the mother and sisters with great self-denial,   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       161 in hope of seeing a membereof the family succeed in a noble profession. That self-denial, as the doctor perceived, Simon Gurry never appreciated. His nature was selfish, his tastes were low, and his habits had at an early period been tainted by vulgar associations and petty dissipation. He had the catalogue of city amusements At his tongue's end, and while he enjoyed the entre of good society, his tastes were attracted by the gross scenes of low life. The intimacy which existed between the two students had abated as their habits came in conflict, until at last they had but little in common. The one was steadily progressing, while the other merely dawdled over his books until office hours were over, and then tripped out in search of pleasure. Doctor Warburton also noticed a change in Frederick Clamper since the reception of the new governess. Their positions and duties were separate, but, as might be ex- pected, when so many walks were to be taken with the children, the latter would occasionally be met by the student. Beside this, the children were very fond of Mr. Clam- per, and he in turn was very fond of them, and more than once or twice was known to lay down his volume on surgery, and run up stairs to that domestic school and listen to its recitations. It was quite a recreation to one so full of scalpels, tourniquets, and dead men's bones as he. Doctor Warburton occasionally invited his students to dine with him, and it was not to be overlooked that Mr. Clamper was addicted to conversations with the gover- "     162        ONCE MORE. ness, who sat with the children at the lower end of the table. Mr. Clamper was naturally very gallant, and may have commenced his attentions from mere politeness, but he found there was something ill that girl's language and tone of thought which he did not find in the fashionable young ladies of his acquaintance. Miss B :aytoi might be deficient in some points, but she had ide^s, and knew how to give themn shape and expression. She had aspira- tions, and a conception of what she would like to be and to do; all of which was new to one who had known the sex only in the way of flirtation. Perhaps had Mr. Clamper seen some of his giddy acquaintances ldriven by necessity to the position of governess, he might have marked a similar development of those powers which often necessity alone gives life; but such an instance he had never known, and here was the first girl of decided character he had met. Why, then, should she not make an impression? There was something in her expressions which kept running thlrough that studelnt's head, even while conning his medical books, and it made him read the harder. "She's more than my equal," said he to himself, " with all my opportunities-a poor governess, and I the son of a rich man," and this thought led Mr. Clamper to more persistent efforts. Meanwhile, Elliott continued his career of labor at the great house of Clamper, Kin & Company's, and made daily progress in the knowledge of trade. He found a kind instructor in Mr. Fobbers, who had been practicing   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       163 the various mysteries of the counting house for years, and who could solve any intricate question. Elliott's evening trade continued to flourish, and each recurring night beheld him delivering parcels of tea, coffee and sirnilar goods among his round of customers. Mr. Kin, with all his dislike, found Elliott useful. Large quantities of flax and tow had been stored in the garret, and although much of it had been carted away, yet there remained enough to form several bags of sweepings, and Mr. Kill again ordered the clerk to take these to Madgers' junk shop. Elliott had no desire to meet his former employer, and, quite remarkably, Mr. Flink did not make his appearance; no one but the veritable Madgers was to be seen. As Elliott walked away firom the junk shop on one of these occasions he was approached by a nervous look- ing man, somewhat bowed and of shattered appealrance, with threadbare coat and such general aspect of poverty as approached the grotesque. You see, young man/," said the stranger, "I make bold to speak, bekase I seen you with Doctor War- burton when he called on Mammy Candlish. You don't know me, but that don't matter. I make bold to speak. May be you arn't acquainted down in that hole, there?" "What hole?" inquired the clerk. "That junk shop," said the stranger. I don't want to say anything agin my neighbors, for I sleep right above it; but one thing I liaow-you're too honest to be round here." Elliott asked the stranger to explain.     164        ONCE MORE. "Well, friend," was the reply, "if you Stood as I have, night after night, and see the people that crieep down there with things to sell, you wouldn't ask. In broad daylight too, sometimes. Yes, there goes a boy with a basket of paper. I would like to know what is under that old paper. May I ask what you took there, young man?" "A bag of tow-sweepings from our store." "That don't look like tow," said the stranger, brush- ing the dust off from Elliott's linen coat. "You know what that is?" ( Indigo, worth a dollar a pound," was the reply, and as the clerk uttered it a fearful idea flashed through his mind. He turned pale for a moment, but said nothing; and yet he could not but think that this might be one of Mr. Kin's plans to entrap him. "I see," said the stranger, "you have got my ideer. Keep away from that place, that's my advice. I believe the p'leece has got their eye on it." The stranger turned to depart. "I would like your name," said the clerk; "you appear to be my friend. Who are you?" "O never mind who I are, or what's my name, nuther. I s'pose I've got one on earth and heaven, too. They call me the Weakminded man; but weak as I am, in God I have strength." As he said this the man of the bowed and nervous form hobbled off, while the clerk was so astonished by the affair that he stood mute. In a few moments, how- ever, he regained self-possession, and dashed forward in   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       165 order to regain the speaker, with a view of obtaining further information. i h He was unsuccessful in this effort, while in his haste i  he narrowly escaped collision with a man, whom, by the aid of the gaslight, he recognized as Simon Gurry. It now occurred to Elliott that it might be well to have an eye upon this man's movements, inasmuch as he was a suspicious character, and especially as he had so much information concerning the satchel and its contents. What then was his surprise, onf looking round, to see him dart down into Madgers' junk shop. Determined now to penetrate the mystery of his errand to this place of crime, Elliott took position behind a pile of boxes on the opposite side of the street, and was additionally concealed by the advancing shades of evening. Here he remained in great agitation until after the lapse of a half hour, when he saw both Flink and Gurry emerge from the cellar and move up the street. The clerk felt an impulse to follow, and cautiously ap- proaching as near as safety might permit, he tracked their steps to Chatham square, where they waited a few minutes, as though expecting some other person, and then, with muttered tones of disappointment, passed down Chatham street until they reached a phwnbroker's shop, which they entered. Here they remained about a quarter of an hour, and then reappeared and took their way to the Park. As they passed the gate, a man stepped suddenly for- ward and touched one of them on the shoulder. The latter turned with a look of surprise, and said, in a low     166         ONCE MORE. tone, "Harker, is that you? W'e looked for you at the square, and also at Levy's." a I did not care to be there to-night," was the reply. "Come closer, we may be watched." The group drew closely into'a corner in the rear of the s  City Hall, and became engaged in a deep conference, whose tones were inaudible, except to one who was con- cealed behind a tree, who heard enotlgh to know that the plot was one which had plunder for its object. It made the youth's blood chill to hear whispers which discussed modes of burglary, and designated, in tonles which he could not distinguish, the locality to be assailed. There was another feature in this mysterious cabal. A woman was referred to, and a name was mentioued. It sounded familiarly, yet he could not be certain, but hints of ruin and death were uttered. At least so he thought, and then the name, indistinct as it might seem, reminded him of one he knew well, andc that one was Ada Brayton. It was a fearful thing to be thus an unwilling witness of such a plot, but a sense of danger compelled him to re- main. He was at last released by the peal of an enormous bell. It was the fire alarm. A crowd came rushing along, and by minglling in its number, Elliott got away unobserved. He returned home, greatly agitated and perplexed at the events of the evening. It would not have been sur- prising had he found Flink in ally such nefarious business, but to see Mr. Gurry, the educated and the respectable, plotting with house-breakers, and even murderers-this was overwhelming.   A STORY OF NEW YORL.       167' The question of duty was a difficult one. Was it proper to open the matter to Doctor Warburton? Was there not a chance of his being mistaken in the identity? Would it be right to charge a gentleman like Mr. Gurry with complicity with felons? Could there not be more than one Ada Brayton? All these were embarrassing thoughts to one so inexperienced as he. so Lacy     168        ONCE MORE. c         CHAPTER XX. FAMLY CONVERSATIONS AT THE WARBURTONS. "Do you not think that Mr. Ormond refers too often to God's decrees?" was Mrs. Warburton's inquiry of her husballnd, as they were sitting in family circle. "And why should he not?" "Because God's decrees form a subject so far beyond my comprehension, that it seems both improper and un- profitable to hbe studying it." "It is, indeed, beyond our comprehension," said the doctor, Debut still we cannot contemplate God without coming in contact with mystery; and yet as regards the experimental aspect of the case, we are led to study God's decrees because they are a working out of his will -and his will comes in conflict with our own at every turn." "It is, indeed, a great mystery," remarked Ada, "Yes, but there are two other mysteries equally pro- found, which we accept, yet cannot understand." "What are they?" inquired the governess. "Life and death," replied the physician ; " and I, who deal with the sick and the dying, am mnore and more im- pressed with these things, though they are but every-day occurrences. Who can tell what life is? All you can say is this: We live. The existence of which we are a   A STORY OF NEW   YORK.,      169 part, is a great mystery, but death is still greater. What is death?  All that we can here say is:   We die.' knowledge in those words which he uttered to Job, Have the gates of death been opened unto thee, or hast S   thou seen the doors of the shadow of death? V" d   "Yes," replied Ada, "we feel it to be a mystery of most solemn character.   Wordsworth speaks of it il one of his exquisite pieces as a mystery to childhood: ' A simple child, dear brother Jim, That lightly draws its breath; And feels its life in every limb, What can it know of death?' "But it is no less so to man in his highest develop- mlent. " sougYht to penetrate from its earliest days, and sought in vain.   Some have agonized for a glimpse through that veil which separates the spirit wolrld from that of matter, until they have summoned the aid of necromancy; but all in vain.  How appropriately Shakespeare alludes to it as 'that undiscovered country from  whose bourne no traveler returns,' while Milton speaks of his desire '-- to unfold What worlds or-what vast regions hold The immortal mind that hath forsook Her mansion in this fleshy nook."' "The same   thought," continued  the speaker, "is powerfully elaborated in that brief but impressive poem, Blair's Grave c F    ,        170         ONCE MORE. ' Tell us ye dead; will none of you in pity To those you left behind, disclose the secret? O that some courteous ghost would blab it out; What 'tis you are, and we must shortly be. Why might you not Tell us what 'tis to die? A very little time will clear up all, And make us learned as you are, and as close."'  "How true it may be said of God, that he is a God that hideth himself," remarklied Mrs. Warburton; "how awful to think of his hidden plans I " "Not if we feel that he is our Father," said the doctor. "As Mr. Ormond says, 'Mystery is essentiall to the Almighty.' He would not be God if we could undclerstand him, and hence he affords the grandest study of which man is capable. I have often thought that God's hidden ways are illustrated by that faithful companion of our planet-the nloon." "How so?" inquired Ada. "Astronomers have for hundreds of years directed their glasses to that body, and have ever seen but one side of it." "But does not the moon turnl on its axis?" "Yes, but always so as to keep that side hidden from our view. Thus it is with the secret things of God. But we shall all see then when the veil shall be removed. One might almost wish to die on this account." "Speaking of God's will," resumed the doctor, "we often find it very hard to bear. Our Saviour himself found it hard. I don't wonder that they who are so feeble and so unstable as we are should shrink from it;   A STORY 0F NEWf YORK.       171 and yet, like him, we may be enabled to endure it and even to rejoice in it, much as it may destroy our hopes. There is a grand and majestic expression of the Psalmist on this point,' Be still, and know that I am God.' On these words a Christian may find rest in any trying dispensation." "Such as the death of' Mrs. Warnsford," suggested Mrs. 'Warburton. "Yes, that was indeed a trying blow to us, who loved her as a friend, and still more afflicting to poor Aurelian. But it was well, for God did it; how near death has appeared to me since then I " "I hope not," exclaimed Mrs. VTarburton, in an almost involuntary manner, and then added, thoughtfully, "you have not looked well lately." "- Nor felt very well," said the doctor ; " but you kno a physician is never allowed to get sick. How oftei, indeed, have I been called from my bed to attend those who were not as ill as I?  The doctor paused, and as he did so, Mrs. Warbuto n left the room. "Poor thing," said he, " she cannot bear any allusicn to these thoughts. I often speak on the subject of death because it has its place and its work in every family. Maud and I must yet part, as thousands of the loved aild loving have been rent asunder. The thought is painful- deeply and unutterably so, and yet it must be fulfilled. I have given her up and all the children to God ; they are His more than they are mine." Ada was surprised to hear the doctor speak thus unre-     172         ONCOE MORE.  servedly, but it seemed as though he was unlburdening his mind. "If I should be called away, Miss Brayton," said he, "you will, I hope, continue to assist Mrs. Warburton with the children. I mean, at least, to say that you have proved more valuable and efficient with them than I could have expected, and you have my sincere thanks. You could not have had a stronger proof of my con- fidence than in thus entrusting them to your hands.  Teachers are seldom valued as they deserve. You will  not always be a teacher, Miss Brayton. God has en- dowed you with talents which will call you into some  leading position; but on these little ones you are im- printing memories which will only fade with life."  Ada found a tear trickling down her cheek, which she  wiped away in an unperceived manner.  "You have gone through sonle bitter scenes, Miss  Brayton, and they have left their impress upon your  character-not of evil, but of good. You will always  know how to sympathize with the children of misfor-  tune, and I trust that by this time you know what is the  true balm for the woes of mankind." "Christianity," said Ada.  6Yes," replied the doctor, "the religion of Christ.   Faith in His atoning blood: this alone can reach the  source of the disease. A sick body may employ many remedioes; a sick soul has but one."  ( I did not think so once, but I have learned it now,"  said Ada.  "And will continue to learn it more and more as you    A STORY oF NEW YORK.        17e advance. You will also be able to teach others-to show that way of peace which you have found." "I hope, indeed, that I may," Ada replied. "I feel too deeply what God has done for me-humbling pricd and making me to accept His will and forgiving my re bellious heart, which was hardened against his dlealinm, and which answered back his mercies with complaint."  "God has been gracious to you, Miss Brayton, not- withstanding the clouds which He threw over your path." "And out of which He has brought such clear light It reminds me of Mr. Ormond's text, and the discours impressed me deeply: ' Now men see not the bright ligh which is in the clotuds ; but the wind passeth and cleawseth them.' Thus has it been in mny own experience." "You will find this to be a returning experience through life," said the doctor. "We do not go on  l one unchanging scene. Life has its clouds and clearings its sun and its shadow, until its very last hours." "And a cloudy day may afford a lovely sunset," ob- served Ada. "By a similar contrast," said the doctor", a bright morning often terminates in dreary darkness.  I have noticed many of those who in early days have been lapped in indulgence, finishing life ill utter misery; and since sorrow waits on all, it is better by far to bear the yoke in one's youth." "Your remarkl that sorrow  waits on all," said Ada, "reminds me of the words of Grey:  '          "?     174         ONCE MORE. ' To each his sufferings; all are men, Condemned alike to groan. " "But the poet fails to give the reason of this sad truth, and probably did not understand it," replied the doctor. "It is not that they are men, but that they are sinners, which explains that groan. It is sad, indeed, to mark how often poets and moralists lose sight of this fact, namely, that sill brings a curse, and that mankind is not only unfortunate, but guilty." a Not all poets," said Ada. "Nob replied the doctor; ( thank God, there are some who unite grace and genius like Milton, together with those minor poets, such as Cowper, Montgomery and Kirke Whte. These men are now singing-a: fiar better song than any they ever penned." a Yes," added Ada, "I remember those exquisite lines of Cowper: Then, in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing thy power to save, When this poor, lisping, stammering tongue Lies silent in the grave.' " ' That author," said the doctor, "recalls the subject of which we were at first speaking-the christian's submis- sion to the sovereign will of Go6. Cowper seems to      have had a remarkable sense of the value and beauty of  this grace. This is shown by his --other popular hymn, 'God moves in a mysterious way7 which has afforded  so much comfort to afflicted christians. It is said that he wrote that grand utterance of faith in one of those lucid intervals which occasionally varied the awful dark-    A STORY OP NEW YORK.        175 ness of his mind. Feeling that the cloud was about to return, he wished to express, while he had the power, his confidence in God's plan, even though his own suffer- ing formed a part of it. It is a song of faith, doubly precious, since it comes from one on whom God's hand was so fearfillly laid." "How beautiful a thought!" said the governess. "Yes, Cowper offered up his will just as Abraham offered his son, and every believer is called, in a greater or less degree, to follow their example." "You  are still pursuilng those solemn themes,' ex- claimed Mrs. Warburton, who   just then entered the room. "They are grand, but then how painful!  It was easy to see that she had been weeping. You know, Archibald, that I have my feelings," said she, as though in explanation of these signs of weakness. "I am  a Christian I hope, and love God's will, and yet thereae are some thilngs I caluot bear to have you allude to." "One thing, you mean, my dear." "Yes, one thing I " Mrs. Warburton turned away her head and Ada felt a tear again burning her cheek, while the doctor remained silent. It was a  relief to so painful a scene when little Maud came in to have Miss Brayton's assistance in the explana tion of a new picture boolk.     176        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XXI. BEING THE SHORTEST IN THE BOOK, AND ONLY PRE- SENTING A SCENE IN DOYER STREET. Some of our readers, however versed in New York, may never have heard of Doyer street. This, indeed, would not be surprising. Doyer street is small, both inl length and breadth, and has never been the scene of a murder or even of a burglary.  It is noted for one peculiar feature-its irregular course. Nowhere in America can a street not three hundred feet in length be found with so many angles. History has not recorded the reason of this, and hence it baffles the antiquary. Its name is only suggestive of the changes of the past. Trinity churchyard contains the gravestone of the original Doyer, and this stone informs us that his lot in that burial ground was eight feet square. We may hence infer that Doyer was a man of importance. Doyer street, by its vicinity to Chatham street, affords an opportunity for concealment from the crowd in a rapid and effectual manner. Turn in from the broad highway, and you are at once in a place of seclusion. For this reason Doyer street is a favorable spot for cheap clubs and other resorts of vulgar dissipation-but why this disquisition on an obscure and crooked lane? one may ak.- It is this:   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       1" One night when Elliott had been unusually belated in supplying his customers, he returned by the way of Bayard street, whence (to escape its dangerous precincts) he turne ttoward Chatham square. While passing through Doyer street his attention was attracted by sounds of coarse music issuing fronm-a house which was brilliantly lighted, and was redolent of the fumes of tobacco and strong drink. Numbers of young men were entering and passing out. Stepping up to the window, the clerk saw, through a chink in the curtain, groups of card- players surrounding the tables, while a few melodists were singing on a stage at the rear of the room. Having satisfied his curiosity, he turned homeward, little think- ing that he had been recognized by one of the patrons of the establishment.  Had he -Fen less absorbed by the sight, he might have heard the muttered growl of Mr. Amos Kin- "There he is, and after me, I s'pose--", the sentence being finished by the customary oath. 12     178        ONcE MORE. CHAPTER XXII.  AN ANONYMOUS LETTER, AND ITS RESULT. The quiet tenor of domestic life at the Warburton's was broken by an event as unexpected as it was distress- ing. One day, shortly after the last mentioned scenes, as Ada was dusting the mantel-piece, a letter which lay near to its edge fell to the floor. It was simply a note without' seal or even envelope, and as she stooped to pick it up, her eye glanced in a manner almost involuntary over the sheet, and this glance showed that its contents had reference to herself. Indeed, those contents were so brief as to be read in a moment, and so the poor girl, before she had time to think of the impropriety of the act, had become ac- quainted with a page never intended for her eye. Her first thought was, the wrongness of the act; the next, its relation to herself. She stepped back, and to escape falling, sunk on a chair, while her brain was confused with extreme distress. It was fortunate that no one was present. In a few moments she rallied sufficient strength to complete her task, and having replaced the letter, she returned to her room, and gave way to her emotions by such tears as she had seldom shed before.   A STORY OF NElW YORK.      179 The letter which had occasioned such agony, was an anonymous attack upon her reputation. It was brief and plausible, and conveyed under an ingenious disguise suggestions of the worst character. There were two sad and crushing thoughts connected with this affair; the chief of which was the question, what could have inspired so malignant an attack? Poor Ada! she did not know she had an enemy in the world. Whom, indeed, had she injured in any manner? still less to a degree, which would warrant this insidious stab? The other source of pain was to think that the War- burton's had harbored these false accusations without exhibiting it, or permitting that vindication which justice might demand.  Had they credited that foul story? Could they believe it? The thought was torment. She, to be suspected! by those, too, who once were her best friends! To one of Ada's frame it were unendurable. Momently the shadow deepened upon her. Her former doubts and darkness which, as she had thought had departed forever, returned with renewed strength; then came a time of conflict between that horrid frame of mind, and the thought of God's goodness which must be the great rule of his conduct, however dark may be the cloud which hides his path. It was a bitter hourl It was an agony of prayer. Ada rose from her knees more calm than might have been expected from one of her sensitive mind, with a new determination steeling her soul. She would at once leave her present abode. She could not remain, in the     180         ONCE MORE. bosom of a family where she might be an object of suspiciol. The history of her famtlily was so cloudcd with misery and crime, that she well knew how great a foundation for falsehood it afforded, and she had no means of ploving a negative, even were an opportunity given. Who was there to fall back upon to vindicate reputation? None but Mr. Werner, who hacl known her less than a year, and who had taken her firom tile abode of poverty, as an act of charity. Might not the sanle suspicion enter his breast also? Nay! might he not also have received a similar page? And. had Aura's eyes met such an attaclk? Once more the thought came with a crushing weight, anlld lnothing but a sense of Goc's presence and the testimnony of a good conlscienlce kept her from sinking helpless to her couch. There was another, too, whose name awoke a differellt emotion, and one of which till now she had no con- sciousnless. Had he been poisoned against her? and the fair and honlest face of Frederick Clamper seemed to gaze upon her as of old. But no, she m ust not think of hinm now, while thus bitten by slander. Ada's determination was taken. Le us not set in judgment upon it. It migiht have been wiser to appeal to the Warbui-tons, but reserve anld delicacy and maiden pride combined to prevent. Poor girl! where was she to find an adviser in this hour of need? How precious wrould have been a mother or a sister to s hare the btlurden and give a wordL of counsel; but in all the solitude of darkened loagony she met the question of duty and de- cided helr future condluct.   IE A STORY OF NEW YORK .             181 {    In the course of a few days a new applicanlt for work j  appeared at a popular dressmaking establishment in the Bowerly, though as she entered her heart sunIk at the number which preceded her. An ddvertisement had been j published that morning for " hands," and the result was this responsive crowd. As for their appearance, there w as nothing new in that to the last applicant, for however they might differ in size or in dress, which at best was plain, or in features, they all bore that look which marked them as belonging to that large and most unfortunate class known as K' poor gilrls." The film of Swelly Sisters, to which these girls offered service, enjoyed no enviable name as employers; but work was dull, and it was fortunate if one got a place anywhere. Swelly Sisters were a pair of unmarried women, who had, by dint of shrewdness and close deal- ing, made money and established a large business. They had begun poor, but opened i small shop at an early period in their history, and from   this beginllning  had risen to their present success.  Their domestic names were Miss Larry and Miss Silndy, being abbreviations of Laura and Lucinda, and the former of whom took charge of the domestic department, while the latter, with the i assistance of a pair of forewonmen, attended to business. They owned their store and stock in tlrade, and were re- ported to have other property. Indeed, fromn their par- simony, one might preclicate a very considerable degree of wealth. The business of the concern was divided into several branches, for, while in the front room a few neatly-dressed     - '    . , 182        ONCE MORE.  girls were engaged on bonnets, in the interior, where Miss Sindy received the applicants, they were at work on babies' clothes. The girls who on this occasion appeared in the humble aspect of "hands" were sternly scrutinized as they entered, by Miss Sincly, and as she rapidly glanced from head to foot her words were given in a manner both rough and sharp-toned. "You won't answer," was the greeting to several coarsely-dressed and coarsely-featured half-grown chil- dren, with famine-struck eyes and general utterance of degradation. Miss Swelly wanted no such characters about her. The girls turned to depart, and as others came in of more acceptable exterior thf inquiry was made, in a snappish tone, "Why don't yu bring sam- ples of your work? No goods trusted in green hands." As the new comer, whom the reader will recognize as Ada Brayton, heard these harsh and repelling tones, her heart sunk within her; but necessity urged her on, and in due time she met the grim eye of Miss Sindy, who repeated the inquiry. Ada's reply was simply to draw a handkerchief from her pocket, on which, in addition to hemming, she had done some embroidery. "So that's your own needle, is it, Miss? Then I may find something to do in the baby line. If you take the work home we ask security." The thought of security was out of the question, beside which Ada had no home. A boarding house of the poorest class gave her bread and lodging, but the boarders were not expected to remain after meals, except   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       183 evenings and Sundays. Indeed, Mrs. Podgeford objected to taking Ada at all, " women folks being not to her liking, any way, much less lone girls whom nobody saw before, and who might be anything or everything for what she knew." As Miss Swelly pronounced favorably of Ada's work the latter ventured to ask the rate of pay. "Is s'posed you'd be in a hurry for that," responded Miss Sindy. "Well, we expect to pay our hands what's fair. You may have a place in the shop here and work by the week till I see what you can do. The price on baby clothes will be three dollars and a half a week, if you're neat and lively. If not, you needn't stay at any price." Three dollars and a half per week! And was this to be the price for twelve hours of tedi- ous and painful labor protracted through six long and wearisome days! Three dollars and a half! "You needn't stalnd thinking about it!" exclaimed Miss Sindy, as she saw how much Ada was taken aback at the proposal. "We pay our girls; whether others do or not, that's another thing. We pay, and there's enough that wants it, so don't stand wasting time." This utterance aroused Ada from a painful reverie, into which she had fallen, or rather a mental confusion, which was the result of an attempt to calculate the pos- sibility of existence. Board would cost two dollars and a half, and one dollar would be left to meet washing, dress and other expenses; and if she should get sick and lose a week or more, what then?     184        ONCE MORE. But that was the price, and she sat down, and in mute sadness commenced her work. Better wages could have been earned in the printing office, but Ada was deter- mined to bury herself from all former acquaintance, and she knew that Mr. Werner might seek her in her former place of employment. This motive of secrecy had led her to the Bowery, in preference to other localities, since here she was less liable to meet the Warburtons. So long as that charge rested upon her, she shrunk from all who might for a moment give it credence. Three dollars and a half per week! And yet small as this appears, it was in reality good wages; much better than those paid to working girls generally, and better than Miss Sindy would have offered had it not been for one thing. This was that she had just received an order from Stewart's for a quantity of baby linen, for which Ada was well adapted. Hence this degree of liberality. Ada sat and plied the needle all the afternoon, and then at even- ing put on her hat and shawl and followed the group which emerged from the shop. Entering upon the street she saw how large a portion of its throng was composed of just such girls as these. There they were, passing homeward from their work, in groups ranging from child- hood up to full growth, and all clothed with that plain garb which told of poverty. Some were pretty and sported a few ribbons, while others were sallow and hollow-eyed, with countenances stamped by misery. Some were return- ing to homes where they might meet a welcome of which poverty could not rob them. Others were going to cheer-   A STORY OF NEW YORK I       185 less boarding houses, while some dwelt alone in such apartments as are found in tenement houses. Such are the poor girls in New York. One may meet them by hundreds, and almost thousands, crowding down town at an early hour to the slop shops, the book bind- eries, the millineries, the printing houses, and other places of labor; and then at night they swell the returning    throng. Painful as may be this feature in the life of woman, it becomes vastly aggravated by the vicissitudes of winter. Thousands of girls may leave home for the shop with the ,:;  prospect of a fair day, but before night a storm of sleet may set in and render their return almost impossible. On such occasions stages and rail cars are crowded to overflowing, and the unfortunate pedestrian may do the best he can. Bad enough it is, for bo6ted and well clad men; how much worse for the poor girls who are seen huddled under awnings, patiently hoping for a way of es- cape? Some, at last, dash through the snow and water, though it be ankle deep; while others, in despair, make their way to the nearest station-house and seek refuge among outcasts. How many colds, fevers and consumptions may be dated from such times of exposure, to all of which these girls are subject, while contending with the world for a mere existence, with little hope of ever improving their con- dition? How truly may they be called the poor girls of New York?     186        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XXIII. MAUD WARBURTON TO NATHANIEL DUDLEY. MY DEAR FATHER : I have continually desired to write you, and each day since the funeral I have penned a few lines-for writing about our dear doctolr seemed to give me comfort. Yet, when I looked over those pages which were sacred with my first grief, I felt that I could not part with them ; I have therefore commenced them again. For a week the cloud has rested upon our house; how long it may rest, God only knows, for he alone can give consolation. Thus far I am in thick darkness. The blow has come so sudden that I am stunned by it. Only think ; a week ago the doctor was on duty-now he lies in the tomb. How little could we have dreamed it; and yet, when I look back, I see many things that might have been considered premonitions, if my eyes had been opened. Archibald's mind seemed more than usually directed to spiritual things during the whole season, and especially since the death of Mrs. Warnsford, which made a deep impression upon him as indeed it did on all of us. We observed it in family worship and at the weekly prayer- meeting, where others observed it too, and it seems as though he took more good than ever of Mr. Ormond's preaching, which was more heavenly than ever.   A STORY OF NEW  YORK.      187 He did not appear well for a week previous to his ill- ness, but we did not think much of it, thoutgh I had my fears; but these I have always had. On Monday he was out for an hour, but had to return and lie down- complalining of pain in the head and back. I called Mr. Clamper to look at him, and we thought it was symp- I   tomatic of fever. All that night he seemed restless but was not inclined to take any llthin, and in the morning, sure enough, the fever was raging violently. I had Doc- tor Parkl-er called, who prescribed the usual remedies, but they did not take effect. The next night he was placed up stairs, where both Clamper and Elliott sat up with him,  hnd gave him quinine and also used the tepid sponge. The next day he was somewhat delirious and talked about things that happened when he was a boy, and also of our first married days, which affected me deeply, but I kept up as was necessary for the head of the family, though I felt sure how it was going; I had no hope from the beginning. The third day he grew so very rest- less, that Doctor Parker, when he called ordered opium, which was given him by young Clamper, who was as faithful as though it had been his own father. In the afternoon therel was a lucid interval, and he had all the children brought in so that he might look at them. He gazed at olne, and then at another, and then on me, and it seemed as though he was taking a farewell look so as to remember us in heaven. Then he asked the children to sing some of their Sunday school hymns, in which we all joined while he lay with his eyes closed. He was weak, very weak. The fever had exhausted him ; but after the     188        ONCE MORE. singing was over he began to pray. So sweet and so solemn it was, that it seemed like the voice of an angel, and then the children, after kissing their papa, were taken away. That night he was easier, and Clamper lay on the lounge, and took turns with Elliott in their watch, both being well nigh exhausted. Beef tea and brandy were given as often as possible to sustain his failing system. Next morning the fever set in again with terrible power; his forehead was hot to the touch, and his whole body de- voured with the heat, and he was delirious again. In the evening he was clear in mind and saw the children again, and Mr. Ormond called and prayed with him. Dr. Parker also called and said it was a very dan- gerous case, and they had a consultation, but nothing seemed to arrest the disease. The next was the fifth day. He was flighty in the morning, but seemed to know me as I was at his bedside, which I only left to tend to the children, and then at twelve his mind was clear again; but he was weak and faint and Clamper said he thought he was sinking. I could not bear to hear that word, but so it was. He was himself again, and that was one comfort, and had all the family around and spoke clearly to each of us. He bade the children love God and love their mother, and re- member what he had told them, and then kissed them as though he would pour his whole soul upon their lips. He then talked to Clamper, and told him that life was not a holiday, as fashionable people thought, but a time to work for God; that his work was over, but that Clamper's work was just begun; that the reward was   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       189 sure, and he was now to receive it. Clamper was over- come, and said to me afterward it had made him another So he talked also to Elliott, and left him a dying message; and then, as Mr. Werner happened to call, he spoke to him to endure his hard labor and to rejoice to make sacrifices for God, who would make all up to him, though his life was hard and poverty was his por- tion. Then he asked Mr. Werner to pray, which he did, and we all joined and surely it seemed as though God was there of a truth. After prayer Mr. Werner asked him how he felt, and he said, "All was well-he had God's peace in his heart- his work was all done;" and when Clamper said, how strange he should be taken away in his prime, while others dragged on in sin-and we all felt what Clamper said-he replied, "Be still, anid know that I am God." After that he made motion for all to leave the room but me; then he looked on me for a long time in silence; so strangely beautiful was his face-it never looked so lovely before-wasted though it was. He did not speak, but only gazed. We were all alone, and no one saw that look: it contained a lifetime. It made me think of him when we first met, and of our wedding day, and of all the happiness we had had together all in that look. 0 it rent my heart. I said, "Archibald, speak." He was too weak, yet he whispered, "We all belong to God; God will bring us home-fhere, Maud, there," and he turned his eyes to heaven. Then his breath failed; I gave a loud groan that all heard, and when they had     190        ONCE MORE. come in he was gone-yes, gone: and we saw our be- loved one asleep in Jesus. He looked so calnl that I said, "Don't touch him; let him sleep." I forgot for the moment it was the sleep of death; then the crushing sense of widowhood flooded my soul, tanld the next thing I knew I found mnyself lyingcr on the lounge, with our maid bathing my forehead. She told me I had fainted. The funeral came in two days. Our friends arranged it all. Mr. Ormond read the forty-sixth Psalm, and made an address; the house was crowded. They sung "Why do we mourn departing firiends," and then all was over; but I heard nothing that I could understand; all I thought was, "Is this real, or is it a dream." I was confused, and could not think of anything, or rather seemed stupified. Now I have lived two days, which seem like an age; but, weak as I am, God holds me up, and I have had strength enough to come to a con- clusion about all my matters. VVe shall remove to our homestead in the country, which is a better place to bring up the children. Our house here will be sold. The agent of the life insurance office has tendered the amount of the policy. I mention these things to satisfy your mind, though I wish only to write about our dear Archibald. The children are over- whelmed and say but little. Poor Clamper was deeply affected; I did not think he had so much heart; but I believe him to be a true man. We are sorry to part with him, and with Elliott, who is like one of our own family. I think 'my mind is stayed on God; hard as it is, I   A STORY O0F NEW YORK.       191 know it must be well. I will strive to bear the burden that God has laid upon me, knowing that inl Him I have strength. How blessed to think of His words, "I will never leave thee nor forsake thee." I have taken him for my husband and my everlasting portion, and here I rest.    Affectionately, but sorrowfully,  a MAUD.     192        ONCE MORE.  CHAPTER XXIV.             @ THE BOARDING HOUSE.  ( Beef-steak and tomatusses on Sunday, with tapioker  puddin: that ain't much beat at the crack houses any  how." Such was a part of Mrs. Podgeford's soliloquy, in all  audible tone, as her boarders had just concluded a satis-  factory meal on the sacred day referred to.  "I will have my pay, but I'll feed 'em well for the money ; can't have first best all the week round for twenty  shillings; to-morry and to-day is two different things."  None of the boarders dissented from this proposition. They knew that net day would lbrinlg its usual quota of  hash, stale bread, and butter equally stale. "There's two things what never goes clown-house rent and servants' wages; but dear as they be, I haven't raised on my folks yet, though some of 'em is heavy boarders." Mrs. Podgeford kept what is known in New Yorlk as a cheap boardilng house. She had the upper part of a dwelling in Elizabeth street, the lower part being used as a store, and here she found room for a dozen different specimens of character, who were permitted to enjoy her table in consideration of the weekly payment of two dollars   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        193 and fifty cenllts. How Mrs. Podgeford contrived to suse tain her establishment on so slender a compensation, would have been a mystery to the uninitiated-a mystery which we proceed to elucidate. A cheap boarding house in New Yolrk implies the vicinity of a cheap grocery which, by the -way, is one of the peculiar features. g a great city. We explain by stating that among its importations there will be a vast quantity of coffee, tea, raisins and flour damaged on the voyage, which are sold at auction. These are generally purchased by a class of dealers of whom Reuben Clamper was a type, and sold again by thein to retailers, who keep what are known as " cheap stores.7  At such places no one expects anything that is not inferior, while the prices always correspond. If good tea be a dollar a pound in the regular trade, the cheap ,grocer will sell his best at one-third less, and the same reduction will appear in other articles. The cheap grocer is, therefore, largely patronized by economists, notwith- standingy the fact that, in addition to the inferiority of his goods, he is generally understood to cheat in weight and measure. On a Saturday I ight the crowd at the " cheap store " will be immense, and its largest element will be composed of the keepers of such boarding houses as Mrs. Podgeford's. Here these economist purveyors find almost all that their tables need, and though the quality be open to suspicion, yret its cheapness covers it with a friendly mantle. At an establishment like Mrs. Podgeford's, there is a constanlt goilng and coming of guests. Yet a few seemed to abide there with- an approach to permanence. There 13    ,     194         ONCE MORE.- was a Mr. Yawl, a tall thin nervous type setter, whose sta- ple of collversation was ghost stories and the mynlJrsteries of city crime; and next to him in importance, was Mr. Twanlg, a young histrionist, who had a low priced engoage- ment as stock actor at the Chatham thealtre. Then came Mr. Barkey,. dry good clerk, who had a literary taste and took the Sunday papers to which, indeed, he was, if his own suggestions were to be regarded, a contri- butor. In addition to these was the cheap grocer's boy, who always came and went in a hurry, bolted his njeals, aLnd answered to the name of little "Snapples." Hardly had Ada become dlomliciliated at Mrs. Podge- ford's, when she was aware of Mr. Twang's attentions, while Mr. Barkey seemed intent on a similar infliction. The forll er gentleman's strong point was the theatrical facilities in his hands, while the other was decidedly literary. Consequently the conversation carried  on between this pair at table bwas a tallking at each other, each intending thereby to mnake an impression on the fair listener. I(I say," exclamed Mr. Barkey, on one of these occa- sions; " who, I wonder is the author of that article in the Mercury, signed B. W.?" "Article! what?" replied Mr Twang; ( was it the paragraph on clelrks robbing the till?" Mr. Barkey seemed indifferent to the fling uttered by his rival, andt proceeded: "Somne mniglt suppose it to be myself, but such is not the case. It is not ill my style, as any one familiar with   A STORY OF NTEW YORK.       195i my writings would -know at once. It is true, the initials are nliiz reversed. B. W. llight stanlld for WolrdsworLth Barkey, and it is in this way that the literary worldll often becolmes confused ald plerplexed." 'Perplexed chiefly for wanlt of funds, I presume," interposed Mr. Twang. "Writers should be careful," continuet Mr. Barkey, paying no attention to the last remark, "to affix some well known sign to their works. For want of that, see how the plays of Shakespeare are mystified. To avoid ally such difficulty, I make use of two signatures, one for poetry, and anothelr for prose." t Poetry alnd prose! ha ha! 7 was the response from Mr1. Twang, who had no idea of allowingo Mr. Barkey to make such progress. "When I get clown to such scrib- bling I lope somebody will send me to an orphan asy- lum, or have me adopted out into a good family." "Sir," exclaimled Mr. Barkey, " it would be well for you to undclerstand tlhat poetry runs in our family. I was born in the storied region of Gowannus, anld my mlother's fugitive pieces, published ulnder the title of the "yre of Brooklyn,' have been favorably noticed.' "I care not," replied M1r. Twang, "how many liars your mother may have produced, or whether they be of Brooklyn or New York ; that is not to the point." "What do you mean, sir?" cried Mr. Barkey, inter- rupting the speaker in an agry tone. 'I mean, sir, waiving all allusion to the genius from whom you are clescended, that many a baby pules better poetry than you are capable of, before it is six months     196        ONCE MORE. old," replied Mr. Twang--"Poetry I what do you know about poetry?" "As much about poetry as you do about acting. I'm a critic, myself, and take notes on these matters. I'd like to know who it is that is migre afraid of the press than persons of your class; yes, afraid of that press, sir, of wh ch I have te honor to be a member. Your position, sir, at the Chatham, is well understood. Melo-dranla, sir, only melo-drama! Heaven be thanked, you have never polluted the bard of Avon by invading the sacred range of his characters." Mr. Twang showed the manly tone with which he met this address by a contemptuous smile, repeating the words, "poetry and prose, ha! ha!" "As for my poetry, I am willing," said Mr. Barkey, "to abide the criticism- of the press, and the verdict of posterity. I appeal from your base insinuation to this young lady, whose taste and sentiment place her infinitely above the low grade of a Chatham street stage walker." "Take care what you say, young man," exclaimed Mr. Twang, "you may stir my blood yet, and other blood may then follow."              l "Insult me no longer," cried Mr. Barkey, springing to the floor. I am ready to meet you at any time and place-there is my card, sir ; I expect to hear from you through some friend within a week!"  As he said this, Mr. Barkey paced up and down the room violently, while Ada, deeply Annoyed by the scene, laid aside the book in which she endeavored to hide her confusion, and was preparing to leave.   "Don't be alarmed, Miss Brayton. "--'Pg-e i97.     -I   A STORY O  NEW YORK.      197 "Don't be alarmed, Miss Brayton," exclaimed Mr. Twang, rising from his chair; "I will protect you from any violence. In my hands you are safe!" Before Ada had an opportunity to reply to this un- called-for proposal, the voice of little Snapples was heard in the hall. "Dod rot it; more fuss between them chaps about the new gal. What a noise to bring a boarder into!" As these words were uttered the door was opened, and a young woman entered, whose appearance ilndicated that she was the boarder referred to, and Adla took ad- vantage of this opportunity to retire to her room. It was the Sabbath. How different were the asso- ciations which now surrounded her from the serene and sacred influence of the Warburtons?  But, notwith- standing all these changes, she had a Father above, and she felt His presence even in her cheerless room. She had her Bible, and its sacred lessons comforted her dis- consolate heart. But she was alone! Ah, how that sense of loneliness overcame her, as with a pall! Even in her early days of misery she had her drunken parent, and wretched as was his character, it was preferable to sheer solitude. Then, too, she could remember Aura and Mr. Werner; but now she was alone, the victim of secret malice, and pierced by an anonymous stab. In such a frame she read the deep-toned experience of the Psalmist, as written in the forty-second Psalm, and was enabled to say, "O, my God, my soul is cast down within me. Yet will I remember the Lord from the land of Jordan and the Hermonites and the hill Mizar."     198         ONCE Mo10RE. She arranged her dress for a walk, and a few blocks distant found a church, which she ventured to enter, and was gratified to perceive that its services were of an evangelical character. tJnder their healing and har- mlonizing influence she forgot herself and heli sorrows, and for a time realized that peace that passes knowledge. And while she' felt at intervals the crushing effect of that slander which had separated her from her friends, she also felt that God could, in His own time, remlove the stigma. How powerful and- how precious to one situated thus were the words of scripture, "Commit thy way    i unto the Lord; trust also in Him, and He shall bring it i to pass. And He shall bring forth thy righteousness as I the light, and thy jtudgment as the noonday."      i Returning to her boarding house, Mrs. Podgeford in- formed her that she would be expected to share her room with the new boarder, whose name was Miss Gwire, and who was to come the next day with her lug- gage. Sad intelligence was this for one who disliked to have a companion forced upon her, and who valued a place to retire and be alone with God in the solemn communion of prayer. s    A STORY OF NEW YORK.        199 CHAPTER XXV. FURTHER SCENES IN ADA'S HSTORY. It may be presumed that we cannot just now pursue any branch of this history which is of more importance than that of Ada Brayton. This we judge from   the peculiarly new and difficult experience which she was entering, and the daily embarrassment which it brought. Her position at the boarding house had been made un- pleasant by the conflicting attentions of Mr. Barkey and Mr. Twang; but the presence of Miss Gwire, as a room- mate, was an infliction of more trying character. This woman was ostensibly a shop hand in some book bindery, but her ]ours of work were so irregular that it was evi- dent she did not depend upon mere labor. Her appear- ance was very singular, and to Ada very repulsive; her eyes being of a sharp expression, while the corners .of her mouth turned down in a manner which suggested something sinister. Miss Gwire's conversation, too, was 'of an unpleasant nature. She was inquisitive, and although Ada's discre- tion made the latter careful as to her replies, yet her companion invariably drew from  her much information of a personal character. In this manner Miss Gwire learned the incidents of Ada's early history and residence     200         ONCE MORE. at Doctor Warburton's, though her reason for leaving that abode was not disclosed. In addition to these boarding house infelicities, Ada's position in the shop was far from desirable. The long deay of toil wore hlard on health, while the rigorous exac- tion imposed by Swelly Sisters was well known amonog the poor girls of that vicinity, and either Miss Sindcly Swelly or Miss Nuclde, the forewoman, examined the work with a microscopic vision. The requirement was, that while not a fillngelr-mlark should appear, or anllythingl that looked like the stain arising firoln perspiration, the work should be stitched with a neatlness which requilred incessalllt mlanipulation. -On two occasions Ada had been charged with somne little garments, whose sale was lost by such a nmisfortune, and this had exhausted a fund of a few dollarLs wVhich she had saved firom her earnings. Another very unpleasant feature was Mr. Marcus Swelly, the only brother of the proprietors. This young man had never been bred to ally business ; he had grown ; up indolent, selfish and vicious, being at one time pam- pered by his sisters, while at another he might suffer their displeasure. Marcus Swelly was, in fact, one of the u Bowery boys," better dressed than some of the class, but not better in manners or heart. His sisters made money and he knew it. This was enough for such a mlan to know; and he wrung it from them as relentlessly as they wrung it from the poor girls, whose unrequited labor had made them rich. In his adolescent years the sisters had endeavored to control Marcus by stringent measures, and on one occa-   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        201 sion, when he remained out until a late hour, they act- ually had nerve to turn the key upon him. The result was that, about two in the morning, while they were sound asleep, drealllin, perhaps, of cheapening the wages of their hands, they were aroused by a crash of window glass, adlnitting all unwelcome visitor in the shape of a paving stone. No words of explanation were needed, and the sisters were glad to escape further damage by giving the rowdy brother admittance. Such a result as this might have been expected, from the course pursued toward him in early life. He was thlen sulbject to the caprices of two high-tempered women, who, at one time, beat him in an unreasonable manner, and then when anger was over, atoned for the act by a corresponding indulgence. In domestic life, Miss Larry and Miss Sindy alternately reproached each other for ruining Marcus, and after friet- tingo all day, the one over her shop and the other over her housework, they passed the eveninDg in exchanging irri- tating remarks. This state of felicity usually lasted until a late hour, when Marcus would come home drunk and be recivedyith a volley of abuse, which would be the first united expression of the happy pair. No sooner, how- ever, would the object of their vituperation be out of sight, than the question, I who spoiled Marcus?" again came up for discussion. As long as Marcus lay late in the morning, and after breakfast resorted to his favorite lounging places, or went out wih his fart team and raced on the avenue, it was a mratter of little account; but there was another trait inl     202         ONCE MORE. his character which materially changed its aspect. Mar- cus was utterly dissolute in his habits, and such a man was an annoyance to a concern like that of Swelly Sisters. It was not a little disagreeable to the group of wall and weary workers, who at the close of day sought their homes, to be obliged to meet this fellow pultting on the airs of a beau, and encleavoring to assume the graces of a gentlenman. It was in this shape that the most unpleasant feature of Ada's shop life appeared. Her neat form and ex- plressive coulltenance had attracted the attention of the young roue, and it was not an uncommon thillng to be obliged to face him at some point in her homeward walk. Whatever may have been Mr. Swelly's opinion of him- self, and evidently it was not a very humble one, that which might be formed from a personal view was de- cidedly unfavorable. He was a short and stout built man, with full cheeks, bloated, perhaps, by intemperance, and a pair of dark eyes which were lit up with a repul- sive expression at any time of excitement, as much as to say that they were only fit to get anlgry with. Such was the individual who attempted to impose his company and his attentions on the poor sewing girl. Ada had a perception which enabled her at once to discern his character, and she shrunk from him with un- utterable disgust. The fellow could not but undlerstand the language thus uttered by her conduct more plainly than words could express; and yet he persisted as though conscious that her unprotected situation gave him a power, which he might wield with impunity.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       203 She miglht have appealed to her employ7ers for protec- tion, had she Iot learned from incidental remarks the control which Marcus Swelly had over his sisters. What- ever might be the reproaches which they heapied upon him in the moment of passion, they allowed no others to speak ill concerning him, or even suggest it. Proof enough it were of their icdolatry of this worthless brother, when he could draw from them, from time to time, their treasurel  cash, which next to him  they worshipped-andcl thus the hoard which no other in- fluence could open, was within reach of a tipplilg, racillng, gambling, alnd liceutious blaclkguard. No; it were worse than useless to speak to her em- ployers; Ada well liknew that.  They -would have defendel Marcus were he ten times more a villain, and would have visited their bitterest hate onl anly one who uttered complaint. Returning to Mrs. Podgeford's one evening after this annoyance had again occurred in a very persistent llanner, Aclda found Miss Gwire more than usually com- mlunicative and inquisitive, and it was not difficult for I the former to perceive that her room mate was desirous of influencing her to chanige her place of service. "Them   Swellys is reg'lar girl killers," remarked Miss Gwire. "You've stood it better than one could think-a dark shop, bad air, and that miserable Nudge to look at work, or else old Sindy herself." "You have worked for them, then?" remarked Ada.  Not I," replied Miss Gwire. "You don't catch me     204        ONCE MORE. there yet a while-nor you would'nt stay if you knew as good spots as I do in this here city." Whereupon Miss Gwire went on to describe various localities and branches of labor at which good pay could be had; much better indeed, than Ada now enjoyed. The sewing girl felt her heart beat with a new emotion.  Once she had disliked Miss Gwire, now, she wras conscious of having done her wrong, and gratitude took the place of her early prejudice. Furthermore, Miss Gwire had been out that day, and knew a concern that wanted just such a hand as Ada was like to prove, and at an advance of wages also. Cheered with this thought, Ada forgot her sorrows in the sleep which had been earned by hard labor, and dreamed of happy hours at the Warburtons and the VVerners; now, alas! only a memory.   A STORY OX NEW YORE.        205 CHAPTER XXVI. THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO A FORTUNE TELLER. The morning after the last-mentioned conversation between Ada and Miss Gwire, the former resumed her work at the Swellys, but in the afternoon obtained what was seldom granted, leave of absence-her time to be, as a matter of course, deducted from her weeklv pay. Her errand was to visit the establishment to which Miss Gwire had directed her, and as this was situated in Houston street, on the east side of the city, she turned her steps in that direction. Block after block had been passed, and she was evidently reaching the vicinity re- ferrel to in her direction. The character of the street, however, was repulsive. Liquor stores abounded, and the people she met had that expression of rowdyism for the men, and degradation for the women, so common in that part of New York. Could it be possible that the establishment which she sought was located in so miser- able a neighborhood? Was there not room for a mis" take?  Had not her firielnd erred in the name of the street? While these inquiries were agitating her bosom she was not ta little surprised to behold a lad of her acquailn- tallce approaching, who proved to be no less than little Snapples. I      206        ONCE MORE. it Oh, hey! is that you, Miss Braytou?-way down here, too-ain't you lost?" Ada was quite startled by the lad's voice, as well as by her peculiar situation. Night was claving on, and she was in a strange place, and one whose tappearance gave little promise of good. ( Did Miss Gwire send you clown here?" inquirel the lad. "; What makes you aslk that?" said Ada. "( Oh, only because I've seed her here often. There's the house what she wisits," said Snlapples; " they say its kept by a fortin' teller." I A fortune teller!" exclaimed Ada, looking at the building, which the boy designated with a pointed finger, while wild suspicions darted upon her mind. - Yes, a fortin' teller," responded the boy, " andcl I reckon it's no good place for nobody, though I've seed old Rube Clamper go in often. If they tell a good fortin' for him, then there's luck ahead for the devil him- self. That's what's nmy opinion." "Rube Clamper, who is he?" "Clamper! why, that's where our boss trades. Old Clamper! He's a down-town merchant. Rich as a Jew, they say; but, O crackey, what a shave!" "You don't seem to know me,"' continued the boy, "but I knows you. I used to see you in Mr. Werner's mission school. You're a good young lady, if you do work for a living, and I wish I could help you along. There's a heap of poor folks in this world, and I'm one on 'em -but I must get back, or be blowed up."   A STORY  OF NEW YORK.       207 The lad disappeared before Ada could thank him, and she paused a few mooments to survey the house. There was nothing suspicious in its appearlance. A small till sign near the door announced "Millinery and Mantua Making," in the third story, while on another sign, of similar size, was inscribed, "Madame Delmine, Astrologer." Ada had come on an errand of importance, anld was she to be daunted by a merely nervous sensa- tion? She entered the hall 'and ascended the stair to the second story, where a door opened, as though it had been waiting her arrival. On entering the apartment she saw a middle-aged woo- mall reclining in an easy chair, dressed in a loose flowing robe and turban.  The room was darlkened by curtains which only permitted a dim and mysterious light, and several pictures of a symbolical character adorned the walls. An hour glass, a prisln, and a pack of cards lay upon the mantel, and near by was a small bible. As Ada entered, the woman advanced to meet her, and taking the new comer by the hand, conducted her to a seat. t I was recommended to this place to find work," said Ada; "I saw millinery and mantua making on the sign, perhaps I have entered the wrong door?" "By llo mealls," was the reply; "your progress thus far is felicitous and correct, and that your future will in- crease in happiness, may be predicted with certainty." Aclda could not conceal her embarrassment, and not knowing what else to say, she repeated her first re-  mark.     208        ONCE MORE. (I came to seek work; Miss Gwire mentioned this place." "Beloved maiden," was the reply, "Miss Gwire is only a servant of your destiny; that she has sent you hither is a point toward which the stars may have hasted for ages; nothing is done ill vain, and nature, a kind nmother, hides her secrets firom all but the elect few. There are those that pluck those secrets from her bosom and use them folr human weal." Ada was still too embarrassed to reply, and while she heard she but little understood the jargon which was thus repeated in a mechanical manner. ( Beloved maiden," continued the womlan, "you under- stand not the secret forces which have impelled you hither. It is evident that some propitious influence has contrlolled that friend of whomn you speak, to direct your steps to mle. Of you have I dreamed; yes, thrice in one night did your form appear to me, and those fond eyes, that tell of deep and mighty sorrows. You have come to a friend; depend on that.' "I supposed that I came to an employer," said Ada. Am Obey my behests and you will need employers no longer. You have a hidden destiny of noble import. That I canll read from your countenance; but could I bring to bear lupon you the power of the stars, I should be able to unfold the future and the past. In what month were you born, the day, the hour if you please? I could, I think make a horoscope even now." Ada gradually understood the character of the person in whose company she sat, and perceived that she was one   A STORY OF NEW    YORK.     209 of those professed astrologers, who live upoln the credulity of nankind. Halvillng no desilre to cultivate such au ac- qualintance, slhe rose to depart. L Stay a ulomlent, my dear girl," exclaimel the woman. "It is proper for you to know where and in whose society you are. It is proper that you should know this, in order that you may feel relieved of all emnbarrassnlent. Ham Madamle Delmine, the unequalled astrologer, late of Paris. I not only tell fortunes, but bring absent loved ones together, aLnd reunite estranged firiends. I know the lucky numbers in the lottery, andr make fortunes for nmy disciples." It was evident that Maclame Delmine was endeavoring, by this recital of her powers, to produce an effect on Ada. In this she was disappoinlted; but still she continued: "I help in law suits; I tell where hidden papers and deeds may be found; I know where they can find wit- nesses to prove secret claimis. Do you know why lawyer Graham  always beats? It is because he advises with me.9' Ada's uneasiness still continued, and the fortune teller strove still harder to obtain her confidence. "Dear maiden," said she, "I know some secrets about yourself, and if you could imagine what they are, you would not be so anxious to leave. Even while I 'have been uttering these words, ministering spirits have re- vealed, in my bosom, the facts of your early history. "You have enlemies ; yes, bitter and relelntless enlemies, who will be satisfied with nothing short of your ruin. You luow Marcus Swelly?" "     210         O NCE MORE. Ada started, and Madame Delmine, encouraged by the idea that she had made an impression, continued: "Well, I will not say much about that fellow now: but he's bad enough. There are others though, far worse than he. The plot thickens and the fates are weaving the fatal web ; soon it will be too late for mortal hand to interfere. Lost! Lost! Lost!" As the astrologer uttered this dramatic sentence, she buried her face in her hands, as though shrinking from some appalling sight. Ada's situation became one of increased perplexity, and once more she showed signs of a disposition to depart. "O leave not yet, beloved maiden! This is the crisis in your history! The impulse that bids you forsake your best friend, that impulse is dictated by evil. Yes, your best friend, for such I am to all the unfortunate. But one thing can save Ada Brayton from the snare which besets her--from the precipice over which she trembles, firom the flood which will swallow her up-but one thing, one thing! Ah! ye wondrous stars, say, will she per- form it? ' "; You are implicated," said Madame Delmine, as soon as the last spasm of emotion was over, "in a dark and intricate charge, from which you must extricate yourself. We are witnesses of your innocence, and will sign our names with yours." As Madame Delmine uttered these words, the door opened, and a man stepped forward, and, proceeding to a desk, brought materials for writing. "This gentleman," said the astrologer, "is Professor   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        2" Delminle my husband, a man highly gifted in the occult science. Have you the papers ready, my dear?" "All ready," said the individual addressed. "Then, my beloved maiden, let us hasten to the rescue. Sign this paper, and we will sign it, too." "Sign that paper!" exclaimed Ada, trembling vio- lently, notwithstanding her efforts to be calm. ' What is it, and what do you meal?" '-Be quiet, my child; be composed. That paper is simply a protest of innocence of the charges brought against you, and without it we calnot accomplish your vindication. You remember that anonymous letter?" Ada's-countenance flushed with intense excitement. A train of bewildering thought rushed upon her. How could these strangersl know so much, of her history? How had they learned of that anonymous letter? "Think how much depends on your signature. This document will clear up the charges urged against you ; for it will bear the names of Professor Delmine and myself." Ada stood in silent astonishment, gazing wildly on the scene, while the manl arranged the writing materials be- fore her. "Sign your declaration of innocence, my child!7 " ex- claimed the astrologer, in a beseeching tone. "Sign for yourself, and for the love of Frederick Clamper." However embarrassed Ada might have been, the men- tion of that name recalled her to her senses, and a per- ception of the nature of the affair, though not to its full extent, flashed upon ber. She spoke not, but turned to- - ward the door. ,I     212         ONCE MORE. As she did this, the hand of the so-called professor was laid upon her. 'You will affix your signature to this before you leave!" "Unhand me, villain!" was the reply, " or I shall cry for help!" "You may cry, if you choose; but I don't think you will be heard-cthere are none in the house but our- selves!" exclaimed the professor. "You will sign before you leave," said the astrologer, her voice changed from its former suavity to a tone of bitterness and taunt, " or else the fair Ada Brayton will be missed from her daily tasks." "Wretches, what do you mean!" shrieked the help- less girl. "I mean this!" exclaimed the professor, dragging her from the room and thrusting her into an inner chamber, -whose door he instantaneously locked, leaving her in utter darkness.   " m     ', 33 \jj         T- dmi   ilioIshlcrfohep"- a 5 ii        Ir. "Uhn e vlan rI shl r o ep"-ae23       A STORY OF NEW YORK.       213 CHAPTER XXVII. THE CLAMPERS PLAN A RECEPTION, AND ELLIOTT APPEARS IN A BAD PLIGHT. The Warburtons had moved out of town, and the good physician was now only a sacred memory. Fred- erick Clamper had commenced his studies in another office, while Elliot found refuge in a boarding house. In this way a complete social revolution had taken place, unnoticed by the great world which moves on, regardless of domnestic evil or woe. Among other matters having their place in the events of the day, was one which just now deeply asgitated the Clampers, and caused such a discussion as that which occurs at least once a year in all fashionable families. In other words, they were about to give a party, or, to use a more popular term, they were " to have a recep- tion." The size, extent, and expense of this affatir had not been decided, and were the cause of manyr interesting arguments, since several questions were to be settled before the undertaking could have definite shape. Hence, the sitting-room in Fourteenth- street witnessed more than one conversation of a tenor similar to the following : "It's rather early in the season," said Mrs. Clamper, who sat as chairwoman in this committee of the whole     214         ONCE MORE. on domestic affairs-" it's a question, wliether so early is fashionable or not?" "Bargo says it don't make any difference," replied Amelia. "Somebody must be first, and then you know you have it all over with." "Then again,"7 said the - chairwoman, " we have got to find out how much it will cost. Your pa says times are getting tight again." "V Why, ma, you can't be standinag about little things all the time," was Amelia's reply. ." Pa is alahys grum- bling about cost, and you know that's vulgar. If we give a party at all, we must give a good one, or people will talk. Last year they said the Maitlands beat the Jobsons, although old Jobson is the richest by half. Talk about cost; why, everything costs! i (We can't be fashionable .without cost," interposed Evangeline. "I spoke to Bargo, and he gave me a figure on the first class: music fifty dollars, wine two hunclred and fifty dollars, table one hundred dollars, confectionery , fifty dollars, wraiters fifty dollars; about five hundred in all," said the arithmetical Amelia. "Five hundred dollars! O clear, how your pa will grumble!" "He makes it up sometimes in one speculation," was the daughter's reply; " and, as for grumbling, he won't grumble when he sees his house turned into a palace of fashion, with gentlemenr and ladies in splendid dresses coming in their carriages, and with himself and you standing to receive them, as Bargo announces their names.   I .        '              - -,  A STORY OXF NEW  YORK.      215 Then to have the house lit from top to bottom; how it will look in the street, and with a policeman near by to lead off the carriages, and the music heard all over the neighborhood. Then inside there will be the dancing, and the supper, and all the people speaking of the great party at the Clampers. - That will be worth five hundllred dollars." 4Yes," added Evangeline, "and then to be invited round all winter; what's five hundred dollars compared to that?" The question of expense appeared to be settled by these accomplished reasoners, who then proceeded to other material points. "We must be very careful who we illvite," said the chairwoman. "You know we must try to keep going up every time. There's that Junkies we had last year, what an ignuorantramus!" "I don't know how Bargo got him on his list. They say he is getting very careless; he must look out or he will lose his reputation," was the answer. "May be Frederick had better look over the list." "Not he," said Amelia.  'Frederick is never agoing to be a fashionable young man ; I'mn quite disappointed in him. Would you believe it, they say he is like to fancy that governess at Warburton's-but I don't believe it a minute. It can7t be." "Nor I either, said the chairwoman. I Frederick wrill never disgrace himself; when he marries, it will be some- I body worth having; beside that, the governess has dis- appeared, they say."     216         ONCE MORE. "But Frederick can't make out the list," said Evange- line. "He is full of his books; beside that, some say that Bargo's list is better this season than ever; he has struck a good many off. He's more-what do you call it Amy?"  "Recherche," said Amelia. "That's right," remarked the chairwoman; -" we don't want anybody that isn't rechurchy." "We must have a few first class merchants," said Amelia; " and Bargo has lots of them." "There's Walfridge, and then there's Betts," suggested Evangeline. "They are boot and shoe men," replied Amy, " and not much at that." "And Rogers." "Wily, he is a dentist!" ' No, I mean rich Rodgers' son; but never mind Amy, we'll settle that with Bargo. You have first to get pa to promise the money; then fix the day, and then put the matter in Bargo's hands and he will attend to all the rest. " The proceedings of this important committee were in- terrupted at the close of Evangeline's remarks, by the presentation of a bill from a fashionable dressmaker, which changed the subject and led to a discussion con- cerning the difference between Canal street and Broad- way as respects style and cost. We will, therefore, im- prove this opportunity to return to the fortunes of one in whom, we presume, the reader to be more interested. We do this with more readiness, since that very morning   A STORY OXF NEW  YORK.       217 an event had occurred, which threw him into no little perturbation, and which was as follows: On taking up the daily paper, and glancing over its columns, his eye was arrested by the following advertisement: "-OUND: A satchel and contents, the latter of a valuable charac- J ter. The above was evidently lost by some passenger on the steamer Swallow, at the time of its disaster, last April, and will be delivered to the owner on his proving property and paying charges. "IsAAC SNEAR, Attorney-at-Law. "Corner of Centre and Anthony streqts, up stairs." This startling announcement caused its reader's heart to beat violently and his hand to trenmble.  He lay the paper down and retired to one of the lofts of the store in order to collect his thoughts.  It was very clear that the satchel referred to was the very one now in his pos- session, and which, after the departure of the Warbur- tons, had been locked in his trunk. His first plan was to return to his boarding house and satisfy himself as to its safety; but after this had been done, it threw no light upon the matter to find the satchel just as it had been left. Could the advertisement then have any bearing upon himself? To satisfy this iliquiry, he purposed to call immediately upon the person desig- nated. He had walked only part of the distance, ,when he felt a hand resting upon his shoulder, and turning around he beheld a policeman. "Excuse me," said the latter, " your name is Elliott Brand, is it not?" "It is, sir." "Then I have a warrant for your arrest." "My arrest!-on what charge?"     218        ONCE MORE. "Charged with stealing indigo and-other goods fromn Clamper, Kin & Co." "Who makes this charge?" "You will find that out when you are examined. All  I have to do is to execute Imy warrant. You will please  wall along with me." "It is not a half an hour since I was at the store, sir."7  "And at that very time I was about to make the arrest, but preferred to wait. Your motions have been watched, sir." "What notions?"  "Your carrying things to Madgers' junk shop; but, never mind, that's nothing to me. All these things will be investigated." The officer and his prisoner took their way up Nassau street, and entered Centre street, whence a short wVallk  brought them  to their destination. It was a massive stone builcling, which, from  its gloomy architecture,  might appropriately be called the II Tombs," by which name it is commonly known. Elliott had often seen this frowning edifice; now, for the first time and with a heavy heart, he crossed its threshold.  The clerk sat at his desk near the door for the purpose of recording the names and crimes of those who entered; and this record being made, the youngo prisoner was led through the office into a wide court sur- rounded by lofty walls. Having passed through this, he arrived at another door, where his name, age and accu- sation were again recorded, after which he was placed in a cell and the door locked.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        219 "Too late to-day for examinations ; returns made up to-morrow at nine o'clock; better send for -counsel." These words were uttered by the keeper as he closed the door.  Elliott's heart sunk within him as he gazed upon the walls of massive stone, and he seemed like one buried alive in a vast tomb. In a short time the door opened and- a flashily-dressed young man appeared at the en- trance, which was soon redolent with his gin-flavored breath. "I called, mly friiend," said the visitor, at the same time handing him a card, " to speak to you about pultting ill a defence. I am used to this branch of the profession. There's nay card, read that-Hiram Stagg, attorney-at-law. You call have my services for twenty dollars." "I have not so much money as that," was the reply. "Well, then, tell dollars,? said the gin-pelrfumed at- torney, " if you can't do any betterv and I am sure to clear you-don't care what they swearl to. Cleared three yesterday." Elliott repeated his statement of pecuniary deficiency, having recently made a remittance home, which had ex- hausted his funds. "No money!" exclaimed the attorney, who was one of that class known as " shysters," and who live by the lowest style of legal practice; "then make it five dol- lars; that's the lowest I ever cleared any one for-no, I did it once for three; for a boy like you, that got cribbed for knocking down change in a grocery. No lower, as sure as iy nlame is Stagg. You'll go up for 'y L LW Y     220        ONCE MORE. three months," continued Mr. Stagg; "they always send  such young chaps for that time."  Elliott received this pleasing assurance with compo-  sure, but whatever might be the result it was certain he  had no money. His last earnings he had sent, as has  been stated, to his mother, and a month's salary was now due him, which that day he had intended to have drawn.                         The shyster departed in disappointment, and no one appeared to break the dull monotony until afternoon, when the dinner was passed in. The youth, however,   could not eat. Thoughts of his present situation crowded  upon him, while in contrast he called up a view of those prospects of success which had lured him to the great  metropolis. At the same time he endeavored to form some idea of the charges which might be brought against  him. And, above all, who could be his accuser? True,  he had carried things to Madgers', but only at the com- mand of Mr. Kin. That individual, therefore, must be the author of the complaint, and the thought of his utter  baseness in thus attempting to ruin a friendless youth  made Elliott sick at heart. Along with this thought came the mystery of the ad- vertisement, and thus two strange and overwhelming questions weighed upon his mind. His only confidence under this complication was a sense of his innocence and a simple trust in God.  To Him, indeed, he was now shut up for help.  His best friend, Doctor Warburton, was dead, while Fobbers, the bookkeeper, though he might be satisfied as to his innocence, could not prove it,   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       221 and, enfeebled by age and poverty, he could do but little" good. In the afternoon the door was opened again, and Elliott was surprised to behold the very man who had warned him against the junk shop. "You see me again," said the stranger. "I heard to- day of your trouble, and so got leave to come in. I was afeerd of somethin' like this when I seed you goin' to that hole; but I hope all will come out right. My rule is, if any man is weak as I are, let him be strong in God-that's my rule."   So saying, the visitor took a pinch of snuff. "I think," continued he', "that there is more than one agin' you; but don't forget this, f If God be for us, who can be agin' us.' That Flink's a mighty deep fellow-- deeper in guilt than I want to be." "And what has Flink to do with this?" asked Elliott. "I tell you it is my opinion that junk shop belongs to him." "To him 1 Why he keeps a fancy store in Broad- way." "Yes, and the time will come when you and I will know what he keeps that store for. I've got my own idee on that matter. May be I can't prove it, and then agin, may be I can. But I say, out and out, that that store is nothing but a blind to the public. Peter Flink don't get his living selling fancy goods. I'll stick to that through thick and thin, if I am the Weakminded mlan." The speaker took another pinch of snuff, and con- tinued:     222         ONCE MORE.  "I sleep on the floor right above the cellar, just where the old coal bin was, where the cracks is wide enough to hear all that's said, and I've heard some things that made my blood tingle. I do chores for a living, and I'm often down in that cellar with what things I can pick up. They think me a little weak in the upper story; but I knows a heap o' what's going on, if I be part fool. I've seen enough of Peter Flink to make him turn pale if he heerd it all; and as for that Gurry, he is in with him; a ruined boy, that, and up to anything, if he does wear broadcloth."                      Ad "I say, young man," continued the visitor, haven't you got a satchel and things in it-found on a steam- boat?"  "Why do you ask that?"? "Bekase I heerd them two fellers talking it all over; M heerd 'em through the crack in the floor. You can hear everything there that's said underneath. From what I heern, there's a nice thing for somebody in your hands, and they are bound to have it, hook or crook; No dan- ger in fleecing a lad like you; no risk in it at all; only a poor country boy, and no friends." "No friends! No friends!" replied the prisoner, and the very walls seemed to echo back the sad words. His employer had caused his arrest, where then could he look for help in that great and selfish city? "I know that Amos Kin," continued the visitor, "and have knowed him for years, ever since he was a wagon boy and peddled through the streets. He's got the slang  of a loafer yet, and can't talk like a gentleman. Old   A STORY OF NEW   YpORK.      223 Clamper brought him up and gin him an interest because he's a good hand at a trick; but Clamper will find out mpe'en he likes about him afore long. I has my eyes about me.  I ofttimes meets these big-feeling men nights when they don't think I'm  around. I know that Amos Kin too well for his own good; he druv t'other clerk away, and he's druv you away, too, and Clamper don'tC see through it. But never mind; Amos Kin is playing with hot irons, and may get his own hand singed." "What, is Kin doing that makes you speak so," said Elliott--" that is, aside from his wrong to lme?" The visitor moved his hands as though shuffling a pack of cards, and with the same dumb show he pro- ceeded to cut and distribute, saying, at the same time, "That's the way the funds have gone, night after night, at Jack Harrison's rooims. He's afeared to have any sharp-sighted clerk in the store, for fear of being found out. He'd rather work twice as hard his ownself; and so he has packed you off to jail, 'cause it was the easiest way of getting rid of you." "And committed perjury to do it!" "I Perjury! what's that in New York.   You may have heerd of a custom house oath.*   Them's not confined to the custom house. Reuben Clamper or Amos Kin, ary *This term is in common use in New York, and we fear in all large cities. It expresses'the every-day perjury which is committed in the swearing down of invoices, etc. Its primary signification, however, refers to the fact that the captain of a ship, before obtain- ing clearance, must swear that he knows the entire cargo of the ves- sel, which oath he takes at once, although not one in a hundred know anything of their cargo, whose reception is the duty of the mate.     224 .       ONCE MORE. one, would swear false for ten dollars. That Kin is a street boy, and has been a liar since he learned to talk. Them fellers never knowed what a conscience is, and never will, I'm afeerd, until it's too late. As for Reuben Clamper, I forgive him what he has done for me." -"What is that?" "What is that?  Why, I wasn't always the Weak- minded man; trouble has rather tapped them old brains. of mine, and I ain't what I was. I had a grocery once. I've seen the day I could hold up my head--and the old woman! Bless her poor soul; she was as good a hand behind the counter as never was. Yes, I've seed the time I've sold herrin' by the box." ,What became of the grocery?" inquired the lad, losing thought of his own trouble in sympathy with his new acquaintance. "Reuben Clamper can tell," was the reply. "He played the same trick on me he has on so many others;  got me to run in debt, and then I had to do my tradin' there and take his damaged goods, and so the grocery run down; and when pay got slow, he sold me out and turned me in the street. How good it was the old woman died. She was taken from the evil to come, but we shall meet at the right time. Never mind," con- tinued the visitor, as though talking to himself, i it's all  right. I forgive Clamper, and may God forgive him too. I've got God after all, and God is enough: beside that, I've got Sue." "And who is Sue?" inquired Elliott. "Sue!I Why Sue is the goat, I thought everybody   A STORY OF NEw YORK.       225 knowed Sue. Sue! Why that goat is the poor 'man's treasure. In summer she sleeps in the stable, and in winter she sleeps in the old house with me, and, makes a nice pillow of a cold night. Her milk is board and medicine to a poor fellow like me, and her company is so good, now since I've lost the old woman!" The Weakminded man wiped a tear from his eye, and went on: "Sue! I thought everybody know'd Sue. Why, that goat will go down to the Battery and eat grass, aind then come home like a child; and she is a child to me, and nothin' but death shall part us--" The Weakmilnded man muight have prolonged this out- burst, but the time for closing had arrived, and the officer bade him depart, and in a few minutes the clerk was the solitary inmate of his cell. 15     226        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XXVIII.  THE LUNATIC ASYUM. *' I find it hard to make anything out of that patient,"  said Miss Barton to Mrs. Hipples, the matron. "She does not appear like a lunatic. Do they ever make mis- takes?"                     t   "Our doctors are not infallible," replied the matron. "Insanity is a strange disease. People imay be seisible on all subjects but one, and be crazy on that, and so have  to be locked up for safety." Such was the conversation held in what is called the  'convalescent ward of the lunatic asylum on Blackwells  Island, and as it was uttered the parties approached the  couch where lay the invalid referred to.  It was the form of a young and delicate girl, in whom, had any of our readers been. present, they would have recognized Ada Brayton. "You have been quite ill, but are better now," said Miss Barton ; " don't you think so?"  "I feel stronger and more composed-but where am I?  Is not this a lunatic asylum?" "It is." J "Where?"  "Blackwells Island."   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       227 "Is it possible! Is this the end of that horrid affair? What awful event may next happen to one so unpro- tected as I?" "Poor thing," said Miss Barton, " she is having a re- lapse, I fear. Don't become excited, my child, or they'll put you in the other ward." "Excited! I am not excited. I rather feel ill; sick at heart, and sick in body, also; but, thank God, my senses are complete, though in mv troubles I sometimes think I should have been haplier if I had lost them. How long have I been here?" "Only three days." "By whom was I brought hither?" "By two policemen, in a carriage, with a warrant, issued on the affidavit of two physicians-Doctor Del- mine and Doctor Jones." "In what condition was I when brought here?" "In a delirium." "Could you tell the cause of that delirium?" "Our physician did not state the cause. He has a vast amount of duty, and does not attempt to investigate each case as it enters. He prefers to let the patient sub- side under our treatment, and in a fewldays he gives the case more attention."  "Will he be in, this ward soon?"  "We expect him at three o'clock." By the time the physician came on his walk, Ada was sitting up, and met his benevolent countenance. "Doctor," said she, "I understand I am in a lunatic asylum." ,   J     228         ONCE MORE. "You are where you will be benefited. We shall do all we can for you, Miss Smith."' ' "Miss Smith! Why, my name is Brayton!" "Oh, child, be quiet, or you will be worse. I think you are gaining now, and should be sorry to have you relapse. Your recovery depends much on your avoiding excitement of any kid."' As the physician said this, he continued his walk through the ward, which was a spacious apartment, with bars on -the windows. It contained a large number of women of various ages, all of whom were evidently patients. How she came to that place was a mystery. Her last recollections dated from her imprisonment at the astrologer's, where she had been kept on bread and water for several days. Then came the memory of that paper to which her signature was required. Could that have anything to do with her present condition? What could that paper mean? It was called a testimony of innocence. Inno- cence of what? Had any crime been laid to her charge? She thought of the anonymous letter at the Warbur- tons, and as she recalled that malignant attack upon one so poor and friendless, the thought moved her to tears. But why did she not yield her signature, when this act would have relieved her from imprisonment? Simply because mystery was antagonistic to her nature. She could not assent to any demand brought in so sudden and so inexplicable a manner. The impression was irresistible that there must be some- thing connected with her history of a secret and im-   A STORY OF 2EW YORK.       229 portant nature, and that this demand had a bearing upon it. How important that thing might be, she could of course folrm no idea; but with such an impression rest- ing on her mind she could not yield her name to an un- known document. It wVas also evident that her brain had been obscured and her system excited in a plowerful manner by some unknown agency, since all that intervened between the darkened room at Madame Delmine's and the asylum was a blank. Could she have been drugged, and driven thus into delirium and apparent madness? In the midst of these perplexing thoughts came a con- sciousness that- all was in the hands of God ; " that not a sparrow could fall to the ground without His knowledge,'" and that the velry hairs of her head were numbered. He had watched over her under her earlier trials, and she had found Him at last bringing good out of evil This thought gave her comfort, and she offered her tribute of pl'ayer and praise in that abode of deplorable lunacy. The next afternoon the physician again walked the ward, and Ada was glad of the opportunity to converse with him. "You feel better to-day, do you not?" was the en- quiry. - "I think I can see that at a glance." "I am much better; thank you," said Ada ; " and now will you tell me, doctor, how I canme here?" "You were brought, Miss Smith, under a lunacy war- rant, issued by Justice Parker, on the regular medical affidavit. Your father accompanied you here."     230         ONCxE MORE.            ! "My father! My father is dead!" "Your father's name is down on the record, which reads Susan Smith, daughter of Nathan Smith. Your   H father stated at the office that he meant to take you to another institution as soon as he could make suitable arraingements, this being a charity connected with the  almshouse."  "There is some great mistake in this," replied Ada, I with feeling which she could not suppress. "My father ! is dead, and, instead of Susan Smith, my name is Ada  Brayton. Can this affair have anything to do with the   astrologer?" "What astrologer?"  "The place where I refused to sign my name, and   s was on that account imprisoned."            i "Say no more about that," replied the physician,    "but strive to be calm. You are now doing so well that we must keep you improving." "Poor thing," said he, in a low tone, "she is still  wandering, but will soon get better."           As these words were uttered, he turned away to visit the other patients, when Ada, anxious to avail herself of i every opportunity of friendly aid, exclaimed: "For the truth of my statement I can refer you to Doctor Warburton." "Doctor Warburton is dead," was the reply. Overcome by this fearful intelligence, she sank back upon her couch in a swoon.   A STORY OF- NEW YORK.       231 CHAPTER XXIX. AN EXPLANATION Or THE FOREGOING. The facility with which Ada Brayton had been thrown into a lunatic asylum illustrates one of the peculiar fea- tures of our laws. According to the statute, a warrant can be issued by a justice of the peace, on the aidavit of two physicians affirming the charge of lunacy, on which warrant an arrest can be made, and the alleged lunatic can be lodged in anl asylum. Such is law; we need not ask if it be justice. Should our readers be desirous of knowing how Ada Brayton became an inmate of such an institution, the following would be our explanation: The astrologer and her associate in crime, having failed to induce Ada to sign the paper, even though imprisonment and starvation were employed to force a submission, held a council of war in which a third party appeared and was evidently not a little interested in the results. This person could very easily be recognized as Reuben Clamper, although he had for the occasion assumed a species of disguise, consisting of a wig, a pair of spectacles and a black over- coat. This council revealed the necessity of a change in the policy to be carried out with respect to Ada, whose life     232         0.CE H ORE            I evidently came into collision with Mr. Clamper's interest in no small degree. That Reuben Clamper would have shrunk from nlur- der, might have been believed by many, even of those whom he had defrauded in transactions of a business nature. Few  indeed would imagine that the Front     street merchant could develop such a degree of malice  and- depravity ; but the annals of crime have abundantly  proved that transition from fraud to bloodshed is com- paratively easy, and that the conscience which has been silenced by habitual robbery (even when varnished by the name of trade) is easily hardened to a murderous degree. Beneath all the excitements of a heavy business there was one strong desire pervading Reuben Clamper's heart, and that was to have Ada Brayton " put out of the way," to use the common term in such cases; and this had been concerted in that plot which Elliott Brand had overheard in the park. The plan having failed, the necessity of next in im- portance was to obtain her signature to a release of certain rights, a task which had been assumed by the astrologer in consideration of a heavy reward. This woman, in order to accomplish her ends, had sent the anonymous letter which drove Ada from the Warbur- tons, and had thus beheld an incipient success. She then employed Miss Gwire as a spy, and through her in- fluence had succeeded in bringing her victim still closer into her toils. Here however, she had been baffled by Ada's determination, and before any other step could be taken it was necessary to deliberate.   A STORY OF .NEW YORK.       233 Reuben Clamper in pursuing his victim thus, was well aware of his criminality. He knew that law had its penalty and there was a chance that while seeking his great end he might be brought to punishment. But self-interest now drove him from one step in guilt to another. Hence the scheme which now came up for dis- cussion, and this was the one whose success hat thus far been recorded. Ada had been plied with a stimulating and half- poisonous potion which drove her inito a delirium, during which her arrest as a lunatic took place. Reuben Clam- per on this- occasion personated the father, wearing the disguise we have described, and with affected sorrow gave her into the physician's hands. His intention was to have her conveyed to a private asylum in New Jersey as soon as he could perfect his arrangementS. Meanwhile the plea of poverty enabled him to place her at the public asylum at Blackwells Island, where our readers beheld her enjoying the kindest anid most judicious treatment. Thus ftar it had pleased the great ruler of events to permit this nefarious scheme to progress, and Ada, who had learned in the school of Christ to submit, endeavored to yield herself into the hands of her Heavenly Father. From her couch in the asylum  she uttered many a prayer and felt the hovering presence of the Holy Spirit who is promised as the comforter of God's afflicted people. As she recovered from the delirium thus treacherously brought on, her tone of health improved and the normal     234         ONCE MORE. condition of both mind and body began to appear in a ; manner so evident that there could be no denying her claim to sanity. The question then might have arisen, who brought her to that place and how could such an outrage be committed? But in a great public charity where the rush of misfortune never ceases, its officers have no time to search out the mysteries of the poor. It is enough to say that her pretended father never  : appeared to remove her as he, had engaged to do. In fact Am Mr. Nathan Smith? did not care to risk himself so near his victim or the scene of his crime. He learned ? from his spies that Ada was rapidly improving, and he also learned soon after that she was discharged, or in, other words permitted to leave, fully restored. This intelligence was of course very annoying to Mr. Clamper and threatened his plans with defeat. He had neither succeeded in removing Ada by death nor obtained the required release; and now as his scheme of insanity faded away he felt a disappointment amid which con- scielfce began to utter its voice. That voice was the most unwelcome that he could have heard, and he drowned it by the usual glass of brandy and plunging to a greater depth into the vortex of trade.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        235 CHAPTER XXX. SHOWING HOW A POOR GIRL FACES WANT. After leaving the asylum Ada was ferried over from Blackwells Island, and as the boat crossed the river she thought- of the vast multitude of unfortunates which is gathered on that unhappy spot. There loomed up before her the gloomy penitentiary where the wretched victims of temptation expiate their misdeeds. Great as had been her misfortunes she had been pre- served from crime. Although poverty and danger had tracked her steps, she had never wronged any of her race. Her hands were clean and her heart was pure from "outward stain, and with a calm. conscience and a submis- ,sive yet increasing faith she went forward to meet the exigencies of her lot. Her first errand was to call on Mrs. Podgeford, where her reception was much cooler than she expected. "So, then, you've come back, Miss. We didn't look for that after leaving so suddenly. You've come for your things, I suppose." "You are not unwilling I should remain?" "Of course I am, after what's happened." Whereupon Mrs. Podgeford gave Ada to understand that Miss Gwire had reported that she had gone off with Marcus Swelly, and that this report was generally cred-     236         ONCE MORE. ited, as she had suddenly disappeared and left no expla- nation. "I must take care of my house and my good name, Miss," continued Mrs. Podgeford, "for that's my living, and you know how easy it is for one to get run down inl character." Ada, alas! knew this only too well. i"As I see you are out of a home, you may sleep in my attic to-night," said Mrs. Podgeford. "Thank you ; not with Miss Gwire?" "Oh, no; she left me last week, and in debt at that." Ada thanked Mrs. Podgeford again, with a silent de- termination to act in an independent manner. On her way down street she had noticed rooms to let in a cheap tenement house, and she at once thought of this mode of life. Calling at the place a small apartment :about eight by ten feet was found to be vacant, and times being dull, the agent offered it at the low rate of one dollar per week. "You will want it furnished, Miss," said the agent. "There is a lot of furniture up garret, too good to burn up and too poor to sell. Take what you want and pay me twenty-five cents per week for it. Remember," says he as he gave her the key, "I lets this room to a sewing girl, that's you. My tenants are decent, poor as they be, and I won't have none but decent people round here. I lets this room to you as a sewing girl, nothin' more. You understand?"  Ada did understand, and  bitter indeed was the hint thus rudely conveyed; but she had no time to think of   A STORY OF NEW   YORK.      237 anythinog but the great struggle for life, and she imme- diately arranged the room for occupancy.   F'rom the refuse furniture referred to she obtained a small table, deficient in one leg, but which stood when thrust against the wall.   A bedstead was found of similar character and of that pattern which is commonly called a " cot," while a partially broken ch air promised a fiail support. A spirit lamp was sufficient to cook by, and but few utensils were needed to aid in so limited a dwellintg. A straw bed could be bought for one dollar, and at a second-hand store three dollars would buy a pair of sheets and a coverlet. Three weeks' wages were due her at the Swellys, which was paid on demand, and in this manner Ada was enabled to set up housekeeping. For fifty cents she purchased at the grocery a loaf of bread, a half-quarter of tea and a small measure (this term being commonly used for a quarter-peck, in which limited quantity a vast numberlof poor people in New York purchase most of their vegetables) of potatoes and the same quantity of beans, with a tiny paper of salt and pepper. These she cooked with the lamp, which though tedious was an effectual method, and she took her supper with a thankful hetart. Poor as she was she had God as her portion, and lonely as she might be she   had the promise of our Saviour as a friend.  With this confidence she lay down and slept sweetly until daylight called her to arise and prepare for labor. How painful a lot was hers will be only understood by   those who may have undergone a similar experience.             i     238         ONCE MORE. It was not m rely poverty, bitter as that alone must be, but it was the consciousness of being the victim of hate and of slander. It was to think that wherever she had gone falsehood had followed with its serpent's tooth. Driven by it from the Warburtons, it repeated its venom at the boarding house, and  she had been expelled  from what little society she had thus far reached. She was in fact cut off. fi'om the world and to a certain degree under its ban. Her character had been assaulted, her good name destroyed, and she mnust bear in solitude and ill silence the stigma thrust upon her. And yet Ada did not rebel as in former times of trial. She had learned enough to believe that there was a divine wisdom guiding her path, and that whatever might be the result it would still be well, while an approving con- science gave her peace. After partaking of her frugal breakfast she called at the grocery, where she was permitted to look at the columns of the daily paper in order to discover some method of earning a support. Here were as usual many "wants of places" and but few asking for help. To re- turn-to the Swellys was out of the question, as long at least as the brutish brother was there, and hence she gladly contemplated notices from which she once would have shrunk. Among others the following paragraph met her eye: WANTED; Shirt hands on coarse work. Apply at Grinder & Co., 130 Chatham street. There could be little that was attractive in such an ad- vertisement as this. Ada well knew that that class of   A STORY o0 NEW YORr.        239 sewers who wrought on shirts received small pay, while the " coarse work" was done at a much less rate. All this she knew, but necessity, as on previouus occasions, drove her to seek the only chance of escaping want. Grinder & Co., the parties who thus advertised, were of that large number of manufacturers of cheap clothing whose hard dealing with the poor is little better than- crime. They operated largely and had goods made up for different markets. Thdy lnt shirts of a fine make South to supply the furnishing establishmelts of New Orleans and Mobile, while coarser goods, such as twilled cotton jeans, Mrel made into overalls and blouse for workingmen and plantation hands-this style of work being generally termlled " hickory." They had a large number of seamstresses in their em- ploy, each of whom got work on Monday mornings and brought it back Saturday nights, when it was examined by Mr. Smickles, the junior member of the concern. This gentleemanl had wo'iked himself into the good graces of his employers and obtained a partnership by his fiaculty in browheating and terrifying the " hands " in addition to other duties, and it was from  long practice his delight on a Saturday afternoon to view the array of pale-filced women who with trembling hands brought their baskets full of garments to be examined.  A large part of the profits of the concern was derived from  Mr. Smickles' great success in getting work done cheaply, or, to quote Mr. Grinder's favorite term, " next to nothin'." On Ada's application  in reply to the advertisement, Mr. Smickles, who was at this time enjoying a segar, re-     240         ONC1E MORE. plied by coolly surveying the nlew comner from head to foot, glancing in an imtpertinent nmanner info her eyes and studying her face as though to perceive how much he could take the advantage. He had just sent out a large amount of work and was gratified that a new victim appeared. The reason why no more applicants were seen may be found in the reputation which this firm en- joyed. So many had been robbed and imposed upon in various ways that most of that wretched class who live by " slop worl " kept aloof from this notorious shop. "You advertised f'or hands,' said Ada. "I b'leeve they didcl; at least some of the concern did, though that part I don't look after. Coarse work, wa'ant it?" "Yes." Well, we've got orders for a few hundred hickory shirts, and you canll try your chance on them." "How much deposit?" The girl was only afraid the sum would exceed her slender funds which she was carefully hoarding in view of future need.  "On hickory shirts thirty cents, overalls forty cents. You can raise that, I s'pose."  "And what do you give for making shirts?" "Hickories I s'pose you mean, my pretty Miss. Six- pence apiece is what we pays." ' "Sixpence apiece! Good heavens, how can poor girls live at that?" "Well, I don't know anything about that matter. If they can't get their living at one thing they can at an-   A STOfY OF NEW YORK.         241 other. 'We get all the hickories done we want. Will you take some?" "At that price?" "At that price! my pretty girl. We can get lots done at that price; and as you are rather good-looking I will not be so very close in examining your work as what I do to some." Ada felt her blood tingle at the fellow's impertinence, but she was silent-she had learlned to endure insults and unkindness from the world. "How nmlany can a person do in a day?" "A, slmart hand can turn out six. You see, it's only a seam each side, -and then on with the sleeve, and they have a way of putting 'eim through on a run." "But you expect work done well." "Yes, yes, of course done well; but any one kniows the difference between hickory and linen. The price is low, but the work is done quick, and then comes the cash. Eh."  The terms were hard, but as a matter of course they were accepted. A    deposit of three dollars and sixty cents enabled her to take a dozen, and with a sad heart she turned her way homeward. And yet that sadness was not solely due to her own condition.  Hard as her lot might seem, she had a place of shelter, and even at the low rate of pay she could sus- * The writer is glad to say that there are occasional exceptions to this general rule. He knows of some houses who pay what may be called living wages, and who succeed in business full as well as those who practice extortion on those who serve them. 16     242         ONCE MORE. tain life. But it was the thought that such was not only hers but the lots of thousands of her sex, cast thus upon the world to battle for bread, and forced by their aggregate necessities to a destructive competition which diminished their own chances of support. That a mere six cents was to be her pay for making a shirt was due to the fact that so many women souOht work even at such a pittance, while the money which she thus ear'ned would lessen the employment desired by others. Alas for the condition of womene in a large city! Their permanent relief has been a long and wearisome problem which still remains unsolved. And as New York continues to increase in size so will increase the volume of woman's mlisery. Having returned to her room, Ada :collmmenced plyincg her needle, and had such good success that before noon she had two shirts finished. Then came her scant andtl solitary dinner, to be followed by an equal amlount of work, which was finished by supper time. She had thus earned twenty-four cents, of which sulll one-half would be required for rent. Of the remainder, two-thirds hadcl been devoted to the purchase of food, leaving a few cents as a reserve. As she ate her evenincg meal the thought of her situation rose before her with overcomllincg emotion, and  as she again recalled the happy hours spent at the Wer- ners and the Warburtons, her eyes filled and involuntary sobs broke the silence of evening. But it was no time for tears ; she once more resumed the needle, and before bed time had finished another shirt, and as she did so   A STORY OF NEIW YORK.      243 how pleasant was the thought that she was now ten cents in advance of expenses. The labor of the day was done. How cheering now would it be to have some conversation with a friend, or to look into some countenance that one might love. Once more came before her the array of old fiiends- Auria Werner and Dr. Warburton, and then another, whose image as it flitted by called forth a sigh more in- tense than any other--but all that was past, and she dis- imissed the thought with a mental convulsion which called for fiesh air to restore her firame. She seized h er bonnet and descended the stairs, and in- a moment was breathing an atmosphere which, impure as it was, still was better than thmat ot' her room. At the street door was gathered a number of the inmates of the building--men, women and children huddled together and all endeavoring to enjoy that brief respite which pre- cedes the time of sleep. Their attention Was turned to the girl as she passed, and her sensitive nature anticipated whatever unkind or suspicious remarks might be made. A few steps more, and she was alone. Alolne in the streets of New York, and after nine o'clock! There was a time she would have shuddered at the thought, but now her heart was steeled against all reg:lrd for opinion so long as her conscience was pure. She had been, while innocent, assailed by slander and driven from those she loved, and now she retorted upon society her indignant defiance. A half-hour's walk afforded relief, and without meeting any annoyance she returned to her rooml happy at least in the thought of her independence. If severed     244         O NCE MORE. from her friends, she was by the same rule delivered from all liability to human censure. Then came the reading of the Bible, whose mysterious lessons were now precious, even though she could not comprehend their full import or measure their depth. It was sufficient that they unfolded a Saviour's love and afforded a faith which could cheer her darkened lot. Once misfortune had filled her with bitterness; now it wrlought patience, and faith looked forward to the hour when the mystery of sorrow    sholld be explained. "What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter," was an assurance which encouraged her to rest in the words of her Saviour and kept her frotm sink- ing in that hour of trial. * Before closing this chapter we may refer to one cir- cumstance which occasioned no little surprise. On ex- amining the room one morning, within a week of its occupancy, there were signs which indicated that it had recently been visited by some strangers. These indica- tions were confined to the arrangements of her food. A small bowl of sugar was gone and other articles were changed in position. It was extremely annoying to have her privacy thus invaded, and the question arose, when could this have been done?   Not surely during her slumbers; but inasmuch as all was in order at supper time, the inference arose that it must have occurred during her evening walk. The lock of the door proved on examination to be of a cheap character, which almost any key could fit, and hence access to her room could not be a difficult matter.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        245 245 But who could have sufficient interest in her to make such a nocturnal visit? This was a puzzling question, and she was fain to let it rest with other mysteries such as the anonymous letter and the asylum at Blackwellb Island.     246        ONCE MORE.  i i CHAPTER XXXI. WHCH GIVES A FURTHER ACCOUNT OF A YOUNG        PRISONER. That night was a sorrow-laden time to the imprisoned clerk, who felt its shadows bury his very soul. What a day, indeed, had that been which it was now closing. All that day while the heavy hours dragged on he had sat in patient watchfulness, at times relieving his mind by weeping, while occasionally this relief would be followed by renewed outhreaks of agony. These would spring firom the thought of home. How would it sound for them to hear that he was in prison? How crushing to his mother, even though she might be satisfied of his innocence. Alas! was this the end of his career in New York-to be buried under a charge of crime? At last his grief exhausted itself, and, to while away the time, he looked around his cell and examined its contents. These were limited to a stool, a small table and a straw pallet which lay upon an iron frame. The light, though dim, was sufficient to se'e these things, and he counted the bars in the door and even the joints in stone masonry-so solid and so heavy, who could ever hope to escape? From time to time he heard the heavy tramp of feet in the corridor, and occasionally the click   A STORY OF AVE3W YORK.      247 of a turning lock jarred upon his ears and told of some new comer to that place of woe. Hour after hour slowly passed away; the light became still more dim and he knew that night was at hand. Then came the call from his unknown friend, and this gave him comfort, after which, as the shadows gathered about him he felt more at peace, for he knew that God saw him and would watch over him, even there in prison. These thoughts gradually calmed his troubled breast, and agreeable to his custom he bowed in prayer and poured forth his sorrows to Him who has said, 'Call upon me in the hour of trouble and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify my name." He then lay down upon his pallet and falling asleep, for grief had made him weary, he dreamed of home. In the midst of the night he awoke with the conscious- ness of being in a strange place, but where he knew not, until he felt the stone floor with his outstretched hands and the thought of his condition suddenly broke upon him. He burst into tears, and wept himself to sleep again, continuing in slumbers partially broken, until morning when he arose to pray and weep. In due time a rude breakfast was handed in, of which he could take but little except the coffee, which, poor as it was, was refreshing, and then the dull wing of time moved on in protracted monotony. At last the door was again opened, and an elderly man of b)enevolent aspect and Quaker garb entered and was at once locked in. Elliott gazed upon him with surprise. Could he, too, be a prisoner?     248         O'NCE MORE. This question was settled by the new comer, who spoke thus: "My name is Hopper; I am agent of the Prison  Association. I was away yesterday and so was prevented from reaching thy case. Our object, my young friend, is to do thee good; tell me frankly all about it." "You know what I am charged with," said Elliott. "The record says larceny. Thee had better tell me the whole affair and we will do all we can for thee." "I am innocent," said Elliott, looking him steadily in the face. "All prisoners say that," replied the visitor, "but I am inclined to believe thee, since thy face endorses thy words. Thee don't look like a thief. Now go on and tell me thy whole story." Elliott related the history of his life in New York, including his possession of the articles found on the Swallow, his knowledge of Clamper's dishonesty and the orders of the latter to watch Mr. Kin, and finished with an account of his visit to the junk shop. The agent listened attentively, fixing his penetrating  eye upon the prisoner and reading every expression of his countenance, until the story was finished. "I think I understand  it," said he; "such things occasionally occur.  This matter shall be investigated. It looks as though  there was more than one party in the affair. Thou art arrested on the oath of Amos Kin, and it is possible that he has taken this method to drive thee out of their concern, even if in so doing he blasted thy character.  At nine o'clock the police court opens and A , ;    A STORY OF NEw YORK.        249 thy case will come up; don't be afraid, I will be there.'" As he said this the visitor made a signal and the door was unlocked; before he took his leave, however, he slipped in Elliott's hands a card, which was thus in- scribed       ' "SAAC T. HOPPER, Agent of the NEW YORK PRISON ASSOCIATION, Office, 15 Centre Street." The words of this excellent man cheered the poor lad's heart just as they had in so many similar instances cheered the hearts of the unfortunate. It was his chief pleasure to subserve the good of hiW race, and now having  gone to his reward, he has left the example of a long life devoted to philanthropy. As agent for that most useful institution, the Prison Association, Mr. Hopper was rescuing many a young culprit who had fallen into. sudden temptation, while in many cases he found in- nocence entangled in the meshes of circumstance and suspicion, friendless and helpless beneath the heel of in- justice. This institution still carries on its work of mercy, and thus fulfills the words of our Saviour, "I was in prison and ye visited me." The hour for court soon arrived, and Elliott, among other prisoners of recent arrest, was marched out of the corridor through an open yard and up a pair of stairs, whence they were ushered into a spacious room. It was lighted by a large window, in front of which a -magis- trate sat at his desk with a clerk at his side and several     250         ONCE MORE. officials close at hand. The watch returns were calledcl off and a wretched array of culprits was summarily dis- posed of. Among these were the lowest class of thieves and pickpockets-somne youngr and others of mature years-with whom were a few   women, whose coun- tenlances indicated that deeper reach of degradation of which only woman is capable. Elliott gazed around the room. He saw the scowling , face of Flink, by whose side there sat his attorney, Mr. Jobby, a thick-set man, with low forehead and swinish countenance, dressed in a fiadd blue coat with brass buttons and what had been a velvet colla'r. He looked in vain, however, for the morning visitor, whose card he still held in his hand. At length, indl just at the time his heart was fluttering with the expectallcy of hearing E his name called, he saw the agent enter, attended by a middle-aged gentleman of dignified and commanding     appearance. "I told the justice to put off thy case till the last. We are ready now," said the agent, and the trio sat down together, and Elliott, who was looking at Flink, could not but observe that his countenance was clouded by the appearance of these gentlemen, behind whom there appeared a bowed and nervous form, which occa- sionally refreshed its nose with a pinch of snuff. At last the voice of the clerki was heard--"People agaiinst Elliott Brand. Mr. Brand you are charged with larceny-warrant issued on affidavit of Amos Kin- stealing indigo and other goods from the store of Clam- per, Kihl & Co. Prosecutor, please step forward."   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       251 "May it please the court," exclaimed the man with the brass buttons, "we will not press that charge, although the party who purchased the stolen property is here to prove it. The court will observe that the pris- oner is young, and we do not wish to visit him. with the law. The prosecutor therefore authorizes me to with- draw the complaint." "Stop! 77 exclaimed Mr. Hopper; " we object to that. Your honor will bear in mind that this young lman has been dragged here as a public spectacle--is a common thief: We shall not permit that charge to be withdrawn. The prisoner demands' trial; he has a character at stake." "What do you say to that, Mr. Jobby?" asked the magistrate. "Why, if the boy is so foolish as to want to be sent up, I s'pose we will have to. He's very badly advised, as your honor will observe. Call the complainant." "m Amos Kin," roared the clerk. No one replied. "Your honor, I would state my belief that the com- plainant is very busy at this time, and hence we ask for an acljournment," said Mr. Jobby. "Wee oppose it!" exclaimed the agent. "This youth is innocent, and shall he be thrust again in prison to gratify the malice of Amos Kin and of this Jacob Jobby, his tool, and the tool of other villains?" "Do you mean me??" said Mr. Jobby, stepping for- ward. "May it please the court," continued the agent, paying     252         ONCE MORE. no attention to Mr. Jobby's inquiry, "I cut this matter short by calling for an honorable dischtarge." "The prisoner is discharged, of course," replied the justice, while the agent continued: "I now demand the arrest of Peter Flink, alias Mad- gers, Simon Gurry and Jacob Jobby for conspiracy to defraud Elliott Brand and others out of the contents of a satchel containing papers and jewelry of value; the first party being also charged with receiving stolen goods under the name of Madgers, while keeping a fancy store as a blind-a fact long known to the police." Mr. Flink turned pale and made some steps toward the door, but was stopped by an officer. "On whose deposition is it?" he inquired, with an expression as though he had nerved himself to know the worst. "Hervey Cinders-otherwise called the Weakminded man," replied the clerk, passing out the warrant to the officer. "I That vagabond!" exclaimed the newly-arrested pris- oner. , "Vagabond or not," replied the Weakminded man, "there's the charge, and more than me can prove it. I have heard your secret plans over and over again, and so has others." "As for Mr. Amos Kin, we shall take care of him," said Mr. Hopper, while Jobby and Flink were detained to answer; " he is liable for false imprisonment. Now, young friend, thee is honorably discharged, and is at liberty to pursue thy calling."   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       253 The whole affair had taken but a few minutes and Elliott was so overpowered that he hardly knew how to thank his deliverer. "No need of trying to do that now," replied the latter, who saw his embanrrassment, and turning to the gentleman behind him remarked, ,( this is the lad I spoke  to thee about. He is a culprit no longer." "My young friend," said the gentleman, "I dropped in at the request of Mr. Hopper, being a member of the Association and taking an interest in its work. Mr. Hopper has given me some account of your history." 't He heas saved me from  a false accusation," said Fliott, while his eyes filled at the thought. "Thank God I!" exclaimed the gentleman, ( and now, young man, we will all walk out together," and the group leaving the room, entered the porch. "I will say to -you," continued the gentleman, "that you can remain under Mr. Hopper's care if you wish, for he will still befriend you, and should you want a situation I will be your reference. Indeed, I might give you a, chance in our concern. I think we could find use for a lad like yourself. Here is my card, ' Thornton & Sons'7; call when you find it convenient."' So saying, the benevolent gentleman bade them good morning, and walking down street, left Elliott and the prison agent in deep conversation-after which the clerk turned his steps in the direction of Clamper's store. An hour had thus been passed, and just now a crowd of men and boys turned the corner and evinced a degree of excitement which indicated some unusual occurrence. * VA     254         ONCE MORE. Foremost among them was a stoult-built man leading a goat by means of a short rope, -,and his fiequent tugrging proved that the animal was little disposed to follow. Close by walked another form which might easily be 'recognized as that of Reuben Clamper, while a crowd followed on both sides anxious to see the result. In the midst of this scene wam heard the loud plraintive tone of the Weakminlded man uttering, in the way of a general appeal: "Oh, dear! Clamper has levelled on Sue!" The explanation of this scene is to be found in the fact that Reuben  Clamper, in -view of the extra- ordillnary expense to which the applooachillg party would subject him, had been looking up his list of bad ac- counts, hoping to glean something from thalt balren field. Here among others, he noticed the name of Hervey Cinders, on whose effects he once had a chattel mortgage, by means of which he sold the entire stock owned by the latter. Since then he learned that this debtor had become possessed of a goat valued at twenty-five dollars, and although this property was exempt by law, yet Reuben Clamper knew how to avoid such a difficulty. He accomplished this work with a few strokes of the pen, which were less noticeable from the fact that the original document was in his own hand writing. Mr. Clamper always drew up his own chattel mortgages. for the very reason that he wished to put in just what his caprice or avarice might dictate. So in' this instance all he had to do was to alter the date of the mortgage, by changing a cypher into a figure six, and by adding at the bottom of the inventory the followingc words, " one milch goat."' C . I                    })v J   '\ ', ! A STORY O'F NJEW YORK.       255 Having done this he stepped to the door and looking ulp and down street, his eye was attracted by a form clad like himself,. in grocer's gray, with a broad-brimmed hat surmnounting a cast ilonii visage. "Here Dooks is a little job. You've kept track of Cinders?  Mr. Dooks assented by a nod. He was a constable and remembelred his official dignity. "And you know he's got a valooble goat." "Gin him when a kid by an Irish womean," responded the officer. "Never mind about that," said Mr. Clamper, "I've got a mortgage on to it, and by the statoot I have a right to take it crt any time ; you know the animal I 'spose?" I haint kept track of the old fellow for nuthin," re- sponded the officer. "Of course, I know it. It feeds on the Battery every day which is agin the law, any way." The Battery is near Front street and was but a few minutes' walk fronm the spot where this conversation took place. As Mr. Clamper had nothing else to do just at that time, he volunteered to accompany Mr. Doolks, and they  soon' found Sue nibbling by the side of the Battery fence. Now, Sue being a tame and unsuspicious body allowed Mr. Dooks to fasten a rope around her neck, but when he attempted to lead her off' she manifested a stubborn disposition, and not only reared upon her hind legs, but made a set upon the officer with a formidable pair of horns.   7     256         ONCE MORE. "I say, Rube, if you want this here goat seized, you've got to bear a hand. It'll take a posse for to do it." As Mr. Dooks said this he picked his hat from the gutter, whither it had found its way in the conflict, and wiped the sweat from  his brow with a red' cotton 'kerchief. Mr. Clamper had become somewhat excited with the determination to secure the prize, and therefore lost sight of the grotesque figure which he offered to the public eye. Hence he marched behind to reinforce the officer if Sue should again become violent, while a crowd of boys followed the party up street, indulging in comical remnarks, which were anythiing but agreeable to Mr. Clamper's ear. The crowd soon became noisy, and some who recog- nized the officer began to cry out, "Old Bill Dooks," while others exclaimed, "Take that goat back and stop fleecing the poor." By this time they had nearly reached the stable, into which Mr. Clamper intended to place his prize, when a man was observed in the distance hurryinlg to the scene, waving his artms and making other signs of excitement. He was evidently very weary with the pursuit, for after runniing a short distance he would sit down and rest, while deep emotions seemed to be work- ing within. A few tears and sobs would burst forth, and then, suppressing his feelings, he would dash forward again. As he reached the spot he sunk down exhausted, and in a moment Elliott was by his side and recognize  his prison friend. "All gone! all gone!" exclaimed the Weakminded   A STORY OF NVEW YORK.      257 man.!"First the grocery, then the old womanp, and now Sue. May God forgive Reuben Clamper." Mr. Clamper heard the voice, and recognizing its . owner turned upon him  with a bitter look and ex- claimed, "Pay your debts, you old pauper." i"Yes, pauper I am," was the reply; "you made me one. I've got God, though, and you can't take Him away. But Sue! poor Sue! who'll love her as I do- who'll be good to her now? I could have seed her die first." A change now took place in the scene, which most un- expectedly reversed its entire character. Mr. Dooks' hold of the rope had slackened in an involuntary manner by the effect of the voice which attracted general attention, while Sue, hearing the familiar tones of her master, made a dash anrd broke away. Mr. Clamper strove to stop the animal, but he had little calculated its strength and agility, for dashing between his legs, it laid him prostrate on the pavement, while the crowd raised a shout of delight and sympathy. The next moment. Sue was in the old man's arms, and both were surrounded by the excited populace, who cast a look of defiance at Ithe discomfited couple. Riube Clamper," said the constable, "you best go home and say nuthin' about this. You can charge the goat to profit and loss, and the next time you want to level on one youneedn't call oil Bill Dooks." So saying, the omcer started for the nearest tap-room, while Mr. Clamper thrust his hands in his pockets and walked home with clenched teeth. Wlen' this gentle- 17     258        ONCEN MORE. man reached the store he let off his feelings by swearing  violently at Mr. Fobbers, after which he went up stairs and with his own hands adulterated his stock of liquors enough to make up not only for the loss of the goat, but, for the entire expense of the party. Such was the incep- tion of the great event which was to gladden the Clam- pers and assist them in attaining a higher reach of social position.   AS STORY OF NEW YORK.       259 CHAPTER XXXII. MORE ABOUT A POOR GIRL. The position- in which we left Ada Brayton was one of increasing difficulty. To make hickory shirts was a discouraging business at best; but many additional obstacles now began to appear. Her calculations for self-maintenance had not contemplated the contingencies of illness. There were days when, if not positively sick, the full amount of work could not be accomplished, owing to the nervous pros- tration due to mental excitement and the distresses in- separable from her situation. Instead of becoming accustomed to solitude, its burden increased, until her lonely room seemed like a prison, and every spare moment was spent in the open air. There were walks to be had on Broadway and along St. John's park, while another inestimable luxury was a, sail across the Hudson. This was an opportunity for getting the sea breeze, which was within the reach of any one who could spare the small sum of two cents. For this small fee passage could be taken on any of the Jerey City or Hoboken ferries, and one could remain on the boat unmolested as long as they chose. Ada discovered that a number of Ipoor girls took this ,     260         ONCE MOREV. way of gettinlg an airing, and after crossing the river several times they returned to their homes with an ap- pearance of refreshed health. These walks, however, were attended with some an- noyances of a peculiar character. It were hardly to be  expected that a young woman should thus live alone without attractitng notice. Her steps were .frequently dogged by others, and these intrusions drove her to the clhoice between two evils-a lonely room, or an exposure to the worst of insults. One afternoon she had paced slowly down Broadway, in a mood of deep depression. Work was getting scarce and winter was approachingi. Her needle had thus flr supplied her with food, but her scanty wardrobe was almost exhausted, tand she had not the means of pur- chasing a dress suited to the season. The wind penetrated her thin garments, and 'ts night drew on she gathered the faded shawl closer and still wandered on, for cold and cheelless as was the street it was not so forlorn as the desolation of solitude. The companions6hip of misery too gave her food for sym- pathy, and amid the crowd of that f'amous street she fre- quently saw those who were her companions in similar distress. Did faith never sink under such adversity? If it did, who shall express surprise? There were, 'tis true, times of dark and bitterly recurring doubts, but these served to Set off brighter seasons of humble trust. Dark as was the hour, others of God's people had suffered a still deeper darkness. The most pungent of all her conflicts   A S1TORY OF NEW YORK.        261 arose from the consciousness of injury done to her good name, and wherever she went she could not escape the thought of that anonymous stab which had wounded her so fearfully. That letter was the source of all her present difficulties, and while she forglve its author aild strove to bear its stigma as the result of Divine wisdom, yet she could not but feel herself to be a perpetual outcast, and hence there was little left but to struggle on and at last die unknown among the masses of moortality. While wandering in such a firame as this her attention was attracted by the Art Union, into which a large numbler was constaintly enteri ng, and, for want of some other purpose, she followed. In anl instant she found herself tlranslated from the cheerless street to a spacious gallery filled with pictures of exquisite beauty. The contemplation of these works of art had a sooth- ing effect upon her troubl-ed soul. She gazed upon a grand storm scene from  the pellcil of Durand, and its dark and heavy clouds charged with electric fluid seemed like those wihich had gathered about herself, but in the distance the artist had introduced a glow of sunshine and also the bow of promise. Might this not suggest the possibility that even suct storms as now threatened her, would yet give place to prosperity? Such thoughts might have entered her soul had it not been for the cruel wound, 'which would not heal. While thus gazing on the picture, Ada felt a hand press her own, and looling around beheld the form of Frederick Clamper. She started with surprise, and her     262        ONCE MORE. countenance, pale with sorrow and want, became still more pallid until suddenly suffused by a flood of crimson. "Ada, we have not met in months. How strange is this?" "And may not meet again," was the reply. ," Adai, I would repeak with you apart. I would tell you what none else may hear. Come with me." The girl allowed herself to be led to the door and thence to the sidewalk, where they held rapid converse in low, but earnest tones. "Ada," said the youth, "I I know there must be some deep mystery in this-but that you are aught than the victim of an atrocious fraud, I will never believe." it I thank you, Mr. Clamper, for your confidence," was the reply; "I will not deny that it is a comfort to think that there may be one who has not viewed me under prejudice. What I am God knows; for the rest. I leave e it in His hands. I have risen above human opinion. If I had not I could not have lived." "But you have lived and will outlive it all. Oh, Ada! listen to me. I have watched for you in the street day by day. I did all I could to search you out. Ab- sence has told me your value. Ada, I am poor now, at least I am dependent, but I shall not always be so. You, too, are in distress, but there is a hope within me that speaks of future weal-for both! for both!" "Mr. Clamper," said the girl, " you are gifted and ambitious; you have everything to cheer you on. May your success be equal to your dreams. But for me another lot remains. I live because God requires it, and   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       263 I live as it pleases Him that I should live-in poverty and in misery alone. My reputation has been assailed, and that is enough for one like me. I will bear it while God calls me to the trial, but I will add no burden to you. Farewell-we shall not meet again." , Burdenu!" exclaimed the youth, "'twill be no bur- o den. In one year I shall be-"' His voice here stopped, for as the maiden uttered her last words she mingled with the crowd and was lost from his sight. "Gone! gone again," sighed the student, "' and she U says forever. What a mystery envelopes her character? How strangely her destiny seems interwoven with my own."  So saying, the young physician wandered thoughtfully down the street. His utterance was true. A deep and abiding power had been wrought upon his soul by a lone and friendless waif of humanity.     264         OANCE .MORE. CHAPTER XXXIII. DANGERS STILL THREATENING ADA. About the tinme when the events recorded in the last chapter occurred, a stout-built and somewhat clumsy form might have been noticed in the vicinity of the City Hall. The broad shoulders were thrust forward and the face was sunk on the chest, and beneath that heavy frame a pair of legs moved on with all apparently separate motion. The whole bearing and g:ait of the man indicated a discord between the upper and lower parts of the body, suggestive of the inward -land unseen turmoil of a troubled mind. The time was the close of afternoon, and the great crowd of working mell and women returning from their labor was just beginning to choke the street. The man strode hurriedly along, jostling fiequently against other passengers, until he was nearly tripped by the legs of a boy who was turning an angle, and who soon found himself in the gutter, while a deep curse was uttered over his prostrate form. The boy recognized the voice, and hastily arisingf and rubbing off the dirt immediately followed, like- one drawn by mere curiosity. The man turned hastily at the corner of Duane street, as though conscious of having gone too far, and moved toward the Park. In a short time he   A STORY OF .NEW YORK.       265 reached a narrow street, then known as City Hall place, and stopped before an old brick building on whose door appeared a number of small tin signs. Entering the hall, already dark with approaching night, he ascended a flight of steps and opened a door, closely followed by the boy on tip-toe. A large box used for coal stood near the door, and the boy getting illto it found himself effectually concealed, while his head was sufficiently near the key-hole to catch the current of conersation. The door was immediately shut and a voice was heard uttering a surly greeting: "Well, old buccaneer, what's up now?" "I want to look at them papersl agin." "Look at 'em? Why you have looked at 'em a hun- dred times. Do you think you can change matters by looking?" "No, no; but I want to be sure as I go on. We musn't do anything desperate if it can be helped." "There is just one thing to be done to clear your title," was the replly. "You now have possession, but as long as that girl lives you are in danger of ejectmeint." "I know it!-I know7 it!" was the impatient answer, which alone was sufficielt to indicate a troubled mind. "I've done all I could to get rid of her-drove her away from Warburton's, put her into a lunatic asylum- but she's got the better of it after all. If they had got that release signed, all would have been right; but Del- mine failed.,' "There is one thing you have got to dp, and the sooner you come to the point the better-you understand?"     266        ONCE MORE. "Yes, yes; but there's a risk there." "Risk, of course; but there's your only chance. Mind, I don't recommend it. I recommend nothing. You asked my advice, and you have it." "And have paid well for it," said the other in a tone which was half a groan. "You brougrht your case, and I'd like to help you through; but there's your difficulty. If you can't meet it, then take your chance. The girl may die a natural death, and that will fetch it right." "She has lived through enough to kill a dozen; these pale things are tough as rattlesnakes. Beside that, I want to putt the lots into market-I must raise funds to do business with. I tell you, Melmoth, we are getting short, and something must be done." "Then do it. A friendless girl in the way of a rich merchant! She would not stand long in my way." "She may have friends. One of my spies says she was seen talking with a young man in front the Art Union Wednesday night."  "If any man gets hold of her case it might prove as bad as your worst enemies could wish. She is old enough to be married, and perhaps the fellow has wind of the property. If so, you've no time to lose." Thus far the conversation had been audible, though uttered in a low tone, but now it sunk to a whisper.. The brace of villains, although alone, seemed to be afraid to utter their thoughts aloud. After a long interview, during which one of the parties walked up and down the office in an excited manner, the door was opened !E   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        267 and the clumsy form clattered through the dark hall. No sooner had it reached the stair than the lad forsook his hiding place and followed to the street. It was a dark night, and the occasional lamps failed to penetrate the gloom of a moist and heavy atmosphere. At the crossing of Broadway the crowd then entering the American Museuml separated the lad from the object of his pursuit, and the latter turned homeward with keen disappointment. I've got," said the boy to himself, " on old Clamper's track, and I'd like to finish it-and the girl! I've saved her life once, and now I'll stick to her till it's all through. What a strange job I've got my hand into." Such was little Snapples' soliloquy as he wandered up the street with a determination to continue his- investiga- tion. The clumsy individual, who agreeably to the lad's so- liloqtuy was none other than Reuben Clamper, continued his course down Broadway until he arrived at Cedar street. Here he turned to the right and walked on till he reached a small wooden house tottering with age. This structure, which still stands on the corner of Green- wich street, is probably the oldest house in New York.   r Its basement was occupied by a grocery, and a creaking stair led to an upper story crowned by a steep roof, out of which still peer a pair of antique dormer windows. Such is the building which a century ago, when Green- wich street was the river bank, was known as the "Beach House." ,;Mr. Clamper ascended the stair, and in a few moments     268         ONCE MORE,  rapped on a door in the attic, which was opened by a     miclddle-aged man, who wore a leather apron and had    ! apparently just risen from a shoemlaker's bench. The room was strewnl with bits of leather and a heap of old boots lay in the corner. "Ah, Clamper, is that you? I thought it miglht have been one of the cops." "( Yes, Harker; I must see you about that job." "See me?--yes; but not here. We may be over- heard. This house is like a whispering gallery. Come along with mne." As he said this, the shoemakler laid aside his apron and put on hat and coat, after which he slipped on a pair of false whiskers, and the couple left the house together. The former led the way. He was evidently lamle, for he walked with difficulty and carried his head somewhat awry like one who had met with some injury. Going  'down Greenwich street, they came to Rector, which they followed as far as Trinity place. Here they were buried in darkness. On the one side was a row of dingy tene- ment houses, on the other was the beetling wall which protects Trinity churchyard. "Would not Tin Pot alley* be safer?" whispered Clamper. "NWait a moment and see," was the reply. So saying, the shoemaker drew near the wall referred to and strait- * Tin Pot alley, which once extended in the rear of Trinity church, was enlarged in the opening of Church street, and has given place to that new and spacious thoroughfare.   A SYTORY OF N-EW YORK.      269 ened his form into an erect position. He then threw up a grapnel hook with a cord attached, and by this means he instantaneously ascended the wall. As soon as this was done a slmall rope-ladder descended to Clamper's feet and he heard the order to follow, which was obeyed, and in a moment he landed on the partapet and the rope was draw'in uip. "We are safe here," said the shoemaker. "Tin Pot alley is a suspected place. Now for the rhing to begin with. I'm out of luck and near broke." "There is fifty dolltars," scid Clalper, putting a roll into his hand, " and thatJ I can't well spare, but it must go-only give mle the worth of it." "That you. sh-all have-now what t's i the wind?" "About that girl--what can you do?" "Other jobs on hand," replied the shoenmaker, and then, beside that, thlerisk. A manl ought to be careful when he' may get a rope about his neck." ' Risk!" said Clamper; " a poor girl and no fiiends to be bothering one-" "But the public ; tere's the trouble ; the public gets hold of these cases and then thele is an excitement and a reward and all that. I tell you the risk is great. Only see what a time they had with the Mary Rogers case a few years ago." "Must the job be given up?" "No ; only it must be done in a neac manner." "Can't you abduct her off? you know."7 "No, that line is used up--the Avery case and the Weeks case have been enough that way."     270        ONCE MORE. "How about poison?" "I tried that once; entered her room  and put strychnine in her sugar bowl, but it didn't do the work. How that girl got round that sugar is the queerest thing out. There's a kind of charm about her." "What then shall we do?" asked Clamper, in a tone of deep anxiety. "I will tell you ; next week the grand jury meets and I must leave town for a short spell. Two of my pals are behind the orates and may peach. I shall get wind through Flink or Gurry what's going onl, and besides that I may pick up a job in Albany or Schenectady. When I come back I'll finish that girl in three days." "How?"  ' O, there's some way of getting rid of a woman. I know her room and have been in it more than once at night. If poison won't do, why I'll shove in a pan of lighted charcoal. I'll hire the next room, so as to work it. Or else I can poke her off the ferry boat some dark night, that is, if I can get her to cross to Jersey to see a sick friend, which is a neat thing. No inquest, no body found-all gone to sea; or else, an unknown woman picked up a month afterward, half eat up by fishes. But see here, Clamper, these jobs come high." "How high?" "One thousand cash down-put that in my hand and I'll see you clear. If you had come to the mark I'd had it done three months ago." "That's a big price; too big for me. You think I'm rich."   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        271 "Rich or not, them's the terms and cheap at that. Curse me, if I like it any way-a young innocent girl." "Stop palavering," said Clamper, ', about the young girl. She is in my way. The money will be at the shoe shop within a week." "No, no, not at that place; don't come there again. Leave it here next Saturday; right under the fence at Hamilton's monument. There's a place there and you will see it. Leave your pile there; it will be watched and taken care of-'" As the murderer uttered these words a slight noise was heard and Clamper started. "It is only a pal," said the former, "' he was to meet me here to-night. We have some heavy jobs on hand. In two davs you will hear of a first-rate crack which we put through to-night. You better leave at once." Clamper approached the parapet, guided by his ser- vant in crime.  He looked around, but could see nothinog. All was intense darkness. Then he descended the rope ladder, and as he did so he felt some sensations which suggested the drop scene at the gallows.  He nerved himself against these by a desperate effort and walked rapidly to Broadwaty, where he added his schemes of business and  of crime to those of the multitude which throlng that great artery of life. b V'.LW .LVIVV ULIY V1 ILLj     272        O1NCZE MORE. CHAPTER XXXIV. A NIGHT SCENE IN BROADWAY.  "A lucky night, this, father; what a clear sky and a fine show of stars--we ought to sell fifty sights afore twelve."  "Well, we'll see, sonny," was the reply. "I've oft been disapinted evenins good as this. It depends on the public mind. Lecters and book readinl' and sich about 'stronemy, thenm's what helps trade."  The speaker was a shabby looking man, wrapped in an overcoat which by daylight would have shown a thread- bare exterior, flecked with patches, but in the dark these things were llot seen. He bore upon his shoulder a brass tripod, which he planted on the sidewalk and then mounted upon it a telescope of goodly length. For a few moments he swept the heavens with the veering tube until he brought it to a fixed position, remarking to the lad, "I've found it; ring shifted three degrees sin' last week. Look and see.". The lad gazedcl in the instrument for a moment and  ' then remarked : "He looks splendid. I can brag on the old glass to- night, and now I'll tout a little for customers." As he said this he mloved up and down amid the crowd   A STORY O0F NEW  YORK.      273 that filled the sidewalk, exclaiming, "Saturn for six- pence! Only look, gentlemenl-ring brighter'n ever!" In the crowd which heaves to and fro in Broadway there are always a few who are interested in revelations of " the hetavens. One after another of these people stopped and viewed the wondrous planet. "Eight hundred millions miles distant, and yet one of our family," remarked the showman. "Sich is the wonders of natur'. Only see that ring, Noboby don't know what it's made of, electricity or matter. Sich a sight as this for sixpence!" The spectators came occasionally, each improving his turn until mnidlnight arrived and the number slacked. "Pretty good, Ikey," said the telescope man; II three dollars and odd took in in three hours.  Now for home." The man began to fold the instrument, when a female form- turned the corner with trembling step, that told of weariness and distress. Staggering a long she caught an awning post which saved her from falling, and then, after a moment's rest, she attempted to proceed. To a close observer it would have been evident that this strange conduct arose simply but from   weak- ness. Her countenance was wan and sunken, her eyes stared into vacancy, and her limbs shook as though swayed by the wind. Such sights are not uncommon in Broadway at night, and this would have excited no attention had it not been that as she approached the stalr- gazer she recognized his countenance, and then, after a single utterance, sank to the ground. 18     274         ONCE MORE. "Mr. Darling!" was her exclamation as she fell. "The girl at the prayer meeting," said the telescope man ; " poor creature, and out so late as this-in these thin clothes, too!" "Oh, I know I " said Ikey ; " shall I call a perlice- man?"                / "No, boy, no; she's not one to go to the station house, nor any sich place. We'll find a corner for her, Ikey." The star-gazer's words were hardly uttered when he was confronted by a fierce looking nlan, who exclaimed : '"What are you doing with my girl? Hands off! she's mine." As he said this the stranger bent over the prostrate form and attempted to raise her. "Your girl, sir! what do you mean?" asked Mr. Darling. "My daughter, who has been led into evil ways, and whom I have followed thus far to save her from ruin. Thank God, it is not too late." "Not so fast, friend," was Mr. Darling's reply. "I know something of this person-her father is dead." "False, false!" cried the stranger, eyeing the star- gazer fiercely and cocking a pistol in his face. "You are one of her destroyers and would lie me out of her poor body.  Help! help! police, I say I I will have my daughter.  Is there no justice in New York?" "A   little more, perhaps, than you would like!" ex- claimed a  man who at that moment reached the spot, where a  small crowd had already gathered. "Yes, a little more than you would like. Giles Harker! I know   Y -- - "Let that girl alone.'t- Page 275.s. ,      r I   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        275 ou and am  neither afraid of your threats or your weapons. Let that girl alone!" It was the voice of Mr. Werner, who at a moment' s glance seemed to understand the case. "Gentlemen," said he, turning to the crowd, "this girl I know as once a member of my family. This other man I also know as true to humanity; and as for this armed assailant, I know him  also-Giles Harker by name, a professed burglar and desperado, whose arrest I now demand." As he said this, the missionary collared the wretch, and would with the :lid of the crowd have arrested him at once, but he broke violently away, and knocking one of the number down, made his escape, dropping his pistol as he fled. A loud cry was heard-a cry of pain. The weapon was discharged by the fall and its contents were lodged in the foot of a boy who, concealed by shadow, was watching the scene. The lad sank to the ground, and the sympathy of the group was divided be- tween him  and the swooning girl. His wound was staunched by a tightly-tied 'kerchief, and one of the crowd brought some water to bathe his brow. "Mr. Darling, " said the missionary, "what shall we do with these poor creatures?" "The boy is badly wounded, I fear," replied the star- gazer, " and had better be taklen right into the hospital. The girl is only in a faint, and as she is one of our mis- sion, she shall go to my house--only three blocks." The star-gazer was correct; the boy was severely wounded, and was carried immediately into the hospital     276         ONCE MORE. which then cheered Broadway with its kindly welcome to the afflicted. Mr. Werner and Mr. Darling raised the girl, and as they did so she revived and' gazed around with a look of wild surprise. "All right, my child." The voice of Mr. Werner soothed her fears, and she again sank into unconsciousness. The boy followed with the telescope, and the benevolent party marched on without difficulty, for the form they bore was wasted by illness and want, and her frame, naturally light, had be- come like that of a child. In a short time they reached a tenement house in Elizabeth street, in the third story of which the star-gazer with his wife and son occupied a pair of rooms. They laid the girl upon a bed and Ikey went for a doctor. Mrs. Darling at once applied re- storatives, and after seeing the girl in the hands of such friends Mr. Werner departed.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       2" CHAPTER XXXV. DETAILS OF MSFORTUNE. While Ikey is gone on his errand of mercy we may make some inquiry into the history of that unfortunate creature who had excited his father's sympathy and whom the reader will recognize as Ada Brayton. She had struggled against the mishaps and difficulties of her situation for several weeks, but solitude and sor- row had rapidly undermined her health, while the mys- tery of that persecution which sought her ruin added all its perplexities. As a result, she was threatened with fever, and these symptoms were followed by prostration. As a matter of course, her earnings were cut off, and when Saturday came the agent notified her to leave. A week's rent was due, and not a day longer could the tenant remain after rent had matured. The furniture belonged chiefly to the house, and Ada that afternoon left the last refuge which earth afforded. As she did so, it was with thanksgiving for the shelter which she had thus far enjoyed, and as she paced the street she still felt that there must be under this dark dispensation some purpose of good. She could not forget Mrs. Candlish's message to the prayer meeting, "At the evening time there shall be light." It might be     278         ONCE MORE. that a deliverance from her troubles by death were at hand, which was indeed a welcome thought. And if her time of de lth had arrived, she could breathe her last in the street as easily as in a palace. Others had died under worse circumstances and had found God's grace sufficient for their hour of trial. She took a turn dowmn to the Battery, and the fresh air revived her, and there, seated on one of the benches which invited the weary to rest, she reclined against 't tree and turned her thoughts toward heaven. There she had a home, and one fi'om which no earthly misfortune could separate her, and she remembered the words of' her Saviour, i' In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you ; I go to prepare a place for you." She was therefore sure that in the right time she would reach that rest which was denied her on earth. The chill air of night soon warned her of the danger of remaining here, and then as she walked on the par- apet facing the bay and saw the shimmer of the moon- light on the dancing wave, it suggested the brevity of life--a gleam of fitful existence and then seen no more. While thus engaged she noticed a man who, at a little distance, appeared to be watchnog her. She turned up Broadway, and was annoyed to find herself followed by the same person. Having traversed the street as far as Trinity church, she turned Back and again observed the pursuit. To escape it she made her way to Greenwich street; but her attempt was in vain-whichever way she took, the same eyes marked her course and the same feet   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        279 followed her track. More than once she turned with a look of indignation, but it met no notice. Just near enough to mark her progress, and yet sufficiently distant to avoid public observation, the watcher kept on her path. What could be the fellow's purpose?-and then the idea flashed upon her that perhaps this pursuer   j might be only a part of that system of espionage and of hate by which she had been surrounded. What more could be added, unless it were some attempt upon her life? The thought made her blood run cold, and her little supply of strength seemed exhausted. Summoning all her energy she turned in order to confront the wretch,' but as she did so he slunk into darkness. Finding her- self foiled in this effort she felt a sudden reaction. Her brain reeled, her limbs gave way, and she fell at Mr. Darling's feet in the manner described. When that kincl-hearted pair placed her on the couch at his dwelling, she had just strength enough to call for water and again fell into a swoon. The star-gazer's wife bathed her temples and applied other restoratives, and in a short time she came to her senses, but evidently was threatened by a fever. Mr. Darling, who had often spoken with her at the prayer meeting, made no enquiries as to her history. It was enough that she was in need of protection and that he had power to afford it. While the pair ,was thus ministering to their unfortunate guest, Ikey returned- with th -physician. When Ada next opened her eyes they met the noble     280        ONCE MORE.  countenance of one whose love she once had rejected,  i though in doing so she did violence to her own nature. It was a shock that almost renewed the swoon. And Frederick! How little, indeed, did he imagine that night when summoned to visit a patient that he should.  under these circumstances, again meet Ada Brayton I   '    A STORY OS VNEW YOREK.       281 CHAPTER XXXVI. ADA ANID THE MYSTERIOUS PATIENT. "The wounded boy wishes to see Miss Brayton. He was pining for her all night." "Miss Brayton is hardly able to see any one." "Well, the little fellow worries so that if she don't come it will set him back. I think if she could get down for half an hour it would help hint." Such was a part of the conversation between Mrs. Darling and the hospital messenger, two days after the scene described in the last chapter. It was true that Ada was very weak, but she had recovered sufficiently to grant the poor boy's request. Indeed, as soon as she had heard of his case it had awakened a deep interest. Before the day was gone a delicate female form, ac- companied by a thoughtful looking young man, stepped from a coach to the spacious gate of the New York hospital and soon entered the surgical ward. In a few moments the object of her search was before her, and she saw the pale countenance of little Snapples. "You have come at last," exclaimed the wounded boy. "How I have dreamed of you and longled to see you. I wanted to be near you, for I love you and I can't tell why; but some how you put me in mind of something pleasant, years ago."     282        ONCE MORE. "Do you suffer much pain?" inquired Ada. "Yes," replied the boy, " it is very painful, although the ball is taken out; so painful that it keeps me awake, and then if I sleep I drealm of you. I think of you, too, when my lmid flies. It seems to catch hold of something back, clear back; ah, I can't tell what it is." The child's lanlguage increased Ada's interest, and she commenced in a low and gentle voice: "Does it distress you to talk?" "No ; not to you, and the doctor says I may." "Then tell me, my clear, what makes you think of me?" "The first time I seed you in Mr. Werner's mission you looked so much like something I often think about. It must have been so! Yes, I must have had a mother once, and may be she looked like you." "And where did your mother live?" "I don't know," wlas the reply. "I must have lost her when I was almost a baby, and yet I know I do re- member something. I remember the eyes, and they look like yours." "Do you know your name, my dear?" "Little Snapples, the boys call me.  I never had any othey name." "Did you ever have a home?" "I lived with a poor Irish woman that I called granny. She had a candy stand, and lived in a cellar in Cross street, right by the Five Points. But she died of the fever and since then I didn't have no home." "Was she your mother?"   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       283 "Oh, no; she only 'dopted me. Nobody knows who mother is, but I must have had one, though." "How did you come to live with granny?" , "I don't zactly know, but I guess she picked me up in the street. I never should have thought pof any other mother if I had not seen you." ("How have you got your living since granny died?"  "By selling papers and boothlacking till I got a place in the cheap grocery. I wanted to get along and not be a street boy. I'd like to be rich." "Why so, my dear?" "So as to help you. O I know you are poor, Miss Brayton, like me, and I want to help you," said the boy, with tears in his eyes. "I've got ten dollars in the bank, and if I die you shall have it." How could Ada help weeping also? "I felt sorry for you ever since I knowed you first, and ofttimes I've followed you on the streets for fear something wrong would happen, and you didn't know that little Snapples was on your track, but- " "He must not ttalk any more," said Frederick, who had been a thoughtful listener. "I see it begins to affect him, and such a case needs quiet." "You will not take her away," said the boy, with un- disguised. anxiety. "I woli't speak, but let her sit and look at me.  That will make me get well quicker than doctoring." They sat in silence. Ada smoothed the tlg led hair, which quite strangely renminded her of her mother's curls, and then fanned his feverish countenance, and     284         02vCE MORE. while gazing steadfastly upon it, became conscious of a tender yearning which no words could express. Was this occasioned by the story of that child's attachment, or by some mysterious sylnmpathy born of affinities too deep and subtile to be caught in the grasp of thought? But evening drew on, and in her delicate condition it was necessary that she should return to her temporary home. The next day Ada felt much better. Indeed, her ex- treme interest in the wounded boy seemed to awaken her to new life. She no longer i*eded a coach, but walked down to the hospital, and was soon beneath the shadow. of its grand old elms.+                  l The young invalid had passed a restless night, and was now in a doze. Ada sat and watched his countenance, which was pale with pain and loss of blood, and it again filled her with strange emotions. Here was a lad without kindred or home, who had for months poured out his whole affections on her, and now as she gazed upon him the question came up again and again in the secret cham- bers of her soul, what was the cause of that mysterious sympathy which united them?   For as she held his hand the sleeping boy drew still closer to her with each beat of the pulse, and the voice that spoke in her heart whispered mysterious suggestions. What indeed was he to her, or she to him, that such thoughts should occur? * The vandalism of improvement, which spares neither the beau- tiful nor the venerable, has recently destroyed this institution;. but the friends of humanity, nevertheless, may justly maintain that the latter has claims full as important as even those of new streets and marble warehouses.   / A STORY OF NEW YORK.       285 In a short time the hospital walker, Doctor Hudson, came on his tour, and the poor boy awakened to bear the renewed pain of having his wound dressed. Doctor Hudlson was a young, physician who was preparing him- self for future useflllless by practice in the hospital, and 'at this time had charge of the surgical ward. He no- ticed Ada's interest in his patient and made a few low- toned remarks in reply to her inquiries. "The case looks as well as might be expected, but at best it is a very bad one. We are trying first to save life and then, if possible, the leg.7" "But do jou think his life in daanger?" "Not immediately; but there is no telling how the case may develop. Gunshot wounds are always difficult, and this is in a very bad spot. Can you have nerve to see it?" Ada deternmined to endure the spectacle. Her presence might soothe and encourage the sufferer. The bandages were removed and the wound was found inl an unfavor- able condition. Ada beheld a shattered foot, for the bullet had struck a member whose machinery is not only delicate and easily destroyed, but is susceptible of intense pain. The boy almost fainted while the wound was dressed, but soon recovered and then sank into a doze out of sheer weakness. He was indeed in danger. Alny one could see that.                a "I think we shall have to amputate to-morrow," said Doctor Hudson. "( We have deferred it in hope of saving the leg, but it will not do to wait much longer." A sigh was all the answer.     286        ONCE MORE. Doctor Hudson was used to such expressions, but there was something in this which attracted his notice. I Did he too catch a passing idea of that mysterious union which now seemed established between the patient and tlhe visitor? "I want to tell you," said the boy, who had just then  awakened, "how sweet your voice sounds in my very heart. Just so it sounded when you sung in the mis- sion. I could tell that voice out- of the whole school." "Did you love those hymns?" asked Adca.     "Yes, O yes; and more than that, I love- Jesus. I loved the songs that tell about Jesus, but I love Jesus better than all."  The boy again fell into a doze, and Ada thanked God for what she had just heard. "What pained me most," said the boy when he again awoke, "was to thiak that one so good as you are should have such enemies." Ada started at the words. They were so suggestive of her past history. El Enemies, did you say?" "Yes, enemies," replied the boy, in a weak voice. ( More than one is against you. I know something and I wish I knowed it all." 'I hope I have done nothing to make any enemies." "No, nor anly other good people; but they have ene- mies, though." "4 We should not allow ourselves to think that people hate us." "But s'pose and they do hate good people, what then? Some people will hate others and want to murder them."   A STORY OF NEwY YORK.      287 ( I hope no one wishes to kill me," said Ada, a little startled. "But I believe they do. I've watched and listened, and I know a little what is going on. Sometimes I've been going to tell, and then I wanted to wait and see a little more, so as to be sure.?' "Sure of what?"  "Sure of what them en men mean to do. I've watched close as I could, and I want to watch more, but my poor leg-- "1 Ah, child, I fear you are thinking of something you have dreamed of." "It's you I nmean," said the boy, his weak voice be- coming tremulous with emotion. "I watched him to vour room, I saw through the key hole where he put the powder, and then I got in through the ventilator and emptied it out. Oh, if you' knew how poor little Snap- ples loved you! I must have had a mother once that looked as you do, or else I never could have felt so." The poor boy once morl sunk away to sleep and Ada pondered his words with deep thoughts. Could it be possible that this lad should possess a clue to the mystery of that persecution which she had so long endured? What could be meant by that reference to the powder? and the thought of the disarrangement of her room when she lived alone, flashed upon her mind. Was this the occasion referred to? What; indeed, could it mean? In a few minutes the anodyne lost its power and the boy woke again. His thoughts seemed to be engrossed with the same subject, for he at once commenced:     288        ONCE MORE. "That night I knew Harker was on your track, and it was no good. No, I know'd he wanted to hurt you. I know'd he'd kill you if he got a chance. He's killed more than one before now, and not got hung, neither. I tracked him up just as close as he tracked you, and just as Mr. Werner spoke I was going to give the alarm  and' call the watch." "And did you get that wound for me?' exclaimed Ada, in subdued emotion. " , I'm not sorry on that account. I would die for you, too; but you don't know how I feel-no, I never felt so to any one before." There was a pause and both countenances were suffused with tears, while the voices of the heart seemed to speak  with still greater power. The silence was broken by the presence of a man, who with almost noiseless tread had advanced to the spot. Both looked up and beheld Mr. Werner.   A STORY OF NE2W YOR K.      289 CHAPTER XXXVII. THE MYSTERY EXPLAINED. The next day Ada resumed her place by the little sufferer's bed. He was in a peaceful fi'ame, although niuch weaker. Mr. Werner's visit had cheered his heart and he felt happy to think that the missionary would seek him in this kind llanner, and then the few words of parting prayer had thrown a solemn joy over his soul. "I amn not af;aid to die," said he to Ada, as she once more took her seat by his side. "I should like to go to heaven, but I hate to part with you. If I should get well I could earn somlething to help you; but may be you won't need it.7" "What makes you talk of death, my dear?" "Because I callit help thinking of it. I am so much weaker and suffer so much ptain. It would be so nice to go and be with Jesus, and if I go you will come too, afterward, and we will be there together. It will be happier than our Sunday school; won't it?" Ada could make no reply. "I want to tell you before I go," continuedlthe boy, "some things that you ought to know. Isn't it very strange them men is tracking you up?" "What men?" inquired Ada, with unabated surprise. I 1.q     290        ONCE MORE. "Why, that Harker, for one. Did you never know Harker?"  "I never saw himn until the night you were hurt." "That man is not alone," continued the boy. "He's paid for doing this, and there's somebody back of him. They want to get you out of the way, and may be they'll do it yet. O, if I was not hurt, how I would like to live and take care of you." Just then .Doctor Hudson's approach was heard and the conversation stopped. The doctor examined the wound and once nlore the painful process of dressing took place. The inflammation had increased, and the doctor's words were not encouraging. They had in- tended to amputate at noon, but now the inflamnmation had spread up the leg and rendered it dangerous. They must first reduce this, after which the operation nmight be safe. Meanwhile sedatives were to be used to give repose to the system, alternating with stimulants to keep it from sinking. The patient sleep for an hour and then awoke, and found Ada intently watching him. "I heard strange things about you once," said he. It was evident that Ada's afftirs had, for him, an absorbing interest, and that he did not desire to speak on anything else. He saw that his words caught her attention and continued: "It was at lawyer Melmoth's office six weeks ago. They didn't think any one heard 'em, but I did. I could catch a word now and then and I know it's you they mean. Lawyer Melmoth and that Harker are both in hs pay, I think."   A STORY OF NE2   YORK.     291 "His pay! who is it you can mean, my dear?" "I mean one you don't dream of. I'll tell you by-.and- by; yes, by-and-by, when I feel better." The boy's pale features assumed a more striking pallor as he said this and his frame twitched nervously. There was evidently a conflict in his mind, but little could Ada dream of its nature. How would it, indeed, have as- tonished her had she been told the rest of his tale! Still more would she have been surprised to learn the reason of his reticence. The boy knew the secret of Frederick Clamper's attachment, and hence he shrunk from ex- posing to Ada the father of her lover. Ada perceived that there was something troubling the boy's mind and hence forbore farther inquiry. On the other hand she turned his thoughts in a different direc- tion, and spoke of old times in the mission school. .There were beloved names to be called to memory, and thus they communed together on these sacred scenes, which were a preparation for that better world above. And as they thus spoke it seemed that Jesus himself drew near and made them glad with his presence. In the afternoon the doctor again came round, and as the wound was dressed the symptoms were much worse. Inflamnmation was spreading still farther up the leg, and Doctor Hudson's looks were prophetic of coming ill. The pain was also increased and the boy's mind began to wander.  Frederick ClamPer had come and promised to remain at the couch all night, and Ada again sought repose in the hospitable family of Mr. Darling. The next morning, after a wakeful night, she hastened     292         ONCE MORE. to the scene of suffering which she had left so reluctantly. Frederick had passed the night at the side of the sufferer e and he now met Ada with a whisper of embarrassingy  character. "He is quiet," said he, " and out of pain."' "Better?" asked Ada, with an expression of hope. "No; no better," was the reply. "What then?" "Mortification has set in. He is beyond hope!" Not a word was uttered by that agonized heart. Ada sat in silence. She could not even weep. The boy was asleep. His features were wasted by pain, and the rough aspect which he bore in hetalth had given place to an almost girlish delicacy of expression. "He is very pretty, wasted, as he is," said Frederick, "and, quite strangely, Doctor Hudson asked me if you were not related. He fancied a resemblance. "I know of no connexion except that strange know- ledge he has of some things in my history, which cer- tainly forms a bond of union. He is dear to me--sud- denly made dear-and I could not love a brother more tenderly."' "You never had a brother?" said Frederick. "The children died early," was the reply, "and there was one little brother who wandered away and was drowned. At least, we found his hat on the wharf, and supposed he had fallen in. He was taken, like the others, from evil to come, and they are now, I trust, with our poor dear mother above." A few tears followed these words, and before they   A STORY OF NEW    YORK.     293 were dry the boy awoke. His eye quickly read the lan- guage of sorrow, and he spoke in tones of consolation: Don't weep! They don't weep in heaven, and. we are all goingl there."- "Yes, all, I hope," said Frederick, with deep enmo- tion, at the same time adding, "All his talk has been of heaven since midnight, when the change took place." "I am going   now, and will wait for you," said the boy. "I shall see mother there, and she will look like As he said this he placed his hand in' Ada's, and the motion brought to view a birth mark on his brefast. It was not laroge, but was of peculiar shape, and at once riveted her attention.  Frederick noticed the change in her countenance as she gazed upon this new feature in the little patient, and stlrange thoughts flashed through his imind. The silence was at length broken by his words, for he had read the secret of her thoughts: "Do you recognize him?" "I do! I do! I know 'tis Henry!   My dear, look upon me again.  I am your sister!" "My sister?" said the boy, openinog his eyes, for he had sunk into a sleep. "Then I must have a, mother, and she looked like you-in heaven now, and we shall all go there." I' He is -sinkini  fast!" exclaimed Frederick. "We have found him just in time to feel his loss." "O save him! save him, Frederick! He is doubly dear to us now!"     294         ONCE MORE. "Dearer to God, too," was the reply, " for he is taking him home." "In heaven, too," whispered the boy, sinking again into unconsciousness. Ada raised him up, and with an expression of agony  watched those features, which now assumed a still greater degree of pallor. ' He is gone!" said Frederick, and the youth bowed by the side of the heart-wrung girl and strove to share  her new-born grief.   A STORY o. NEW YORK.       295 CHAPTER XXXVIII. FESTIVE SCENES AT THE CLAMPERS. "So then, Blinks, there's to be a jam in Fourteenth street? 7 "Where did you hear that?  "Bargo was around yesterday and gave me the hint." "Who gives it?" "The Clampers." "Are the cards out?" "No, not to be out till next week, Bargo says. He is making up his list; do you want one? 7 "Guess not; you understand?" "Yes, I believe I do. Bargo said it would be hard getting a silngle first-class man in; but then there will be a fine table and lots of wine. A supper like that can't be got at Delmonico's for a trifle. One might be induced by such attraction. Eh?" Such was the tenor of that gossip which buzzed among the fashionable idlers of Union square and the Fifth avenue concerning the event so long contemplated in the household of the Clampers. That family was now in all the excitement of preparation. Mr. Bargo, the major domo or manager, so popular at such entertainments, had been summoned to the house a half dozen times at     296         ONCE MORE. the special request of Mrs. Clamper, and there had been held in tedious consultation concerning the appointments. Nothing, indeed, could be done without the approbation of that gentleman, and the style of the conversation   ! might be judged from those questions with which Mrs.  Clamper pursued the master of ceremonies even to the door: "Mr. Bargo, did the Joneses have johannisberg as well as champagne?  Mr. Bargo, did the Brambles have vanilla chocolate ice cream? Mr. Bfargo, is Schneiper's band or Zwiedler's the mosutout now-a-days?" To this was added Amelia's requests concerning the rank of the expected guests. "Mr. Bargo,"' said this ambitious young lady, " do be particular about the com- pany. Get us some gents of the first cut, if it's only a few to talk about." "Can't you get in an author," suggested Evangeline, "or an editor? -there's Horace Greeley." "Yes," added Mrs. Clamper, "Horace Greeley or P. T. Barnum." All this conversation Mr. Bargo received in a business- like way, as it was a part of his daily life. He had learned the importance of personal dignity, and hence. after making brief replies to these enquiries, he limited himself to a few suggestions, which were received with an almost religious degree of respect. '; You will have to refurnish the windows, Madame,t was one of his remarks. "4 The Lollibars had that pat- tern of curtains, and they were talked about. I would also get a new piano."   A SToYr oF NEW YoRK.       297 , O la I what will Clamper say to that?" "Hire one for the night at twentyr-five dollars." Mrs. Clamper breathed more freely. "I thought you would say a thousand dollars or so for a new one; and how Clamper does go on about expenses." "People can't be anything without expense,"' replied the master of ceremonies. "I Only see what a stand it gives if oqe wants to be in the fashion; eh? Yes, yes, ladies, fashion rules the world and the church too." So saying, Mr. Bargo looked at his massive gold watch and exclaimed, "Must be off now, Madame; the Parsons are expecting me this afternoon. They are to have a reception soon. We expect a very lively season this winter, for, as I remarked before, fashion rules the world. People that can't be fashionable have no busi- ness to live," and with this remark and as gracefful a bow as he could assume, the autocrat of festivities took his departure and was driven off in his gig. "What a neat establishment that Bargo does keep!" said Amelia, as he drove away. "Such a pretty horse, and that smart colored boy to drive. There he goes, bowing to the young bloods as they pass. He will get some of them to our party, I am sure." "Well, I declare, I am so tired,?" said Evangeline- "fitting dresses all the morning at Madame Lagorange's, and that old Dobson's daulghter was there and tried to make up to me because we happened to be at school to- gether. But I saw Alnna Slowers, and had such a nice talk with her. They are going to Europe next summer.." "Don't say going to Europe,' remarked Amelia;     298        ONCE MORE.            I "that is not proper. You must say, 'they are going abroad.'                        . "Well, abroad then; and she had such a love of a bonnet that I ordered one just like it." "Why, child, you had one new only a month ago!"  exclaimed Mrs. Clamper. "Well, the style is altered a trifle," said the daughter  4 and who wants to wear old things?" "Perhaps you may yet be glad to wear them." It was the voice of Frederick, who had just entered. "I say, girls, continued he, " you make me sick by your everlasting rant about :fashion. What is life worth if one is always to be trying to make a show? Better save a little of that money you are now wasting on dress for those who are suffering for want of bread."    i "Preaching all the time, " replied Amelia. "I declare he ought to be a clergyman. Ever since that fellow studied with Doctor Warburton he has done nothing but preach." "You mean since he got acquainted with that mys- terious governess," added Evangeline. "Never mind the governess," replied Frederick, as he was about to leave the room. "One thing is certain- she won't ruin any one by extravagance. For my part, I have made up my mind to work for a living and be a useful man as Doctor Warburton was." It was evident that, socially speaking, Frederick was of very little account in the household of the Clampers. He came to his meals, and then left immediately for the office; and being absorbed in his studies, that great   A STORY oF NEW YORK.        299 event, the party, had made but little impression upon hin. Its arrangements, however, progressed with steady pace. Orders had been issued for the wine, oysters and confectionery. Bargo had spoken for the music, and also engaged the waiters, who had been to the house so as to be familiar with the rooms and avoid blunders. The piano had been brought in to grace the brief hour of display, and a few pieces of statuary had also been hired, at; Bargo's suggestion, from a marble shop, and these gave, as he said, an air of more solid elegance than is found in mere furniture. As the time approached Mr. Bargo was more frequent in his calls of superintendence, and in the course of a few days was seen in his gig, driving through the most fashionable streets, distributing cards of invitation, and occasionally stoppin g to- chat with the fops and exquisites who loitered in front of palatial dwellings. With all his effort, however, the manager had but little promise of success.  Oyster-eating young men could be had in abundance, but from Clamper's dubious standing the prospect of realizing his expectation was small. Hence Mr. Bargo felt anything but proud of his mission, but, as he remarked to the invitees, he "a was de- termined " to finish the thing inasmuch as he had got his hand in. !   , *     300         ONC!E MORE.  CHAPTER XXXIX. ADA BRAYTON TO AURA WERNER. MY DEAR AURA: I write you froml the sweet village of Anvern, where Mrs. Warburton has sought a home alllid the scenes of her earlier days. Poor afflicted creature; how stranlgely were we separated, and how strangely have we been brought together! God's work is full of mysteries; and the death of Doctor Warbur- ton and the events in my own life, though vastly dif- ferent, equally indicate unseen purposes which we must believe to be goood. You have hetardl something of my leaving the doctor's family. The whole of my course cannot at present be explained, and I will now only refer to my unexpected reunion with Frederick on a sick bed. Through him came my restoration to that family which I forsook in the agoiny of injured innocence. You will expect me to stay a few words concerning my poor brother, who breathed his last in my arms in the hospital. How wonderful was the providence which brought a recognition at that last moment. I hardly dare to trust myself to speak of this tragedy. It is too overwhelming. He seemed to remember me at first, but it was only a glimpse breaking forth from the early dawn of childhood. Ever since that time he has been a waif, tossed upon the world, and now finding rest in the   A STORY OP NEW YORK.        301 grave. Poor, dear Henry, 'he never knew his namke nor kindred until just before he died. But still he staid that he felt a strange love for me from the the we first met in the mission school, and since then he has watched me with intense interest. Once he saved ine firom poison, and the hight he received his death-wound he was fol- lowing my steps to guard me. This leads me to speak of that strange series of events which has befallen me and of which he seemed to have a knowledge. A few startling things he unfolded, and seemed to desire to say more, but death prevented. In due time I shall no doubt learn the rest of these perplexing things, and meanwhile I must be patient. We buried our little brother in Greenwood, by my mother's side. He spoke often during his illness of Ct mother like me, and now he is with her and with the Lord. This is the first month I ever spent in the country; and although one misses the stir and excitement of city life, yet there is a repose and a balm in nature's peaceful aspect which is grateful to one so tossed about as I have been.  Still more so is it to poor Mrs. Warburton, who has been so completely prostrated by the doctor's death. She has a large circle of friends who mingle their tears with hers, for they knew the doctor well, and none knew himl but to love. For myself, although I had only known him for a few months, I think him to htave been one of the purest and most noble minded men I ever met-s-o self-gacrifichinc and so disinterested. I think my acquaintance with him a turning  point in my life, for it opened my miicd to     302         OVNCE MORE.  trtlth, and all his lessons have been treasured in my healt. The work begun while under your falther's roof was there carried on, by means of the doctor's deep piety,  until it has developed the fiuits of new life. I think of the past and wonder at the change-so dif- ferent am I from the proud, self-willed, blind, stupid, ungrateful creature that I was. Oh, Aura, to be brougyht as a little child to the arms of Christ, to renounce all, that we may possess all in Him, to accept His will for our direction and His righteousness as our justificationl- this, indeed, is a new life. I now often recall the words which your father applied to my case, "They also that erred in spirit shlall coime to understanding, and they that muTrmured shall learn doctrine." But all these things are old to you; why should I write them -then? only because out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh., One cannot have all this blessedness locked up; it will flow forth. Once all was dark; the sorrows of my early life had  soured my mind. I was misanthropic and filled with bitterness. I hated God because he had made me poor and thrown wormwood into the cup of childhood. I  hated mankind because I seemed to see in each one the horrid reflection of my own hateful self, for I knew I was hateful: self-love could not deceive me. Such was the sorrow of the world which worketh death. But I have new views now, for I see what I did not see before, that I am a sinner anlld as such deserved far more than I suffered, and that my hateful heart was my worst condemnation.   A STORY OF NEW YORK.         303 Aura, it is the old story made new to every christian in his day of conversion : peace and forgiveness found at the cross, and power there given to resist sin. A view of a suffering Saviour is enough to silence all complaints. Let every murmur be hushed when we look at the scenes of Gethsemane andCalvary:  "Thy body slain, dear Jesus, thine, And bathed in its own blood; While all exposed to wrath divine The glorious sufferer stood." The dark shadows which have so long overhung me have left their undertone upon my character, and I do not desire to have it removed. Life is made up of con- flict. So your father used to tell me. Now I know it, and my trials have strengthened me and fitted me for it. I feel old for eighteen, but it is the age of experience, which will fit me for usefulness.  rP- I have resumed teachilg, 'but my duties are almost those of a guardian as well as instructor, for the children are always, I may say, with me, and they are such lovely creatures that I never become weary of their presence. Aubrey is a yellow-haired boy and takes after his mother,  while Maud is the image of her father, with dark hair and thoughtful face--but I forget, you have seen them often.  Their lessons are simple thus far: and I am study- ing as well as I can for future needs. Thank God, I had a little education in my earlier days, which now enables me to fill this position. Our dwelling is a quaint old-fashioned farmn house with broad elms in front, and a spacious lawn with flower beds     304          ONCE MORE. and walks, and a rippling brook skirting it.  How dif- ferent from the pent up city. Indcleedl, I never imaginel that there were such places -iS this while I lived alnid the crowlded misery, which now seems like a dream. A sholrt walk takles us to church, around which is a large old cemletery with mossy  headstones, speakillng of sorrows andc conflicts long since -buried and forgotten. Soon ours will be like theirs, closed by the handtcl of death. May it be to enter into rest! They have brought the doctor's remains to this sacredl spot, anlcl we visit his grave every pleasant clay. It is marked by a simllple headclstone, like the others in the family plat, and bears a suitable inscription. He thus sleeps with his faLthers and like them rests from his labors. Tha t we miay be found like him, faithful in life andcl triumiphant inl deatlh, is the earnest prayer of                ADA, '    A STORY OF NEWTV YORK.       305 CHAPTER XL. THE GRAND PARTY. The approach of that grand entertainment whch was not only to carry the Clampers through a round of inl- vitations, but to add to their elevation, was marked by  the unloading of sundry carts, among whose contents were champagne baskets, boxes of boned turkey, and pates des fois gracsse, writh other luxuries. Several cldays of laborious preparation were gone through and the minds of Mrs. Clamper aLnd her daughters were kept in a con- stant and racking excitement. The afternloon previous to the great occasion Mrs. Clamperl sent for M1r. Barlgo, in order tilat thley might jointly look ovter the arrangements, as generals are wont to ovelrloolk the field before a great battle. "Do you think we are all right, Mr. Bargo?"  That gentleman- smiled graciously and said, "Yes." That word carried joy to Mrs. Clamper's ]heart. "How I wish," said she, " the girls wtas, down'?- they were up stairs cdressing-"yoi might give them some hint about behaving; you've been in so much -society. And then there's Clamnper, a good-hearted soul, but ain't always tlhinking what he says. A word fromr you,- M1r. Bargo, would be So gool. And be sure you 9.      306         ONCE MORjE. come early," added Mrs. Clamper, as the manager was about to depart; " do come early, and bring Mrs. Bargo along. You know it all rests upon you, and whtat a loss it would be if it did not go off well." Mr.- Bargo failed in this last point; he did not come early and Mr. Clamper relieved his mind by swearing at a most alarminug rate, a circumstance which threw the falllily into great trepidation. ("Seven o'clock and Bargo not here yet, and to have twenty-five dollars for bossing this party!" and Clamper finished with an oath. "O, dear, don't go on so Reuben, you fluster me dreadful," exclaimed Mrs. Clamper. "Yes, pa, don't get us in a perspiration wolrrying." The young ladies in nmaking this request knew that mois- ture would soften the rouge. "Curse the whole thing," said Clamper. "I wish it was over." "So do I," replied each one with united voice. "Fred, there's the music-just come; see that they don't lay their fiddles on the borried pianner," said Mrs. Clamper ; "it might scratch it." "Yes, Freddy," added Amelia, " and count up the champargle, so that none gets stole.7' The word champagne seemed to awaken a painful emotion in Mr. Clamper's breast. "Yes," thoug;ht he, "two hundred and fifty dollars for liquor for only one night." A ring was heard at the door. "O, dear I there's some one coming ; what shall I do?"   A STORY oF NxEW YORK.       307 "No, ma," replied Evangeline; " company won t yet come in a good while." "L}, me! it's Mr. Bargo ; how glad I am to see you!" was the welcoming uttered by all three at once. "Late, Mr. Bargo?" added Clamper. "O, no," said that gentleman, "only a few minutes after time; had to stop and speak to the Edwards; they are getting up a reception for next week; Nellie Edwards comnes out then." "O, dear, I wish I could get an invitation," said Amelia  "I hope you got the Edwards down on your list." "Well, I can't say," replied Mr. Balrgo ; " the Edwards are very exclusive, but we will have enough without them." Mr. Bargo now made a tour of observation through the different departments, accompanied by the female trio, who were anxiously hanging on his words of appro- bation or censure, and to their great relief no lpoints were closely criticised. "I think it will go off well," stid that gentleman; "but you ladies must take some solid refreshments to enable you to go through with it-a little nap if you could get it." "Yes," said Amelia, gaping, " whbat would I give for ten minutes sleep? We have been on the go all day and so excited that it took away our appetites." "Don't talk girls about that," rejoined Mr. Clamper, just see me-been up here at work and lost a whole day at the store-n-otes to pay and everything else."     308         ONCE MORE. "All in a life time," rellllked Mr. Bargo, in a colln- solatory tone. ;' Yes, but there's Mr. Kin to take care of the notes, pal." "And somebody ought to take care of Mr. Kin--that fellow's all very well in his way, but he'll bear watching. I've suspicioned him for the last year." Another ring  at the door and all started. It was, however, only the policeman whose b)usiness it was to keep order outside, and who had entered for the purpose of' getting a drink. ' Your health, ladies," staid the policeman, as he tossed down the wine -well knowinlg hle could take liberties with t/tzs class. ( Where's Marsh?" asked Clamper i ( he said he was to be here to-llight." "I reckon he's on a forgery case--down town mer- chant-I don't know   much about it; lhappened this afternoon about tea time. Marsh was sent for, and so I came round imyself." The news did not set well on Mr. Clampel, and he felt that peculiar consciousness of evil which forms the chief element in alarm. EIe leisurely conveyed to his mouth a roll of tobacco and said nothing. At eight o'clock all was ready, and in the course of the evening the guests began to arrive. Mr Bargo took his station at the door, near which stood Mr. and Mrs. Clamlper to welcome their visitors as they were an- nounced in the stentorian tones of the muanager. "4Mr. and Mrs. Kendall, M1.. John B. Kendall and the Misses Kendall," exclaimed the annunciator.   A STORY OF LNEW YORK.       309 "Mr. and Mrs. Jones, Miss Kate Pry and Mr. James Pry." The rush of carriages kept Mr. Bargo buvr for an hour, and Mr. Clamper and wife were all excitement with the greetings they exchanged. At last the house was filled, and the pressure began to slacken. "A   dood house full," said Bargo,'iin a confidential tone, "and some literary men. There's Popper, he writes for the Herald, and will give the tlinlg a -notice, I've got a Sunday Mercury man here, too, somewhere." "Was I'introduced to him?" asked Mr. Clamper. "No, sir; they did not wait to be presented, but passed down to the liquors. They'll be along directly." Mr. Clamper surveyed the scene with an air of satis- f:action. If it had cost five hundred dollars, still it was a glory wolrth purchasing. The house was brilliantly lighted; the rooms were full of people, flshionally drlessed at least, if not all fashionable themselves. The hum of conversation was rife upon the air, and he saw his daughters flirtinlg with some modstached characters, who might be the literary men in question. All was in- spired by gaiety, and Mr. Bargo appeared in every direction, giving orders andc admlinistering the regime' of the evening. Mr. Clamper felt the glory of the moment, but an anxious question would now and then cross his mind. Mr. Kin, who had been invited, was not there; Mr. Kin was nntwhere to be seen. Where could Mr. Kin be? And then came the additional thought of the trouble down town mentioned by the policeman. Could Mr.     310        ONCE MORE.- Kin be in it? Could it have anything to do with his absence? Mr. Clamper felt the need of some relief, and he therefore stepped into the storeroom and took a glass of brandy and water. He had eaten but little that day, and unfortunately had not calculated the effects of this bumper on an empty stomach. It was exhilarating in a high degree, and, combined with the brilliant scenes before him, wrought him to great delight. Another glass was taken, and as Mr. Clamper came out of the storeroom the second time, the swell of the music awoke his heart to an ecstacy which dissipated all thought of expenses, or of Mr. Kin, or of the forgery. All was lost in the swimming vision i of beauty which filled his brain. "Keep an eye on your pa," said Mrs. Clamper to Amelia, as they passed in the crowd; he looks excited, and may say something." "I can't, ma; I've got to get ready for dancing. Do get somebody to take him down stairs, and there he can smoke with his cronies." A fresh rush of visitors broke up this confab. They were young business men who could not come early, and now were determined to make up for lost time. t"Boys," said one of these, "there's old Clamper, a little tight. We can have some sport with him." The group advanced to the host and congratulated him on the occasion. It certainly was a splendid affair; the crowds of guests so elegantly appareled, among whom the servants moved like oriental genii; the magic of exquisite music, the glare of gaslight reflected from   A STOR OF NE W   YORK.      31 furniture and statuary, all rendered it worthy of ad- miration. "Why, y-yes, Sam," replied Mr. Clamper, " we think SO." It was evident from his familiarity that Mr. Clamper had lost sight of the dignity of his position and was de- generating to his common parlance. "Have you been out on the avenue lately?" "Not this week," replied Mr. Clamper; " this job has kept me close. Any new t-t-teams?" "Clarkson has another turnout, but I think you can beat him." "Beat him! I'll give him a half-mile and leave him behind." Horses were a theme on which Mr. Clamper was elo- quent; and as he now- discoursed on driving, he squared his hands, as though holding the reins, at the same time giving the encouraging "chirrup." "Drink, boys," continued Mr. Clamper. "Here, waiter, bring these gents some wine. We'll t-t-take a little for our stomachs' sake-ha! ha!" It was evident that Mr. Clamper had sufficient, both for his stomach and brains; but still he took more. "Your music is as good as your wine," said the person addressed as Sam, L which is saying a good deal. I'd rather drink here than go down to the table." "]Big jam there," said Clamper; "but they'll all get through. I've seen such a crowd at auction. We'll wait, boys, till the second table, and then put in for double."     312        ONCE MORE. Music was heard. Mr. Clamper was about to rise. '; Boys, I'm goin' to have (hie) a dance with one of them g-g-girls." The individual known as "Sam " perceived it was not safe for the speaker to walk, and hence urged him to remain seated. "Then t-take another drink," said Clamnper, and they dl'ank again. "Boys," continued Mr. Clamper, "them figgers (hie) moves. There's Jakespeare walking round the r-r-r-room; hope he won't t-t-take his 'at and leave, (hie) 'cause I've gin a receipt to return 'im. in good order-ha! ha!" Sam perceived that Mr. Clamper's case was working into a decidedly comic vein, and the mischievous amuse- ment of the surrounding group was rising in proportion, as they saw their host made the fool of strong drink. All this, however, was brought to a close by the appearance of a young man, evidently not one of the guests, who approached very closely, and said, in sup- pressed tones, "Mr. Clamper, we will see you alone up stairs."  Mr. Clamper opened his eyes, which were dim with the mist of intoxication, and replied in a bewildered' manner, " (hic) who be you?" !"I am Mr. Parker, from the bank; your bank, you used to call it; I must see you immediately." Mr. Clamper arose, recognizing the intruder, while the grin upon his countenance was changed into an ex- pression of alarm. He attempted to walk, but staggered and was sustained by the new comer, who assisted him into the hat room, where he sat down. Several of the   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        313 bank directors were there, and also a couple of policemen, and the appearance of this group did much lo restore the inebriate to his senses. !"You may not be aware, sir, that your paper was pro- tested to-day," said one of the directors. Mr. Clamper seemed to catch a sense of what was uttered, for the flush of wine gave place to pallor and he bit his lip in a spasmodic mauner. "4 My paper protested, what do you mean?"    Mr. Clamper's natural powers were wonderfully restored, and he turned and walked the room excitedly. "I mean, sir," was the reply, "that your account is heavily overdrawn and that this is your paper."   So saying, he held up several promissory notes attached to certificates of protest. "My p per protested I " again exclaimed Mr. Clalper, and then looking the man sternly in the face, he added, "where is Mr. Kin?"- !"No one knows, sir; he disappeared this afternoon and is supposed to be connected with the forgery." "What forgery?" "Our baank paid a forged check of ten thousand dollars to-day-your firm's name. A forgery it may be, so Mr. Kin pronounced it at three o'clock; but we now claim that the check is genuine--made by that same Kin, and you will have to prove the contrary.  Altogether your deficit is fifty thousand dollars, and we  want security." "Security! you are aware, sir, that I am president." "And were removed by the board of directors at a     314         ONCE MORE. special meeting this afternoon, and Mr. Huyler chosen in your place. Your stock, as you know, is pledged for loans to its full mark. We want security!" "Security I at such a time of night?" "We can't wait, sir; at least we don't choose to wait. We don't know what may take place to-morrow, or what you may do. We want security and have prepared a mortgage on this house' and your other real estate; all correct, sir--the descriptions taken from the Hall of Records-ready for the signatures." "I shall sign no such thing," exclaimed Mr. Clamper. "Then you are under arrest for complicity with Amos Kin in sundry acts of fraud upon our bank. This gen- tleman will attend to the rest of the business." The policeman arose, but said nothing. Mr. Clamper's pallor was followed-by a flush of deep purple, which suffused his throat as' well as his features. He opened the door and shouted, "Huldy, come here!" The cry was unnecessary, for Mrs. Clamper and her daughters were at hand with countenances of agony. A"Huldy, I am ruined!"As he said this the color in his face grew deeper to almost blackness. He groaned, staggered forward, was caught in the policeman's arms, and sunk to the floor. "It is apoplexy," said Frederick, "1 and looks fatal," as he tore off the neck cloth, ripped up the sleeve and opened a vein.         A STORY OF NEw YORK.        315 CHAPTER XLI. "ESSONS TAUGHT   AT THE THORNTONS. The new relations which Elliott had entered into in a business way, were as different from his former experi- ence as he could have imagined. He might from his acquaintance with Flink, or with Clamper, Kin & Co., have concluded that all business men in New York were knaves, but here he met a striking contrast. The Thorntons were an old house of high reputation, not only for making  money but for .doiny butiness up- rightly. Profits flowed in as a result, and the) concern was considered strong, both in character and in capital. Elliott found his employers crowded by a businessl which came unsought; purchasers made their bills sim- ply because they gave this place their preference, and thus a daily stream of trade poured through their ware- house. Mr. Walter Thornton, the junior member of the firm, inducted Elliott into their peculiar mode of doilig busi- ness, and in a short time the latter felt at home. The elevated character of the Thorntons filled him-with ad- miration. The brothers were deeply attached to each other and exhibited strong resemblance in their modes     316         ONCE MORE. of thought and action. The strictest integrity marked each transaction, and the interest of the purchaser was always made paramount. "' It is necessary for us," said Mr. Walter to Elliott, "that our customers should do well and make money." Hence if any goods proved of inferior chatracter the clerk- saw that they were at once condemned and sent to auction, where a class of harpies picked them up and made them the object of their speculations. The confi- dence felt in this concern was, as Mr. Walter remarked, "their real capital. The mere amount of cash on which they traded, although the largest in the street, would be of small value in comparison. The latter might be lost; the former could not be. They might not always be rich, but they would always be honorable." As for the concern of Clamper, Kin & Co., their wealth and character found a -common ruin. Mr. Kin had played the part of the villain very adroitly and had outwitted the man who first taught him   knavery. Clamper had watched him, but he baffled the espionage of the latter, and by his boldness in procuring Elliott's arrest he showed how determined he was to keep the store free from the presence of any penetrating clerk. He had been a practiced gamester and had thus lost large sums of money, and at last, being driven to des- perate measures, he determined to plunge his grasp into whatever resources might be left, and abscond with the proceeds. His arrangements had been perfected for several weeks and he kept his losses up by borrowing until the day of   A STOR Y OF NEW YORK.        317 demonstration, which he had designated as that of the grand party. Taking advantage of Clamper's absence for a single day, he had seized the funds of the concern and allowed its paper to go to protest, and then attempted a fraud on0 the banlk by drawing a check for ten thousand dollars and calling it a forgery. Having succeeded in this series of crimes Mr. Kin took cars for Boston, whence he embarked for Liverpool. He had taken passage a month previously under an assumed name, and succeeded in getting aboard without detection. On the death of Mr. Clamper the concern was found to be insolvent, and the lavish prosperity which marked its prime all disappeared like a dream  and left a new lesson of the evanescent character of the gains 'of dis- holesty.            * + "I have seen this repeated often," said Mr. Walter to Elliott, one afternoon as they were resting firom their morning's- business, "and I could count up a large num- ber of men who have become rich by the profits of fraud,  and yet lived to see their dishonest gains scattered by the hand of Providence. There is a verse in the Bible, you will find it in Jeremiah,* which explains the ordering of Divine Providence in these matters, and it would be a good thing if it were posted in every counting-house. "Did you see that tall, pale-looking man in our office to-day? He came to seek employment as book keeper, *As the partridge sitteth on eggs and hatcheth them not, so he that getteth riches and not by right, shall leave them in the midst of his days and at the end be a fool. JEREMAH xvii, 11.     318         OArCE MORE. pleading sadly his poverty. That man's father was the largest dealer in liquor on the banks of the Hudson, and his wealth was so great as to be proverbial, but here is his son an object of our pity. Such is God's frequent method of dealing with dishonest and unprincipled men. "It is curious to examine the hidden history of fami- lies," continued Mr. Thornton, " and mark the deeds which give them reputation or disgrace, and wealth or ruin. I think I can trace the founding of our concern to a pious ancestor who lived a hundred years ago. He was a mechanic of industrious and frugal habits, and accumulated a property equal to one thousand dollars. That property came down to nmy father and with it came a blessing, just as it is written, ' the little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.' With that thousand my father commenced trade, and though the sum was trifling, yet it was the means of building up our present house, which is no trifle. If it were from mere selfishness, still it would be well for men to remember that honesty is the only true policy. Had Clamper, with his robust and energetic character, been truly honest, and had Kin, with his natural sagacity, been balanced by principle, they might have gone on to this day. Clamper, however, teaches Kin to cheat, and then Kin in turn cheats his master. It was a suicidal course and was so short-sighted that one wonders at the error. "There is more labor put forth in a life of crime than would make its followers rich, and yet, with all the large hauls made by such miscreants, who ever heard of a rich pickpocket or counterfeiter?"   A STORY OF NEW YORK.       319 CHAPTER XLII. MYSTERIES PERTAINING TO REAL ESTATE. "I have set Dewers At work at it," said Mr. Thornton to Elliott, speaking of the matter of the satchel, ( and if he does not penetrate the mystery, then it is beyond human power.   He is one of the oldest lawyers in our city and is probably the best informed on the subject of land titles. Those papers he will examine closely and / perhaps throw light upon the whole matter. "It was well that those rogues advertised the thing. They hoped, no doubt, to find the owner and obtain a reward by forcing it out of your hands. No one has yet applied, or at least has pursued the matter, and now it it is our duty to make the search. "The miniature bears the dress of a fashion consider- ably out of date and was evidently taken many years ago. As for the ring, that too is not of modern work- manship; but these, though of value, are still not of so much account as the papers, for the latter concern lands of great importance and may affect the title of an estate. I have looked into them, seen enough to know this, and I should not wonder at their. making a stir among prop- erty holders." All this was said in the private parlor of Thornton's     320         ONCE MORSE I counting-room, and from this the reader will perceive that Elliott had very wisely called the aid of his em- ployer to solve the mystery of his trust, and that they had with equal wisdom, called in the famous land attor- ney, Peter Dewers. Mr. Dewers was a stout gentleman of about three score, with silvered locks and an open engaging countenance. Law had been his business all his life, and he had inher- ited his office from his father and expected to bequeath it to his sons, so that the house was one of three genera- tions. His shelves were piled with abstracts of titles, searches and other real estate documents, and property of the value of millions was thus represented here. Mr. Dewers had had some very remarkable cases in the course of his practice and it occurred to him that the papers in the satchel would reveal another of similar character. Such was his opinion when he took up the deed executed by Herman Drinker to Anna Graydon. It bore signature and date of the year 1803 (July 12th), and was acknowledged before George Cowen, commis- sioner of deeds. The parties were evidently all dead, but the instrument was legally executed and hence sur- vived in full power. The next question was with respect to the land itself. This was described as a piece or parcel of seven acres and three-fourths lying in the city and county of New York, bounded on the north by lands owned by Ryder Ten Eyck; on the east by lands belonging to the cor- poration of New York; on the south, by a line drawn from a stone marked "H. D.," to a cottonwood tree on   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        321 the margin of the kill, and on the west by the public highway; said lands being part of a tract conveyed to Ryder Ten Eyck by Paulus Jans Verbrcek and Alida his wife, by deed bearing date September 6th, 1772. "You will perceive," said Mr. Dewers, at his next interview with Mr. Thornton and Elliott, "that the boundaries of this tract are not clearly defined, a remiss- ness in the laying out of old estates, which has led to much subsequent trouble and litigation, in which we have had a large experience. These lands have, since the date of this deed, been surveyed and laid out in lots, and are now covered with buildings. On looking over the old surveys and records, I find that this eatire prop- erty was disposed of at private sale,' in the year 1810, by Anna Graydon, and that a plot of one acre, be the same more or less, was conveyed to Abner Gordon for the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars; the rest being purchased by other parties whose titles are perfectly good. "There is something strange about this Gordon prop- erty. The maps are confused and differ. The deed calls for an acre more or less, but the sale of that land, which was under the hand of the sheriff, was only twelve lots of twenty-five by one hundred feet; whereas, a full acre contains sixteen lots. I cannot account for this, except on the score of fraud. Martha Gordon, who inherited the estate of Abner Gordon, married Luther Brayton, who became intemperate, and was sold out as above stated. Of his subsequent history I have no knowledge. His wife, who knew all about the property, was dead at the time of sale. and no one appears to have watched 21     322         ONCE MORE. over the running of the lines, so that the Brayton interest was unprotected. '"It also appears that when this land was sold, which was in June 9th, 1838, it was struck off at the same time with other lots sold by the sheriff; on which occasion one Reuben Clamper made purchases. Clamper was then a retail grocer, but has since been known as the leader of the notorious firm of Clamper, Kin & Co. Now the sheriff's deeds to Reuben Clamper are for thirty-four lots; whereas, in a map of Reuben Clamper's real estate, it is surveyed into thirty-eight lots. ("At the same time we find that the Gordon property of one acre should form sixteen lots, but that only twelve were sold. The inference is plain, that a fraud has been committed, and that some dishonest surveyor has extended the boundary so as to cover these four lots. This is a matter worth looking into by Luther Brayton or his heirs." Mr. Thornton listened with surprise, but not equal to that felt by Elliott-could that name Brayton bear any connection to the governess? "( How much would you value that land now?" asked Mr. Thornton. "I do not know what the improvements may be worth -but it lays on the Sixth avenue, a first class business street--not less than thirty thousand dollars." "A very remarkable circumstance," said Mr. Thornton. ("Not more so than many others which we meet," re- plied the attorney. "The history of land titles in this city is in no small degree romantic. Look at that case   A STOR Y OF NEw YORK.        323 where Aaron Burr recovered an estate for the Misses Eden-and we ourselves have had several of similar character." "Do you think the Brayton title good?" inquired Elliott. "Perfectly," replied Mr. Dewers, "if there be any heirs they will, as tenants in common, escape the statute of limitations." "Can you explain the boldness of this fraud; or at least can you suggest any ground of hope to hold the property?" said Mr. Thornton. It was evidently based on the fact that Brayton was a shiftless drunkard, and since he was sold out on execu- tion he had no interest in the matter; while Clamper's idea must have been to hold the property until all should be forgotten. He must have known that neither Brayton or his wife had brothers or sisters, and hence there was no kindred to trouble him. "You will also notice," continued the attorney, "that Clamper has avoided selling this property, and whereas he has disposed of a very large part of his original pur- chase, he has held this plot in his own hands. He has thus kept the title from those searches which would have upset his ownership. Take it all in all, it is an ingenious piece of work, and I have been well paid for looking it up, by the interest it has afforded." "And what is the situation of this property now?" asked Mr. Thornton. "It is in the hands of the sheriff to be sold for the benefit of Clamper's creditors, and will be offered at auction some time this winter."     324         ONCE MORE. "When, of course, the fiaaud would have been dis- covered." , Perhaps so and perhaps not. That would depend on the skill and penetration exercised by the attorney who had charge of the searches. Beside this, a sheriff's deed cuts off previous claims, unless they are of a very peculiar nature." 1"It is fortunate, Mr. Dewers," said the merchant, "that this denouement has happened before the sale. Now the next question is this: Who represents the Brayton interest? can we find an heir?" "I think I can," said Elliott.   A STORY OF NEW  YORK.      325 CHAPTER XLIIT. CLOSING SCENES AT THE CLAMPERS. The night of that grand entertainment was one of deep and indescribable horror. The alarm at first pervaded the crowd of guests with a running whisper, and looks of dismay soon took the place of glances of pleasure. There was a   rushing to and  fro of servants, and a hurried confusion amid which all manner of things were buzzed through the throng. "What's the matter?" is the general inquiry, and the reply is found ill exclamations like these : , Don't know " "Sormie trouble!"  "Wish I were home!" "Forgeryl" "Old Clamper under arrest!"  "Firm busted up I " Still wilder grew the alarm when the report of the final catastrophe reached the crowd. "What is it?"  What is it?" was the cry. "Dead!" was the answer, " dead " "Who?"   "who?" "who?" "Old Clamper!  cut his throat, I believe!"  The music was instantly hushed. The panic increased, and the place so recently devoted to mirth was suddenly    i changed to one of terror. Some  of the ladies shrieked, while others fainted as the alarm was taken up by frantic   i voices.  -                    '       , "Clamper's cut his throat 1 "  sf     326         ONCE MORE. "Where?" "Up stairs in the front room. Carpet all blood-so they say. Oh! let's go home I let's go home l" The crowd pressed to the door with the frenzy of a mob. Bargo found it impossible to preserve order. Carriages were called up, but in some cases their owners had gone home on foot. Others were waiting in solemn silence their turn, while many walked hurriedly away. There was no occasion for farewells, and no method in their departure; the hand of death had banished all etiquette, and, expelling the host of pleasure seekers, claimed that spot as his own. All night the gas-lights flared through the house, throwing their brilliance over the scene of recent festivity. There was the supper table, as it had been left, covered with luxuries; the splendid china, set off by the grotesque bottles of maras- ching as well as by the plainer shapes of champagne and Rhenish. Gorgeous bouquets, on which the florist had exercised his highest taste, threw their perfume on the air already fragrant with wines and fruits. But all was deserted and no one gazed on that scene of enjoyment but the silent statues which had been brought to grace the occasion. It was the house of death. At last the undertaker and his aids, with their professional gravity, their meas- ured step, and their subdued voices appeared, soon to give place to silence as they finished their task and de- parted in order to attend to other mortuary duties-thus following the step of Death as he tracks his way through the great metropolis.   A STORY OF NE'W YORK.       321 All then was hushed. The servants, wearied by their labors, were asleep. The mother also, overcome with exhaustion, was sunk in deep slumber, for nature claimed her sovereignty and grief and fatigue had conquered agony. The daughters, too, were asleep, though often waking with sobs and tossing with horrid dreams. All asleep without preparation or change of dress, like those charmed by some sudden genie of somnolence. One only remained watching by the dead. It was one who had marked with sorrow his father's evil course, and had de- termined to shun his example. It was one who, even now, felt a nobler impulse to live for usefulness, since his arm only stood between the family and beggary. ')     328        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XLIV. EVERARD WYNDHAM TO WALTER THORNTON,    . GERUIOND'S HOTEL, LONDON. DEAR SIR: I acknowledge with much pleasure and gratitude your note, and beg leave to say that your at- tention to my interests is worthy of the character of your house, while the success of your attorney in ascer- taining my address indicates remarkable astuteness. The circumstances of the case were these: I was on my route to Boston by the way of New York and had my passage taken, under penalty of forfeiture, by the first steamer. The lost articles were of such value that I could not leave them in my trunk, and hence placed them in a small morocco bag which was fastened beneath my overcoat. When the catastrophe occurred we all rushed for a place of safety. It was dark, and the con- fusion was rendered more fearful by the cries and shrieks 9f those around me. Such a scene I hope never to wit- ness again. I pressed forward, aiding two ladies vho happened to be near me, and who, thank God, vere saved. A third person, male I presume from the power of the grasp, seized me by the coat with a violence wlich seemed to rend it, but as it was also badly torn by catch- ing in the dark against articles of freight, I cannotltell   A 5SoRY OF NEW  YORK.      329 which circumstance occasioned the loss, only this I know, the satchel was gone. I gave it up at once as a final loss, and did not advertise it simply because I had no time- not being able to remain to attend to the matter and having no one to represent my interest. Indeed, no one but myself could identify the articles of value, while, in fact, I had no hope of its recovery. As for the contents of the satchel, I lay no claim to the law papers. They were put in my hand by nmy father years ago, when he owned real estate in New York, and I had been addressed by the heirs of Anna Graydon (of whom he had purchased several lots) with a request to return all papers bearing on their interests, as there had arisen a question of boundaries. I am glad, for their sakes, that the papers are safe. With respect to the ring, I may speak of it as being of inestimable value to me from various associations. My mother wore it (you will see that it is a lady's ring) for many years and gave it to me as a farewell gift-a memorial of her love. Its history is peculiar. My grandfather, Edward Wyndham, was a resident of Paris for many years, and was at one time a member of the American legation under Ambassador Monroe. This, as you are aware, was during the Reign of Terror. The ring was presented to' him by Clothilde, countess of Arbonne, as an expression of her gratitude. He saved her husband from the guillotine. The miniature is still more valuable, being that of nmy sainted mother. These two memorials of one whom I hope to meet in heaven have been my chief treasure" for     330         ONCE MORE. several years, and I am happy to think of their restoration. You will please hold them till my return. I want to express my admiration of the persistent honesty of the young gentleman who found them, and  ask his acceptance of the enclosed trifle. With my assurance of grateful remembrance, I remain yours, EVERARD WYNDHAM. As Mr. Thornton read the letter a smile of noble sat- isfaction flitted across his countenance, and Elliott felt his heart glow with the pleasure of having accomplished this act of restoration. The wealth of the Indies would not have compensated him for the happiness of that moment. As for the present, a draft for 50--"It will enable me," said he, "to relieve some pressing wants which are felt by my mother."   A STORY OF NEW YORKz.       331 CHAPTER XLV. "GHT BREAKS ON ADAS PATH. There was no little excitement in the village of Anvern when the news had got astir. "What strange things will happen 'l" was the remark of the gossips. "What a lucky creature I " exclaimed Mrs. Jones. "Well, she always looked like a lady," said Mrs. Smith. "I wonder if she'll do good with it," said Mrs. Larkins. And these gossips seemed in better humor than most of this class, among whom such news seldom fails to excite most bitter jealousy. "I hope you won't leave us, Miss Brayton," said Aubrey, who saw that there was sonmeting going on be- yond his comprehension-Ada had been with them but a few months, and- yet had won the children's hearts, so that a tear stood in the little boy's eye when he asked the solemn question. Ada kissed away the tear-"Ah! my child," said she, "I will soon be back again." It was a memorable hour when Ada returned to New York to meet Mr. Dewers as the heir of an estate. Deep thoughts were working within her breast, and many a tear coursed down her cheeks-tears of sorrow over the     332         ONCE MORE. memories of the past ; not of the scenes of the tenement house with its misery and violence, but over the darker memories of a soul once maddened by hatred to God. It was the thought of the bitter and rebellious heart which had so often condemned God's dealing with her and with mankind, and arraigned the goodness of the Most High. Why should not the fountains of the soul be opened by the thought of his love which had overcome her unbelief, and had thus followed her with blessings? How could she but repeat the words applied to her by Mr. Werner :  They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, and they that murmured shall learn doctrile." The searches of the title had been renewed by the penetrative Dewers, and the line had been run out by means of a fresh survey. The old landmarks mentioned in the Herman Drinker deed were sought for, and on making an excavation the stump and remains of the tree were found, while the locality of the kill was proved by parties whose memory could recall the scenes of a half century ago. These facts were so clear that the land was at once released by the sheriff, and by direct inheritance it be- came the property of Ada Brayton. To receive this estate was the object of her return to the city. One of the first places to visit was the humble abode of the Werners, where tears of love and affection were mutually shed. There were many things to awaken tender emotions. There was the room  which Aura shared with her in the hour of distress. There was the   A STORY oF .NEW YORK.       333 Bible whose reading at family worship carried power to her, heart, and there were the beloved forms of Aura and her father, to whom she owed the blessings both of time and eternity Solemn indeed was that evening service in which they bowed together in prayer. The next night the mission meeting occurred, and there Ada as of old met the circle of those who followed the Lamb in the midst of poverty, and who glorify him in great tribulation. Old Mrs. Candlish had gone to rest-- but father Jenkins and deaf John and the Weakminded man were there to unite in praise and in worship, and it renewed those hours of grace which she had enjoyed in this place of holy memories. i     334        ONCE MORE. CHAPTER XLVI. CONCLUSION. Before we bring these pages to a close we have a great deal to say, and are almost inclined to continue our details, even at the risk of becoming tedious. We have much to tell of Frederick Clamper, who though left poor, battled through the difficulties attending an ex- pensive education, and succeeded in establishing himself in his profession. The example of Doctor Warburton was not lost upon him, and he became, like his preceptor, not only a successful physician, but a useful christian. The reader will not be surprised to learn that domestic life, cheered by piety, renewed such joys as had dwelt in the household of the Warburtons, and that the child of the tenement house, now the wife of the physician, found in her husband one who could unite with her in sympathy with the poor. Ada had been taught in the school of submission, and when placed in easy circumstances she could enjoy God's gifts with true gratitude and divide his bounties with the distressed. The turf became green over Henry's grave, but the wintry wind that annually scathed it could not chill that memory which Ada cherished. And as a little group of loved ones grew up around her, she would often bring   A STORY OF NEW YORK.        335 them to the spot and speak of her brother who lost his life for her, and of her broken-hearted mother, and here they learned to love that Saviour who had redeemed these firom sin and sorrow. To recur to the Clamper family; it was only the bounty of the once despised governess, but now Mrs. Frederick Clamper, which gave them a home in Harlem and a re- spectable support. Flink went to state's prison, and Mr. Kin became a vaga- bond, while Doctor Tenderblare, driven out of the min- istry by his misdemeanors, shifted from  one thing to another and finally got a subordinate place in a theatrical company. Elliott Brand became a partner in Thornton's great commercial house, and is at the present time one of that class of merchants who unite philanthropy with enter- prise, and who are as distinguished for usefulness in the church as they are for success in commerce. We need hardly say that among those who enjoyed his protecting hand the Weakminded manll had prominence.   This per- son, being somewhat in years, soon found  a home in a Christian family until called away to a better world. Harker still continued his course of crime and afterward died in a state's prison. Mr. Werner continues his work, but contemplates re- tiring to a less laborious field. He needs rest, but will only take it in a  change of employment. Should he carry out his present plan he will occupy the pretty cot- tage  which Ada purchased for him at-Anvern and en- gage in a  pastoral work in that vicinity. This will be     336         ONCE MORE. the more agreeable to him since Mrs. Warburton is still residing there, and her influence will be of material aid. Aubrey Warburton is a clerk in that house of which Elliott is a partner, and will in due time attain an equal position. The rest of the children are with their mother, whose bereavement was cheered by their education and by those other works of usefulness which sprang from her hand. Should this chronicle be extended, we shall give some further account of those characters in whom we hope the reader has been interested. We shall also describe in full detail that home circle to which we have now only made reference, but whose memory cheered Elliott dur- ing his early struggles ; the chief member of which was that mother whose prayers were so remarkably answered in his behalf. We shall also attempt to portray'those scenes of joy which lit up that humble home, when it received the news of his triumph over the evil forces which once assailed him--scenes whose delight was still more thrilling when he returned, in the beauty of inno- cent and ingenuous youth, to relate the story of conflict and success. Till then we bid the reader farewell, hoping that he has found in this history a pleasure equal to that which we have enjoyed while unfolding it--the chief element of which consists in the appreciation of those lessons which the author has learned by experience.    
         
      
   
