
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Eventful Lives of Helen and Charlotte Lenoxa .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6409
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE EVENTFUL LIVES OF HELEN AND CHARLOTTE LENOXA, 
               THE TWIN SISTERS OF PHILADELPHIA. 
             
            
                
             
            
               PUBLISHED BY A. R. ORTON: 
               MEMPHIS, RICHMOND, BALTIMORE, AND PHILADELPHIA.
             
            1853. 
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  TWIN SISTERS. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               THE EVENTFUL LIVES OF HELEN AND CHARLOTTE LENOXA, 
               THE TWIN SISTERS OF PHILADELPHIA. 
               WITH ELABORATE AND MINUTE DETAILS OF THE ADVENTURES, INTRIGUES, AND DARK CRIMES, OF THESE BEAUTIFUL, BUT SINFUL WOMEN; THE FORMER OF WHOM WAS HUNG AT KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE, AUGUST 20TH, 1852. 
               FOR THE DOUBLE MURDER OF CAPTAIN GERALD VERNON, AND HIS YOUNG WIFE 
               WHILE THE LATTER, WHO WAS ALSO CONVICTED AND SENTENCED TO DEATH FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE SAME FOUL MURDER, COMMITTED SUICIDE IN THE JAIL, THE DAY PREVIOUS TO HER SISTER'S EXECUTION. 
             
            
               MEMPHIS, RICHMOND, BALTIMORE, AND PHILADELPHIA: 
               PUBLISHED BY A. R. ORTON
             
            1853. 
             
            Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by A. R. ORTON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            PROLOGUE. 
             
               
                   
                     "I mean to show things as they really are, 
                     Not as they ought to be; for I avow 
                     That till we see what's what in fact, we re far 
                     From much improvement." 
                  
                
             
            The above truthful lines, from Byron, exhibit the purpose of this work. It is to aim at reform, by relying upon truth for our examples. Fiction may be powerful, but we verily believe that one grain of truth is more fruitful of good effects, than bushels of romance. A career of good, penned upon paper, may sound well to the youthful aspirant; but when he tries to pursue the course thus pointed out for him by the novelist, he finds himself pursuing a will-o'-the-wisp, chimera or bugbear. And very often the youth, ardent and sanguine, and unused to defeat and discomfiture, turns away with a sick heart, having in vain sought after good, upon the romancist's model; and then he may fall into vice after vice, saying that there is no good, nor road to good, in this sinful world. But take A. B., or C. D., for example, who are living in the next street, and have accumulated wealth by industry, and established a good name by their own honest efforts; and such a picture will establish more solidity and purpose in the mind of a youth, than all the fanciful paintings of the romancist's brain. Having faith in these views, we have selected two characters-twin sisters; one of whom, it will be painfully remembered, was very recently executed for the dreadful crime of murder; the other prematurely finished a career of sin. And we shall show, in as graphic a manner as we are competent of, consistent with the facts in the case, how, step by step, these young and beautiful girls fell into the depths of wickedness and shame; so that their lives, if of no use to themselves, may be productive of that result which our great Maker designed, a warning, a reproof, and a lesson abounding in wholesome, honest truths. In the course of these pages, we shall give some scenes repulsive to the reader, as well as to our self; but we are pledged strictly to follow our text. We shall avoid every thing which might sound harshly upon the most fastidious ear. We shall not imitate the romancist, who panders oftentimes to the passions and vitiated tastes of his readers. No, our little work shall contain nothing which may be construed into licentiousness; but rather, all that may be considered moral. We aspire to making our simple narration of these two young girls, a class-book of truth, a companion book for young men, and a reference of consequences for young women. We hope that it may be admitted to, the domestic fireside, and that the rich tones of the father may read it aloud to his family; and that its fruits may be told in the righteousness of future generations. 
            Once more we urge you to rememember that all herein contained is truth, "the whole truth, and nothing but the truth;" and, in Eliza Cook's words, we speak to every youth in this vast country: 
                   
                     "First, I would have thee cherish truth, 
                     As leading star in virtue's train; 
                     Folly may pass, nor tarnish youth, 
                     But falsehood leaves a poison stain." 
                  
               
             
            And now, commending our humble efforts to pen the lives of two notorious characters, teeming as they do with incident, to your lenient consideration; hoping that our errors will be overlooked, in your appreciation of the aim we have in view, to establish our literature upon a foundation of facts; to teach morals from serious truths, and not from fiction; 
            
               We remain, your obedient servant 
               THE AUTHOR
             
          
       
      
         
            The eventful lives of Helen and Charlotte Lenoxa 
             
            THE TWIN SISTERS OF PHILADELPHIA. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               PHILADELPHIA, on a light and brilliant day, when the dome of heaven is clothed in blue deeper in tint as it reaches to the far-off horizon, and bright and clear o'er our heads, relieved by scattering clouds, that appear as golden feathers along the sky; what a sight art thou! With one of thine arms resting upon the heaving bosom of the delicious Delaware and the thy other extending to the serpentine Schuylkill, Who revel in and partake of thy charms, and whose unmatchable beauties contribution so much to thy fair fame, and envied position among sister cities in the new worlds. Thine holiday charms, the banners streaming form the house-top and the mast-head; the marches of patriotic citizen soldiers upon thy proud streets; avenues, shaving the passenger luxuriously form the genial sun, by thy majestic groves; the echoes of luscious music dying upon the ear; the pleasure steamboat, with its gay colors, and still more gay and light-hearted passengers, who are off to the sylvan height of Florence, or to taste of the voluptuous scenery of Delaware's bank, immortalized and beloved for having borne across her bosom the faithful warriors of liberty; New castle rising to their eye from the western shore, and fair Wilmington, too, with its gaze, and yet contribution to the glory of Delaware's scenery. 
               But to return. Gloucester, the of industry, the delicious village pedantly named city, with its loom and shuttle music; and how dose the glorious Philadelphia look from this point? In solemn, quite grandeur reposing upon the might river; no hovels, nor misery, appears to the view; nor strife, nor bustle, nor rush, nor shouting of voices, nor angry words greet our ear; but one immense line of roof, of steeples of masts and tree-tops stretching far and wide; and as for noise, there is none-the city is, from the distances, a necropolis, as noiseless and motionless as a vast burial place. But once treading upon its docks, what angry looks, what anxious faces! how thousands rush to and fro. Whither are they going? Whence have they come? Barrels are rolling in myriads on to a hundred vessels; goods in boxes and bales are piled up, now dragged down, then rolled along. Here a rush of porters; there horses dashing along, to the terror of squalling children and old age. Carts, omnibuses, coaches, are dashing about with affrighted beasts and maddened Jehus. All is chaos, confusion, noise, bustle. What a change to thy far-off quiet look, and dead-like silence and inactivity. A ringing of bells; the roaring steam deafening the shouts of the bawling captain; the noise of wheels, and the din. of commerce, make the sounds upon the ear almost amount to bewilderment That is Market street; the depot of commerce, the mart of trade, the focus of enterprise. There is Chesnut street; the parade of beauty, the scene of fashion, and the abode of luxury. Yon is Walnut street; a land of lawyers, millionaires, idleness and woman. And each of these straight avenues, walled in by red brick, contains some feature of the Quaker City's glory or shame. These compact lanes, alleys and narrow streets, south of us, where houses are neither brick nor stone, but old and crazy, of rotting lumber made, are filled with the refuse of this civilized society; the ignorant, the pernicious, the lazy, the drunken and the refractory. North of us lies the neighborhood whereto our steps are now bent-S G. This majestic street one of Philadelphia's broadest, is tenanted by the sinew of the city, its middle class; the storekeeper, the professional man, and the merchant; but all of second-rate power. This neat residence, with its pretty red brick, and tasteful green blinds, and white door, and marble steps, is the place where we shall rest the traveling reader-at the residence of Mr. Stephen Y. L-. 
               The gentleman alluded to, sits in his easy chair, dandling upon his knee one of his children, a young and beautiful girl of not exceeding nine years, who crushes in her tiny hand his favorite newspaper, the Pennsylvania Enquirer, a privilege in the way of destruction not even extended to Mrs. L. Another girl, equally as beautiful, is teasing a small, barking lap-dog on the rug; and Mrs. L-- is very industriously employed in hemming a pocket handkerchief, but occasionally directing the fond attention of the father to the babes' playing. He is a man of some forty summers, while the mother has not exceeded her thirty-fifth year. He is a tall, dark-complexioned man, tanned by Atlantic suns, vigorous in frame, and intellectual in appearance; while she is a light-complexioned woman, with auburn hair, blue eyes, full red cheeks, and rich ripe lips, with a rounded, matronly form, still portraying symmetry and grace in figure. 
               It is not essential, in our brief work of editing these lives, that we should detail to our readers all the particulars of the studies, classes, and troubles of the youthful sisters, from their cradle upward; nor any elaborate exposition of the children's minds. Such a course would be tedious and unnecessary. Suffice it to say, that they were of about the same size, each having blue eyes and auburn hair. They were also, in all other respects, sisters and twins; and all that distinguished them was a slightly different expression about the mouth. 
               We will now leave the children to their tuition and training, while we engage the reader with a brief synopsis of the lives of Mr. and Mrs. L--. 
               Matilda Weston, now Mrs. L--, was the daughter of a wealthyfarmer, of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware, She became acquainted with her husband from meeting him at a party, at a friend's of their parents; he, at that time, being on a visit to that small and splendid city. He soon made proposals of love to Matilda, which were accepted, and they became man and wife. But over speculation in some mining operations reduced Mr. Weston, senior, to the lowest state of dependence; till at length we find him, not alone stripped of his estate, and incapable of contributing to the worldly comfort of his beloved daughter, but obliged to become a recipient of the bounty of his son-in-law, and a resident under their roof. This, with the old people's high notions of independence, did not end happily; for Mr. Weston died shortly after, and his poor wife followed speedily. Mr. L-- was a native of Scotland. He came to this country at an early age, and got a situation as errand boy in a stock-broking firm of Walnut street. Thence, through his acuteness, business tact, and fine education, obtained under the most mauspicious circumstances he was elevated to a clerkship, and? at the time we find him, was a junior partner in the house. It was simply a business partnership; L--, entering without any capital, had to devote his labors for a mere moiety of the profits of the concern. Hence it was quite as much as L-- could accomplish, to keep Up appearances, in the eyes of the world, befitting his financiership. Not having received any assistance from home or foreign sources, his position was much to his credit, as an active, energetic, self-made man. 
               The twin sisters, as they grew up, developed great beauty, combined with rare abilities, and became not alone the admiration of their parents, but a source of conversation and admiration to all persons of refined taste, who chanced to know them. 
               The firm with which Mr. L-- was connected, became embarrassed, and its affairs soon closed up, leaving Mr. Stephen L-- burdened by debt, to commence battling once more with the hard circumstances of city life. His integrity and shrewdness soon won for him a situation of trust in another house of the same character. But this, of course, was a serious blow to the laudable ambition of leaving his daughters well provided for in his old age, or at his demise. But his misfortune came heavily upon him, and, notwithstanding the advice and retrenchments of his wife, it preyed sorely upon the man. Added to this, a fire broke out in his residence, and left L--. in the world, without a home. This, with his previous troubles, and other embarrassments, led him, one morning, to the committal of suicide. Mrs., L-- had gone down to breakfast, at the hotel where they were staying, leaving her husband in the act of shaving; when she returned to his bed-room she found him weltering in his blood, with his throat cut from ear to ear. For several days, the poor woman was crazed; but recovering herself, she removed from her expensive quarters, and took up her residence in the neighborhood of her first home in Philadelphia, occupying cheap and decent apartments. She was obliged to withdraw her daughters from, school. They, by this time, were fifteen years, of age, and certainly noble girls; either, in stature, was above the middle height, of erect form, carriage most queenly, and yet not, verging into the pompous walk of pride. Their step was light and aerial, as they tripped along upon the prettiest, neatest, and yet plumpest little feet man' ever delighted to look upon, or sculptor transferred to marble. Their busts were not yet fully developed into womanly fullness, but were most beautiful in their contour; their necks were sufficiently long, and from the, poll curved in the most graceful manner till it formed the back; their shoulders shone with the gloss of semi-polished marble; their arms were round, plump, pale, soft, and curved into two most tiny wrists, and from thence their hands, so tender, with such gracefully long fingers, that tapered off, and exhibited nails of filbert-like shape. Their faces were so much alike that it is quite impossible to make a distinction, for no difference existed. When they were together, it is true, Charlotte features were somewhat the larger, her eyes a trifle the bigger, and her form, mayhap, rounder; but divided from each other, it required the discriminating eye of one who was very familiar with the fair gazelles, to make a difference; and indeed, while at school, they were often taken for each other. The melody of their voices differed: not, indeed, that they were either harsh; but Charlotte's partook slightly of the contralto degree, while Helen's was a soprano. Their faces were of the oval. shape, surmounted by a brow of dazzling paleness, developing some intellectuality, but not to that extent to make a strongly contrasted countenance. Their hair was so soft and rich, so light and undulating, as it hung around their beauteous temples, that it looked like locks of golden, rather than human hair. Their eyebrows were arched as with the accuracy of an artist's skill; and their eyes, so gentle, so expressive, like two mild orbs content to rest in their spheres, and revel in the rest that the golden fringes afforded them. Then their cheeks, so round, yet not fleshy; and upon these blushed two sweet pink roses; and their mouths, so small and prettily shaped, opening upon a row of brilliant, white, regular teeth; ears so pale, and when viewed from the profile, how transparent. Indeed, their whole physical being seemed to be a combination of nature's perfections. It looked as though they had been turned out of nature's studio, better conceived and executed works than any hitherto. We have done them injustice: 
                     "Those who paint them truest, praise them most."
                  
                
               The author being an unpoetical man, is sorry that he cannot realize upon paper the twin sisters' charms; not that he has any immodest aim to serve, but their beauty is the moral of this work, and well might we say of them, so love-like were they, in the words of Byron-- 
                      
                        "Whose large blue eyes, fair locks, and snowy hands, 
                        Would shake the saintship of an anchorite." 
                     
                  
                
               But no more of this. We must dispel angelic charms, "to pursue the even tenor of our way," among the features of our narrative. 
               Mrs. L-- upon the death of her husband, or as near after it as she could command her energies, waited upon one of the principal tailoring establishments, and procured work as an embroideress, upon vest patterns. As her work was very superior to what they had been having, they gave her full scope to introduce new patterns, which her genius enabled her fully to perform; and thus she made from seven to eight dollars per week, while, as a worker upon other tailor's work, she could not have earned over four dollars a week, by the most intense labor. She then determined upon keeping Helen at home, to assist her in her few household duties, and learn her business at her hands; while the mother prudentially sought to give Charlotte another business, knowing that two of a family often disagree, when, engaged in precisely the same business. How many brothers' love has this rivalry broken up? How many houses has it turned into a scene of contention? So Mrs. L-- soon found employment, as a fancy gaiter binder, for Charlotte. 
             
             
                
               CHAFTER II. 
               Mrs. L--, in a few months more, became reconciled to the loss of her husband, and her work steadily improved; while her daughters continued each to earn some four dollars weekly. Her situation, pecuniarily and mentally, was not so bad after all. Their earnings, for the three, at all times, equaled fifteen dollars weekly; and this, with the cautious hand of Mrs. L--, was made to contribute largely to a respectable position, and necessary comforts. So that the twin beauties were not destitute of the essential additions to good looks, in the way of superior attire; and there were few girls that dressed like the embroideress and the binder, to whom raiment' lent so many charms, or, upon the other hand, who made dress so becoming. Their choice of style was marked by a fine eye for taste, elegance, and neatness. While they desired to be fashionable, it was not their aim to outdo fashion; but they never selected anything for their wear, without a particular regard to its adaptability to their order of beauty. This made their dress all the more becoming; while other young ladies were spending much more money for clothing, they were making themselves ridiculously outre, and robbed themselves of that dignity which should attend a woman of taste. Having said thus much, conceiving a useful lesson to be embodied therein, we shall proceed. 
               Charlotte's employer was a man of some thirty-six years, a fine-looking specimen of a gentleman; and, by his remarkable generosity, ingratiated himself into the graces of the young ladies who worked for him, and by this means, and his insinuating manners and polished address, succeeded in pro curing the downfall of many beautiful and gentle girls, to satisfy his own, depraved appetite. Charlotte, not being acquainted with the nefariousness of his designs upon her, drank in all the gentle, but well-directed flatteries he plied her with. His compliments were refined and even poetical, and, his manner of applying them so fanciful, and regulated by the bonds of etiquette, that they could not fail to attract the admiration of a young, beautiful, and, of course, somewhat vain, girl of sixteen. He gave her the best work to do, and would accompany that favor with another, of a superior price to what he paid the other hands; so that Charlotte soon was earning five, and occasionally six dollars weekly. He would often-accidentally, of course-meet her in various places, when he would pay her the most decided attention; till at length, they were upon terms of great intimacy, and Mr. Bellair, her employer, attended Charlotte in her evening walks, at church, at private concerts; and Bellair may be said to have introduced the young lady to "the world." At length he overcame, by dint of perseverance, her mamma's scruples against balls and theatres; and Miss L-- soon shone in the brilliant festive scene, at the feasts of Terpsichore and Thespis. Her graceful manners and winning ways told, with her beauty, in securing her many admirers; and flattery became pleasing to her ear, and her thoughts became dazzled with the brilliancy and pride of her own position. 
                
               Bellair had now been acquainted with Charlotte six months, and by this time she had assumed the manners of a most consummate coquette; she used her smiles for wiles for wiles, and her charms to attract the notice of young gentlemen. When first on the floor of a ball-room, she was frightened and dazzled, excited and exhilarated and retiring. But now instead of cleaving to the arm of Bellair, with the tenacity of a beautiful girl afraid of all around, she would leave him so soon as she could perceive another acquaintance whom she thought more available than her "chaperon." She could with complacency criticize the arrangements, and find flaws in that music which she once believed was more harmonious than any she had ever known. Her conversational powers improved, or, we should say, deteriorated; for she could talk sprightly things, appreciate good jokes, and beyond all her worldly accomplishments, she was a most excellent whist player, a splendid singer, a faultless waltzer; a perfect pianist, and a good player upon the guitar. All these contributed to her attractions, and brought the young men buzzing, like bees around a flower. She rewarded them equally, with smiles and tender looks, till Bellair felt himself almost sorry for having taken the trouble to introduce one who thought so little of him; or, at least, one whose affections he could not monopolize. But when they were alone, she bent upon him her soft looks of affectionate love, and Bellair forgot her faults. Indeed, we may say, that he retained more of Charlotte's attention than any other mortal; but her heart was divided among a hundred beaus. 
               Helen, brought up at home, under the strict surveillance of her parent, was not so soon lost as Charlotte, and certainly displayed less of what world calls force of character. One morning Charlotte returned from a ball, and had her sister locked in her arms, as she was recounting the adventures of the last rout, and of her triumphs there, first asking her sister's opinion of which young man she would most prefer, and then would follow an extatic description of all her favorites; then came names, and she would repeat off a whole list of names, asking her sister which she thought was romantic and pretty. Helen interrupted her sister, by asking her opinion how the name, Gerald Vernon, sounded. 
               "0, charmingly!" said Charlotte; and raising herself above her sister, and reclining her splendid head upon her arm, continued she, "Why, do you know such a one?" 
               "I do," said Helen, blushing deep carnation; "it's a pretty name, that's all," and she tried to draw her sister's attention off; but Charlotte remarked; 
               "A lover, I guess, Helen." 
               Her beautiful sister, finding herself cornered in her endeavor to conceal the names of Vernon, remarked, 
               "Not exactly." 
               But Charlotte was not to be thrown off so easily. She kissed her sister, and catching her luxurious locks, curled them around her taper fingers, and said, 
               "Now, dear sister Helen, you do not use me well. I have told you all of my affairs; every secret of my inmost heart, I have reposed many secrets in your keeping, and have not asked even a pledge for their security; and you now have some little love affair which you keep like a suspicious little miser, safely locked up. O, it is too bad. At least we ought to exchange civilities, or altogether." 
               "Well, well, I believe you said Helen; "but, Charlotte, I have kept my secret from you, not from any desire to keep you uninformed of my actions, but really because I felt you would laugh at me, and I almost entertain the same; opinion now;" and she covered her blushing face 
               "Why, what's the matter with the girl?" said Charlotte, pulling her sister's hands from her face. "Don't you think I know you must have a husband, and, before that lover? Why, you are now seventeen years old, and it is not unusual for girls to get married at that age. So now, dear Helen, tell me all about it; how you became acquainted with your swain; what's the color of his hair; who he is; what he is; and what he looks like, and all the other information you can furnish. Come, be quick; I am dying with anxiety." 
               "Now, don't you laugh," said Helen, looking into her sister's face, smilingly. "There, lay your head so;" and she took her sister's face, and turned it toward the wall, and then said- 
               "Well; one night I was returning from shop, and seeing some fountains play, amid some majestic trees, enclosed by a splendid iron railing, I thought, as the night was exceedingly warm, that it would be a delicious place to take a promenade in, previous to returning home; and as I saw several other ladies, and many gentlemen, Seated and walking, it prompted me the more to join them; and I went in accordingly, and sat upon one of the seats, and enjoyed the going down of the sun, the pleasant shade, and the music of the waters gushing from the fountains; and when I went near to the falling waters, and felt the cool spray dashing in my face, I was indeed happy. I saw a young man-O, so' very handsome!-observing me. I felt that he was about talking to me. I was much afraid, so I hurried out of the enclosure, and looking up to the, corner of the street, as I was emerging from the portal, at one of its four corners, I read the name-Washington Square. I then went home, and dared not turn round until I reached out steps, which I. hurried up, knocked at the door, and as I, askance, cast my eyes, I beheld the figure of the young gentleman, who had followed me, I slept uncomfortable, lest he might visit the house, now that he knew where I resided. I went to the same place the very next night, as I had occasion to visit the shop at about the same time on the ensuing day; and there was the same gentleman, in precisely the same position, as upon the previous evening. I did not know what to make of it. I was filled with curiosity. I staid a short time, and returned; and as I approached the house, I turned round, and there was my relentless tracker at my back, Well, I did not go to shop for five days, and although this time elapsed, yet there I found my purser, ready to follow me home when next I went enacted over again. The next night, something occurred which gave a change to the mater. I had taken my seat opposite to the fountains; my gentlemanly purser was disposed of, I know not where, when, just as I was returning home, a man, in age, I should guess, about twenty-eight, with grease, and great, and a great fiery-looking beard, dressed very gaudily, was parading very pompously around the grounds, swinging a cane very swiftly. He seemed to me to be trying an experiment, of how near he could bring it to one's face, without absolutely striking you; and just as I turned, he approached me, and lifting, in a most ridiculous manner, his white hat from his head, scraped a kind of bow to me. I was lost in astonishment, and let down my veil to express my indignation at his salute. Finding himself foiled in his attempt to force an acquaintance upon me, he tried to complete his audacious effrontery, by saying, 'Why, Martha, you surely do not forget me; I could see what this was intended for; to mislead the few spectators who had witnessed with pleasure the rebuff. 'Sir,' said I, almost crying at being forced to hold direct converse with him, 'my name is not Martha, nor do I know you, never having seen you in my life before; and was proceeding upon my return homeward, when he caught hold of my arm. 'Come; said he, 'it's of no use; we 're old friends; what's the use, of enacting scenes for the gaping multitude; let's shake hands, and be friends; This was said with such an air of nonchalance, that I felt as though those who had been witnesses of the scene would believe him, and I lost all confidence in my ability to answer him with coolness, and I burst out into tears, and was fast relieving myself of my heart-rending vexation. At this moment, my mysterious pursuer suddenly emerged from somewhere, and said, in a rich manly voice, to the fellow-'Pray, sir, do you strive to insult this lady?' 'No, sir; replied the rude fellow; 'she's an old flame of mine, and I don't want any of your interference; 'Sir; replied my defender, 'I tell you to begone; you are an impudent impostor; if not, I shall give you into the charge of the police; or perhaps; said my welcome friend, 'I shall take the law into my own hands, and give you a sound thrashing; Here the other grew mighty angry, and my friend whispered to me-'Leave this fellow to me; I pray you, make quick home; I glided from the place, he following soon after; having disposed of my intruder by breaking his fancy cane into a thousand splinters, and dashing them in the red man's face, and quietly walking off, soon came up at the side of me; and I must confess, since I have confessed so much, that I did not walk home so quickly that night as hitherto. I thanked him for his gentlemanly conduct, and expressed myself under never-ending obligations for his manly vindication of myself in so marked a manner, and in so peculiar a contingency. He replied to me, that he was proud to have rendered me a service. He was sorry that it was under such disagreeable circumstances; lamented the occasion, and ended by felicitating himself upon having an introduction to me, one he had watched with so much attention. He then apologized for his rudeness, but excused himself in a most sensible manner; but what he said, I entirely forget. However, as he was a very splendid looking young-man, I permitted him to walk home with me, and as he took my hand, and asked permission to see mamma, I felt compelled, through fear, to refuse him, but promised to meet him the next night; and then he repeated, in a melodious voice, Watson's lines: 
                      
                        "But, O! whate'er my fate may be; 
                        And time alone that fate can tell; 
                        May you be happy, blest, and free 
                        From every ill! Lady, farewell!' 
                     
                  
                
               "I was charmed with the appropriateness of this quotation; his manners, his appearance, his chivalry. Of course, I dreamed about him; and when the next night came, although I emerged from my home conscious of having done wrong in not acquainting Ma with all that had occurred, I went forth with a heart beating quickly, and with certain emotions which it would be impossible for me to give expression to. He was there. We passed a pleasant evening together. In form, he is of the middle height, say five feet seven, to speak by rule. His hair is very black, very glossy, and very curly. The form of his face is oval; his complexion the. most clear that you ever beheld on a man. His eyes are coal-black; his small, neatly trimmed whiskers are also black, and a healthy color blooms upon either cheek. His hands are small and well-shaped; and he is altogether a fine-looking young man. I should say his age is not exceeding twenty-one. And now I have r given you a faint outline of my beaux; a young man to whom I am growing more and more attached, and whom I am going to meet this evening again. But, hark! here 's Ma." 
               The door opens, and the mother enters; and, going to the bedside, she gives each daughter a kiss, and embraces them. 
               "Well, my children," said she, "are you about to rise; it is near six." 
               The beauties, in a few minutes, made their toilet, and each departed upon their separate daily avocations. It was plain that the seeds of consumption, engendered by over work, was fast reducing the vigorousness of Mrs. L--'s constitution. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               Bellair still continued his favors toward Charlotte; and, notwithstanding her coquetry and flirtation, she continued industriously at work. In fact, we might say, that she was more inclined to work than before she was introduced to society; for she found her expenses for dress increasing every day, and it required an extra exertion, even at her high wages, to keep pace with the increasing demands for wardrobe and jewelry. One day, Mr. Bellair, dressed in his usual careful and genteel manner, waited upon the gentle Charlotte, and requested her to accompany him upon an excursion, party to Cape May. 
               It was a beautiful day; the party was a large and respectable one, and the ride upon the majestic Delaware was most exhilarating and delicious. They remained over night, and had a ball in the meantime. We should mention, that, as Bellair sat beside the beauteous Charlotte, in a dark corner of the magnificent saloon of the Kennebec, he placed around her neck a beautifully wrought Indian gold chain, to which was attached a lady's beautiful watch, of most consummate skill and workmanship. She was eloquent in her praises of his munificence, and in expressions of admiration of his taste. As a return, she danced almost exclusively with him during the whole night; and kept her eyes more than usually fixed upon him. To keep the eyes of a coquette centred upon one man is a work of so much difficulty that we are constrained to mention the circumstance. She saw, we do not know how many Misters So-and-so, and So-and-so, that she knew, and was in the practice of flirting with, but whom to-night she scarcely noticed. The lights shone brilliantly in the crowded ball-room of the principal hotel, and Bellair, encouraged by Charlotte's preference for him, grew more and more familiar. She did not rebuke nor rebut him. The young lady felt overcome by the heat, and he proposed a walk; so they left the magnificent scene of art for the more sublime work of nature, and rambled in the garden at the rear of the building, The flowers had gone to rest, and their beauties were not visible; but the moon, large and brilliant, and the gorgeous sky, reveling in mountain upon mountain of light ether clouds, was a study-a sight. Bellair conducted the splendid woman to the arbor, where she drank in, with almost stupor-like reverence, the honey of his words; till at last, after delivering a long rigmarole, he concluded by making her a base proposal; at which she started to her feet, and, cast her eyes staringly upon the base rascal, as if doubting what she had heard. He, of course, expected a storm, and commenced wheedling her in a maudlin manner. But this was not adapted to her present frame of mind. She wrenched the guard from her neck, and throwing the bauble watch upon the ground, stamped upon it with ferocity and madness. 
               "You base scoundrel! leave my sight. You miscreant! you wretch! you worse than dog!" said she, straining her voice to an almost terrible height. 
               "For God's sake, speak lower!" urged Bellair. 
               "0, you ruffian! you wily wretch! begone, or I shall instantly have you put in the hands of the police." 
               He entreated; but all Charlotte's answers were scorn. Then rushing upon her, he put his hands over her mouth; and after a brief but desperate struggle, he gave up his hopes of ruining Charlotte. She used invectives of. the most desperate character, betraying passionate indignation of no mean order. Her rage was like the ocean; when calm, how placid, how gentle, how harmless, as on its broad and polished face, it reflects the beauty of the sun; but when troubled, how fearful, how desperate is it-a foaming, lashing, roaring, yawning gulph of death and destruction. The more Bellair entreated, horror-stricken at the tempest his vileness had raised, the more did Charlotte grow angry and violent, as thought after thought rushed upon her fevered brain, and recalled in more hideous characters the perfidy of Bellair's heart; till at length, overcome by her excitement, she gave one loud, long, and piercing shriek, and fell lifeless upon the sward. This brought persons out from the hotel; and coming to the point from whence they heard the female cry of agony proceed, they discovered Charlotte in hysterics, with Bellair vainly trying to restore her to sense and life. A doctor being among the visitors to the hotel, soon came, and, by his systematic mode of procedure, brought Charlotte back to reason and feeling. Her very first words, upon her recovery, were- 
               "I desire to give this man, Bellair, into custody; he has used violence of the meanest character toward me," said Charlotte, coolly. 
               "Why, the woman's mad," returned the astonished Bellair. 
               She did not heed his remark; but seeing no one willing to arrest him, said- 
               "Are there no gentlemen here, who will befriend a lady in distress, and see that her desire to preserve her honor unsullied at the law's palladium, is fulfilled?" 
               . This appeal soon brought the spectators to a sense of duty, and Bellair was in the custody of a police officer in a few moments. Charlotte returned to Philadelphia; but how differently to her coming out. Her excursion of pleasure turned to a tour of woe. Bellair, who had come out a rich and respected man, returned a prisoner, a victim to his passions, and a shame in the eyes of the world. 
               When Mrs. L-- heard her daughter's story of her insult, she commended her-course, out mentally regretted her being thrown into the society of such persons. Although she would not communicate her own views upon the subject, from fear of annoying her daughter; yet she felt that her honor would have been better preserved, had she quietly left the villain, than in bringing her case into the open court of justice. This event added years to Mrs. L--'s consumption. 
               At length, the case came on. The court was crowded even to suffocation; and many of the most, fashionable of Philadelphia society were present, and seemed to hang with morbid interest upon the most disgusting features of the case. An able counsel was engaged for Bellair; and he, in his vile cross-examinations, hinted so much against Charlotte's character, as to leave the conviction in the spectators' minds that the prosecutrix was a depraved and vitiated woman; and when the young lady came from the stand where she had been giving her testimony, she found her mother and sister in tears, and she herself became so distressed, that she was borne from court in a fainting state. The court reviewed the case, and charged the jury so strongly against the prisoner, as left no doubt upon the jury's mind that the accused was guilty; and also demonstrated to the public that the bench looked upon the cross-examination as a foul slander upon the lady's character. Bellair was sentenced to one year's imprisonment; and thus ended the first important scene in which Charlotte had become an actress. Whether advantageous or not, the sequel will soon tell. 
               This case became the subject of much moment, comment, and small talk. The newspapers dwelt upon it, with unctious love of exaggeration, and reveling in its most disgusting features. Charlotte's beauty became more notorious than ever; and when it was known that she had a sister, equally, if not more beautiful than herself, it turned the heads of all the fine looking men, youth, and dissipated roues of the city of brotherly love, And we know not how many plots were immediately set on foot to entrap the twin sisters. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               Now turn we to the career of our sweet Helen. Every night that transpired found her in the society of the young and noble-looking gentleman who had rendered her so marked a service. This, added to his appearance, his lovable ways, his intelligence, conversational tact, and general kindness, won the warm and tender heart of the young lady. Love soon grew out of their acquaintance, which seemed to be a mutual fire burning upon the altar of each other's heart. The only alloy to her great joy was the fact that her acquaintance with Vernon was conducted clandestinely to her mother. But still she dared not communicate to her the news of her love; and this gave her much distress, for she loved to make her mother's bosom the cabinet of her secrets. Gerald did not seek to be introduced to the young lady's parent, but kept on in the pleasant task of learning to woo her. And well and aptly did he learn it; for Helen's heart was deposited in his; and her whole aim was to convince and assure him of his entire possession of her love. 
               We shall now speak of Gerald; we have already spoken of him, as a man of fine exterior, and of sterling capacities, we will now speak more distinctly of his worldly position. Gerald Vernon was the son of a wealthy senator in the western portion of the state, and resided at Harrisburg, the capital of the Keystone State, who desired that Gerald, who had just finished his education, should commence his studies in the office of a friend, a talented and highly reputable Philadelphia lawyer. Gerald was a good scholar, learned in modern and ancient languages, exhibited rare talents in historical lore, was a good mathematician, and not an indifferent poet, as the files of Harrisburg papers will testify; he was also a good musician, sang with taste, and danced very modestly, and possessed an inimitable share of small talk interspersed with choice quotations of the best ancient and modern authors. These qualities, handled with judiciousness, tended to elevate Gerald into a very lofty being in the mind of Helen. One night, (the very evening before that on which Charlotte had been insulted by Bellair, in the garden of the hotel at Cape May,) as Helen lay with her head resting upon the bosom of her lover, he was drinking in passion from her lips, as they sat in the front room of a Camden hotel, and the girl's heart beat high with love, and Gerald played most fantastic and soul stirring music that enraptured, exhilarated and entranced the fair Helen, and she became a victim to the wiles of the seducer. Helen soon after felt within herself the wrong she had done, but told no one of her fall, not even her sister. Gerald continued to pay her the same marked attention as usual, and she was compensated for her misfortune by his smiles; but as yet she had not awakened from her stupor of passionate love and blind devotion. The degradation, the shame, and the contumely had not yet demonstrated itself to her mind. She never calculated consequences-indeed she was ignorant of any, for she depended upon Gerald's eternal love and devotion. At about this time, Charlotte revealed to her mother, and sister her insult, and intended destruction by Bellair; but while Helen was pleased to hear of the escape of her sister, she never stopped to compare her own situation, so wrapped up was she in a good opinion of her lover. How blind is love, how well does this expression suit those who are victims to the fascinating influence of passion. Here is one beautiful girl fallen-immeasurably, irretrievably lost, who could not see her own shame, but had a ready appreciation of her sister's less disagreeable situation. We often perceive faults in others what we think talents in ourselves. The trial caused considerable excitement among the small household, and scarcely any other subject absorbed the notice of Mrs. L-- and her beauteous daughters for several days. This matter of Charlotte's produced a most melancholy effect upon the mind of her sensible mother; for several months the poor woman found no rest from the disgusting revelations which were made upon the day of trial, knowing as she did, what an effect such aspersions-whether grounded or not-would have upon her daughter's public character, she fretted more and more, until at last borne down beneath the weight of this trouble, she took to her chamber and remained very sick indeed, for a few months. Mrs. L-- had scarcely recovered from her last troubles, when another still more serious came to blast her comforts, her hopes and happiness; it was the news of Helen's advent to maternity. 
               One night when poor Helen's situation became imminent, and she could no longer bear the suspense she had been thrown into, and when Vernon was no longer regular in his visits, nor warm in his attachments as before, the girl poured into the ear of her bedfellow and sister, a long tale of woe, of her fall and perilous situation. Charlotte was overwhelmed with surprise, at the destruction of one she had believed so unsullied and innocent. Notwithstanding Helen's remonstrances and, protestations to the contrary, Charlotte communicated the whole matter to her mother, who was so overcome by the sad intelligence, that she once more returned to her couch of sickness, and now that her consumption had fairly settled upon her frame, she was no longer able to do her duty, and remained an invalid. Helen was soon an invalid also from less honorable causes. Charlotte's duties became onerous between the mother and sister's sickness. 
               One morning poor Mrs. L-- requested to see Helen's baby. The woman was a wreck, her full form had departed, the color from her cheeks had flown, the light of her eye was dead, and she was now a hard breathing coughing, sighing, debilitated candidate for a tomb. And when Charlotte showed her her sister's child, the affectionate mother dropped a hot tear upon her fevered face, and with her wan lips imprinted a feeble kiss upon the child of infamy, motioned Charlotte to her side, who uttered a prayer, and then fetched her invalid sister, who came just in time to kiss her poor mother's hand, and watch her lips as they moved to and fro-but her gasping breath would give no utterance. Charlotte and Helen knew it was a prayer, and they kneeled and prayed, and when they looked up again into their mother's face, they saw that she was a corpse. 
               Oh what a sight was here! The death-bed scene is always truly awful. Woe to her or him who can look upon death with complacency. Such a calloused heart is not worth the having. But here there was more than usual bitterness in the cup of woe: not only was it the death of a mother, but it was the departure of the only prop that supported the girls in this world, and without which they felt they should be lost. And worst of all, oh dreadful thought! as one sister looked upon the other, either felt themselves guilty of this death. Their hearts beat with fear of having been a murderess, for they knew that their parent's death had been hastened by their own imprudence, if not their crime. Oh it was indeed a pitiable sight, there huddled together upon the floor, in tortures of woe, bathed in tears, 0 in agony of the bitterest grief-prey to miserable dread-the two beautiful twin sisters. There upon the dead woman's breast sat the little babe, innocent of all around, adding its shrill pipe to the piercing cries of the prostrate daughters, little wotting of having earned a miserable title for his future life, viz. illegitimate. There it struggled unheeded, with "the helpless look of blooming infancy" upon him. 
                      
                        A lovely being, scarcely formed or moulded, 
                        A rose with all its sweetest leaves yet folded. 
                     
                  
                
               And there at rest, with her soul winging itself to God's presence on high, to render an account of her trust, herself, her daughters, lay the dead parent. Ah, me! it was a grouping worthy of Pity's eye! 
             
             
               CHAPTEE V. 
               The funeral obsequies of the excellent Mrs. L-- were conducted with decency and due respect, and Charlotte and Helen appeared in mourning looking more lovely in these robes of regard to departed worth than in the fashionable colors of the time. They soon found that their united exertions were just competent to maintain them in their present style of living. We should mention, also, that Mr. Vernon now became a regular visitor to the house, and that the child was given out to nurse to a respectable German woman living in Manayunk. As soon as the season of grief was over, it was natural that the minds of the young ladies should now return to the arrangements of their worldly difficulties. Charlotte and Helen became more intimate than ever, and it was determined by them that some steps should be taken to redeem the honor of Helen by marriage or compensation. To this effect an interview was had between Vernon and the two young ladies, in which Helen submitted the arrangement of her affairs to her more worldly-minded sister. Since Helen became a mother, and from what her sister had told her of the course she suspected her lover was about to take, Helen no longer looked upon Vernon with that blind and implicit confidence that she had done, so that she was perfectly calm and collected in the matter, and awaited the result with more stoicism than could be expected of her. Charlotte asked Mr. Vernon his intentions toward her sister in a manner so decided that he felt overwhelmed by the question. It was evident from his manner, that Vernon never suspected such consequences, but had rocked himself in the cradle of the hallucination of his great love, thinking that no notice would be taken of the matter after the death of Mrs. L-- he thought that the storm had passed, but he soon found that what he had mistaken for it, were merely the dark and threatening clouds which pass over our heads and indicate the bursting out of the tempest with its pelting showers, forked lightnings, and cutting winds. Vernon, vain deluded man, in an embarrassed manner said that he had made up his mind to no particular course, indeed he had not thought any steps necessary. Although this was said in an innocent manner, yet it tallied so well with what Charlotte had told Helen, that the latter at once saw with redoubled force the necessity of coming to decided action in the premises. The arbitratrix then asked the gentleman whether he was blind enough to think that after he had reduced the fair fame of a young lady, and made her charms subserve to his baser appetites, and that a child should be born as the result of such unlimited confidence in his honor, rather than as the results of any criminal desires upon the young lady's part, that she should submit to becoming a mark of infamy, and allow him to go forth unscathed and untouched to rob another home of its charms, to despoil another fair flower, to pluck it from its natal tree, to gloat over its hues and fragrance, and when his taste had been satiated with its beauties, to throw it aside to wither, and die, to be trampled under foot by the ruthless tread of the passer by. If he had so deluded himself with respect to her sister, she assured Mr. Vernon that he was miserably mistaken. He then declared that he had no such ideas, but the truth was that his love had come upon him like a thunder clap, he was not prepared for it, but, having by accident become acquainted with the charming Helen, it was only to see her to love. Love and passion conspired in his bosom, and he fell a victim himself. For he swore before God that he never desired the name of seducer, but if any had told him that such he would be, before the dreadful circumstance had taken place, he would have branded that man as a liar. At the time that he became infatuated with Helen's beauty, he said, he was, pecuniarily, unprepared to love, being only a student, without means; and he knew the temper of his parents too well, to suppose that his father would allow him at his early age to marry. He showed them clearly that his ruining of Helen was not a premeditated affair, that it was the result of love and passion of youthful heart; he showed to them also that he could not gain any thing becoming a seducer; moreover that it would be ridiculous to force him to marriage now, because such an union would be one of misery, since he had not the first chance of supporting a wife-not even had he finished his studies; he suggested that as his father would make him heir to his splendid estate that they wait until the event of his demise. 
               Charlotte could not listen to this proposal. She remarked, that no matter how dearly Gerald loved Helen now, it did not follow that that love would not be replaced by some other at a future time. If not, it was scarcely likely that Gerald, on coming to a large estate, and into an elevated position, would proclaim himself to the public a seducer, by marrying the woman whom he had dishonored, and, furthermore, to father a son who would be a reproach and a shame to him. He protested; but Charlotte was not to be overcome. She desired him to write to his father, asking for a larger allowance, on the grounds that his present amount would not sustain him in that position which was essential to his lineage and pretensions. He did so; and his father answered by making some increase in his stipend, but not of sufficient amount to permit him to contribute largely to his child and Helen's support. Now, Charlotte, after this, felt that something must be done; and, having full permission from her sister; she determined upon seeing Mr. Vernon, senior. It was a long time before the affectionate Helen could be induced to sanction this step; but, as her sister urged, they were but poor seamstresses, as they were; and were they, because a man tried to crush them, to submit to his foot. "No!" said she. "We can elevate ourselves pecuniarily from this, which, will be some solace for your troubles; 
                   
                     CHARLOTTE EXPOSING THE VILLAIN GERALD VERNON. 
                  
                   for then we shall no longer have to work the flesh off our fingers, and draw the eyes out from their sockets by night-light, for the mere sustenance of life. We can at least go into society, enjoy ourselves; and, who knows? instead of being workers here, we may elevate ourselves to a lofty and dignified position in society." 
               Helen became less enamored of both Vernon and her position. Every day, more acutely did she feel the pain of her disgrace, and her shame was vivid before her; and being young, beautiful and captivating, she imbibed from her sister's glowing account, a love for fashionable life. Upon this, Charlotte started for Harrisburgh, and had an interview with Gerald's father. He was a very affable, kind old gentleman, and became much taken up with her manners; but when he heard the story, he was at first astonished, and seemed much distressed at his son's behavior; but afterward, he called in his wife, and narrated to her the circumstances. The poor lady was deeply affected. They gave Charlotte a splendid suit of apartments, and desired her to await the arrival of Gerald; to whom the honorable senator wrote a peremptory summons to return to his home by the next train. The young gentleman was astonished at this strange and sudden turn in his family affairs, and could not fathom the bottom of this matter. But guess his surprise, when arrived at the domain of his parent; instead of the happy emotional greeting lie expected, he was received with marked coldness and indifference by his sire, and with tears and anguish by his usually fond and smiling mother. But this was not all; for, when he entered the drawing room, he. saw, what at the first view he took to be Helen; but the experienced eye of the lover soon told him that it was Charlotte, and approaching her with all the calmness he could possess, he shook hands with her. He immediately fathomed the why and wherefore of this strange proceeding, and sat down with a very uneasy, unenviable set of feelings, to hear the worst. His father, in a business-like manner, and with more composure than could have been expected from him, related all, asking him for his reply. It was brief and manly. He confessed all; tried to palliate all, and begged his father to give his permission to his union with Miss Helen L-- of whom he spoke in the most generous, affectionate and loving terms. The father, determined to do nothing rashly, told Miss Charlotte that he would be prepared to give her his answer on the ensuing morning. That came, and with it his reply. He circumvented his decision with a fog of reasoning and logic; but the main points in the arguments were, that he had decided upon refusing permission for any union between the parties, for a thousand reasons, which we will not befog our readers with a repetition of; however, he determined to give her a compensation of five thousand dollars, which Charlotte, who pretended to work for a marriage, very graciously accepted, promising, upon the part of her sister, not to make any further demand upon either Mr. Vernon, senior, or junior's estate, and promising to prevent, by all means in her power, the chances of Helen and Gerald's again meeting. Taking the money in large bills, and after many civilities, she took her departure, determined to spend with her sister a life of pleasure and gaiety. She returned to Philadelphia, embraced her sister, who was delighted at the success of her mission, and they slept in each other's arms, dreaming of the headlong career of gaiety and fashion it was their determination at once to plunge into. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               As soon as the sisters could see a house, they commenced making arrangements for removal. They furnished their neat and elegant residence in a very modest and economical manner. It was situated at Kensington. Previous to making their outlays, they placed their money in the bank, in order to cause it to be noised abroad. Although neither of the sisters expected this small amount of money to attract a millionaire, yet they knew that men rather court women with some money, even if they do not require it, than poor beauties. This had the desired effect; and, of course, the fact of the Misses L-- having furnished a splendid residence, and having five thousand dollars besides-for a story loses nothing in the charge of Mistress Gossip-they were soon objects of observation, and their great beauty filled the city with admiration. It will be remembered that Charlotte's appearing in a public court, though it added nothing to her laurels of virtue, contributed largely to her reputation as a beauty. They appeared at all the balls, and Charlotte's wit and coquetry surrounded her with numberless votaries; while Helen's debut in a more modest school, gave her a charm and a name among the more retiring. They were soon the recipients of invitations from the elite of the gay world; and brilliantly did the twin sisters shine in the splendid saloon, and at the card table. In order to be well thought of, they played cards for very high sums, and this, of course, attracted notice; but while it did so, it was fast reducing their deposit at the bank to a mere cypher. Among those who usually won was a young and splendid looking man named Frank Paton; and this first attracted the notice of Helen, for Frank's manners were pleasing to her, and it was only natural that she should watch, closely and intently, the actions of a man of whom she had become somewhat enamoured, and who paid her the most delicate attentions. Helen asked him the secret of his success, and he at once disclosed it in perfect confidence. He said he had commenced his career with a fortune of ten thousand dollars, and before he was twenty-two years old, he was not worth a cent; he had lost it at the gaming table. He afterward tried to follow an honest employment; but the infatuation for gambling had taken so fast a hold upon him, that he could not shake it off, notwithstanding that he used the most strenuous efforts to wean himself from all play; till, one night, he perceived some unusual shuffling of the cards by a player, and he at once saw that there was more in gambling than bringing money to the table. He then made experiment after experiment with the cards, until he could do almost what he pleased with them, and from that time his success had been marked; he had never lost a cent. To show her what he meant, he first pulled from his pocket a couple of sets of dice and boxes, which he said he always carried about him. He further said that, on going into a room, if backgammon or dice should be played, he would use his own dice, which, he demonstrated to her, were loaded, so that they always dropped down with the lightest figures upon the face; that is, they would roll out in such a way that they would count very lightly. "Now, when I have to play, I use the regular dice, but, as you are aware, it is the privilege of the opposite player to put the dice in the box; I then throw in my dice, which I conceal in the palm of my hand, or in the sleeve of my coat, or in my pantaloons pocket, and perform this trick the same as the magicians and wizards do their's. I can, in two cases out of three, beat them, you see; for I roll with the regular dice, which very seldom count less than seven, while it is almost impossible for mine to roll so high. This is so perfect an arrangement that no one would suspect it; for instance, when people doubt others about cheating, they examine the cards or dice the suspected persons use; but you see, it would little avail them in my case, for I make them cheat themselves; the instruments they use are the spurious ones, and I use the honest implements. I never but once was suspected, and that by a fellow from New York city, and I insisted immediately upon having the dice examined, when it was cleary demonstrated to the uninitiated, that he had used the false dice, and I the honest ones. He was immediately beaten by the gentlemen in the room, and Kicked out, while I was looked upon as a martyrized gentleman. Thus much for the dice." Then going over another of his pockets, he pulled out a very heavily chased silver cigar case. "Probably you will not take a cigar," said Frank, smilingly; then he proceeded. "Now, if I should get taken into custody by some of the marshal's emissaries, they would not be able to tell that this magnificent cigar case is neither more nor less than a card case. You to the observe that that silk lining, which looks as though it went to the bottom of the case, is shaded dark around the edges, to produce the effect of depth; the cigars are very flat, and ones that I never smoke; there is a false bottom to this;" and then Frank turned it over upon the palm of his hand, and then a lid sprang open, where the bottom should have been; and here lay, snugly concealed, a pack of very clean and fine cards. "Now these cards, said he, may be all known by their backs; these are what are called marble cards. You will observe that there is a line runs peculiarly at each corner, but all different, but so slightly that no one would perceive the difference; but I know every card of importance by its back, and can tell what kind of hand my adversary holds; This, of course, is art illimitable advantage. But further, by being dexterous in shuffling, I can deal myself or partner just what kind I please. I generally manage to give my opponents a good hand, if we have got a great start in the game, and allow them to go ahead somewhat; but making sure to pick them up when the time comes for winning." He then illustrated some tricks, in which Helen, at the request of Frank, would ask for just such cards as she wanted, and he would deal them out with the dexterity of an old player, and without any apparent fraud. She was surprised. He said that the way he managed to get his cards introduced was, by becoming acquainted with some one on the boat, in whose hands he would place the deck, so that, when cards are called for, these useful articles are produced according to arrangement, which, he remarked, was a ten dollar perquisite for the person. "Or if I am in a room-and gamblers are generally very cautious about procuring a new deck of cards, whenever they are about to play-I put a poor looking boy there, whom they generally select to go for a new deck. He pretends not to know me, nor I him; but all the time he has my cards in his pocket. I use a great many decks in the course of the year; and we-that is to say, myself and a few others-keep a man engaged in making them. He gets sixteen dollars a pack for them, and makes some fifty or sixty dollars regularly per week." 
               Helen was much astonished and delighted with this information, as she saw vividly that, with Paton's help, they might soon make an immense amount of money between the three. She communicated the whole to Charlotte, before whom Frank effected numberless tricks, which further convinced Charlotte of his being a master in the art. Before the night was out, the two young ladies understood the theory of shuffling cards; and before a fortnight was over, they could "make the cards speak," as Paton termed it. The intermediate time was spent in luxury and gaiety; and Charlotte and Helen made many acquaintances among the roues, and many conquests among the confiding jackanapes who abound, and believe, that every woman whose course they cross, is in love with them. 
               We will close this chapter by introducing an occurrence which intervened, and caused no inconsiderable excitement in the city of brotherly love. At a ball given for the benefit of a military company, Helen became acquainted with a citizen soldier of great wealth and high repute, and he frequently visited at the house of the twin sisters, and with whom Charlotte contracted an acquaintance of a disreputable character. But Mr. Merton did not contribute so largely to her support as she expected; indeed, it was an affair of disgrace which she had entered into with an idea of its turning out profitable. So it was arranged that Frank, who was the constant companion of Helen, and the two sisters, should administer a sleeping draught in some wine, which should be partaken of by Merton exclusively, and then his pocket book was to be extracted. A splendid supper was arranged and laid out, and combined all the luxuries of the season. The wine was passed around, and being some choice Curacoa and Chateaux Marjorex, delighted and tickled Merton's epicurean desires; but in a few minutes more, the worthy gentleman was so overcome that it was found necessary to send home the stupified man in a conveyance. In the morning, when he awoke, he missed his wallet, and feeling confident that he had left it at the young ladies', he immediately set off in search of the lost article, which was valuable for its contents. He found the three at breakfast, of which they invited, him to prrtake. He did so, but was surprised to hear nothing about his lost property; he, however, thought it was merely a joke, and when they all denied having seen it, he merely laughed; but Frank asked him if he was in earnest in supposing that they would be guilty of robbery. Merton replied, that having been the worse for liquor upon the previous evening, he thought it quite possible that, as his friends, they might have extracted it from his pocket, with the idea of returning it to him when he should next call. Charlotte was sorry for his loss, or pretended to be so, but was very much surprised at Merton's conduct He at the same time began to feel more and more convinced of his not being any where else on 
                   
                     FRANK PETON, THE GAMBLER, SHOOTING MR. MERTON. 
                  
                   the previous evening, and the fact of his so soon becoming oblivious and stupefied by a very small share of wine, occurred to him; and being jaded on by some insulting remarks of Paton's, he called Frank a blackleg and a thief. The latter challenged Merton to fight, and before he could say a word, or take a step, the former, in an excited manner, pulled from his pocket a pistol, and taking deliberate aim at his victim, notwithstanding the entreaties, cries and shrieks of the young ladies, shot Merton through the heart, who fell dead in a pool of his own warm blood. The house was instantly broken into; the police secured Frank with the weapon in his hand, and he was dragged off to prison to await his trial. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               It was only by a mere chance that Charlotte and Helen escaped being indicted for the same offense with Paton; however, they were necessary to the evidence; and certainly the public did not hold the young ladies altogether guiltless of the matter. By an ingenious train of argument upon the part of Frank Paton's counsel, it was demonstrated to the satisfaction of the court that Merton had tried to stab Frank, and that the pistol had been used by him in self-defence. Certain it is, that when Merton fell, a knife was found in his hand; but he had made no effort, up to the time of his being shot, to stab Paton. His sentence was five years imprisonment 
               Bellair, who, it will be remembered, offered insult to Charlotte, at Cape May, had been long since released from his short imprisonment, and had remained silent some years; but, as the dust of prison wore off him, all his brazen effrontery, varnished by a liberal education, once more manifested itself; and, wincing under the sting inflicted by what he termed the scorpionism of Charlotte L--, was bent upon revenge. One day he chanced to meet her at the corner of Chesnut and Seventh streets, when he deliberately asked her, "How she prospered with the dead man's money?" This vulgar allusion to her supposed participation in the Merton tragedy, enraged Charlotte to a great extent, seeing that she was thus meanly assailed on the principal thoroughfare of Philadelphia, before gaping hundreds. He promised her that he would meet her repeatedly, and repeat the same offense. The proud, haughty, and revengeful Charlotte was not to be used after this manner; so, placing herself near his place of business, a couple of days after the transaction, Bellair soon espied her, and accosted her in the same vulgar terms as before; but Charlotte, all prepared, drew from beneath the ample folds of her cloak, a rawhide, with which she belabored Bellair until he took to his feet, and was glad to escape. This pleased the spectators, and gratified her; but she knew that these repeated exposures, and coming in vulgar contact with the masses, would not add to her reputation. So they, the twin sisters, determined to travel west, and packed up, and left their native city, never to return to it They spent a considerable time in the smoky region of Pittsburgh, where their beauty rendered them attractive. Captains of the western boats, and southern gentlemen, were introduced to them; and among their frequently newly formed acquaintance, were not a few who loved gaming; and upon these occasions, they used to advantage the tricks with the cards, that the unfortunate Frank Paton had taught them. They were generally flush of money. 
               Charlotte, taking up a Tennessee paper one day, read an account of a union, or marriage, between Mr. Gerald Vernon and Miss Paumier, of Knoxville, Tennessee, extolling, in glowing colors, the young lady's virtue and the gentleman's probity; stating, furthermore, that the couple would take up their residence at the Oliphant Farm, a beautiful property not far from Knoxville. Helen, upon reading the paragraph, was aroused to a great excitement The old passion she had long since entertained, revived in her bosom, and once more she felt the wrong of her youth very acutely; but at this time, not to become the lover of Vernon, but rather desired to enjoy the pleasure of being revenged upon him. It became a day thought and night dream with her. "Why," thought she, "should I be branded as a perfidious woman, and he, who 'made me so, pass current with the world as a virtuous man." No! she swore inwardly, that she would be revenged of this man; that she would haunt him night and day! No! that she would teaze and annoy him; and end by exposing his shame, and making known his early career, O, what a terrible mind was hers! stern and bloody, resolute and unrelenting! 
               She told her sister that she was going to leave for Tennessee. Charlotte said she would accompany her sister wherever she went, and through every trouble and emergency; but advised her merely to make it a means for raising funds. To this Helen at once assented; but in her heart there was buried the thirst for Vernon's life. Helen sent for her boy-that illegitimate child, who was now, for the first time in his life, to see the face of his father. Arrived at Knoxville, they staid in most splendid apartments in the hotel there; and, of course, two young and beautiful women, as they were, became the immediate subject of village clatter. 
               The honeymoon of Gerald and his bride was not yet over, when, walking by the window of the hotel, he saw a female face; like a flash of lightning, Helen's former face came to his mind, and he rushed to the instantaneous conclusion that it was she; but much changed from her virginal innocence to the bold beauty of the woman of the world. He turned deadly pale, and exclaimed, "Great God! can it be!" which alarmed the young and beautiful woman who hung, with much endearment, upon the arm of her husband. She asked him what was the matter; and it was with the utmost persuasion that she became convinced it was a mere spasm which had seized Vernon. 
               At evening, when the sun had gone down, and Vernon was sitting in one of the commodious window sills, admiring the slowly approaching dark clouds which were to make up night, with his bride beside him, listening to his remarks with an avidity which bespake both her love and enjoyment. The windows and doors were all wide open, as if to invite the poor and needy, and those stray gusts of wind, which waft about at even time, in a warm climate like that of Tennessee, which gives health and salubrity to the hot, dry summers. 
                
               The house of Mr. Vernon was one of those large, commodious dwellings that characterize the south and west Built, unlike our northern city residences, where every room is a kind of secret drawer in a writing desk, and requires an ingenious mind to find them out. No; this was a house very large in all its parts; Its hall was large enough for a residence; its drawing room was almost as capacious as the senate chamber of a state legislature. Its grounds were extensive, and certainly well laid out; while its front exhibited an utter disregard for the economy of lumber; for there was a wooden balcony, huge, wide and long, four immense pillars supporting a gigantic pediment head or Corinthian cornice, which, if chopped up, would have supplied a poor family with fuel for no inconsiderable time. The house had been newly furnished throughout, and newly painted entire, which spoke most audibly of a new possessor; and this was Mr. Gerald Vernon's abode at Knoxville, Tennessee. 
               As we have before said, his wife was living upon the honey of her husband's lips, when two ladies, with a youth, entered. Gerald first, in courtesy, rises; but as his eye rests upon the paragon of beauty, Helen, he almost sinks with astonishment and despair. He tries to announce them by name to his wife, but the words cleave to the roof of his mouth; at length he stammers out- 
               "Pray, be seated, ladies;" and Mrs. Vernon rises and places chairs for the three personages just entered, when Helen says- 
               "There, Horace, go and embrace your father." 
               Vernon shudders, his wife wonders, and the boy says- 
               "So, that's my papa, of whom you have spoken so much." 
               "Yes, child; don't you see how glad he is to see you?" said Helen, with remarkable self-possession. "Go, embrace him," 
               And then the child ran toward his father; but the latter merely extended his hand, and, with the other, hid the gushing and heart-ending tears which were oozing from his eyes. Mrs. Vernon, not being able to understand or fathom all this, arose from her chair, and said, with great earnestness, 
               "I pray you, explain all this mystery." 
               "T is easily explained," answered Helen, "Yon crouching thing to whom you have been allied, is a base seducer. He has seduced me and that poor innocent boy, who now clings to his hand, is the result of his base villainy;" and as she repeated word after word, her voice arose with a fervency of passion not often exhibited in Helen. 
               Mrs. Vernon, almost frantic, fell upon a sofa, merely uttering the words, "No, no, no! it is not truth! I cannot believe you!" 
               "I would have a word with you, sir," said Helen to Vernon. 
               He stood up beside her, covering his confused face with his hands, when Helen drew, from beneath her dress, a poignard, and ran it into the heart of Vernon, who merely shouted, "I am murdered," and fell, scrambling to the chair from whence he had just arisen, Mrs. Vernon uttered a loud shriek, on seeing her husband fall, and had her hand upon the bell-pull. Helen rushed towards her, and like an infuriated beast of prey, stabbed the woman in several places. Charlotte stood horror-stricken and petrified. She had not expected her sister's vengeance to take such a bloody course. Then Helen fell heavily upon her face, amid the heavy death-groans of her two victims. Charlotte rushed toward her sister, and tried to arouse her to a sense of their mutual danger, and endeavor to induce her to fly the scene of this bloody and wholesale murder. At this time there came in a posse of men, who had heard the screams from the road, and who soon secured the sisters, while the unfortunate couple were parried to couches, and attended by competent surgeons. But, alas! the murderess' steel had entered too deeply into their hearts, and they soon died. 
               This bloody and sanguinary deed caused the greatest excitement among the citizens, and no sooner was it known than around the country it flew, with the swiftness which always attends bad news. Never did occasion bring out more undisguised wrath. Had it not been for the stern inflexibility of the officers of the commonwealth, summary punishment would have been wreaked upon the young and beautiful; but alas, base women. 
               The day at length came for the trial; and, after a long, painful, patient and careful examination, the two beauties were found guilty, Helen protested her sister's innocence of the crime; but the jury had no evidence in coming to any other-conclusion but that she was guilty, and they were both sentenced to undergo the extreme penalty of the law on the 20th of August. They were removed accordingly to jail, and Helen immediately commenced the editing of a statement of the affair, with a brief memoir of her life, hoping thereby to save her sister from the executioner's hand; but when it was delivered into the hands of the judge, and he refused to take any action in the matter, she had no more hope. Charlotte had concealed some poison in the lining of her dress; the day before the execution came, she partook of it, and when her door was opened, she was discovered in the cell, a black and distorted corpse. Helen, on a bright and clear morning, was led forth to the scaffold, and ended her eventful career by being strangled before the gaze of many. A yell broke from the mass. she protested her innocence to the time of the rope being adjusted, prayed, and in another moment she was swinging in the air, a vibrating corpse. The spectators slowly moved away from the revolting spectacle, let us hope, better persons. And, in conclusion, we trust, that those who rise from this book, will bear before their minds the career and fatal termination of Helen and Charlotte L--, the Twin Sisters of Philadelphia. 
                
                
               
                   
                     HELEN MURDERS CAPTAIN GERALD VERNON AND HIS WIFE 
                  
                
                
               
                   
                     FRANK PETON, THE GAMBLER, SHOOTING MR. MERTON. 
                  
                
             
         
       
   
